welcome to pod save the world we have a
packed show for you today we got Julian
Assange's arrest the FBI expelling
Chinese scholars Yale patear of J Street
well dial in from Israel to talk about
the state of progressive political
parties in Israel we got Bernie's
foreign policy vision the Trump
administration's potential pretext to
attack Iran upcoming elections and then
a conversation about Bowe Bergdahl in
Afghanistan with author not far well
been a lot going on today yeah Wow here
we go so I do think the lead story the
last week is that Ecuador has booted
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange out of
its embassy in London after allowing him
to have asylum for seven years Assange
was arrested by British authorities it's
likely he's going to be extradited to
the u.s. to face charges that he worked
with Chelsea Manning to crack a password
on a DoD computer network we all know
what WikiLeaks is they published
millions of classified documents we all
of course remember them helpfully
releasing the DNC and Podesta emails
back in 2016 so then I can't remember if
this happened when I was there or if I
had left but I know that you know the
the Obama Department of Justice debated
whether or not to indict Assange what do
you remember from that debate and what
did you make of of this decision to put
this indictment Ford well you know the
debate under us I always feel like I
have to explain how things worked in the
distant past right the White House
didn't tell the Department of Justice
what to pursue and what not to pursue so
you know I think DOJ just felt like they
under us didn't have a determination to
indict Assange and pursue his
extradition he obviously was facing
legal trouble in in European countries
which is what ended up causing him to
flee into the arms of the Ecuadorian
Embassy for asylum you know I will say
that looking at the you have to separate
out what's interesting about this
indictment is they indict him on the
Manning piece of it but there's like
other crimes that I have to imagine
prosecutors would be interested in
including the 2016 election and the work
with Russia to potentially hack into the
DNC and other emails and to release
those and to you interfere in that way
in our election so I guess the the the
the first thing that was interesting is
that that they're focused on this 2010
collaboration with Manning I think
there's this broader question of what is
criminal conduct and what is just odious
conduct and you know they're I think
it's going to be an interesting question
as to you know raises a lot of ethical
questions about what is journalism and
what isn't what is criminal and what
isn't I will tell you where I am on the
first of those questions which is this
is not journalism and I feel really
strongly about this you know that some
people kind of get on their high horse
and say well we have to defend Assange
because he's transparency act activists
know Julian Assange is essentially been
operating in least in recent years as an
extension of Russian intelligence his
motivation behind what he's doing is is
not transparency it's not transparency
for transparency sake it's on behalf of
a very specific agenda which is the
Russian government's agenda to interfere
in our election to elect Donald Trump
and to so division in our politics and
you know if you were a normal
investigative journalist and Russia came
to you with hacked information and said
here you go put this in your newspaper I
think just about every US news outlet
would not do that I don't know why it's
any different if it's through the
intermediary of Julian Assange if he's
still operating as a vessel for Russian
stolen information you know why if it's
Julian Assange and not some Russian guy
who works for the FSB is that journalism
so on the first question III really
think it's a mistake to to put our chips
onto Julian Assange is some kind of
emblem of
you know free speech and journalistic
integrity here this is not a guy who's
an investigative journalist this is a
guy whose throne is laden with the
Russian government which is a government
that stands against the the valleys of
Free Press on the criminal question I
think the legal system is just gonna
have to run this course and see you know
what the determination is as to whether
or not his his hacking constituted
criminal conduct I'm not I'm not really
able to make that judgment yeah I mean
so holder when he's talked about this
Eric Holder Obama's Attorney General
when he's talked about this publicly
since leaving government basically said
they were worried that if they indicted
Assange for publishing classified
materials that might mean that they
would then have to go after the New York
Times or other news outlets that publish
them so that that's or the background in
the contacts I mean as you know they're
going after this specific collaboration
with Chelsea Manning yeah who was in the
military at the time and leaked a whole
bunch of cables in other US government
classified materials to Assange they can
add more charges in the future if they
get him back over here but the point you
know it does seem like they've made this
charge very specific because they are
trying to make an argument that this was
not normal journalism of like publishing
information this would be like telling
someone how to break into a vault yeah
where the classified documents are and
then helping them so it's a conspiracy
to get this information this there was
an assimilation it was a fox news guy
who you know it was sort of a bumbling
idiot about his efforts to solicit
classified information from an analyst
in the State Department about North
Korea and and encouraged him to do all
these silly cloak-and-dagger things to
meet him to relay the information and he
got indicted as a co-conspirator which
was clearly a mistake and not something
that was necessary in any way in this
instance nor should would be
criminalizing journalism yeah but that's
the that's the that's a key thing to
understand is that you know it's the
conspiracy to get more information that
they're they're hanging this indictment
well and I guess the adheres to here's
the core question it's the hacking right
so
you know most of us would think if
there's some dogged investigative
journalist who is talking to government
officials and those government officials
maybe share secrets or if he's reporting
in a war zone and letting sensitive
things or he routes out you know
corruption by pouring through the books
and you know that that that is
investigative journalism and even if it
crosses over into secret spaces there's
a value in that the question is whether
breaking into your computer and stealing
your personal information is journalism
or not and look we've had some cases
where you know they were hacking into
people's voicemails
you know celebrities the Murdochs the
Murdoch's in the UK hacked into and I
think people their news that was yeah so
the Murdoch's had some tabloid papers
had hacked into voicemails and then
published it in their tabloids and
people were uncomfortable with that I
think that's a pretty fair line to set
right which is it would you guys want
the the New York Times or Fox News to be
able to hack into your email and report
on it I I think that that that there
should be an expectation of some amount
of privacy and for government secrecy
it's it's obviously a different set of
questions but you know similar line
being crossed so I I do think it's valid
to suggest that there's a difference
between kind of dogged interviewing you
know document review etc versus just
somebody you know hacking into
somebody's system and and releasing that
because you know that can very quickly
turn into you not a transparency
interest but again rather a punitive
interest to hurt somebody or to to serve
the agenda of a foreign government if we
are signalling put it this way if we're
assuming that it is protected it's okay
to hack something as long as it's given
to a journalist that is just a massive
blinking green light well but Russia or
China anybody else it isn't Manning
being in jail for a long time doesn't it
is that already not a signal that we're
giving permission right I mean they're
they're saying
that Assange that manning asked Assange
to help him crack some other password
that might have helped manning disguise
her stealing of very of classified
material I don't know that they were
successful but don't you think it's
punitive to have Manning in jail yeah it
is send a message to you know people who
signed a pledge not to release
classified information it isn't and
that's fairly clear-cut like she was
violating the terms of her service
essentially in the US government I think
what's so hard about this is WikiLeaks
itself what is WikiLeaks you know if
WikiLeaks was the New York Times you
know as Eric Holder said I think we
would all be very comfortable with the
idea that if the New York Times
published on thing look they published
the the hacked emails from John Podesta
I don't think anybody's suggesting that
the editors of the New York Times should
go to prison for that the question is if
you have some organization like this it
is kind of in between you know it's it's
it's not a journalistic entity it's not
a newspaper it's not a it's not even the
you're really a media outlet it's just
an organization that the trades on
stolen material you know how do you
treat that and I think we have to figure
that out and I don't you know I think
that's a policy conversation and a legal
conversation I would argue that again if
you are creating an incentive structure
where you're saying to any hacker out
there that you will have the same kind
of First Amendment type protections that
journalists do if you just feel like you
know stealing other people's information
or stealing the government's information
or you know working in collaboration
with the foreign adversary like Russia
to do so that you'll be protected you
know that that will create huge problems
because that will again essentially
legalize normalize the theft of
information by by anybody yeah I can see
the slippery slope argument being
complicated in that direction and also
see the other direction yeah this is
gonna be a tough one again interestingly
Ecuador went on a full PR offensive
against Assange they accused him of
braiding embassy guards he's like
putting on the way he was no
smearing up on the walls so it's
charming um most notably president
Moreno of Ecuador said that Assad had
turned the embassy into Center for
spying and his team blames WikiLeaks for
leaking damaging photos of Moreno his
family I can't tell if I should buy
these claims or if
you're just obviously going to wage a PR
campaign against Assange in this
instance of your Ecuador to sort of
blunt criticism of your decision to turn
him over to British authorities I mean I
think that they're probably both true
you know Julian Assange is an eccentric
guy and and he was already before he
went into that embassy and I can't
imagine what somebody becomes like when
they was living inside a contained space
like that for four years and it
certainly is the case that you know
Assange traffics with some really shady
characters including Russian
intelligence and so the idea that he
might it's perfectly in character for
him that he would kind of weaponize
those contacts and try to blackmail
Ecuador and say you know I'll I'll you
know use my context to inflict damage
upon you if you don't protect me I could
see that I can obviously independently
verify it it's also the case that they
punished wanted it out under this where
people need to remember is when Ecuador
took him in they had this anti American
president and Rafael Correa who was kind
of part of the block with Maduro and and
and the Cubans and and some other Latin
American leftist and said this was just
a way for them to you know stick it to
the United States now we've got this
other president comes in he didn't give
Assange this protection he inherited it
and he's probably looking to get this
off his plate not so much as a reward to
us but can you imagine having to go to
the work at the Embassy every
day and yes there's this kind of nutcase
hacker staples Russian Intel guys
skateboarding around and and you know
making contact of all kinds of shady
characters you you would want him out of
your home as well yeah I agree with that
this this whole thing it's so
complicated and so unsatisfying I was
thinking about a lot over the weekend
that obviously if you sign a pledge not
to release classified information that
you can't get around that but I also
constantly think about how over
classified everything was in government
and how when you're tried for these
charges the government gets to decide
just how bad the charges will be right
because the government determines if
it's code word level top secret secret
and there's no
pendant review of whether that's
ridiculous or not or whether it's
top-secret information that you could
also find in the newspaper I can think
of 15 examples of that happening and
then you get tried and you could get
locked away for a very long time with no
way to yeah adjudicate this process it's
a it's I think there should be some
classification reform yes the government
over classifies sayings I think that
there are the question of motivation
matters you know my view of Julian
Assange changed you know after the dump
of all the cables right so thousands of
thousands of diplomatic cables that that
Chelsea Manning gave to Manning the
Manning then leaked working with the
times and and Der Spiegel and the
Guardian but also just releasing some of
the Sun on their own you know I'll never
forget being in while running the
foreign country and talking to a US
diplomat who was complaining about this
and I said well give me an example of
why and he said he had been in Canada at
the time of the the dump of the cables
list you the condition because we worked
with the New York Times a bunch of news
outlets to redact named cables before
they were published Assange saw that
happening got pissed off and he said
 it I'm just dumping them all
mounted on the Internet that's right and
he said look there was this Canadian
there's this person who worked with the
embassy our embassy the US Embassy in
Canada who was from the indigenous
population there and kind of used to
come in and talk about here the
troublemakers who are engaged in drug
trafficking or what-have-you criminality
on you know in our community and when
this guy's name was published in one of
these cables the diplomat I was talking
to said that he just disappeared and he
said look I don't know what happened
that guy I know if he had to flee I
don't know if he was killed I don't know
you know and so then I started to ask
around and this was happening around the
world because essentially if you're in
you know some let's say you're an
Uzbekistan like an authoritarian country
and you're meeting with civil society or
the embassy and then suddenly the cables
leaked that lists all the civil society
activists who came in to the embassy to
report corruption by the government
those people's lives are literally risk
and I know
people got tired of hearing this talking
point of luck this is putting people's
lives at risk but put aside even the
American personnel right if you care
about human rights isn't not a bad thing
if we are giving the blueprints to every
authoritarian government in the world as
to which civil society activists are
reporting which information in that
country and so that you can then go roll
them up and so responsible news
organization like the New York Times
would review these cables and would
separate out how to convey the news in
them from information that would
endanger people's lives and WikiLeaks
just didn't do that and and so for me
their motivation wasn't again
transparency their motivation was to
just embarrass the United States the
United States government and even by the
way if you're not a big fan of u.s.
foreign policy the United States
government that's just a different
motivation than a journalist wanting to
shine a light on on abuse or corruption
and it's something that we have to
reckon with that it endangered people's
lives and of course Russia likes that
kind of thing because Russia as much as
anybody else wants the blueprints for
you know how a civil society is
operating around the world and and how
democratic activists are operating
around the world and so to me this is
why it's so important to say there's a
difference between a news outlet that's
going to do the actual work of
separating out the news from what can be
harmful and something like WikiLeaks
where this guy just wants to be the
center of attention and frankly probably
allowed his organization to be taken
over in a way by Russia to service
Russia's very anti-democratic ends yeah
I think it's notable that that the
document dump of all the cables that
Assange did I think ultimately lost him
a lot of defenders yeah who were you
know I think like people like Edward
Snowden to criticize that decisions yeah
Snowden Yahoo I again I've had my beef
with you know tried to apply some tests
to the information that we're gonna get
out so so as to protect individual lives
I mean this is not yeah if you're if
you're an Afghan guy an Afghan farmer
talking to the DEA about poppy fields
right like you shouldn't be at risk
yeah all right let's talk some 20/20 Ben
this week the New Yorker published
entering piece on Bernie's foreign
policy vision the peace talks about
Yemen Venezuela the need to rebalance us
support for Iran and Saudi Arabia
thought that was particularly
interesting he talks about his contempt
for the current political leadership in
Israel and in Palestine and he also
talks about getting tougher on the
Israeli government if they continue this
right word drift but he stopped short of
being specific about whether he'd
consider withholding military aid or any
other punitive steps but I mean I guess
what I liked about it was Bernie's
contempt for the foreign policy
establishment you saw this with Obama
frankly you see it now with Trump
interestingly the author Ben Wallace
well as he's really very smart reporter
at The New Yorker believes that the
major difference between a Bernie and
Obama's foreign policy vision is that
Bernie's weren't optimistic I didn't see
that coming
I don't know I had to say like this
piece got me excited about Bernie's
foreign policy he's clearly thinking
hard about a lot of important issues
surrounding himself with smart advisors
like Matt dusk who we both know I mean
it was impressive yeah I think I just
say on the optimism pointed we were very
optimistic before he came into power
yeah that's right so something about the
eight years in the White House that can
grind some of the optimism a debate not
all of it though I mean the Iran deal is
optimistic Paris Accords optimistic cube
open you optimistic but I well I think
what's really telling about this is that
if you if you look at the contrast
between Bernie's 2016 campaign in 2020
campaign one of the most striking areas
is foreign policy like in 2016 it was an
afterthought I mean Bernie was running
to advocate a set of domestic policies
that he cared a lot about you know
health care and other things he's done
the work I mean where Bernie should get
some credit he brought on Matt das yeah
really talented guy to be a Senate
foreign policy adviser he's given a
series of speeches over the last four
years on these topics
he has been leaving force behind the
resolution to withdrawal US support for
the war in Yemen so we should say this
isn't just a guy who you know put
together a fact sheet running for
president and he has a coherent
worldview in the world view is that we
need to end the forever war we need to
terminate the authorizations for this
kind of open-ended war we need to reef
dramatically our relationship with Saudi
Arabia and our involvement in Middle
Eastern conflicts we need to have some
humility when it comes to regime change
policies like the Trump administration
is pursuing in Venezuela you know and
that we need to offer an alternative
vision where we're working with
activists around the world to stand up
to authoritarianism and to promote you
know democratic values by living them
ourselves right and you don't need to
agree with every aspect of Bernie's
foreign policy but but it's it's a it's
a clear and coherent worldview that
would definitively end the chapter the
post 9/11 chapter that we've been in of
essentially a number of open ended wars
in the Middle East and diminished the
role of terrorism in our foreign policy
and elevate issues like you know climate
change and other things and so to me
Bernie should at a minimum get some
credit for having done the work to
prepare this flank of his campaign as he
as he heads into another election yeah I
agree I think he deserves a lot of
credit for for putting in the work so
does Elizabeth Warren she's given a
major yeah inequality but also the
nuclear stockpile and also Afghanistan
but let's unpack one of the things that
Bernie was talking about about sort of
getting past in that de 9/11 era
regarding the authorization for the use
of military force so there was a recent
hearing where Senator Rand Paul asked
the Secretary of State Mike Pompeo if he
believes that the 2001 AUMF that was the
thing we passed right after 9/11 that
every war has been based on ever since
Paul pressed them on whether the oh one
AUMF gives the Trump administration the
authority to declare war with Iran and
frightening Lee Pompeo just he wouldn't
say no he parsed it he said well there's
a legal question about the AUMF that I
defer to lawyers but there's a factual
matter about Iran's connections to al
Qaeda he really hammered home and this
comes on the heels and Paul mentioned
this two of them designating Iran's
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps a
terrorist organizations so my ears
perked up Rand Paul's ears perked up I
think we need to watch this pretty
closely yeah no we do and I've been
watching this and been worried about it
and first of all you know we tried to
unpack this in our mind this in the
bottom ministration we tried to get a
new AUMF for Isis there was time bound
and geography bounds there wasn't
open-ended Congress didn't want to take
that up we frankly would have liked to
replace the 2001 AMF but congressman
wanna take that up now let's step back
and just think about how crazy
this is we went to war in a rock right
in part now they got an authorization
but remember these the same people were
trying to pump up that war by saying
there was a connection between Saddam
Hussein oh yeah and Al Qaeda which
didn't exist right the fact that you
know we like to use the word trope now
in our politics the fact that this al
Qaeda trope over a decade later
is being used to lay a pretext for war
next door to Iraq in Iran he's insane
and in like speaks to the absolute
incapacity of any one of these
to learn a single lesson from Iraq the
only lesson they learned from Iraq is
that it works
the only lesson that these guys learn
from rock is say oh what we'll do
remember Muhammad auda was supposed to
be meeting with Iraqi intelligence in
Prague no I mean they're saying this on
 Sunday shows that time get into
the you know their fixation on Sunday
shows in their misinformation in saying
that that smoking gun could be a must
mushroom crowd and saying that Mohammed
Atta's meeting with Iraqi intelligence
they're much aluminum tubes aluminum
tubes and now we fast forward and let's
just like first the facts
Iran is a Shia country right well and
let me offer a major data point okay the
the new America think tank went through
all these documents that were found in
bin Laden's compound after we waxed him
yes and they they cast out on any close
ties or cooperations between Iran and
al-qaeda we have new evidence this is
wrong and like the Iranians are on the
opposite side of this divide in the
Islamic world they are Shia and al-qaeda
is a Sunni organization and and and and
so for them to be trying to cobble
together some relationship between Iran
and al-qaeda to justify think about how
crazy this would be think about how
crazy this would be the the the original
AUMF eff passed after 9/11 was for us to
go after al Qaeda and associated forces
the people responsible for 9/11
think about how crazy would be to go to
war with Iran 20 years later not a good
idea saying that what they're an
Associated force of al-qaeda that the
Iranian government is something like
like it's all the caveats that we always
have to say about Iran being a bad actor
and around doing bad things the dis
ain't it chief you know like this is not
this is not the like the if they if John
Bolton and Mike Pompeo and Donald Trump
believe that this nation should go to
war with Iran then they have to put
forward the reason for that war is it is
it the Iranian nuclear program is it
something the Ryan's are doing the
region let them make that case to
Congress and let them get authorization
if they don't this war is adel is
illegal and Congress needs to say that a
war that is not authorized by Congress
against Iran will be seen as illegal and
Congress won't support it and Congress
frankly shouldn't fund it yeah and it
can't be because some al Qaeda guy lived
in Iran for a few years or there was
some al Qaeda guys in prison that they
released from prison because they
released him from prison they're an
associate of al Qaeda and like you said
the IRGC has funded all kinds of militia
groups in that case yeah make that case
they're not okay don't do this legal
gymnastics here it is it was great
credit to Rand Paul for for calling out
this book yeah cuz you could see this
 coming a mile away and
everybody should pay attention is in
Congress Democrats in Congress should
say right now
that if a war is not authorized by
Congress with Iran then it's an illegal
war agreed to switch gears a little bit
so the times have this piece this week
that caught my eye about the FBI
preventing Chinese scholars from
visiting the u.s. because of concerns
over spying again obviously we all know
that that China's real threat want to
come to espionage they're especially bad
about stealing intellectual property so
I'm not minimizing the risk here but the
this policy seemed completely
self-defeating because a lot of the
scholars in this piece were described as
people who who care about the u.s. who
understand us values and they can go
back and explain u.s. thinking to the
Chinese government and maybe prevent
misunderstandings because you do worry
about an entire generation of young
Chinese you know military members for
example who think we are this distant
evil empire and
have no you know actual first-hand
understanding of what's going on
Ben you worked on a ton of these
cultural student academic exchange
programs at the white house why was that
such an important tool to forging better
relations between us
other countries well the the first point
is that in any foreign exchange program
when we're bringing foreigners here the
United States either own a US government
program you know warrant a university
exchange like some of these people are
gonna end up being like the prime
ministers of countries diplomats for
country's business leaders and countries
we benefited for decades from the fact
that a lot of the people who ran a lot
of the other countries in the world and
businesses had studied here and had
relationships here and had goodwill
built up from their time here and and
that proved to be a huge intangible
asset for our foreign policy and I often
used to think in the Obama
administration as these people would
cycle through this could end up being
like the most important thing we do you
know because if we're helping to expose
young people to democratic values and to
relationships with ordinary Americans
this could pay dividends for decades to
come as these people move up the ladders
in their own society right that's that's
the the most obvious point to me
second there's frankly just an economic
benefit you know of having students come
here of having exchange students come
here that's all money coming into our
economy and money coming to our
universities that's that's making us
better sometimes we're getting the best
and brightest from these countries doing
research in the United States and I'll
tell you the two things that worried me
if we cut this off you you know what
that's gonna go it's gonna go to China
right and you already see this in other
parts of the world more and more foreign
students are not coming the United
States because they're scared of Steve
Miller and they're going to China
instead do we really want to see the
next generation of leaders from Africa
and Latin America and Europe studying in
China and just think about how that's
going to color their worldview and just
think about how that's going to color
their orientation we could be like
playing ourselves out of the superpower
game here by shutting the door to people
and on the China specific piece you know
look if someone's here and we have
reason to believe they're spying sure
keep kick them out but if we just start
saying we don't want certain types of
people here doing certain types of work
that's a very slippery slope yeah
because suddenly you know you're gonna
have researchers who don't want to come
here you're gonna have Chinese you don't
wanna come here
you're gonna have a sorting out of who
can come to the United States and who
can go to China you see the Chinese
already reciprocating kicking out you
know us businesspeople potentially just
like they've been detaining Canadians
after we detained the Huawei person and
we could end up in a real Cold War
situation where essentially we're
tearing down the bridges between our
societies that are necessary to avoid
conflict and that's gonna make the next
20 or 30 years and much more dangerous
thing so that this may seem like a small
story but if this is really our approach
and our orientation to both China and
the kind of foreign exchanges generally
we're gonna we're gonna disarm ourselves
from like our most profound source of
influence which is our own example yeah
small story here I'm sure it's front
page news the u.s. is just booting about
a bunch of yeah tweed jacket wearing you
know fuzzy friendly academics you know
and again if that's the way they'll spin
it and if one of these academics is a
spy then kick him out you don't just
kind of do it you know large and this
last question for you and it's the most
open tour of the day so we got a bunch
of major elections coming up this year
India votes in April in Danang because
it takes like five weeks to deal with
900 million voters which is just a crazy
thing to even imagine how they even
conduct elections
um Indonesia votes the day this pot is
released Afghanistan goes to the polls
on April 20th anything you're worried
about watching for makes you hopeful I
think the general point is that we've
talked about this contest in the world
between the authoritarianism and
democracy and their number of elections
this year that will put some this to the
test in Indonesia you have a relatively
democratic and non corrupt leader
running for reelection against kind of a
military guy who represents the older
corrupt establishment it looks like the
current president jokowi is likely to
win I think that's generally a good
thing but we should watch this is the
world's largest Muslim majority country
over 200 million people we wanted to
continue to evolve into a more stable
democracy India Modi has practiced this
you know fairly hardline brand of Hindu
nationalist politics he won an outright
majority last time you know even if he
doesn't lose this election I thing
be healthy for there to be more
competition within India so that it
doesn't look like there's this kind of
growing Hindu nationalist movement that
is overtaking the country's politics so
I think the important thing to watch in
India is not just whether or not Modi
wins but how much he wins by and whether
it feels like there's a competitive
democracy in India because we want that
in the country over a billion people we
don't want to see it kind of drift in a
hard-line direction in the nationalist
direction like a lot of other countries
are Canada we have one later this year
where Trudeau has been in trouble if for
all the flaws exposed in the recent
scandal I still think losing one of the
world's few remaining progressive
leaders in the West at least to a pretty
hardline right-wing Canadian party that
is kind of against action on climate
change that would be bad so I think
Canada is a good litmus test as well
and then lastly Afghanistan you know
Tommy we've been through the last two
after Aniston elections were hugely
destabilizing the 2009 one in which
there was massive amounts of fraud led
to violence diminished Karzai the last
one in which neither side really
accepted that the other side had lost
and we had to kind of broker a unity
government people should watch this
election because if this election in
Afghanistan goes off the rails at the
same time that the administration is
trying to negotiate something with the
Taliban you could see things really fall
apart in Afghanistan for there is just a
clear results that that doesn't throw
the country in even further chaos yeah
if you if you had a contested election
results and then you know a declining
security situation it makes the peace
talks harder and getting our guys out of
there harder it's it's a mess and then
in Canada I mean the other thing I've
been watching is you know the Canadian
right has been increasingly flirting
with the same all my sources that we
have had to deal with for the last
couple years here and it's it's a real
problem yeah it's a real problem they
don't have Fox News up there so that's a
good start but I mean there's plenty of
yeah plenty of bad news no I think
people should keep an eye on Canada we
tend to think of it as our more rational
you know cousin to the north and you
know they're they're they're
mild-mannered and and they're friendly
and and they are they're lovely people
of Canadians
but the right-wing Canada is in bed with
some of the same forces we've seen
sloshing around in the US and the UK
with brexit you know you see like a more
aggressive right-wing media you see more
aggressive resistance action against
climate change you see kind of more
personalized nasty brand of politics
emanating from the right there so you
know for the right in Canada would kind
of send a message that progressive
politics is in the retreat everywhere
you know even in the north so that
that's that's worth watching and our
world does in Canada you need to need to
not be complacent in this election
trouble in Westeros we need the north to
stay stable okay when we come back I'll
have my conversation about Afghanistan
and Bowe Bergdahl with author Matt Farah
you
