I am part of the 45 million people who
are shackled with the burdens of student
debt and and what that does really is it
stops I think prosperity for all of us
it stops us from having the opportunity
to purchase a home it stops us from the
opportunity to starting that business it
stops us from the opportunity of even
economically participating in small ways
within our communities and I think it is
really important for us to recognize
that we have to provide relief for this
forty five million and that relief must
come in the form of a bailout for them
and so what we are proposing is complete
debt cancellation of their fet of
federal and private student loans
complete cancellation and you know
proponents of this would say you know
you you're canceling out student debt
for people who can afford it to pay back
their debt and we we know right like the
the the children of Trump are not going
to benefit from this because people like
that don't have student debt
and and so we recognize that most people
who have student debt are low-income
they are folks who are struggling to
make sure that they get that prosperity
that was guaranteed to them because
education was the gateway to that and
right now that's not happening for them
and so the 1.5 trillion dollars that it
would cost for us to cancel out would
pay for itself within ten years which is
very different than the tax cut that we
just gave to corporations so Tuesday was
eat which is the end of Ramadan and I
had to I had this very conflicting
choice I had to make whether to stay
here to celebrate with my children and
family which I have not missed one
single eat since they were born in
celebrating with them or go and be part
of a very historic vote to really assure
that the dreams and the promises of this
country are still alive for so many
people and so I paid with the kids told
my little one that I was gonna go to DC
to go vote and she said what's more
important than us she's feisty wanted
she sounds like she'd be good at like
corporate PR yeah I think so she's got
she's got a future somewhere and and I I
passed for a second because it wasn't
that there was something important than
her but it was also true that there were
other six-year-olds that were also as
important that needed to have their
parents to have the opportunity to stay
with them and continue to celebrate with
them and so
so when I think about the constituents
that I have that are with the saddest of
DD or TPS I think about the kind of
shattered dreams that they have in in
knowing that they might not get to
celebrate every single holiday with
their kids because they might get
deported and so we get to be purposeful
in saying you matter we see you this is
your country you're our neighbor we're
going to do everything that we can to
put a piece of legislation together that
validates your existence in this country
