on Friday George HW Bush passed away in
his home in Texas with his children at
his side the 94 year old former
president received sweeping praise from
those on both sides of the aisle while
both the Obamas and Clinton's nostalgic
ly remembered their interactions and
stories of the former president and you
know I know every once in a while y'all
might like for us to do something nice
and easy it's just one thing we don't
ever do nothin nice and easy do it nice
and rough so we're not gonna be doing
that everything breaks we're gonna have
a real talk about George HW Bush you
know what when he died I was reading you
know stuff about him and there's this
really interesting thing which is he's
so boring he's he was a boring bad
president he wasn't even that good at
ignoring AIDS Reagan was way better at
the mack daddy of ignoring AIDS Oh Nancy
Reagan she's like I can talk about AIDS
it doesn't match the China let's like
literally just jump right into that Bush
was a president notorious for ignoring
the AIDS crisis literally every AIDS
activist group during the time was
pissed off at him had ads like from ACTA
that called him a serial killer for
ignoring how many men and women were
dying of this disease and on the heels
of the crisis in the 80s he inherited
Reagan's sort of penchant for ignoring
everything that happened and later he
eventually did sort of saw in the
Americans with Disabilities Act and the
Ryan White Care Act which protected
people with HIV from discrimination and
funded treatment for people with AIDS
but by that point it was ten years into
the epidemic 150,000 cases of people
with HIV had been reported in the US and
a hundred thousand people had died so
thanks a lot yeah good try and there's
been sort of this thing that happened
with Reagan that happened with McCain
which we talked about on this show of
people sort of mad at you for bringing
up
any of this and just all people are
doing I will say is stating what he did
they're just saying these are the things
that happened while this person was
president if they sound bad that is not
the fault of the facts that is the fault
of the person who did them in the notion
that's simply saying he ignored the he
ignored the AIDS crisis and hundreds of
thousands of people died it just saying
that he ramped up this
war on drugs and thousands and thousands
of people ended up in prison for no
reason because of him
that's just saying that he did if
it's bad it's his fault it's not my
fault it's not anyone's fault that he
did bad things also the reason why we
have problems like Trump you know the
real reason not you know because of the
working class and forgotten man it is
because America has this penchant for
ignoring history so much and I think
that is what so much of our art that is
about the AIDS epidemic is about you
know it's about people being reminded of
the fact that this even happened when I
was in London I saw this new play the
inheritance which is about the AIDS
crisis and about how people in Manhattan
gaze in this age are learning about it
and just sort of how if you forget that
history it's gonna be gone forever and
so when you have people saying don't
bring this up it just adds to the fact
that we're going to be forgetting about
it if we don't bring it up and by the
way we are the ones who have to keep
passing it on to each other it doesn't
feel like it's like formally embedded in
like you know it's not in the history
book they don't they only talk about
this on the news when someone who
ignored it died right so what else can
we talk about it's also this weird
notion that like the people that and
it's frankly usually white people who
were like you know he's dead now we can
admit that he did some bad things but he
also did some good things
um no cuz I don't know man you said like
you you're out her saying we need more
prisons we don't need more prisons we've
never needed more prisons and so people
that were negatively affected by that
the notion that they should just be like
well you
he had some good moments like it's just
to me it's it's it's the it's the
privilege of being able to look at a
situation that way and see both sides
because the other side of it is not
actively harming it's because you were
not caring for you know gay men dying of
AIDS your relatives weren't getting lost
opportunity being incarcerated for tiny
amounts of crack or whatever
like you were not affected by this so
yes I understand how you could look back
at this person and be like well he
wasn't all bad but like your if all your
friends are dead then you you don't have
you don't have the luxury of being able
to look at a situation you also have the
fact that he kicked off his presidential
campaign in 1988 with that infamous
Willie Horton rat because he was going
against Michael Dukakis and basically
the ad was talking about Horton who had
been in prison serving a life sentence
for murder and on a weekend furlough
program he murdered a man and raped a
woman and the ad was very clear with a
mug shot letting you know that Horton
was black and his victims were white and
it was just sort of like this is
dukakis's fault ignoring the fact that
the weekend furlough program was created
by a Republican it was also popular in
California under Reagan this was really
just an ad to get white people whipped
up about
black criminals coming to rape and
murder them and he went from that to
starting his racist war on drugs where
you know there was that time where he
was in the Oval Office and he held up
crack cocaine bag and was like they're
even selling crack outside the White
House and then it was found out that he
scammed that entire thing and they lured
a drug dealer to outside the White House
so that they could perpetuate that scam
if you can read that Washington Post
story you absolutely should as a story
in The Washington Post that breaks down
the scam exactly of how they lured a
drug dealer basically to the White House
and to sort of do this whole facade that
they're selling crack right outside the
way Washington Post speak in a spotlight
the bathroom glow no that was wait Oh
spotlight Washington's the most you know
post
yes meryl streep caftan yes uh-huh yes
that's a 1989 article by Michael Isikoff
we'll provide it in the episode clink
for people to be able to read it but
that was literally he was a scammer mm
he was a racist scam or two and the only
difference is it was you know elegant um
dynasty scamming instead of trumps on
Roseanne trailer-park skin right there
was a time when you could be a bad
president in a cute folksy way which was
reassuring to people at the time I think
the other thing that really bothers me
is this idea of right like you can't
speak ill of the dead which clearly
didn't apply to Michael Brown didn't
apply to Trayvon Martin certainly
doesn't apply all the time any time you
know a black person is murdered by the
cops nobody smoked weed once so this
 that we can't speak ill of the
dead go yourself because you
speak ill of people all of the time when
they're gone and the notion that someone
who was actually harming people who was
actually making people's lives worse now
that they're gone people can't like say
what they think of them as ridiculous
and also I think in addition to that
there's a general discomfort with just
saying about white authority figures
this person mostly sucked and
not paying them respect like if we don't
pay them respect we are I don't know
like it's not civil or you're not
respecting the institution they think
they're doing is like well you know he
was a president and I respect the
institution of the presidency and so I
have to give him respect and it's like
no you don't absolutely not you have
someone in power right now who clearly
proves that you don't have to do that
there's also a direct line from Bush
ignoring the AIDS epidemic and also his
racist war on drugs because now you look
in the future that intersection of him
attacking gay people and him attacking
black people is like you look at HIV
right now and it is still a serious
problem you know it's like there's a
lifetime risk of one in 99 Americans
getting it and one in 11 white gay and
bisexual men but it's like one in two
african-american gay and bisexual men
we'll get that in their lifetime and we
don't talk about HIV and AIDS in this
country the way that we should and we
don't have the progress that we should
because we spent ten years not doing
anything about it while people were
dying and you know it's this problem of
whitewashing history and it ends up
whitewashing AIDS in general because you
know you end up thinking oh this is only
a disease that affected white gay men
you know I'm like when that first CDC
report came out in the 80s it included
five cases of white gay men who got it
and it excluded the two black gay men
who'd got it and there was even a report
earlier this year I think and like HIV+
magazine about how like in 1969 the
first victim of HIV was actually like a
15 year old black teenager so it's like
when we don't discuss these things when
we decide that we need to be nice and
that we need to you know just like keep
the peace that is how people end up
dying and by the way someone like him
like the kinder gentler republicanism
they these people specifically found
space and created space for like
horrible insane ideologues and that's
who was our president now you know his
last tweet was - what's her name Susan
Collins is that the one like
congratulating her on her vote for
Kavanagh like you are you kidding
me you I was about to be like
graduating her on confirming a probable
racist to the Supreme Court
rape it a probable rapist to the Supreme
Court that's your last tweet that is the
last thing that you or whoever operates
your Twitter feed chose to put up Jeb do
he sets up the official tweets just
gonna up next week and send out a
tweet and they're gonna be like wait a
second it's what he dead right Jeb is
gonna just unleash his real feelings
about the by the way do you know what I
thought was also telling is the minute
he died how quickly Dana Carvey trended
because truly the most you know
culturally relevant thing about him was
just that impression of him you know
Ryan and
well that also goes to the Crete is that
like so many people who I know were
trying to hop on social media and be
like let's not speak Ilyn that let's not
do this and that I'm like you
don't even remember george w bush being
president yeah no please I don't know he
raised more of us think about broccoli
than aids that's all I remember
okay he doesn't know he doesn't know
what we're talking about he doesn't
write the only good thing he did was
when he was Petty and skip Trump's
inauguration I was good it was three
doors down made there letting him go to
the funeral I loved I saw headline that
was like Trump will attend the funeral
but he won't give a eulogy which no
write a poem yeah he can barely speak
coherently when he asked for his
McDonald's order in the morning you
think he's gonna sit up there and give a
eulogy I guess basically it's like don't
forget to AIDS crisis don't forget the
racist war on drugs and we should be
talking about these things more than you
know you just when these people die yeah
and also you can use the opportunity of
like this person is gone and these are
now the things we're talking about
that's how the news works like it's I
don't know why everyone is surprised
every time this happens like why are we
talking about these things because he's
dead and now we're talking about what he
did that's this is what happens
literally every single time yeah and
speaking as a gay black man if I can
have a caramel man you know I know that
we always talk about the normal heart we
always talk about angels in America so
Baltimore Waltz by Paula Vogel which I
love but you know we should do more to
read about the AIDS crisis from the
people actually majority afflicted by it
which were black people I think that
people should read not straight not
white black gay men from the march on
Washington to the AIDS crisis by Kevin
Mumford and a friend of mine online
Jonna Smith is an hiv-positive poet who
has a lot of poetry
that I think people should read and
people around the globe yeah that's like
it's not just this up a lot of
things yeah uh George Bush yeah okay
thanks girl
you
