I'd save the world this is Tommy Vitor
Ben Rhodes in Chicago Ben what's going
on in Chicago man just seeing some world
those men talking to some college kids
the University of Chicago here on the
south side Barack Obama's roots so it's
good to be back here
those kids are intimidatingly smart be
careful they're wicked smart it's a
defect I did not get in here either no I
didn't even apply uh this week we're
gonna talk Iran we're gonna talk about
which Fox News hosts are encouraging
Trump to pardon people accused of
committing war crimes that is not a joke
a New York Times report on Bernie's
foreign policy views in the 80s this
week in far-right politics and countries
that start with a and Y milkshakes are
the hottest new form of protest
Palestinian American human rights
attorney Noura Erakat joins to talk
about Trump's Middle East peace plan and
what it will take to create a new
Palestinian state you ready Ben I'm
ready to roll all right let's start with
an Iran check-in so as all of our
listeners know you and I were quite
worried about the risk of conflict with
Iran as recently as last week my blood
pressure went down a little bit when I
started to read stories that seemed like
maybe authorize leaks trying to ratchet
down some of the tension but then our
rattle smashing president tweeted if
Iran wants to fight that will be the
official end of Iran never threaten the
United States again which frankly echoed
a tweet he sent that was basically the
same a year ago today the acting defense
secretary said that the Iranian threats
were quote on hold because of all the
things the Trump administration has been
doing so Ben I guess my question is how
you feeling at this point like where's
your anxiety meter what comes to Iran
well my look the anxiety meters down a
little bit and and I want to make a
point that I think is important for
people listening it kind of reminds me a
little bit of health care in the sense
that they're trying to do something
they're trying to push an ideological
agenda and then people made a bunch of
noise and you know there's a recognition
of how unpopular was and in that case
you had Congress and so you had McCain
who could cast a vote against it what
kind of felt like was happening the last
few weeks and you know I've been calling
this out is this kind of sleepwalking
into a war with Iran you know
and we don't have to relive it but
basically they're deploying military
assets they're referring to vague
intelligence they're issuing threats and
it felt like they were setting the stage
to provoke the Iranians into doing
something or claiming a pretext for them
to take some action and you know people
started to make a lot of noise and some
people in Congress started to make noise
some people in the press you know
hopefully some people out there
listening to the show and then you have
Chum come out say wait a second I don't
want to go to war with Iran because they
know that a war with Iran is unpopular I
think it's really important to keep for
people to keep saying don't do this this
would be a disaster people don't want
you to do this Trump you said you're
gonna keep us out of these Wars I think
there's a need to remain vigilant
because they did respond and they've
tried to walk it back because I think
they looked over the precipice of this
thing and Bolton was driving with the
bus and then they decided looks like you
know maybe we should put the brakes on
as you said Trump is still you know one
day he's saying he wants peace and the
next day saying you could destroy the
entire country so I think people need to
remain vigilant here the risk of an
escalation is still high but it does
feel like it's worth people making a lot
of noise about this and about how this
is not something that people would
support because I think Trump seems to
respond to that I agree with you there
one thing I want to ask your gut check
on there was a report that Oman's
foreign minister visited Tehran and that
Pompeo had reached out to Oman 'yes
they've historically played a helpful
go-between role for the US and the
Iranians did that make your blood
pressure go down and no well went down
and went up it went down because yes the
emani's are among all the Gulf states
were all majority Sunni States the
amantes have maintained good relations
with the Iranians and they have lines
directly into the Supreme Leader and so
when we were in government they hosted
the secret negotiations that led to what
became the Iran deal and so they would
be the natural middleman to open up a
channel of communication between the
u.s. and Iran which I think there needs
to be I also noticed Trump saying well
you know we don't want to go to war we
just want Iran to agree to limit its
nuclear program and I'm thinking well we
have this thing that we
negotiated called the Iran deal with
your monies and it seems like they're
kind of going back to the beginning of
that process but you know given the
choice between that and a war I'll take
it
I still think people have to be vigilant
because the context that the
administration said and even what Trump
said about threats is could they could
take any event in that region and use it
as a pretext yeah or the Saudis could
say oh the Iranians you know as they do
you know attacked one of our vessels and
then they're calling Trump and saying
you have to hit back against the
Iranians so we got a year and a half
left of the first term of the Trump
administration the the possibility that
that pretext could emerge is still there
better for them to be again warned off
of war and hopefully to at least try to
establish some channel communications
I'd rather have a very weird North Korea
like diplomatic process with the
Iranians in a war so if the amana's can
execute that that would be good and they
would be the party that can do that
because neither Saudi Arabia or the UAE
or these other Gulf states have the same
relationships in Iran that Oman has
that's why we use them presumably that's
why they're emerging now in the middle
of this picture yeah amen to that there
was also a big New York Times piece by
David Sanger where he walked through the
fact that the goal the administration
seems to be articulating for what an
Iran deal 2.0 could be was basically the
exact same thing the exact same
timeframe that Obama negotiated but you
know whatever
um another data point you know on the
rollercoaster of our blood pressure so
the AP reported that Iran has quadrupled
as uranium enrichment production
capacity it they said they'll stay under
the three point six seven percent of
Richmond limits set by the nuclear deal
but it's likely that their stockpile of
enriched uranium will go beyond what's
allowed been none of that sounded like
English to anyone listening can you tell
us in layman's terms if that's a big
deal yeah so I think there's ways to
think about this the Iran deal had
different pieces to it so in one piece
of the Iranians rollback their program
so they took out two-thirds of their
centrifuges they essentially filled the
core of the reactor that could build
plutonium with concrete so it can't do
that those are the steps that they took
to set back their nuclear program then
they secondly agreed to a series of
steps that limited their stockpile so
that they just had less raw materials to
deal with in the country if they chose
to restart their program and then
thirdly they agreed to a bunch of
inspections very intrusive inspections
to monitor their nuclear program so we
could see what was going on there we
could make sure they were keeping their
commitments the what I read is that the
Iranians in response to Trump pulling
out of the deal and resenting them for a
year
essentially announced that they're going
to begin to plus up the materials they
have the stockpile they have that
suggests to me it's not the worst case
scenario the worst case scenario is they
kick out the inspectors they start
installing centrifuges and you know
they're in a situation where they're
dashing off to build a weapon it feels
to me like they wanted to do something
to show that there were consequences for
Trump violating the Iran deal and they
maybe wanted to create some conditions
where if they chose to restart the
program they might be starting from a
slightly higher base and so it's a
testing by the Iranians of how far they
they want to push here it's not again
the worst steps that they could take
it's not them kicking out inspectors
it's not them installing all their
centrifuges it's them trying to send a
political message not unlike North Korea
testing weapons that we're frustrated
that you guys have violated this deal
we're going to push the envelope to
we're going to put ourselves in a
position to have some more materials
here so that if this thing all falls
apart you know we're starting from that
position instead of from the position of
all the restrictions of the Iran deal
right you know that Trump people say
they want to negotiate something better
the reality is there's not that many
different formulations here you know we
had a deal that shipped out 98% of their
materials that roll back you know
eliminated the ability for them to
produce plutonium that rolled back the
number of centrifuges that they had so
they couldn't produce a weapon within a
year if they chose to break the deal and
try to get all the material for a weapon
and that's what the Trump people are not
talking about doing and they could try
to bring in some other elements like
Iran's ballistic missiles but at its
core any nuclear deal with Iran is going
to look somewhat like our deal you know
and the question is do you want a deal
like that in place or not and I think
the Trump people are presented with what
we always said we
be the choice which is either you have a
deal like that in place or it goes away
and you're left with this question of
whether you go to war with the Iranians
to prevent them from getting a nuclear
weapon that ultimately is the the
decision space and I hope that they
choose the course of trying to return to
some diplomacy here yeah me too
let's go to a little bit more disturbing
story so president sharp is reportedly
hoping to celebrate Memorial Day by
pardoning members of the military
accused of war crimes I guess this is a
idea that Fox News host Pete hagseth is
pitching to him one case is a Navy SEAL
who was turned in to the authorities by
his own guys in his unit for killing
civilians including children and a
teenage hostage the others are members
of Blackwater a private militia force
they killed dozens of unarmed Iraqis and
in 2007 there's some Marine Corps
snipers charged with urinating on dead
Taliban fighters Ben we were lucky to
work with and around a lot of
unbelievable US service members from
literally every branch of service I mean
can you imagine the the men and women we
worked with wanting to celebrate
Memorial Day by associating their
service with war crimes no I mean it's a
it's hugely offensive to the vast
majority of US service members who
conduct themselves with remarkable
professionalism and incredibly difficult
circumstances
look people should read these stories I
mean this one guy this is this one Navy
SEAL was literally just just decided to
shoot a child and kill that child you
know it decided to execute a prisoner
right freaked out his fellow service
members such that they reported him
which you know is a drastic act within
the kind of Brotherhood of the Navy
SEALs yeah he was their boss yeah and
you know and number one it so it sends a
message to everybody else that you know
what like these guys are heroes you know
the guys who broke the rules and the
people that blew the whistle on them are
the bad guys
that's sick you know that's that's
disgusting it has messages beyond the
United States we have been at the center
of trying to have there be rules that
govern how people fight wars a lot of
these rules
date back to war one and war two when
you had the mass slaughter of innocence
and people deciding we don't want to do
that anymore we have Geneva Conventions
we have protections for people who are
prisoners of war we don't just randomly
shoot civilians that saves untold lives
around the world the fact that you have
the United States and other countries
invest in those rules and the United
States pulls out of that not only does
that put civilians in danger it puts our
servicemembers in danger what happens if
their what happens if they're caught in
the conflict we count on those rules to
protect our servicemembers so it's
ultimately potentially putting them in
danger and for what because culturally
like Donald Trump and some Fox
News those who I've never heard of until
you just said his name like think it's
good politics to say well what's wrong
with the guy he's a seal and so what he
killed a child like how can you defend
this this is indefensible and this is
not how the commander-in-chief of the
world's most powerful military should be
acting to take our kind of culture war
Fox News political grievances
and and and and give life to them this
way it sends a dangerous message it will
put civilians at risk around the world
and ultimately put our troops at risk
yeah and like that that that case that
individual murdering a child or a
hostage it's it's I'm sure everyone
hears that and thinks that's a
no-brainer that person should go to jail
people might listen to this and think
okay so some Marine Corps snipers
urinated on dead Taliban fighters isn't
that a lesser case but I can think of so
many meetings that you and I were in
when there was some really ugly incident
like desecrating a corpse or or a Quran
was desecrated that led to protests or
riots that could last weeks or months
that were clearly and obviously
insulting to people in the region and
that's a separate set of issues but
again to your point that we could put
our own service members serving abroad
at risk these instances like led to
massive instability and and like people
were killed you know I mean it's it's a
big deal to send a message that we don't
care about you know protecting the
corpse of an Afghan soldier yeah you
remember how much this mattered Petraeus
right yes yes I remember that crazy guy
Terry Jones the the guy who would burn
Korans and
the news commander in Afghanistan would
be the most upset about these things
because he said there would always be a
spike in Taliban attacks against his
guys when some nutcase would burn a
karana on YouTube or something I mean so
it's not just a bunch of lusty talking
about this stuff our generals we're
constantly blowing the alarm bells that
you know if you are desecrating the
Koran urinating on corpses like that is
the the lifeblood the propaganda that
that people use to motivate others to
come attack our people yeah that's a
really ugly one and a no-brainer so
let's turn to some reporting on Bernie
Sanders foreign policy record
The Times did a feature on Bernie and a
follow-up interview with him about his
foreign policy record as mayor of
Burlington
he visited Nicaragua in the mid 80s he
strongly opposed reagan's anti-communist
policy agenda agenda generally he
formalized his sister city relationship
between Burlington and Yaroslavl I hope
I'm pronouncing that right a city in the
Soviet Union and he went to Cuba it's
very interesting that he dug into these
issues as a mayor then I was curious
what you made this story both the fact
that he was just so active on foreign
policy but also the policies themselves
like opposing the you know right-wing
militias we were supporting in the
region for example yeah I mean look I I
thought this whole episode was kind of
interesting because you know first of
all it's a reminder than the eighties
there were these contested issues and if
you were on the left like Bernie you
know you were raising all these concerns
about the US support for the Contras and
the death squads in right-wing militias
in Central America you know I personally
like probably wouldn't have gone as far
as like a sister city in Soviet Union
but you know Bernie was doing his own
form of de Tonto Burlington what I think
is reviewing though is that birdies
getting all this for this as if it
was wrong to oppose the Reagan
administration Central America policies
and this is relevant today because the
guy who is the engineer of those
policies Elliott Abrams is in charge of
the regime change policy in Venezuela
right now right and it's interesting to
me that it's more you know seemingly
outside of the mainstream that Bernie
took these
then for what Elliott Abrams did I mean
it's one of the things it holds a mirror
up to how American journalists in
American politics look at foreign policy
that it's somehow a problem for Bernie
that you know he was opposing actively
US Central America policy in 1980s
whereas it's not necessarily as big a
problem for the guy who was the
architect of a policy that killed
innocent civilians that supported death
squads who's now serving in a
high-ranking position the Trump
administration I mean whether or not you
would go as far as burning did in the
80s he was reflecting I think some
pretty valid critiques about how far the
Reagan administration was going
particularly in Central America and you
know I think Bernie deserves credit for
being himself and not walking those back
yeah it was interesting cuz at the Times
posted their investigative story and
then Bernie did an interview and you
could tell in reading the interview that
the story pissed him off a bit
especially questions about an event he
attended in Nicaragua or I guess there
were anti-american chants or sentiment
and it's so it's interesting because the
frame of the question is basically I
don't know the subtext is would this
sound bad if used against you in a
political ad you know would this look
bad on Fox News and Bernie's trying to
make the case like a well of course
there was anti-american sentiment in a
country where we were supporting one
side of a civil war right but I don't
know it was it was hard for me to to to
read that question and not feel his pain
feel Bernie's frustration in the way it
was framed him but then also wonder to
myself what would Fox News do with this
story if he were the nominee yeah I mean
I think look and to be clear like you
know there's some of these guys like
Daniel Ortega the guy down you know down
there that Bernie supported you know he
wasn't a great guy either but at the
same time I I think first of all I'm you
know Bernie's not someone who spent his
whole life thinking he'd run for
president right and you know what like
he's the mayor of Burlington he's on the
left he opposes our Central America
policies with some very good reason he
goes down there you know he's not
someone who's sitting there in the 80s
thinking like if there's
video tape of me at a rally where people
are saying any American things how will
that look and you know 30 or 40 years
and I'm running for president and I I
kind of think it's dumb to hold people
to a standard that if like there's
anything in here it's like Reverend
Wright you know like yes Obama when he
went to church on the south side wasn't
thinking like well this video of my
pastor sound you know my presidential
campaign you some that is just out of
your control I do think that Bernie you
know it's it's it's right to push back
and say wait a second why is this
question coming at me about the optics
of what I did and not about the position
I was taking which is you know again why
is it more controversial to oppose the
u.s. support for Contras and death
squads in Central America than it was to
support that there's something weird
about the political incentives around
foreign policy that always favor the
kind of more hawkish aggressive
interventionist position and Bernie's
trying to blow the whistle on that I do
think to be fair to the times yeah look
this is going to be out there Bernie's
gonna have to explain it like anything
else in in a presidential campaign and
you know Bernie's getting scrutiny that
he might not have gotten last time
because he seems like a front-runner and
so that's look that's part of life and
you might not like it but it's gonna be
there I I think the goal for him should
be to just kind of make his case for why
he believed what he did believe then and
and you as you know I know we can
complain about the media till the end of
time but it's gonna be there so take it
head-on address it yeah I agree and it's
also I think an open question if people
really care about things from the mid
80s or 90s when we have a President of
the United States currently who is a
massive scumbag for all of those decades
and no one seems to care because we
elected him yeah and it should be point
out that you have a president in states
who said like oh well we've had some
killers too in the United States and
it's not like Trump has never said
anything bad about American foreign
policy he said frankly probably a lot
worse things and Bernie Sanders in the
last several years about American
foreign policy
yeah I mean he knows more about Isis in
the generals etc etc okay let's talk
about a section we're calling this week
in far-right politics in countries that
start with a first Australia their
conservative coalition won a surprise
victory in last week's general election
it's hard to spin this one it sucks it's
huge blow to those who want action on
climate change been any brief thoughts
on this bummer it's a bummer because it
looked like the right was going to be
dislodged ere my one brief thought is a
message to world owes in Canada you know
you don't to wake up after your election
and have some far-right guy who's
against action on climate in there
either
hopefully it galvanizes progressives in
the next big election in Canada to say
we don't want to end up there yeah
agreed that's a very good point okay the
next one is Austria okay so this is a
truly wild story
Austria called for snap elections after
the far-right Vice Chancellor resigned
to this guy
Heinz Christian Strasser I think his
name of the right-wing populist party
Freedom Party of Austria was caught in a
sting operation where he was filmed
eating drinking and hanging out in a
villa in Ibiza where the woman who
claimed to be the nice Russian oligarch
as one does she said she wanted to spend
hundreds of millions of dollars to buy a
major Austrian newspaper and use it to
help the freedom party the right-wing
party win in exchange she wanted big
government contracts um so I guess my
first question this one is kind of met
up and it's like this was an amazing
elaborate sting we don't know who did it
the newspapers who published the stories
do but like these guys rented a villa
they wired it with cameras and
microphones like who has this capability
is this a foreign intelligence service I
don't know I don't think it has to be I
mean because like first of all kudos
like just exposes what everybody knows
right that a these people are corrupt be
they're full when they say they're
working for you and not looking out for
themselves and three they're more than
happy to jump in bed with the Russians
right and you swap out Austria for
United States hungry any other number of
countries right these people are
exposing what everybody suspected about
this crowd of you know right-wing
neo-fascists who were popping up all
over the world and the reality is you
know anybody with a checkbook can rent a
villa and set up this kind of thing
frankly that the the trolling is usually
come at us from the right this is some
pretty damn effective trolling for me
somebody coming from another direction
[Applause]
and look at the reality is it exposes
who we already know these people to be
you know I mean part of the reason why
it's even more damaging is it kind of
sends a message that all these kind of
far-right people in Europe are more than
happy to be corrupt more than happy to
try to control the media again more than
happy to accept help from the Russians
and so hopefully this ripples out not
just in Austrian politics where
hopefully there's a chance to get rid of
a far-right government in Austria
another place where you want a far away
government but is also a chance for
progressives say look this is who this
crowd is and let's let's throw them out
everywhere yeah and you know going back
to our episode last week in the week
before I mean these guys were looking at
Viktor Orban and what he's done as the
model they wanted to build a media
landscape similar to his the timing of
the publication it was Der Spiegel and
sewage Dave Zeitung I can't pronounce
that I'm sorry my parents were German to
it this comes out there's published
right as these far-right populist
parties are campaigning for seats in the
European Parliament and look likely to
do well so I don't know maybe it was
time for some maximum political impact
in a way we might like for once no
question it was and you're right by the
way 2.2 or bon you know because this
whole thing was get some oligarchs on
the business side you can fund my
campaigns get some oligarchs from the
media who can be my mouthpiece I hate to
break it to us Americans out there you
know look at the Koch brothers in Rupert
Murdoch we have those oligarchs here in
the United States we just don't call
them hala gorks right but yeah this is
European parliamentary election it's
hugely contested there's been a concern
for a long time that if the far-right
does particularly well and gets enough
seats in the European Parliament they
can kind of grind the European Union to
a halt you know and they can make it
even more dysfunctional and divisive and
that will fuel the anti European
sentiment in different countries and
that's why what is usually kind of a
second-tier election is getting so much
attention and clearly you know Trump was
trying to affect that as we talked about
last week by anyone fighting his
neo-fascist buddy in the White House
Victor bond but whoever did this is
trying to blow the whistle and say no no
look at who these people really are look
at what the far-right really represents
in Europe we don't want that here and
and clearly I think it was time to have
impact on those elections and it will be
fascinating this
how those elections play out but you
know it also have impacts in Austria and
and in potentially ripple out and and
look I think as a general matter you
know it's a slippery slope you know to
end up in a situation where everybody's
running sting operations against
everybody else the core question though
is is what are people doing because
frankly if there's a surest way to make
sure that you're not caught trying to
accept help from some woman Russian
oligarch seeking to by friendly media is
to not do that yeah so that that's the
core question and play here yeah don't
go to Ibiza and spend six hours
negotiating with an oligarch all right
last topic for us Britain's hottest new
protest movement is dousing people with
milkshakes brexit party leader Nigel
Farage certified was doused with
banana in salted caramel earlier this
month a man threw a strawberry milkshake
on Tommy Robinson he's an anti Muslim
activist running for a European
Parliament seats a seat there there are
a bunch more examples so many that
police are actually trying to prevent
the sale of milkshakes and your
political rallies we also probably
remember AG boy in Australia who could a
a far I candidate in the head with an
egg so you know been at the risk of
reawakening a tired debate about
civility politics I'm curious what you
think about this form of protest I mean
I worry personally about anything that
could be even on the border of violent
or threatening or a physical act but you
know I think there probably others who
disagree what's your take well first of
all I'm just glad that Best British
friend of the pod David Lammy has
obviously escaped the milkshake
mistreatment as he deserves to obviously
like people are feeling incredibly
pent-up frustration at the you know the
brexit ears and the Nigel Rodgers of the
world pedaling a bunch of and
they're seeking to embarrass them
humiliate them get attention I like I
tend to come down where you are that if
anything could injure somebody right and
presumably like a milkshake could be
thrown away they could injure somebody
that that is the line that I don't cross
maybe you could just dump the milkshake
in front of somebody I don't know but
I'd like to me if it gets to a point
where somebody can be physically or
harmed right that that's the kind of
speech that I start to get uncomfortable
um I do think if there are other ways to
just point up like what like full
buffoons these guys are like that is a
generally useful exercise I think there
are other ways to do that there were
other ways to challenge Nigel Fras or
other ways probably even to use
milkshake so that directly hitting
somebody and look I think part of what
we're seeing in the world
Tommy is it's interesting to watch play
out and you know we talked about a
couple examples the right wing kind of
took trolling to a pretty aggressive
extent you know particularly on social
media but also you know I was
investigated by Blackie we talked about
this on the pod and I think you're
seeing like just this kind of
frustration and version of trolling and
response you know and and ultimately
that's not like the story that's going
to win right but I do think it shows you
that you know these tactics end up
taking different forms in the hands of
different people and what I'd like to
see is that people who are feeling that
frustration there are plenty places you
can channel that energy to beat these
people where it actually matters which
is at the ballot box right and which is
getting engaged and getting active and
being outspoken in your community
running for office challenging people on
social media you know batting back false
narratives putting forward your story
that ultimately is going to be how
people win in this competition of
stories is taking place around the world
but you know every now and then somebody
wants to have fun as long as nobody gets
hurt that's my death yeah I won't
pretend I didn't laugh at Nigel Faraj
yelling in the security guards because
he was mad that it happened but I just I
do worry you know you you you throw
something than a security guard could
beat you up or someone around you I mean
things can go south
a hurry and also you know it just likely
that the the bigger fascist in the
argument is going to go further when it
comes to violence so it's just something
wrong in my voice yeah we had a good
buddy mark Lippert right who's our
pastor and soul and he was speaking in
some event and some dude ran up to him
after and like caught him with a knife
and hurt him pretty bad how this fan I'm
not saying that the people with no
chicks are doing that but I'm saying is
once you started invading the personal
space of these people then you know
maybe one guy sees the milkshake and
thinks well I'm gonna hit him and then
the next guy says I'm going to cut them
right and and so it's just it's a
dangerous place to go I will say that
you know the Nigel Rogers of the world
sit in the biggest glass houses
on earth right because their rhetoric is
downright incitement to violence against
Muslims against immigrants right and
then you know they get a little
milkshake on their suit and get all bent
out of shape I mean if we're really
talking about protecting people you know
that should also be people rejecting the
kind of hate speech that emanates from
the Nigel Rodgers of the world as well
because in the long run that probably
has led to much more harm being done to
people you know there were you know as
in the United States where you saw the
rise in Islamophobia and hate crimes in
the recent years after Brett said there
are a lot of reports you know I think of
foreigners being harassed and and you
can draw a straight line from
some thugs on the you know London
Underground messin with some immigrant
to the kind of garbage that comes out of
Nigel Ferraris mouth yeah I agreed with
that that's all I had in anything else
from your end no man I'm good III you
know I'm on this never-ending
book tour and I'd to save it I've gotten
more feedback on my Queen story than I
think anything I've said aloud in years
so I'm glad people out there liked it
well we have more material to mine and
the in a week's and pots to come yeah I
mean it's one of the best stories I
could believe didn't put it in the book
you would have sold another you know
right yeah you got what I don't know
great talking to you please send my love
to Chicago and now we will throw it to
my interview with Noura Erakat
