welcome to positive America live our Q&A
with Priyanka Hara bindi hey dub Yanks
and and us we're gonna take your
questions yeah and we got a lot today
yeah we're we're coming in hot today
with red ones freshen up the bar hearing
yeah yeah I'll just watch this morning
it's Nidhi old owl he looks like he the
world day he looks like he ate Mitch
McConnell became Mitch McConnell or he's
a better dress Steve Bannon I do side by
side the queer I won yeah or if Harry
Potter's life went very wrong but we
digress yes so with the leak and release
of Muller's letter to bar it seems
pretty clear that bar perjured himself
when he said or when he testified that
Muller didn't object to his
characterization of the report is there
any realistic possibility that he'd face
charges or at least be removed from his
position as Attorney General
how would that work what would Congress
have to refer the perjury charges to DOJ
maybe it's never gonna happen I think
it's I think it's also hard to determine
I mean he clearly misled like I don't
know if it was actual perjury a very
high bar yeah it's a high bar and I
think I probably fell short of that I
obviously don't think he'll resign his
position I think although like it's
great to if you're a Democrat Leo Leo
what do you think you know it's great if
you're Democrat to like put out your
statement that he should resign but he's
not resigning he doesn't give a flying
 he sucks the Trump administration
doesn't care they're not going to do it
what Democrats could do in the house is
impeach him I'm my new thing is I'm for
dual impeachment hearings Donald Trump
and Bill Bar
let's get them both out of there I'm
sorry because there is that that is I
think that is the tool that Democrats
have to hold him accountable for clearly
misleading the American people by
putting out that phony letter
that was designed to cover up Muller's
true findings in the report
can we talk about today a little bit
about what you guys
so I know you guys were watching
intently from the morning so what are
like initial takeaways it takes yeah um
yeah I mean we had we saw just utter
contempt for congressional oversight and
members of Congress from bar it's not
just that he doesn't answer questions
that he he'd assembles and he he's just
so evasive and he picks the smallest
little piece of the question and sort of
answers that or pretends he doesn't know
they're talking about I mean it's it's
really pretty shocking and also you know
he's clearly sought not to learn basic
facts that he knew he'd be asked about
as a way of avoiding questions we also
saw some very able capable questioning
from some senators notably Kamala Harris
yeah we saw some less able less
impressive questioning from others but
so I think that as Tommy said camel-hair
has had some excellent questions this is
you know she really shines and hearings
like these but I think what she got out
of bar is that he and Rosenstein made
the decision not to charge the president
with obstruction without ever looking at
the underlying evidence from Bob Muller
they basically did it over the course as
then Sheldon Whitehouse got him to say
over the course of two days they got the
report read the report and decided
against obstruction and that was that I
also thought one very interesting
exchange was Chuck Grassley asked if the
Special Counsel found facts sufficient
to constitute obstruction of justice
would he have stated that finding in the
report and Barr said if he had found
that I think he would state it yes
Muller in the report says the exact
opposite
he says fairness concerns counseled
against potentially reaching that
judgment and Hindman no charges can be
brought so Muller basically says in the
report we can't indict a sitting
president and because we can data
sitting president I'm not going to say
that he should be charged with
obstruction of justice because that's
leveling a charge that he can't defend
himself against because we can't indict
him meaning that's Congress's job and
bar basically just said the opposite of
that so I do think when Mol
finally testifies Democrats should get
to or should talk to him about like was
this an impeachment referral right and
it's not like technically gonna be an
impeachment referral because that's not
in the special council regulations but
just about everything Muller says in
this report points to I can't indict him
we can't indict him because he's sitting
president because of DOJ guidelines but
there's a ton of out of evidence that he
obstructed justice and Congress now
needs to do their job Bob Muller needs
to speak yeah I mean he's really allowed
this process to get away from him by
submitting his report without any public
comments submitting another private
letter raising concerns about bars for
page two let's do those summary so like
at some point you can't just keep
getting played in the media because the
public opinion is hardening about this
and no one no one knows what his intent
was at this point there's a lot of open
questions are important so get it before
Congress Lindsey Graham is not gonna do
it the house is gonna have to do it or
go do some interviews right there's
nothing wrong with that
Robert Muller is an institutionalist
playing by the rules the House Democrats
are institutional is playing by the
rules and they are playing against a
group of people who do not give a
about the rules and do not give a
about the law and know how to play the
media know how to play the Washington
establishment and they're getting run
over by those people that's what's
happening right now is they're like what
is your instruction if to go for people
to move from here for House Democrats to
move from here subpoena everyone yes
very fast subpoena everything get mauler
they're fast like yesterday The Daily
Beast had a piece that was like you know
House Democrats are complaining that the
Department of Justice is dragging their
feet on giving them a date for Moeller
to testify it's like hey Jerry Nadler
that's what your subpoena
cannons for it's a peanut or don't wait
for them to give you a date for him to
testify subpoena him now I mean I think
I think the reason the Democrats are
dragging their feet just because they're
they're worried about the answer which
is Bob Mulder believes the president
obstructed justice and believed that
maybe the that Congress would deal with
us through impeach
hearings but Democrats are still
nervous about conducting impeachment
hearings and I don't know why they are I
mean I get I I know why they are but I
think that when you weigh the pros and
cons of this like at some point they are
now they're now feeling how they're
gonna be forced into impeachment I want
Alvin Mack in the program Elisha you
know what I'm talking about
subpoena everyone okay next question
someone on Twitter wants to know what
you guys think of the GOP is newest
defense in this hearing paraphrasing but
basically that since the FBI didn't warn
Trump and Russian official that Russian
officials might try to contact him and
offer help that accepting any assistance
and not reporting it to the FBI is fine
it's embarrassingly stupid it's wrong
first of all if he was warned you know
and they probably routinely received
warnings about likely efforts for
foreign adversaries to approach them for
as intelligence assets hack their emails
like I believe there's an NBC story that
they briefed him specifically on Russian
foreign interference in the summer look
the Chinese have our emails 20
2008 right like this is not a surprise
in any way so a they probably were
warned in fact there's a paper trail
that says they were be common sense says
it's not just illegal but unethical to
accept support from a foreign
intelligence adversary I mean it's it's
insane
it's an insane embarrassing suggestion
they're attempting to lower the bar so
far for Donald Trump that he can maybe
find a way to get over it but it's no
one should think that's credible Donald
Trump jr. got a email that said
we want to set up a meeting that is part
of the Russian government support for
your father and he said great I love it
especially if it's later in the summer
like if it is what is you say it is
right yeah whatever
so yes they knew that a foreign
government was trying to assist them and
help them win the election and they said
sure we'd love your help just because
they didn't coordinate about the
hell-like doesn't mean they didn't know
about it doesn't mean they didn't
welcome it
doesn't mean they didn't lie about it
and cover it up fucking-a it's so
annoying alright so while all of this
has been happening over the past couple
days House Democrats have been and Trump
have been talking about infrastructure
our Twitter followers have some
questions okay what do you believe is
driving Pelosi strategy in terms of
pushing for infrastructure deals and
c'moon seemingly moving on to the Muller
report by doing this isn't she
normalizing Trump and weakening the case
against Trump in the run-up to 2020 I
don't know I will give the generous
interpretation of what Nancy Pelosi is
doing first and then before we can
criticize it so what she's thinking is
the American people when they voted for
House Democrats in the midterms
primarily wanted to vote for them
because of health care because of jobs
because they wanted to help improve
their lives they want to see people in
Washington get something done for them
and so Democrats have always supported
infrastructure we tried to pass
infrastructure bills for eight years of
the Obama administration Republicans
blocked it and so Pelosi is like all
right we want a two trillion dollar
infrastructure plan and previously Gary
cone Trump's economic advisor head put
out some infrastructure plan that wasn't
anywhere close to two trillion dollars
it relied on a lot of private money it
was sort of plan Trump in this
meeting said to Pelosi oh I like your
two trillion dollar infrastructure plan
that's actually two trillion dollars
worth of spending I'm in this is great
and so Pelosi is thinking herself
probably you know what this is never
gonna happen Republicans in the
Senate are not actually going to pass a
two trillion dollar infrastructure plan
and so if I at least look like I'm for
this possible compromise and then when
Trump can't deliver on it and the
Republicans in the Senate say no then at
least Democrats tried to actually pass a
plan that would have created jobs but
the Republicans didn't do it so that's
probably what she's thinking I do think
that the whole idea of going to the
White House and sitting with you know
Nancy and Chuck and Donald Trump talking
about infrastructure when they're
pondering impeachment hearings
and the Trump administration is
stonewalling them on every
investigation at every oversight hearing
that they're trying to conduct is a
little crazy yeah I mean Nancy and Chuck
are playing pool and they're not that
good at it and they're like two bumpers
eight ball off the three corner pocket
you're like that's never gonna
happen what like their drums like
throwing the eight ball up there so
optics where near yeah yeah yeah chucks
picking up pitch you myrrh and put his
head in the toilet flushing its yes you
know what we do need a huge investment
in infrastructure it would help the
climate it would help put people back to
work it's good and important or you know
we have a lunatic in the White House it
was a weird choice yeah I didn't love it
not holding my breath first it's like a
half a structured bill just kind of get
our blood pressure up all right moving
on to the Senate sent in 2020 this week
Stacey Abrams and is it Cindy ax needs
yeah Wow okay great well not run in
Georgia in Iowa respectively when should
we start worrying about not finding
great candidates for uphill but winnable
races when are the deadlines to file
could flailing presidential candidates
withdraw and run for Senate what should
be happening here we should worry
several months ago I mean truly like the
fact that we have in the field is a
candidate yet yet in Iowa is is a big
flashing red light that's a that's a
state we need to win
I understand Sydney actually just got to
Congress yeah I see that okay I got that
one district two but we need someone
strong we need someone strong to run
statewide JD Scholten I think maybe is
considering it some people floated
Vilsack's name and we need someone to go
after charity interest because that's a
seat that we should win but we need a
strong candidate in North Carolina and
in in Georgia and in Colorado
I mean Maine for God's sake man if we
don't win those these all the things we
are debating a public option buy-in
versus Medicare for all versus this
planner that it's all if we
don't have the Senate and so you know
when deado didn't run for the Senate
when stacey abrams doesn't run in
Georgia I mean there are when
Hickenlooper some of those aren't
running
Colorado like their there is a trade-off
there and we'll see what happens with
all those candidates but you know it's
worth it's notable I have a slightly
different take I so I'm alarmed about
the Senate all the time
like you guys all know this like if we
all this progressive promises that the
presidential candidates making none of
them will come to pass if we don't take
over the Senate so it's vitally
important there is that the recruiting
has been slow I don't think it's like
time to pull the alarm just yet because
we have months and months and months
until filing deadlines but you want to
obviously start feeling really good
candidates when you look at the states
that we need we're probably gonna be
fine in Colorado I think we have two or
three good candidates in Colorado right
now we're gonna be in a primary so
that's the number one state that we need
to flip in Arizona we have Mark Kelly
who's a good Mark Kelly candidate so
Arizona is a real potential for a flip
so that's good so Colorado Arizona we're
doing well Maine is the one I worry most
about right now we really really need a
candidate in Maine because Susan Collins
is very popular there but it's a blue
purplish state and we need to pick it
off absolutely have to and then I think
like Tommy said North Carolina is the
other big big one that we have to worry
about Iowa's tough you know and I think
we like it slipped away from us and in
2016 and I think that's a I think Iowa
Georgia and Texas are all tough I do
think we have MJ Hegar running in Texas
now and maybe the other Castro brother
Joaquin Castro I believe yeah I do
definitely I don't know I don't know
that he's either coupe there could be a
primary they're both are strong I think
Cornyn's gonna be very tough to be
whether it was better or anyone else
I am Maine in Iowa and North Carolina
are the ones that I'm the most worried
about and I just want to say too because
I see this all the time on Twitter like
people getting annoyed the Stacey Abrams
for not running annoyed with beto for
running for president not running for
Texas like if a candidates heart is not
in the race
I would rather a candidate in the race
who really wants to be there in in 2018
the the Democratic the National
Democratic Party did not go and recruit
better o'rourke to run for that stream
Texas did not think Texas was in play at
all and out of nowhere
comes better or Roarke and then comes
within 2.6 percentage or whatever was
against Ted Cruz so like the idea that
the like just because we didn't recruit
someone who's like very very well-known
and stuff like that that we can't win
the state is just it doesn't jive with
history you know like that there could
be a really great candidates in some of
these places MJ Hegar had one of the
best ads in 2018 of of all the House
candidates like she could do really
really well in Texas yeah I think we
have a bench in Texas I just we don't
have a bench in Iowa I don't know I
always we have a name like there's some
states where were kind of and
it's like we should be honest about that
and I think you know back in the day
when I was like ROM recruiting people
he'd run around and find the richest
person he could in every congressional
district to cut a check for himself or
herself to fund the whole thing and I
just think that's a model that doesn't
work anymore and that maybe didn't work
then if we're being honest well that's
just I think great candidates can come
out of the woodwork and it's not
necessarily people who are on Chuck
Schumer's radar that's cool because
people in our comments were asking them
like what are good recruitment
strategies how do we get people to run
for Democratic Senate seats and if
you're trusting kind of that people will
come up yeah I mean I'm still
worried about it but I think in 2019 you
know when really good candidates come
out of nowhere and they get Twitter
followings and suddenly blow up into
these you know exciting candidacies like
the days of Chuck Schumer having to go
around and handpick candidates based on
their resume you know it doesn't I don't
know that it matters quite as much but
you know talk to me we still don't have
a good candidate man yeah I mean I'm
just not as sanguine like I think that
somewhat doesn't have to be Chuck but
someone needs to be going around
recruiting people and like aoc is a
great example of an incredible candidate
can come out of nowhere and blow up the
system like Seth Moulton a business guy
I was living in Texas came moved back to
Massachusetts ran was down 50 points won
a congressional seat against a Democrat
right so like yeah amazing people can
come out of nowhere but and there's a
few it may love to see a process yeah
I'd love to see a primary on the
Democratic side yeah I mean there's a
few people in Maine that are thinking
about running so we'll see what happens
there and like
said and we'll see what happens with JD
and I on yeah JD might do it cool and we
have a couple questions about what's
happening this year we have some state
races that are pretty important Virginia
could flip its entire legislature blue
what a world do you guys have any plans
to head out and highlight some of those
state races yes I highlighted this one
saying we should take it but I realized
the answer is stay tuned
no we I don't know if they're gonna go
to we're in DC in like two weeks that's
right that's right but we are planning
on highlighting the remember vote save
America from last time vote save
America's coming back we'll have plenty
of additional news on on very important
state races in 2019 mm-hmm sweet good to
know all right we have a couple foreign
policy questions let's talk about
Venezuela and what's going on there
we're being asked to compare contrast
with the situation in Libya during the
Obama administration I think it would
also be great if you can just kind of
give us a lay of the land of what's
going on now if you know the latest the
latest as of this morning was um so
there's there is the president who was
elected several years ago Nicolas Maduro
who is corrupts basically stole the
election and is you know completely
lacking in legitimacy and can't govern
and is a terrible human being it should
go away forever he's in power notionally
and there's guy named Juan Guido who was
the head of the assembly who's been
recognized by the international
community as the true president and he
asserts but he is the president
currently so Guido and Maduro ovens are
battling it out for control of Venezuela
and over the last couple days things
really took a turn into a much more coup
like atmosphere
Guido went to a military base was
surrounded by troops said these guys are
all on my side now everyone should rise
up people start rising up in the streets
is surrounded Maduro is housed the
presidential palace there was some
really frightening violence so things
have gotten bad and it's really coming
to a head and part of the problem is you
know john bolton and trump and his goons
are all in on and
general field marshal Rufio Twitter
field marshal Rubio are all in on
pushing for the opposition and really
like that you guys have done great him
to film oh yeah in general I was
uncomfortable with general you're right
he's never gonna be general that
guy I I told a bunch of people that I
would apologize for that look obviously
my heart is with Guido and the
protesters and the people on the streets
because they're starving to death and
they have no services they have a
corrupt government it's being mismanaged
but um it things could get really bad
and violent and there's no way to if
devolves into a civil war I mean
millions you know these people would be
displaced many could die so it's very
ugly right now the Libya comparison is
apt I mean that the initial military
action in Libya was basically that
Gaddafi was marching a bunch of tanks
from the west to the east to Benghazi to
take over the city where he said he was
gonna exterminate them like rats so we
thought like 800,000 people could just
be killed so that's why Obama and an
international coalition bombed his
forces to stop them and that rolled into
a broader NATO effort that took out
Gaddafi and you know the rest is history
the the reality is that that was a much
more full throated international
intervention than what's happening in
Venezuela right now as much as been and
people like me are concerned about how
much the Trump administration is pushing
for a coup so it's scary
you know we're on one side and then the
Russians and the Cubans and other parts
international were older on the other
side so there's a proxy war element to
this thing so the dicey not great no we
got a world oh who wants to know how
much long-term damage is Trump doing to
the credibility and dependability of the
country do you think the next president
will have more trouble negotiating
considering how easy it was for Trump to
withdraw from so much probably I mean I
think this is sort of always a problem
with the u.s. system and that like you
could cut a deal with Bush and maybe
Obama disagrees and yes there's some
some changing some understanding that
our system changes often is kind of
baked into
system but I do think that Trump is
rupturing alliances and decades-old
international organizations like NATO in
ways that are truly destabilizing and
will likely make you know companies
countries that were being pulled closer
to us like Cuba for example turn away
and turn back to the Russians or the
Chinese you know you're you're likely to
see the Chinese belt and Road initiative
grow and expand in a whole bunch of
countries where we would like to have
better relations so there is like a real
risk here to the American first
isolationist I support all dictators all
the time policy that is currently being
put in place got it and then this is
also this is just a big question but as
we're transitioning into 2020 questions
how much of a role do you think foreign
policy related policy I guess in general
will play in the primary and then in the
general election do you think it'll be
as prominent obviously as domestic
issues or will it kind of fall to the
backburner it's a good question I mean I
always assumed that most elections are
democratic I'm sorry I assume most
elections our domestic policy focused
right I mean that's what you kind of
want from a president is to make it safe
get you a job deal with the economy but
something bad happens if there's a
terrorist attack god help us all you
know not good weather it doesn't happen
if there's a major civil war and as well
of it leads to another massive migration
crisis like foreign policy could be the
forefront yeah and it's also the thing
where the president can actually do the
most so that's why I think someone like
South Molton who's making the campaign
about Trump as commander-in-chief like
that could actually really bear out yeah
it's very event dependent in a primary I
think because left to their own devices
I think politicians do gravitate towards
domestic issues because it's harder to
get American people to care about yes or
policy unless it's like an immediate
threat but you also have people like you
said like Seth Moulton like Vice
President Biden has a extensive foreign
policy background so you you have some
people in the primary
might be talking about it I think in the
general it probably becomes a much
bigger issue because I hope it will be
because Democrats should be making the
argument that one of trumps greatest
weaknesses is what he's done to our
reputation in the world and how he's put
the United States in in the world in
much greater danger because he has
cozied up to our enemies and ignored and
turned his back on our allies like I
think that's a pretty potent message
then any Democratic nominee whoever it
may be should take to trump in the fall
like Oh for money doesn't forward 2008
Iraq played a huge huge role in both the
primary ins in her election you know
when Trump invades Iran that will
probably be and Venezuela problem - all
right
our 20/20 questions starting with polls
this person wants to know I swear as a
voter I'm not looking at polls but after
Monday's episode I'm intrigued about the
difference between public polling we see
and then internal polling that you guys
are talking about that campaigns are
doing what did they get to look at that
public polls don't what kind of
information do you have access to I
think the big difference is the sample
size and the frequency of the polling so
the more polling you do the more people
I mean this sounds common sense but the
more polling you do and the more people
you talk to
for each poll the better results you're
gonna get and so when the Washington
Post's ABC NBC Wall Street Journal some
of these polls you know they do like a
thousand people nationally at best
sometimes usually it's an even smaller
sample and you know you average enough
of those together and you get a snapshot
of the race generally what a campaign is
doing right now is they're probably not
polling nationally at all yeah they're
polling in Iowa they're pulling in New
Hampshire they're pulling in South
Carolina and probably at this stage I'm
sure they at this age they probably
haven't added other states but and they
are polling every week sometimes many
times a week depending on their budget
and they're you know and they also are
trying to you know certain campaign
pollsters are trying to guess the
universe of voters who are eventually
going to show up so for example in Iowa
in 2008
for the caucuses the Clinton folks and
the Edwards folks believed the people
who would turnout and the Iowa caucuses
are the people who usually had turned
out in the Iowa caucuses the past
Democrats who turned out in the past we
made a bet in the Obama campaign that
Obama would be able to expand the
electorate and that there would be more
young people more first-time voters more
independence even some Republicans who
would show up in Iowa the Clinton
Edwards people thought we were silly but
our polls ended up showing us Obama you
know a little bit ahead or better than
their polls because we believed we'd
have this expanded universe of caucus
goers it turned out we were correct and
they were not so part of polling is a
campaign making a bet on who's gonna
turnout and what the shape of the
electorate is gonna be but the other
part is just pulling a ton and you have
more resources to pull then a lot of
these media organizations who can only
afford to do it at this point once every
couple months and only sample sizes of
like 500 to a thousand yeah I mean also
like you can if you're doing a daily
tracking poll you can really see how a
specific event or issue or problem is
changing the dynamic of the race quickly
and adjust accordingly you can also take
your internal polling data merge it with
like voter file data or other private
data you can purchase and make it a lot
more interesting especially when you get
that's a subsample so like you know
college-educated men over 45 like oh wow
that really popped with them you know
it's interesting you can figure out
numbers within the numbers and then the
other thing that campaigns will do is a
lot of focus groups which are really
useful for anecdotal evidence of things
that are breaking through or you know
things that people offer up to you as an
opinion on a candidate or an issue that
helps you see what really resonates so
you know there's a lot more data
basically when you're a campaign that's
living and dying by it yeah if you could
be a fly on the wall type of thing or
like go through any campaigns data at
this point in time which campaigns would
you be most interested in seeing oh
that's not Trump's the primary side yeah
yeah that's a great question I think at
this point I would just for the contrast
I would love to see what the Sanders
people are seeing and what the Biden
people are seeing
and it's not just because they're sort
of the two frontrunners clearly biting
as the front-runner Herman Sanders but
because they're so ideologically
different and yet in the public polls it
seems like they're still getting a lot
of the same Democratic voters which is
different but I would love to know what
the Sanders what the Sanders people are
seeing and what their strategy is versus
what the Biden people see is their path
to the presidency yeah that's a good one
yeah I bet Bernie's got a lot of data
you've got all this 2016 stuff it's
email list yeah he'll be fine they
probably know a lot about the people who
support Bernie Sanders and might support
bringing all the stiffest analytics
nerds like see what they're looking at
yeah
we love them they're nice all right this
one is like twenty twenty adjacent I
would say considering this is Jacob
ball's second attempt at constructing a
fake sexual assault scandal around Budaj
edge should more politicians and
prominent figures especially in
Republican politics be condemning his
actions or is as little media coverage
as possible the way to go when dealing
with a Jacob bull what do you think
that's a good I was wrestling with this
question like do do you make a big deal
of it have a lot of people condemned it
or do you just not even want the rumors
out there what I don't get is if you try
to set someone up with a lie to damage
their reputation isn't how is that not
illegal like I think this little
needs a visit from the FBI because The
Daily Beast has a thing today where he's
talking about gaming political betta
betting markets for profit again like
that feels very legal or illegal
adjacent so yes he's the dumbest person
on the planet he's the movie villain
goodness he's a dumb I mean he's the
movie villain who gives a speech
coughing up the whole plot at the end of
the movie but his did it on speakerphone
to the police station and this instance
like he's a
but he'll he'll guess right at some
point and like it's kind of dangerous
yeah I mean he goes about these
schemes in the most dumb way so
that he's found out very quickly but
you're right like someday he'll quietly
hire someone and they you know they
won't spill the beans and it'll be a
whole thing and he needs to be you know
you're right he needs like a there's
some times I don't know there used to be
because I'm a kind of a kind of some
kind of a legal accountability for Jacob
wall and his actions I mean he like he's
so stupid that it's funny when you step
back he tried to get someone to accuse
mayor Pete of sexual assault there's a
serious deeply up thing to do
yeah and he's done the same before with
like Robert Maillet my mother
yes smear the former FBI director like I
don't get how he's getting away with
this if somebody's got a knock on his
door
all right two cowardly for that
question all right this first ones about
Game of Thrones I don't know if I should
leave the room who do you guys hey
livestream just turn it off well we
can't do spoilers cuz Priyanka is only
on like season 4 I'm halfway through
season 4 oh right I saw you tweeting
last night yeah okay well I don't know
what to say just sayin who do you guys
want to win the Iron Throne is that a
spoiler it might be a Meryl or like who
you like oh yeah like we say someone
that means that that person's not dead
right yeah and I also like I'm on the
internet like oh you're on the internet
yeah I don't want to look I wouldn't do
this to my friend well do you have like
do you I also don't care I just want to
see a lot of death and carnage and cool
stuff on the way I'm just gonna be
honest I want to see everyone left I
don't like a whole bunch of people dying
honey yeah I'm a cheesy SAP I just want
everyone to live happily ever after
huh like have a person in mind that
you're like I think this person is going
to win I feel like is there I believe
my bet is that it will end without
someone sitting on the Iron Throne that
there will not be one person who rules
over Westeros at the end and that it
will be some kind of vague notion of
democracy and different you know that
like maybe the Starks will have the door
I'm telling you guys all right this is
my this is my this is my outside Utah
like what like 500 to 1 in the betting
markets I could see that happening I
hope it doesn't because like I want my
like fun you know fantasy show to end
with some some action
ya know I and I I think a bunch of our
favorite characters will probably get be
killed by the end but I just keep
thinking about how much time they spent
on Daenerys talking about breaking the
wheel freeing slaves we got to have
something different
Tyrion talks about this to John's there
too just feels like there got to do
something with all that yeah but she's
freeing people and getting them all
whacked
yeah well that's she's got so much good
at it she's she's got some issues to
deal with
you know maybe she'll grow maybe she
won't
like a dragon eggs alright
what is the over-under on barbecue
places love it will visit while in Texas
infinite so I heard him doing some
planning and he said he wanted to go
somewhere good and somewhere cool oh so
I don't that means what's it what's in
Houston you know he's in Dallas
San Antonio I think so Dallas I don't
know actually
like good good friends it go yes I bet
they do some River walks some bar video
yeah some Dick's last resort see we know
a lot you know he'll lead a lot well
probably see pictures of it on Twitter
yeah we want sure we'll all right well
vetted filtered pics I told him I'd help
him out with his Instagram this next I
don't know if I'll take me up on it
though this next question is also about
Instagram Linnea wants to know has a
serious question why is Tommy verified
on Instagram but John is not I don't
know go to that cut shot I think it's
good of Elijah
why am I on there I think Elijah told me
to click a button to submit something
and then they rejected me and then
Elijah's my wife baby did that to Emily
did Emily was like here except
and she did it because I don't know why
she knows how and then I'd never heard
anything
I guess people were just for me though
yeah so thank God we surfaced this
question just so they could happen
yeah and love it's not verified either
oh I don't know he's not public we
talked about it it's a cream used to be
fun in private and for your friends and
now it's like every other social media
platform or some shitty simple friends
Instagram was like yeah exactly we were
around when it first started and our
originally pictures on the feed are like
are all I likes five flex reporter
footprints yeah last question how many
dogs are there in the cricket office
which is like today I think everyone
wants to know let's go let's go on a
full day today okay so there's Leo's
under the table Lucas on the couch
sleeping Griffin got a great haircut in
this here today pundit is that doggie
jail
who else who am I missing Sara wick just
got a puppy wizard wizard we haven't
seen yet but we're very Ginsberg
Ginsberg sits on Jordans lap and doesn't
move a lot he's very good carries dog
pam pam pam spinny Eric M comes in
Justine's dog has been in a couple times
yeah Calvin Calvin hi this is our fig
came in but fig is a medium-sized pit
ball who was scared of pundit who didn't
commit anymore
I think we're like eight it's a lot of
dogs they're not all in it once believe
that happened and there was it's been
kind of like at times yeah but we love
our dogs here at good comedian um we get
them all there's some there's dogs in
the office next door to that we see once
in a while too well there used to be
that huge dog Jim oh yeah 120 pounds but
they that guy doesn't work there anymore
I guess
those were hairless cat right shark
we should have like hosts like a meet-up
like in our lobby or whatever yeah just
like have them all hang out I think that
we're one of the few offices that allows
dogs because of third floor and the
fourth floor do not I won't name the
company but that's good
DMS for the company company is Breitbart
all right let's really stream you guys
uh thanks everyone for your questions
extra treatment day and we'll see you
next week yeah
you
