welcome back to pod save the world I'm
Tommy Vietor and I'm Ben Rhodes and we
are back in the studio back in the
saddle excited to talk about some
foreign policy issue we cannot wait and
then a real treat for you guys we got on
the show bill birnes former Deputy
Secretary of State one of the nicest
smartest most soft-spoken human beings
I've ever met
yeah bill burns is the reason it's good
diplomat is like you'll have a
conversation with you know kind of
seduced you in the conversation and
you'll think that you're agreeing with
him yes and you're just moving closer
and closer to look like and by the end
you're like agreeing with him violently
you've changed your mind and you don't
even know how it happened and he's just
fixing you with this kind of gentle gaze
yeah over his well-groomed mustache he
just wins you over with core decency I
was like Bill you know I think he he was
the the highest ranking foreign service
officer ever the State Department deputy
secretary of state that doesn't ever
happen but he had a whole bunch of other
positions like ambassador to Jordan
ambassador to Russia he's been on the
show before but you know I just can't
tell you how impressive it is to see
someone like Bill at a table with like
you know seven four-star generals and
they're deferring to him and that's
opinion no he's just I think he probably
would have been Hillary Secretary State
that was the broad assumption was he
would've been secretary State and you
know who knows if a Democrat wins he
will be on the shortlist of anybody to
be Secretary of State
yeah seriously listen up people out
there okay let's get to some news items
um I want to start with something that
you texted me this morning that made us
both very annoyed so the New York Times
reported that the NSA has quietly shut
down a program that analyzes Americans
domestic call logs and texts that's
otherwise known as metadata I want to be
clear that we're not mad that they shut
this program down were mad about the
rest of the story yeah so this program
started in after 9/11 it was disclosed
by Edward Snowden in 2013 and was you
know pretty scandalous Frank yeah yeah I
was I was gone at that time you were
lucky yeah you had to deal with this but
um so the the program I think as it was
constituted then ended and was replaced
by something far more Orwellian named
the
to 2015 and God why do we do that but
long story short I mean this this news
that this really sensitive controversial
NSA program was shut down was disclosed
by a random yeah yeah you should start
there you really need to step up our
Bible on yeah we'll make some news let's
let's break some classified news like
this guy did but you and I both read
this and thought like what the hell
because one of the most frustrating
things about working national security
and national security communications in
particular is that you're constantly
told that programs like this are
critical national security to busting
terrorists and that if they go away
we're all gonna we're all gonna die yeah
and thus we are told to say those things
and we take them on good faith from
people we believe in trust but we don't
have a great way to fully vet out these
arguments and I would love to know what
the hell changed between then and now
that meant we could shut this program
down maybe it was terrorists behavior or
maybe the thing wasn't that important in
the first place yeah and so for people
who didn't suffer through this the
Snowden disclosures in the White House
the the original program was the US
government literally vacuumed up
everybody's metadata about all their
phone calls and then you know the idea
was that we weren't listening to the
phone calls the government wasn't
listening phone calls but you could try
to match you know there's a phone number
associated with a terrorist you see who
that person is in touch with and you if
you if you want to access the actual
phone calls you know you need a warrant
but just the fact of the government
holding all this information was
concerning Obama made some changes what
he basically did is instead of the
government holding this information the
phone companies would hold on to this
information right and the government
could go to them and try to access it if
they wanted to but I think what is
really frustrating is you know the view
of the NSA articulated at the time that
you know we as a and the White House had
to wrestle with is that this was
essential you know that that if we
didn't have this tool there would be
terrorist attacks and if this random
Hill staffer is correct like the
government isn't even using this
capability anymore and so therefore it's
likely this program could expire and
that we have to
knowledge totally contradicts what we
were being told and frankly what we
ourselves or at least me you weren't
there anymore
said which is that the this was in a
central tool now again we did reform it
in the in the Obama ministration to take
this metadata out of the government's
hands and leave it with the phone
companies but I think it is you know and
yet another indication that one of my
worries about the US government in
general and national security is once
you acquire a capability you don't like
to give it up yeah so like once you're
doing drone strikes you don't want to
stop the drone strikes once you are
collecting metadata you don't stop
collecting metadata and I think this
could hopefully be an example of all
these post 9/11 powers that the
government gave itself if it is true
that you really don't need these that
they're not essential then you shouldn't
be doing it you know you don't yep you
don't just kind of create a hedge and
say okay we're gonna collect deputies
metadata just just in case no you you
should only be doing the type of
surveillance that is necessary and by
the way I do believe that some
surveillance is necessary if you want to
disrupt a terrorist attack like you need
to be able to get into certain people's
emails right but again I think a
frustrating sign that that perhaps this
wasn't quite as essential we were in
fairness the NSA maybe the programs no
longer useful because all the terrorists
move to whatsapp and signal and other
encrypted apps yeah look that's a
charitable explanation but we should say
that while the NSA wasn't listening to
the substance of everyone's calls you
can learn a lot about someone from their
metadata if they're having an affair you
know it's happening you basically know
where they are at certain times like you
can figure out a lot about someone's
pattern of life so it's it's intrusive
um the other thing that's crazy about
this story is this again random Hill
staffer on a podcast discloses that in
part the the program was shuttered
because of technical irregularities that
had contaminated the agency's database
with message logs it had no authority to
collect today to purge them so what that
also says is that fix it Obama tried to
put in place did not safeguard our civil
liberties in the way we thought it was
so again it's like it's hard to trust
heart then say here yeah yeah I mean
yeah I think it it does demonstrate
what Obama was trying to do was to say
that there are certain capabilities are
necessary there's a certain amount of
surveillance that has to take place
however if you're actually going to
access the contents of an email or phone
call that should be like a search
warrant it should be like you know you
have to go to a judge and the judge has
to say that that's okay and and
therefore there's this extra barrier of
the rule of law but as you say just the
the holding of mass amounts of data you
know is I think something would be
concerning to people you know why does
they need to track all these phone calls
and and that there's no foolproof way
just like you can't guarantee that
you're not going to have you know
civilian casualties in a drone strike
you can't guarantee that the mass
collection of data like this won't lead
to certain if not abuses at least
mistakes or glitches as this Hill
staffer indicated him yeah wild story
this yeah this Hill staffer should
lawyer up yeah he was an aide to
McCarthy and I saw that he got the
McCarthy's office got asked for comment
like oh we're not commenting on this and
I was like that guy must have a pretty
shitty day were switching gears a little
bit according to a tweet storm from
Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut a
fantastic US Senator the
administration's briefing on the death
of Jamal khashoggi was a disaster it
included no one from the intelligence
community it had no one at a senior
level from Treasury or state they
provided the administration provided no
information that wasn't in the public
domain already and they basically said
to these senators that they refused to
comply with the Magnitsky sanctions this
is the Trump administration just
silencing the intelligence community and
giving the finger to Congress once again
and frankly to the law and it's it's
it's remarkable and I guess you know my
question for you is what if you had any
reaction to the Murphy's tweet storm I
mean to like what what we think that
they can actually do about this because
often Congress gets the Heisman and they
don't have a lot of recourse well but
what's amazing about Murphy's tweet
storm is
the description of this briefing right
so they're supposed to be briefed on
what happened to khashoggi what we know
about it and they didn't even send
anybody from the intelligence community
that's right so that's a giant you
to Congress and it's basically they know
that if the intelligence community went
they would tell them the truth which is
that Mohammed Salman is responsible for
the death of this guy we should add that
we just learned this extra detail that
they they brought this oven did you see
this to dispose of Khashoggi 'z body
they had like an oven that was could
heat at temperatures you know there were
enough to melt metal you know to just
eliminate any evidence and trace that
this guy was killed again another
indication that this was premeditated
they say what a coincidence appreciated
of it just like they brought all the you
know the bone some bone saws so clearly
this is a premeditated murder of a
journalist who works for an American
publication The Washington Post lives in
the United States in a third country
clearly our intelligence community has
information that NBS is responsible for
this and they want to shut that down
they want to just just pretend like it
never happened
Congress is a co-equal branch of
government I mean they they are
obligated under the Magnitsky law to
report on these matters right so they're
they're just basically it's like Trump's
national emergency it's saying that we
just don't care about the judicial
branch because they could be
investigating US or Congress because
well you know Congress and your
that that should be very chilling to
people because you know what we're doing
here is aiding and abetting in the
murder of this journalist as the US
government and what can Congress do I
think Congress can and should say that
if you're not going to impose any
consequences inside agree but then we
will we should say we're gonna we're
gonna consider sanctioning them and
we're gonna consider suspending arms
sales to them and we sure certainly
should be ceasing all support for the
MVS driven warn Yemen right so I think
Congress can step up here and and and
pass some laws and and compel this
administration to hold people
accountable for the murder yeah you're
starting to see
including that Congress or at least on
the Senate side is a little bit fed up
with being pushed around by the Trump
administration I mean at least like Rand
Paul coming out to vote in favor of the
resolution that would prevent Trump yes
stealing money from DoD to pay for his
 wall yes they're starting to
grow a spine lease the ones up for real
life yeah they used to pretend to be
like institutionalist who cared about
Congress right and and and you know the
Democrats when we were in office if we
didn't brief them adequately on
something we'd hear a lot about it right
and you would think that these
Republicans know they're going to be
there a lot of them after Trump leaves
right their senators first and foremost
or they're not just kind of cultist in
the cult of Donald Trump but they're
acting more like cultists than they are
like senators and hopefully there's
enough people who start to peel off that
on certain issues at least we can see
Congress assert itself yeah we are once
again embroiled in a big debate over
what is anti-semitic or what is not it's
because at a recent event freshman
congresswoman Ilan Omar said the
following quote I want to talk about the
political influence in this country that
says it's okay for people to push for
allegiance to a foreign country
she was referencing Israel so that
suggestion of dual loyalty among
American Jews upset a lot of people in
the American Jewish community because
you know understandably it feels like
someone is questioning your
american-ness in your loyalty to your
own country and so I think people
rightly appropriately fairly called out
that language and took umbrage at it now
what I think Ilan Omar was trying to say
was that she feels like she is being
forced to support pro-israel policies
but I can understand why many listeners
aren't feeling that charitable since
this comes on the heels of many earlier
tweets which were called anti-semitic so
then this is just so frustrating for
reasons like first like I like you on
Omar but it is frustrating to me that
she keeps making these comments because
they're they're they're offensive and
they're distracting from a legitimate
criticism of lobbyist influence or of
some Netanyahu's policy positions
she's like hurting her own cause I'd
yeah - there is rampant hypocrisy in
Republican circles they're way harder on
you on Omar a Muslim woman than they are
in Trump when he does and says things
that are like their blade
anti-semetic when he told a bunch of
republican american jews that he you
know they didn't like him because he
didn't want their money yeah I believe
that was in the in the primary yeah um
and call them good negotiators so yeah I
mean like every Jewish area type every
stereotype he can muster in his addled
brain he busts out and these Republicans
never speak out against Islamophobia
they in fact Trump tried to ban an
entire religion being able to visit the
country so um the third thing that
frustrates me is that Democrats want to
seemingly keep this issue in news for as
long as possible they introduced a
resolution obliquely criticizing Omar
today so again this is it's a mess all
right it's obscuring an important debate
about us Israel policy yeah I mean the
bottom line here is that nobody looks
good in this face you know so let's
start with the hannam are the problem
with the the language is this is the
second time that she's used language
that he's like directly in the
wheelhouse of Nikes word trope here yeah
you know historic allegations level the
Jews so you know I I'm not a religious
Jew above a mother's Jewish and my
family was rooted in Europe and so
clearly there were family members people
I was related to killed in Holocaust
right and this question of dual loyalty
you know that was one of the things that
Hitler ginned up you know that
essentially Jews stabbed Germany in the
back in at the end of one and it's cuz
they you know weren't loyal above all
the Germany so they're I don't think you
want Omar was meaning to echo that but
there's a there is a a clumsiness
people should understand that the if
you're just looking at this on Twitter
you know there are deep nerves to do a
loyalty thing and the Jews control
everything with money thing that go
predate American you know even the
debate on these issues in America
I want Ilan Omar to succeed I think
she's talented I think she's earnest I
do not think
Ilhan Omar isn't
any semi like it is there's nothing
about anything she said that suggests
that she she has some visceral dislike
of Jews
she's just been very careless in her
language about certain stereotypes that
have historical rat residence so that
that's you know something I'd like to
see and frankly we were just talking
with Sami I'd also like to see her you
know she's I welcome a diversity of
views on on Israel in the Democratic
Party I think it's healthy to have
different you know polls people on
different points of the spectrum she's
more critical than even I am of of the
Netanyahu government that fine like
let's have a big tent of views on these
things but she should be making her case
about policies you know like I'd
actually like to hear say like what does
she think that we should be doing to
help Palestinians suffering in Gaza or
like what does she think we should be
doing to promote a Palestinian state
like she my advice to her would be to
focus your energy your comments on the
policy that you'd like to see put in
place because when you kind of get into
this this territory you know you end up
in this kind of circular firing squad
second I don't think the Democrats are
right to have this resolution because it
first of all it's not necessary it's
prolonging this conversation and frankly
it does raise questions about like well
why this I mean people say racist stuff
all time and in Congress or they they
use stereotypes against Latinos I mean
we could use a lot of what about ISM
here but the reality is if you're only
going to call out a black Muslim woman
for making comments about Israel and
you're not going to call out a lot of
other behavior then that's not a great
look you know and so either you're gonna
have to do these resolutions over and
over again every time somebody says
something you know or you're basically
indicating that you you're singling this
one member out when she's far from the
only member of Congress who said
something offensive you know I think
there was a member who yelled like go
back to Puerto Rico or something
recently recently right
and you know that kind of past also like
Steve Sweeney tonight again I don't want
to do what about isn't me there but
Steve King said racist disgraceful
things for decades he was retweeting
white nationalist as recently as like a
week or two ago he was stripped of his
committee assignments but I think like
he is the egregious example where some
sort of serious congressional action is
warranted I don't know what this
resolution does that putting out a
statement and saying your piece wouldn't
have done well and let's have a look at
an even more uncomfortable conversation
here the anti-semitism that is literally
putting people's lives at risk in the
u.s. is not emanating from people like L
on Omar right like the the the
 who shot up a bunch of people in
the synagogue and Pittsburgh wasn't
motivated by opposition to Israel no he
was motivated by vile anti-semitism and
by the president states who is
trafficked in hate and trafficked in
bigotry of every kind against Jews
against Muslims against black people the
anti-semitism that that we have to be
worried about infecting our body politic
is actually not like criticism of the
Israeli government its criticism of Jews
here in America right and so that to me
is what is particularly you know
infuriating I guess about like the fact
that we whip ourselves into frenzy when
Ilhan Omar says these things and we're
not you know meanwhile when there were
reports about white supremacist
terrorism like the Republicans are
trying to suppress that in our
administration right I mean if you want
to talk about any Semitism that is
dangerous we should be talking with the
President on States and in the words
that he uses and we should be talking
about why it is that more and more white
supremacists are being radicalized
coincidence two down trumping president
I don't think that is a coincidence
coincidence you know so there's that and
then lastly the kind of spiking of the
football on on a on Omar by you know
some of our critics including the
president yeah but but in in the in the
you know kind of pro-israel side of the
debate I always
because I think you can be pro-israel
but while also being critical thin
Netanyahu government I do have a problem
with I mean long before Ilan Omer we
talked on this podcast about how they
reflexively call people any Semitic I
was called in any Semite frequently for
supporting the run Barack Obama was for
supporting the Iran deal
I remember Obama said the same people
who led us into war in Iraq or trying to
lead us in war with Iran and they said
that's a nice emetic because you're
repeating the anti-semitic trope that
Jews or war mongers when he never said
anything about Jews he was in frankly
John Bolton was who we had mind not been
saying bomber on and jumbled ins that
Jewish oh yeah I mean let somebody took
: Powell did a pretty solid presentation
at the UN
let us yeah exactly and so I think there
is a danger of the overuse of this this
attack mechanism yeah you know that
because it doesn't make people think you
know and you saw that in the the
congressman who tweeted you know Krita
it's unacceptable the question your
support for Israel you know I think that
you used a very good phrase on the BDS
issue Tommy where you said that the the
the opponents of BDS are kind of hanging
a lantern on this issue in a way that
will actually could boomerang on them
where people say well why can't we why
can't we speak out against Israeli
policies on college campuses or why
can't we choose on our own if we want to
boycott certain products that are made
in Israel and again I think that it's
not helpful to Israel if there's this
kind of use of overwhelming force
against its critics every time something
like this happens because it leads
people to ask like why can't we question
this this relationship with this
government in Israel that is
increasingly undemocratic and and led by
someone who may be criminal and and it
shows no empathy what's over the
Palestinians and and you know the same
day that this criticism was happening I
noticed we literally ended having a
consulate in Jerusalem there was our
representative for many years to the
Palestinian people because we moved our
embassy now we're just gonna be one
embassy
his in Jerusalem and it's the embassy in
Israel we have no diplomatic
representation of Palestinians that's a
bigger story yeah then what el on Omar
said right like the fact that we're
basically through our policies like not
even our words here we're indicating
that we don't even recognize the the
Palestinian who are they or if they they
don't they don't have a state now there
are these people living in the West Bank
their land is being taken away the
settlements are encroaching further and
further into the West Bank
we retracted our diplomatic recognition
of them they're just these stateless
people what is our policy towards them
that to me is is pretty offensive if you
care about human rights as well and and
so again I think ohon Omer doesn't do it
herself any favors because she should be
making debate about that and saying like
she'd be saying like why are we shutting
down diplomatic representation of the
Palestinian people in in instead of kind
of engaging this dual loyalty trope you
know so I nobody wins in this nada on
Omar not like her critics not the
Democrats not the Republicans like
everybody looks like they're just using
this for their own political purposes
and that is doing nothing to help Israel
that is doing nothing to help the
Palestinians and it's doing nothing to
kind of combat the real scourge of
anti-semitism here which is emanating
from white supremacists not from Muslim
members of Congress yeah Ilyn Omar has
apologized in the past for other
unfortunate comments compellingly to me
authentically honestly she needs to fix
this because she's hurting her own cause
but that said it also doesn't justify I
mean the West someone in the West
Virginia State House put up a poster
that had a photo of the twin towers
getting struck on 9/11 with her face you
know people are making death threats
against her right so like we this is
going it goes in a dangerous place when
everyone demagogues these issues I get
that if look I had a Muslim assistant
the last wonderful woman named Ramon
Achmed who wrote a great piece of the
Atlantic a couple years ago but she wore
hijab and she would get harassed on the
the Metra on the way home like when
Trump's campaign was picking up and the
anti-muslim rhetoric was picking up she
started to get
harassed on the metro she felt
uncomfortable walking at night I'd have
to call her when she got home make sure
she did okay like and that's an
experience that Muslims are having
around this country right now right and
and I do understand the frustration of
Muslims saying like well how come nobody
cares about that you know and how come
nobody's calling that out right and
that's I think a very legitimate
expression and I should say that Jews
have traditionally been allies with
other groups who felt marginalized in
the civil rights movement Jews were huge
supporters of Martin Luther King because
they saw solidarity amongst minority
groups and marginalized people I would
hope that that American Jews could
express solidarity with what Muslims are
going through just as fiercely as they
also police this kind of speech that is
hurtful to Jews like that that's been
one of the great attributes in the
Jewish men in this country and if
something good can come out of this I do
hope that there can be that kind of
allegiance among the Jewish community
and the Muslim community here in the
United States agreed okay one more topic
that is uh frankly I'm a little sick of
talking about but we must okay so a few
months ago Trump said we're getting a
lot of troops out of Afghanistan then I
read The Times a couple days ago and
their reports that or move was the post
let's just pick up there and then I read
The Times a couple days ago and there
was a report that Trump will keep around
7500 troops in Afghanistan for three to
five years as we negotiate a peace
agreement with the Taliban
so that's Afghanistan Trump said we were
getting all our troops out of Syria
right away and then today he sent a
letter to Congress saying he 100% agrees
with keeping a military presence in
Syria so these are separate Wars in
separate places I guess we should
separate them out first of all okay so
with Afghanistan I feel like when we did
President Obama's Afghanistan and
Pakistan review back in 2009 the
military told us were told Obama that a
presence of under around 10,000 troops
or so was indefensible and thus not an
option because you wanted to have four
super platform for force protection
right you need me basically two runways
to have one infrastructure is overrun
you can send forces from another place
to defend them but so that confused me a
second I'm glad that they're negotiating
with the Taliban and maybe a power
agreement is inevitable but I guess
seeing it written in that way was stark
and I just also imagined the reaction
from the lindsey graham's of the world
have this been a Obama deal yeah I mean
the bottom line at a certain point you
just have to accept that we're gonna
leave Afghanistan and that we're gonna
leave without everything being fixed in
that country with the Taliban having
influence in that country or you're
gonna stay there forever you know and
there's this desire to find some way to
to to to look like you know we are
leveraging the ongoing troop presence of
the Taliban look that the Taliban is
going to be there 10 years from now 20
years from our region or the people who
comprise the Taliban right because they
live there and either we think we should
have troops in Afghanistan forever or we
think that it's time to get out and I
think it's time to get out there is a
guy fighting Afghanistan today who was
born after this war started after like
there's de minute there's Beyond
diminishing returns here so in my mind
is this good the the trajectory should
be to drawing down and getting out of
Afghanistan I think there's gonna have
to be symptomatic agree with the Taliban
I do think we need to focus that
diplomacy on getting the Taliban to talk
to the Afghan government not just to us
because ultimately it's the Afghans you
have to talk to each other and work this
out but I think that it's it's time to
just say we're drawing down and we're
drawing down ultimately to zero here and
you know we can figure out what exactly
the timeline is for that but you know I
think if we fall into this trap of
saying that that this is going to be
leverage and these peace negotiations
know the Taliban is relieving they know
we're leaving and and I think the goal
there needs to just be having deaf
diplomacy between the Taliban and the
Afghans and yeah we can always you know
we have it an Air Force you know we have
cruise missiles we can we can if we see
a terrorist training camp or see
something that is a threat to the United
States we can still take a shot at
that's something in Afghanistan but I I
think we have to give up on this idea
that that that
presence of US troops air is going to
fix the country it's not at this point
no thought um so to Syria so he's
planning to keep a small force in Syria
for a while to I mean this feels like a
more defensible policy at least in the
very near term we don't want our Kurdish
allies getting slaughtered we don't want
Isis members who just went to ground or
territory that was just liberated to get
retaken or for the fighters to pop back
up but I guess just the total 180 it's
just it's not defensible it's not it's
scary it's scary I don't I don't
understand how again the Lindsey
Graham's of the world who accused Obama
of dithering and in screwing up in
Afghanistan for not sending yeah you
know 40,000 troops when we sent 2033 ya
can find a solution like this acceptable
it's just common sense has gone out the
window in so many respects but it's also
gone with respect to before policy yeah
and you know again here too you could
have said we're gonna draw these troops
down over the next year or two and and
and use that time to be engaging a lot
diplomacy and trying to broker something
for the Kurds and and making clear what
will lead us to use kind of airpower if
we see something in terms of the
re-emergence of Isis instead Trump
announces that crazy you know we talks
to the sky and he says every is getting
out in 30 days and since then it's just
been pure wedding you know left right
and center I think it's like 200 guys
yeah like I don't know what 200 troops
can do yeah well what this feels like to
me is that Trump you know first of all I
think it says something that the
Republican Party has stomach everything
Trump is done except like taking any war
it's like a it's it's like a great
window into the problem party that like
you know throwing babies and detention
separating families like all of his
comments like the rampant corruption
like that's fine the criminality but if
you try to take us out of these wars we
could overrule you in Congress and so
what it feels like to me is this is a
way for everybody to save face right so
it's a way for Lindsey Graham to
beat his chest and tell people he got
Trump to change his mind and keep some
troops there
Trump's still drawing the troops down
the there's kind of this symbolic number
of troops if it's only 200 who are there
there's just nobody knows where a policy
is I'm sitting here today and have no
idea what our policy is m'ling in
CENTCOM I don't think know what our
policy is right that's the problem the
problem here is there needs to be
clarity about what we're doing and and
now Trump is the kind of lost the
capacity to have any clarity because
he's taking someone different positions
on this yeah it's baffling yeah truly
baffling and just I must scare the hell
out of all our allies but yeah here we
are here we are well that's it for us
for today but after a break we'll hear
from former deputy secretary of state
bill burns
you
