on the pod today we have in studio
congresswoman elect from the 45th
district of california Katie Porter
thank you for having me thanks for
joining
congratulations well thank you we were
all so excited ya know we were thrilled
too and so we're all of our volunteers
and supporters and it took a couple
weeks to get a final answer
you had fantastic volunteers and
supporters as someone who had been down
bend down to the district a little bit
so I think you pulled off one of the
most difficult wins in the country
because not only were you running in a
district that has voted Republican since
it's been created but you ran as a proud
progressive medicare-for-all assault
weapons ban Elizabeth Warren protege you
obviously got quite a few Romney
Republicans to vote for you probably got
a few Trump Republicans to vote for you
as well what was your pitch to those
voters and what did you hear from those
voters when you were trying to get their
votes when we talked to voters who maybe
had voted Republican historically in the
past maybe they've even voted for
President Trump we would talk with them
about the issues that matter to them and
so there were a lot of folks who voted
for the president and thought oh you
know maybe it'll work out and if they're
not really working out and so there were
people who just felt like a course
correction was needed I think we were
also really careful to emphasize that I
spent my career studying issues that I'm
thoughtful that I'm willing to listen
and we're really working on making that
come true in terms of how we're setting
up our district office and creating ways
to engage with constituents because my
most important audience right now is not
those who voted for me it's those who
didn't vote for me and so this next
couple months really trying to think
about how to reach out to those people
invite them to to come listen to me or
to meet me did you notice I talked to a
lot of voters over the course of the
campaign did some focus groups for
another pod that I did and I noticed
that even with the Obama Trump voters on
issues they tend to be open to more
progressive ideas then when you talk to
them about sort of Washington the tone
in Washington they were much more like
people should cooperate
or there's too much yelling and these
would be people who voted for Trump who
are saying I think I want Medicare for
all did you notice that when you were
talking to folks yeah look I'm in Orange
County and the part of Orange County
that I'm gonna be representing it's a
place that really values civility it's a
really educated population and so these
are people who are interested in ideas
they're interested in debate and so when
we talk about things like an assault
weapon ban I'll get people who will tell
me about the definition of an assault
weapon I'll get people who'll explain
that it's really about gun death by
suicide nobody got to be tackling and so
what they want is someone who's really
thinking with them and engaging with
them and I think that when you talk
about ideas people are quite progressive
I think when you ask them about their
kind of party politics that's where
historically in Orange County that's
just a question you don't ask asking
someone what party are you or how do you
vote are you a Democrat that's like
asking how is that a car Elise how much
money do you make these are just not
questions that we ask in polite company
and so I think in this election one of
the things we tried to do was to make
space for people to start talking about
their issues and their values and then
just slowly begin to translate that into
political action so last time we spoke
you told me that you were most excited
about the prospect of becoming a
congresswoman because you really want to
write laws and dig into policies and I
saw a report that some progressives
think you should get a seat on the House
Financial Services Committee which
oversees banks lenders and insurance
companies what specifically would you
like to dig into when the new Congress
starts yeah so the first priority for me
as it is so for so many of my new
freshman colleagues is campaign finance
reform and that's in part because
without taking some steps to solve that
it's gonna be really difficult to do
work on health care or on the
environment or on financial services but
look I spent 20 years being a financial
services nerd I've testified before that
committee I've been at the wrath of
congressman jeb Hensarling I'm looking
forward to being on the committee I've
testified before Senate Banking this is
my life's work is trying to think about
how can we make our economy successful
how can we make sure our kind of
providing opportunities for regular
American families to prosper and for
businesses to grow and create jobs
obviously this is really tough with a
Republican Senate and Donald Trump in
the White House but do you see any areas
where there's a possibility for
compromise and getting something done I
mean we just you know criminal justice
reform looks like it's on the path of
getting passed there any issues like
that that you care about that you think
you know there might be a possibility to
get something done
well I think we've heard a lot about the
possibility of infrastructure and
bipartisan cooperation on that I think
for me personally thinking about housing
affordability and about what we're gonna
do to stabilize their housing markets
it's a hugely important issue in in
coastal Orange County and in Southern
California generally the cost of housing
and how its rising and so I think that's
an issue where groups like the Realtors
groups like the Mortgage Bankers
Association these groups typically do
work across the aisle and so whether
it's working on stabilizing FHA you're
coming up with a plan to get our Fannie
Mae Freddie Mac out of conservatorship
where they've been lingering for they
were a kid they'd be almost 18 and an
adult now and so I think those are some
issues that are maybe see more technical
to people but really are long term very
important to our economy so as you
mentioned you've been working on these
issues your whole life you did a lot of
research for Elizabeth Warren on what
families go through when they go through
bankruptcy for her book you've written
books on your own
Komal Harris when she was Attorney
General appointed you to monitor the
banks and the post-crisis mortgage
settlement what did you learn from these
experiences about you know how we how we
make rules that are they're more fair
than are in place right now when it
comes to how people deal with banks
creditors financial institutions so two
kind of overarching observations one of
them has to do with complexity and the
way in which complexity in the law is
not an accident it's not just a
byproduct that has to exist but it's
actually something that gets baked into
a lot of laws as a way of making it
difficult for people to make use of them
and so every time we make a law
incredibly complex and there's six
in different programs and 42 different
acronyms and by the way you have to fax
your paperwork in because you know we
all have a fax machine right handy I saw
that with the foreclosure crisis the
programs that were rolled out were
really well-intentioned but the
complexity made it impossible for people
to navigate I'm dealing with us right
now with healthcare so I'm on the DC
based Affordable Care Act small business
plan this is what Congress members get
and we get a partial subsidy on the
premiums which is a real benefit we also
get a choice of 69 plans and so I've
been trying to wade through these I've
called 1-800 help me like a million
times
I've been so I think that thinking about
balancing trying to create laws that are
fair for everybody every little
individual circumstance with the fact
that then things get so complex that
though that nobody can get help that
nobody even tries to navigate through
that process and then I think the other
thing I would say from all of the work
I've done with bankruptcy and with the
foreclosure stuff is just how important
it is when people in this country want
help from their government or need help
from their government that we be ready
to answer so it's been interesting as a
congressperson you get to pick one of
these and correspondence management
systems doesn't that sound like warm and
friendly and a lot of the pitches that
they make are sort of like seamlessly
make your constituents disappear and I
don't want to make my constituents to
say this is like answering letters
recording you know recording information
from phone calls and my goal is to
actually capture that information but to
do so in a way that promotes further
conversation so if someone writes me on
an issue the letter I sent back to them
should invite them deeper into
conversation it shouldn't cause them to
not write back again thank you for
writing I'm working very hard on this
right I really appreciate knowing you're
right I think that's a mindset switch in
government yeah that we need to work on
is how do we engage people kind of not
just at election time but day in day out
as we do the work of government make
policy choices if you had been on
Obama's economic
during those first years of the crisis
what would you have advised him to do
differently than we did yeah I'm great
question so the answer is the idea that
the industry itself could self
administer all of these programs right
and that they would be communicating
with consumers that was never going to
work and ultimately it took years and
years and these programs took a very
long time to get ramped up and it was
the nature of the mortgage industry that
they they weren't set up to deal with
these problems they were set up to take
your check for the correct amount
delivered before the due date out of the
envelope and deposit the check right at
best that's what they know how to do
yeah and so to kind of engage in human
conversations with people about complex
situations so what I would have said is
I think we needed to deliver some kind
of simpler more rough justice but that
got to people much more quickly so one
of the things we did in the national
mortgage settlement part of the program
that I really liked was we wrote down
just eliminate it zeroed out lots and
lots and lots of second mortgages here
in California and people who were deeply
underwater and literally the Bakke sent
you a one-page letter and it said hi
we're forgiven your second mortgage if
you don't I said that's a different kind
of letter to get from if you don't want
it call us and I remember asking a Bank
of America executive who calls you who
doesn't want this because he said the
take-up rate was only 98 percent and I
said who calls you and he said I you
know people with tinfoil on their heads
or whatever but that kind of putting the
burden off the consumer
instead of here's a packet of 72 forms
and by the way we need your tax returns
and by the way we need you to fax this
and by the way it's you know your
reforms got outdated while we waited to
make a decision now you have to start
back over again that structure was set
up to fail so it wasn't the level of
help we gave Main Street that I had a
problem with it was how we delivered
that help and you contrast that to the
big banks they went in some conference
room in the dark of night a bunch of
people and they cut a deal and they
walked out and the next day they just
made it happen
having been there and you know
my job as a speechwriter was to try to
help explain what we were doing around
the financial crisis to people and
because I am I did not have a background
in economics I learned a lot from write
to sit with the Geithner and summers and
all the rest and I just remember like
one situation where I'm it was the AIG
bonuses and we weren't gonna clawback
the AIG bonuses and I was like what
we're gonna have to explain this to
people because we're gonna have people
with pitchforks coming to the White
House and Larry Summers says to me well
has to do with contract law and you know
so because you can't claw out the
bonuses because that's against the law
and even and keep it might Larry Summers
non-lawyer not a lawyer right but in my
experience it was it was a lot of people
who were well intentioned and wanted to
help but there was always this there's
always these caution there's always a
reason not to do something in government
I heard you know Geithner talked about
how in some of the housing relief
programs you know the Inspector General
at Treasury made it more complicated
because they were worried about frauds
there's always something that they're
worried about do you think that
Democrats and the next Democratic
president have to have like less
technocratic people in government less
people less caution in general like how
do you get through that so there's
actually some really interesting
research around this including work done
by Elder Shaffir whose books scarcity I
highly recommend and essentially what
happens is he's done some studies that
show when you try to crack down on fraud
say in a can of food stamp program or a
welfare program and so you ask more
questions and you add some paperwork and
you create a couple layers of checks
what actually happens is fraud goes up a
little bit and the very poorest most
needy people don't apply at all Wow
because it gets too complex so it turns
out listen and I saw this with the
mortgage crisis cheaters they're willing
to fill out a lot of paperwork in order
to cheat right I mean they're trying to
get you know their home scot-free even
though they don't deserve it they're
wheeling and dealing they'll they'll lie
to you and they'll put a lot of effort
into cheating yeah but the everyday
working class person especially someone
who's doing shift work who maybe faces a
language or education barrier they're
not trying to
they're just trying to get help and so I
think we have to understand that this
this we we all want the system to be
fair and that's a core impulse and it's
a good one but when we tried it too hard
to prevent cheaters what we actually do
is push out the most needy and the most
vulnerable from these systems yeah I
think there's also this public sentiment
and we wrestled with this too which is
like yes people believe that banks trick
people into these mortgages that they
couldn't afford and that the banks were
bad actors in all of this but there was
another sentiment that we saw and we saw
this in public opinion as well where
people said well you know some people
shouldn't have bought homes that they
couldn't afford and you see this now in
conversations about you know free
college right or even debt Forgiveness
around college right and people say well
I paid my college loans like why
shouldn't someone else
how do you start changing this sentiment
and sort of our general ideas around
debt and personal debt and household
debt right so I think part of it is when
we start to think about these as
collective problems and so we have this
tendency in America that everything is
very individual and very meritocratic
and we all kind of get what we deserve
and what you know I talked about this
one of my powerful childhood experiences
was watching the entire kind of Upper
Midwest get decimated by the farm crisis
and that had nothing to do with who was
a good farmer and who was a bad farmer
that had to do with economic forces and
crop prices and interest rates and and
so I think I come at it from a slightly
different perspective but I do think we
have to start realizing that just
because we suffered doesn't mean that
it's beneficial to us to have the next
generation suffer and that just that
that's not actually helpful so you know
I want to say that when people say to me
well I paid off all of my college dad I
say did you enjoy that experience did it
help you save for retirement like if you
had you had to pay off every single
dollar of that wouldn't you be in a
better place now and so I think it's
it's thinking about things kind of how
the pieces affect each other and we
often do a really poor job of that I
think something that's something that we
as Democrats and we as progressives have
to do a better job at talking about is
we're in this collectively and so you
can tell them a professor
because I keep referencing books but
another book that made a powerful impact
on me is called our kids by Robert
Putnam who wrote sociology wrote Bowling
Alone and he talks about like back in
his generation when people said we have
to do something to help our kids we have
to build a playground to help our kids
they meant the children in this country
or in this state or in their town or in
your neighborhood yeah and so often now
when people say we have to do something
about our kids they need theirs yeah
right and and so that's the kind of
mindset that I think we've seen grow and
I think it's a it's a problem for us
ultimately do you worry that that
mindset like we seem to have this need
that we need to sort of stitch together
this collective ideal of what it means
to be Americans and that our politics
right now gets in the way of that and
you know and some people want you to be
like well it's both sides it's not both
sides but there is this this notion that
I wonder that if our economic ideal here
which is to under have people understand
that what happens to you and your
finances in your own economic matters to
the rest of the country do you think
that's you know do you think our
politics handles that well no I don't
but I think some of this is that it's it
goes back to something that Elizabeth
Warren I think really famously talked
about which was you know she said nobody
gets rich alone right that we all rely
on the collective infrastructure and if
even if I individually have a great idea
and I stay up late and I work really
hard and work myself to the bone for
that idea boy when I go to grow that
company and I have to hire some
employees
I'm really glad there's some people with
good public education good so that they
can I can have smart employees no
business is gonna run its own K through
12 education system right and so you
know no business funds its own Airport
and so there's ways in which we all
contribute to the system through taxes
and through the ways that we use the
system and draw on it how do you think
we should get Medicare for all passed
what is your favorite approach to this
transition so with regard to Medicare
for all I think one of the things we
have to acknowledge is that Medicare
as it currently exists isn't a perfect
system and I think that helps people
realize that you're a real realist when
you're talking about it so I often point
out to people there are some things with
Medicare we'd have to change and improve
as we begin to expand it and the two
examples I give are the way that the
prohibition on negotiating prescription
drug prices and Medicare which if we're
gonna make Medicare sustainable and cost
sustainable we have to address that and
then the other is that Medicare like
pretty much every health insurance plan
I've ever seen or had does a really
lousy job of how it covers in reimburses
mental health care and so I think when
we talk about making sure that we're
making changes to Medicare to improve
that system we shouldn't have any
programs in this country that have
things called doughnut holes in them
that's just like you've already lost one
complicated thing called a doughnut hole
and so somebody said the other day what
we should call it Medicare Part II and I
thought oh geez like that rolls off the
tongue that just rolls off the tongue
right Medicare Part II like please don't
and so I think it's understanding that
we have to do some changing to Medicare
to make it work and then also thinking
about some different phase-in concepts
so a lot of it the talk has been around
reducing the age right from 65 to 60 or
from 60 to 55 I actually think we might
want to go the other direction and so
putting people on as newborns putting
people on 26 when they fall off the ACA
yeah and they're stuck but putting
younger people onto the system because
the support for them is very strong
they're very interested in this system
and in trying it and so I think it's
gonna be a multiple year process to get
there
so you're close to Elizabeth Warren
you've worked for Kamala Harris both of
them are thinking about running for
president I'm not gonna ask you to pick
sides here but in general what kind of
candidate do you think the Democratic
Party should nominate in 2020 and how do
you run a campaign against Donald Trump
oh so I have no idea how to run a
campaign against I'm finding that I
think it's it's that is not that
challenging of a task I think in some
ways because there's just so many
different kinds of concerns about our
presidency and so I think we'll see
different candidates
into different aspects of Trump's
leadership and lack thereof I think you
know this to me I think this election is
gonna be a lot like oh eight I lived in
Iowa no 8 it was a faculty member there
and so I just remember it was a horrible
winter and they kept coming by and
offering us yard signs and so the
quickest way for listeners out there and
if someone knocks on your door and they
offer you a yard sign like the fastest
way to get someone to go away is to say
yes we love a yard sign and so we just
kept adding yard signs and it kept
snowing and then you couldn't see what
happened and then by the time the snow
melted in March well after the Iowa
caucus we had probably 15 yard signs
apparently we had supported Richardson
and Obama and Hillary and John Edwards
and fill-in-the-blank and so I think
we're gonna have a big primary process
and I think somebody who can communicate
about some of these areas where I hear
people say well that's just pretty
complicated I'm not looking for that I'm
looking for someone who says that's
complicated but here's how I think we
get started thinking about it or that's
complicated but let's try to sort it out
together yeah um and somebody who really
invites the public into those
conversations and I think that's gonna
be really important yeah how do you draw
people who maybe support Trump into at
least dialogue productive dialogue yeah
you've said that Congress wasn't built
for members like you what did you mean
by that
well what I meant is I'm a single mom of
three kids while we've been recording
this I'm pretty sure I hear my children
screaming out in your life maybe pundit
barking you're maybe a kid I can't tell
but yeah it's stuff like this it's you
know it's things like you know my kids
are coming with me to inauguration
swearing-in day I should say swearing-in
day and people are like you know could
you have a photograph like just you know
children well where would they be where
would I put them if not in the
photograph with me and so I think
there's some aspects about this that not
only by the way are built around a
two-parent family around your kids being
older but also frankly around people
having personal wealth
that are really challenging and so I've
been negotiating a lease for my district
office and they keep saying we want a
security deposit and that I can't access
congressional funds until after I'm
sworn in on January 3rd and so I keep
explaining like I can't afford a
security deposit it's Christmas time I'm
trying to buy Christmas gifts I have a
lot of expenses right now coming off the
campaign you know I just sorry like I
don't have the money for a security
deposit and so I think there are things
like that I keep wondering how do other
people make this work yeah I'm not like
I'm driving a 2008 minivan and I'm glad
to have it right and so I think there
are just some things that are baked into
the system that make assumptions about
kind of who goes to Congress that I
think this class is going to push back
at how how do your three children feel
about all this
my kids were troopers on the campaign
trail I mean I people said well you're
gonna have you know kind of hide them
like do you want to hide them like
please like let me know we really didn't
have a choice but to have them be part
of the process and we actually tweeted
the campaign as something we did as a
family and so my kids came to a lot of
events you know that my and my son
telling me at one point like mom kids at
school are making fun of me
they're they're saying my mom is liberal
Katey Porter that was the big TV ad was
you know liberal Katey Porter and I
guess it could have been worse I said to
Luke you know well hon maybe don't wear
your campaign t-shirt every day to
school because I'm washing it like every
day in the laundry and he's like I'm not
doing that I'm proud of you mom nobody
can silence me and so it was like well
you know you buy the ticket you take the
ride if you're gonna wear the Katey
Porter for Congress t-shirt to school
you're kind of inviting a conversation
about Katey Porter for Congress there
they're very exciting I will tell you
that the other day it came up that you
know I have re-election in two years and
my middle son said what two years mom I
don't know if this is a good idea so
they definitely are learning a lot about
yeah well your biggest supporters I'm
sure Katie Porter thank you so much for
joining us and and good luck in Congress
and please come back any time will do
thank you so much thank you
you
