impeachment all right let's do it
Pietschmann let's go alright let's get
started okay first how did we get to
this point
what made this moment different how is
this new crime different than all the
other Trump crimes and scandals that are
largely forgotten a few weeks a few days
later well this one just happened that's
everything's happening it's this is an
ongoing crime it's funny because I think
a casual observer could be forgiven for
hearing about this and being like didn't
he do this already
didn't he already try to enlist a
foreign adversary to our foreign country
to help him in the election but no
there's the last election that was with
Russia the day after Bob Muller
testified before Congress about the
entire Special Counsel investigation
Trump called up the president of Ukraine
and tried to enlist his help in digging
up dirt actually manufacturing dirt on
the Biden family so that is unacceptable
yeah and it's particularly unacceptable
in the context of freezing hundreds of
million dollars in aid that Congress had
approved to help the Ukrainian military
defend themselves I think it's a very
easy one to understand which is the
president asked pressured a foreign
government to investigate his political
opponent and his political opponents
family that's it that's what he did and
it's easy it's not really easy to
understand it wasn't like a bunch of the
president's henchmen doing it wasn't
Roger stone and Paul mana four and all
this other this is our third
time trying to start the live stream
third time's the charm
third time's a charm that is what they
say anyway we're not gonna do an intro
we're just getting right into it let's
get into it all right we're taught we're
streaming we got a big thumbs up from
Elijah this is huge my god all right
let's start with our first question how
is this new Trump crime different than
all of the many other Trump crimes we
have been watching for the past two and
a half years that have been largely
forgotten weeks later what makes this
different Tommy you said it so well the
first time do it again
look me you can all be forgiven if you
heard the story and thought didn't we
know about this haven't we been talking
about this for two years the president
asked for help from a foreign
versary to beat a political opponent
kind of the day after Bob Millar
testified about Russia collusion
instruction of Justice Trump called up
the president of the Ukraine and asked
him to help manufacture dirt on his
political opponent Joe Biden and his son
to help Trump win an election so it's
pretty blatant it's pretty clear-cut he
also was withholding hundreds of million
dollars of military aid to Ukraine as
part of his extortion racket so this is
as brazen a high crime and or
misdemeanor as you can get it is against
the law for anyone to solicit campaign
assistance from a foreign government or
foreign actor it's illegal and even if
it weren't illegal it's an incredible
abuse of power by the president knighted
States - personally personally pressure
a foreign leader to target his political
opponent in the political opponents
family so this is an easy to understand
crime yeah this is happening right now
it didn't happen in the past it's
currently ongoing and it wasn't one of
Donald Trump's henchmen doing this it
was Trump himself now and it was it's
all there in a White House official
document that was released this morning
which is a summary of the call it was
right there it's they released it how
absolutely dare you leave Rudy Giuliani
out of this Rudy has been flying to
Madrid he should get a lawyer probably
TV lawyer should get a real job you
should get better look but you know this
does come on top of Rudy Giuliani
Trump's lawyer getting help from the US
State Department to set up meetings with
Ukrainian officials so that he can go
and deliver this message himself to help
shake down the Ukrainian government for
dirt on the Biden family so one other
quick aside speaking of abuse of power
look at this photo of a ripped John
Delaney my god dead list 350 pounds I I
we also should bring up by the way that
he got they got the ambassador the US
ambassador to Ukraine fired they pushed
her out because she wouldn't engage in
their shady practices probably
should we just talk about some thoughts
on this transcript yes so much in it we
might as well go through it before we
get to bigger questions about
impeachment yeah it's just a while
all right we know it's a rough
transcript it's a summary I know
Twitter if you transcript now they come
after you and you know the the well
actually Brigade we know we were the one
saying yesterday that wasn't gonna be a
full trance it's called a mem con well
now get it when you when the president
knighted States takes a phone call the
White House Situation Room team routes
it to the president and then connects
the call on the other end and so they
all the sit room guys and men and women
sit and they listen to the call and they
type it up as fast as humanly possible
so there's a Memorandum of all that's
discussed that goes to national security
advisors office they tweak it for
accuracy and then it gets distributed to
the right people so Trump's team could
have with this thing and omitted
things we don't know that for sure
obviously if they did do that they
didn't do a great job of it no probably
should have taken another pass at that
little to incriminate by a second eraser
but uh yeah I mean like for all intents
and purposes this is the closest you're
gonna get to verbatim so a couple of
things it's worth noting that this
wasn't Trump's only call to president
Solinsky they talked earlier so we don't
know what was in that call I noticed it
was interesting early how Trump just
really I'm sorry I'm confused with this
do you mean there was there's reported
there was an April call between them or
is there okay no yeah there was an April
call that we have not heard about yet
we've not seen the transcript of it's
funny Trump just randomly starts talking
 about the Germans and then zolensky
talk about the French so that's
really unhelpful for a brand new
president of Ukraine who was elected as
an anti-corruption Crusader who needs
European allies and now thanks to Donald
Trump he's caught up in this massive
quid pro quo scandal and he's on the
record talking about foreign how
did I get here
so John did you like the part where
Trump says how how great the u.s. is to
Ukraine but then complains there's no
reciprocity what is he getting to there
what is he getting to what is he looking
for do you think well then he said could
you do us a favor though yeah so that
sentence comes right after the president
of Ukraine referencing something called
a javelin
which is an anti-tank missile
it's a weapon that the Ukrainians really
want because they think it's a critical
tool for them to defend themselves
against the Russians
so they said so he said we're ready to
get ready to buy some of those javelins
from you and now by saying that usually
the u.s. helps fund them buying the
javelins from the US so please help us
with the weapons and Trump said yeah
yeah yeah I would like you to do us a
favor though and then there's two favors
he asked for a couple of favors pair of
favors the first favor is for us to ask
the Ukrainian president to look into
this crazy conspiracy theory
that Rudy Giuliani and Infowars and a
bunch of other people are peddling that
this company that the DNC hired to look
into their server after it was hacked in
2016 called CrowdStrike the theory the
the conspiracy theory is that that
company which was Ukrainian company
actually tampered with the server and
that it wasn't the Russians who hacked
the DNC but it was an inside job and we
would know that if it was a real company
that looked at the server but instead it
was this Ukrainian company that could be
shady and so it like of course this is
like debunked a million times over by
intelligence agencies everyone else
Republicans the House report everything
debunked this but Giuliani is still
hanging on to it and so Trump asked that
they look into this company so let's
pause on that because what it shows is
one the president United States doesn't
just spout things from the Infowars
comment section for political purposes
he actually believes them which is
horrifying this guy believes the
craziest conspiracy theories in the
world one too he uses his second call
ever with the president of a big
important company to push him to get us
information that will make Trump feel
better about the 2016 election nothing
in the national security interest the
u.s. no no security in fact opposed to
the national security interest because
he wants to be able to say that Russia
actually didn't interfere in our
election he's trying to do himself in
Russia a solid while on the phone with a
dude who runs a country that the
Russians invaded five years ago so just
marinate on that one for a sec so that's
favor number one favor number two do you
have the actual quote or should I just
summarize it go for summarizes yeah
favor number two there's this horrible
thing with
Joe Biden going on in his son and I'd
really like you to look into it please
contact our Attorney General brings bill
bar into it and I'd love you to get to
the bottom of that yeah so he's
referencing the fact that back in 2016
Joe Biden pressed the Ukrainian
government to fire a prosecutor who was
seen by the US the Europeans the
International Monetary Fund the World
Bank as doing nothing to stop corruption
in fact I believe the IMF stopped
loaning money to the Ukrainians because
they wouldn't get rid of this guy so
Biden went in there and relayed the
consensus opinion of the US government
hold the whole national security team
sat around and net and decided that we
should press to get rid of this corrupt
Ukrainian prosecutor and get him out of
there so he would go Trump says of that
guy I heard you had a prosecutor who was
very good and he was shut down and
that's really unfair literally no one on
the planet know once he was good
not Republicans not Democrats not other
countries in the world not anyone in
Ukraine except the people that the guy
probably paid off no one thinks he was a
good prosecutor he's like called Rudy
he's having a liquid lunch and doing
some Fox hits and then we'll get right
back to you also important to realize it
was the position of the United States
government in the Obama administration
that Ukraine should investigate the
company that hunter Biden sat on the
board of so it wasn't like they tried to
save the company from me investigated
because hunters on the board in fact the
Obama administration wanted that company
to be investigated yeah that's how
little it makes sense then Trump talk
 about the former US ambassador to
the Ukraine with zalenski and then says
something really ominous which is of her
well she's going to go through some
things what was that what is he gonna do
towards you know auditors you've already
been fired for no reason they would get
this this wild so so that's why that's
what move that's what has moved Nancy
Pelosi all the moderate Democrats are
bunch of moderate Democrats most of them
they had come out in an op-ed a couple
nights ago who have national security
backgrounds because they understand that
this is a this what Donald Trump did is
the first time in his
we might be impeaching a president for
an abuse of power that jeopardizes the
country's national security we've
actually never been here before this
doesn't have anything but Clinton
impeachment wasn't this the Nixon
impeachment wasn't this the Johnson
impeachment wasn't this this is the
president jeopardizing national security
for his own personal gain anyway you had
another question before we get into
question number two sure we just talked
about for a second which you spoke about
earlier but the proof here which i think
is like so distinct and so i don't know
makes it stand apart at least in my mind
is that what differentiates this aside
from it the magnitude of what is
happening I do think having a partial
transcript at the White House itself has
released that it's telling us all this
that we've been reading from yeah that
the proof is we have Trump's words
according to not hearsay or reporters
anymore but according to the White House
as we're talking probably The
Whistleblower report the full report is
being delivered to Congress and so we
also have a full complaint that likely
will go beyond just this phone call yeah
I'm trying to imagine a more heavily
smoking gun than this and I don't know I
don't know what it would be I don't
think there is I don't know
yeah I'd pro quo is there the favors
there it's unethical it's untoward it's
illegal it's a disaster yeah okay so do
you think it will be more effective to
focus on this one huge blatant offense
or outline the full smorgasbord of
impeachable conduct and offenses in this
inquiry it's a hard question it's a good
one yeah but I've been thinking about
this so my view is for now I could be
persuaded otherwise that for the time
being we focus on this crime because
it's a breaking news story and events
are unfolding so fast we can barely keep
up with everything and it's the crime
that has gotten the largest coalition of
people upset Liberal Democrats moderate
Democrats never Trump Republicans
conservatives you got the National
Review you got Bill Kristol you got AOC
right Mitt Romney Mitt Romney is yeah
he's troubled so you've got all these
people concerned about this you might as
well use that momentum to educate people
and focus on this crime I do think that
once you do that it would be a mistake
to sort of leave off the other
in the articles of impeachment for a few
reasons one it's the right thing to do -
I think it's a politically smart thing
to do if there's corruption throughout
the government the president is you know
wasting taxpayer dollars or using
taxpayer dollars to enrich himself and
his businesses I think it's important
for people to understand that as well
and I think that will help build the
case against Trump I love it was just
saying this in our slack channel but
this crime is like a super crime of all
the other crimes that Donald Trump was
committed the Ukraine thing and I think
it's it's right like the other crimes
involved corruption they involve
election interference they involved
obstruction of justice he's doing all
that in the Ukraine crime but I do think
you know having the whole idea is to
have a couple months of hearings so that
everyone understands the full like all
of the crimes that Trump is committed so
I think that is important to do but I
understand why people are focused on in
this now yeah I mean I think this is
really complicated story but people will
get it the the odds are though that 10
20 percent of the country is heard of
this by now it'll take days and weeks to
really educate people for it to really
sink in and for folks to understand just
how terrible this is so I understand the
desire to focus mostly on what happened
in this later latest iteration with
Ukraine it also happens to be newsworthy
but I wouldn't want it to be exclusive I
just want to note that the
president has say it's wade in that he
wants to want full transparency on the
whistleblower information but he's also
demanding transparency from Joe Biden
and his son hunter from the millions of
dollars that have been quickly and
easily taken out of Ukraine in China
additionally I admit transparency from
Democrats that went to Ukraine and
attempted to force the new presidents do
things that they wanted under the form
of political threat so now Trump is just
rubber gluing rubber gloves usual
threatening everybody lashing out like
I'm like I'm not corrupt you're corrupt
I didn't I didn't pressure Ukraine you
pressured Ukraine he is panicking
panicking all right before we get into
the what happens now section of the
questions we're gonna take a quick break
to ask everyone to like and subscribe
please do that
the break zip recruiter today's scandal
brought to you by Tommy John all right
on to the next question can you guys
explain the difference between an
impeachment inquiry and articles of
impeachment and also what was happening
before and now sure so an impeachment
inquiry is the official investigation
into potential impeachable offenses
offenses so the inquiry involves
hearings it involves like investigation
involves all that kind of stuff
technically we were in an impeachment
inquiry before Nancy Pelosi announced it
yesterday because in court documents
House Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler
said we were in officially in an
impeachment inquiry so the Judiciary
Committee at least was in an official
impeachment inquiry until yesterday
yesterday Nancy Pelosi put her stamp of
approval on it and basically said the
house together is now in an impeachment
inquiry what will happen after they
fully investigate Donald Trump and all
those potential impeachable offenses is
you know whatever they find most
persuasive they will draw up articles of
impeachment so they were literally right
down we hereby impeach recommend that
the president has days be impeached for
the following abuses of power and
they'll just write them all up and then
the full house will vote on articles of
impeachment do you agree that the
president should be impeached for these
the house impeaching the president is
like someone getting indicted right so
the house basically in Deitz the
president by impeaching him and then it
goes to the Senate and the Senate tries
the president the senators are jurors
House members become prosecutors the
Democratic House members become the
prosecutors and then the president gets
defense lawyers and then the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court John
Roberts oversees the trial in the Senate
can we really quick before we get back
to our list of questions sure there are
counts on like every cable news channel
that are like 217 this is the number of
House Democrats that support impeachment
at this point they need to reach 218
when they reach that number does that
not matter until they get to the point
where they're actually voting you're
right they doesn't matter until then
because some of these counts are all
different - because some of them are
counting people who said yeah I think we
should have an Engel
summer kind of people who said yeah I'm
ready to vote to impeach him right now
and so they're all sort of combined I
think you don't know a real whip count
until we have the articles of
impeachment and the house is ready to
vote okay seeing on TV all right so
what's the timeline for something like
this is it relatively speedy are we
looking at things getting stalled in
courts for months especially with GOP
packed courts I know you guys are out of
prediction business but is there
anything that we should like know going
yeah we should just know that we have no
idea we should know that there's no set
time it's gonna take some time not so I
mean you're seeing reports that a
narrowly focused inquiry you could start
the process in the house before the end
of the year
yeah or it fit it yeah finish the whole
thing but right at a 22 but the the the
weird thing is I mean you know folks
should know that we we want to impeach
this president because we want to tell a
story about his criminality and all the
terrible things he's done currently and
in the past it is almost definitely true
that the Senate will not vote to impeach
him but the other thing that's weird is
the Senate could refuse to hold in a
trial Mitch McConnell could just say
nope not gonna happen they can't refuse
to hold a trial they can refuse to vote
on it they know they used to be both the
New York Times piece said that they can
do both they could they might refuse a
hold a trial like Merrick garland or
they could immediately vote to dismiss
the charges the no evidence so you know
this is Charlie Savage and The Times
telling me this but you know there's a
lot of ways that McConnell couldn't muck
with this now that's not necessarily
good politics for him either right right
like them looking like they're literally
abdicating their responsibility to you
know uphold their constitutional duty I
don't know that's a great look for like
a moderate Democrat and Tom Tillis or
you know Joni or some of the people who
are up the cycle but there's a lot of
weird ways this could go yeah I think we
don't and I think the courts question is
is a good one yeah and one that we don't
know either and you know one of the
arguments that Pelosi apparently made
today in the in the caucus meeting is
that by focusing solely on Ukraine this
won't get held up in the courts I don't
know why she thinks that but she does
and I think the hope for Democrats was
once we're in an official impeachment
inquiry then the courts will X but I
some of these challenges the Democrats
have brought to the courts but we don't
know that for sure either so yeah so the
timeline is a big question mark but in
my view if you're gonna tell the story
if the purpose of an impeachment inquiry
and impeachment hearings knowing that
the Senate might do what Tommy was just
saying if the purpose is to tell a story
about the president's criminality and
corruption you want to take the time to
tell that story correctly and to give
people time to understand this and let
the sink in one thing I was I thought is
like you poles are gonna start coming
out you know is it popular now do people
support this like polls are a lagging
indicator on public opinion and I
wouldn't pay too much attention to polls
that come out this week and even early
next week like wait a couple weeks for
this to sink into the rest of the
country because right now all of you
watching and us like we're intensely
following politics all the time most
people in this country don't know this
story yeah if you're polling people
today whether they support impeachment
and they 99 percent of them think you're
talking about bob muller and council
investigation none of them know what
we're talking to have a president who is
this much of a criminal that's always
been one of the problems with Trump is
it does something that is kind of insane
on a daily basis so you don't
internalize things that the Democrats
have the chance to force our attention
on this latest disgusting conduct with
Ukraine and that's what we have to seize
right now got it I know that's like one
of the main things around using the I
word impeachment it's like you direct
attention immediately
are there other immediate benefits to
making that case with impeachment now as
opposed to before no I just think I
think that now that we're in inquiry as
we've seen from the news the last you
know 24 48 hours it's all everyone's
talking about which is what we've been
saying you know like once you and it it
required Pelosi to go out there and give
a press conference and say it like she
did yesterday to get those headlines
because when Nadler did it it was like
buried in like the 8th paragraph of a
couple stories because she was saying no
to it you know like it it matter that
stagecraft matters here right like
Pelosi making a big deal of this matters
constant press conferences matter like
the Democrats and the House Democrats
communicating Const
the American people about what's
happening matters the message matters
all of this stuff is important
especially because we don't know what
will happen in the Senate and we doubt
what will happen also pressure from
people like you matters because like the
very first reaction was coming out of
Pelosi's office was I had this Ukraine
thing like it's not gonna change in
Republican votes we're not going to
impeach him what's the point
and that tune changed real fast about 24
hours later they were getting out and
saying that she supported this inquiry
so yeah keep it up all right
so what is your response to people who
are saying there's no point to this
because we're talking about Senate
Republicans and Republicans before when
they say Senate Republicans won't take a
vote to impeach what do you say to that
there's a couple points one we need to
make the case and educate the country
about Donald Trump's criminality is
abuse of power in the way he is
endangering us by making the presidency
about himself and not us the citizens
right so this is a long term education
process that will benefit us we hope in
2022
there are a lot of moderate Republicans
and in the house and in the Senate that
probably don't want to have to put their
political future on the line to vote in
support of this that Trump is doing
like you can not a lot of Republicans
are sprinting to the microphones with
full-throated defenses of Donald Trump
right now there are some of the like
most slavish pathetic sick of a terrible
state of fan take people like Lindsey
Graham who has no principles and just
sort of bolted onto the reputation that
John McCain had for a decade before
showing his true colors lately right
like people like that are pathetic and
will do whatever Trump needs but like
Tom Tillis Joni Earths Mitt Romney
people are wrestling with this and
struggling with having to defend a
completely immoral president so we want
to make them go on the record and tie
them to him in this conduct yeah put him
on the record especially the senators
who are up in 2020 and you know Susan
Collins said she's not commenting on
this and one of the reasons she said
she's not commenting on it yet is
because she knows that she's a juror she
basically said I'm a potential juror in
the trial so I shouldn't comment on it
but like does Susan Collins want to run
for reelection on a plan
form of defending the president's right
to trade arms for dirt on his political
opponent yes or no no right like because
it's not do you impeach the president it
that that's what we're really asking
right does Susan Collins Cory Gardner
Thom Tillis martha mcsalley
all these senators were trying to pick
off in 2020 they can go home and say
yeah I stood with the president when he
tried to trade arms for political dirt
on an opponent I I think that's the
right thing to do if they want to if
they want to exonerate him and if they
don't like you know even if the final
Senate vote you know has a few
Republicans who voted to impeach the
president then we get to go out and say
yeah there was a bipartisan group in the
Senate who wanted to impeach this
president which I will because well
Justin an Amish oh yeah I'm in the house
yeah I just well have that yeah well now
an independent but ex Republican maybe
maybe mittens
yeah Mitt Romney's but so I think it's
absolutely worth it I shouldn't lock
Mitt Romney he's actually been pretty
recently he's been quite consistently
speaking out about this Ukraine incident
so yeah good for you mitt good for you
okay
so is this gonna be something that we
watched on TV that everyone is like
gonna stop their regular lives to like
watch these hearings feels like a
prediction it should be I hope so yeah
it's a good question because we don't
know but which should be like I and I
want to make sure it like Democrats yeah
to make sure that it is and it is
entirely within their power to do so I
mean the the the media will cover you
know big trials with big witnesses I
think what the Democrats have to do is
make sure that they plan these hearings
so that we have more witnesses who are
cooperative who are going to like you
know say that you don't want a whole
bunch of Corey lewandowski's sort of
obstructing Congress the whole time a
that we just saw that and that wasn't
that great but I do think that like yeah
done right the this is television
viewing that the whole country watches
and it's up to them until they make it
like open and whatnot like that's
totally in there yeah that's that's all
part of their plan
got it okay okay last question we got
this is about the Democratic candidates
and how impeachment factors into
for the presidency how much should these
Democratic candidates lean into
impeachment and this discussion of it on
the campaign trail and in their own work
I mean it's gonna they should try to be
to some extent part of the news cycle I
look I think that all of them should be
for this right and I think that you you
saw some folks like Elizabeth Warren
come out very quickly in firm
Pietschmann I saw Connell Harris has
been pretty full throated today and
looking back at some of the things that
the Attorney General said to her that
might be problematic for him so like
people are using what's happening now to
make news to distinguish themselves and
to you know put forward a message about
Donald Trump I think that will continue
to be the case like we should use
impeachment to educate the country on
the fact that this guy is a criminal
that said you also need to talk about
what you would do differently how you
would change things in Washington so
like there's a there's a chance here to
make news constantly that is about
impeachment but also about what you
stand for and that's like the the secret
sauce I think yeah I don't think this
has to be too complicated you know back
to political basics every candidate
should have a message that is partly
about your opponent and partly about
yourself and every election where
there's an incumbent president is the
the Challenger tries to make it a
referendum on the incumbent president
do you like Barack Obama or not was Mitt
Romney's message and you know do you
like do you want to give Donald Trump
another four years or not is is
essentially what the reelect boils down
to and then you also want to talk about
your own vision stuff like that but to
the extent that the you have this
message about Donald Trump yeah the fact
that he's getting impeached or has been
impeached or has committed crimes or has
done all this corruption is gonna be it
should be part of your message about the
president this is why he doesn't deserve
another four years because he you know
colluded my site with a foreign
government and pressured them to try to
target his political opponent and is not
giving us a free and fair election in
2020 the only risk of this is that
people get exhausted of this
conversation and we're not talking about
the trade war and what's doing to the
economy or like various other things
it's just I don't think it's a risk
right now it's probably not a risk for
or two months so in its not yet and end
this crime fits in with the larger
message about Donald Trump's corruption
yeah right Donald Trump is only in it
for himself he only cares about himself
he only fights for himself he only cares
about his own political personal
financial gain all of his decisions
since he's become president fall into
that category
all of his crime is fit into that
category all of his policies fit into
that category so it really isn't a
stretch to talk about that than that
shoe a little fair fight yeah that's
right before we go hell yeah before we
go speaking of focusing on other things
yes that's just impeach channel your
rage people vote save America calm slash
fair fight latest count John 25,661
people that's you
I've given Wow eight hundred and fifteen
thousand two hundred and eighty two
dollars to help Stacey Abrams fight
voter suppression efforts and put teams
at key swing states to make sure you
guys can get out there and vote and get
to the polls and that your votes won't
be wiped away by some
Republican Secretary of State like
accidentally forgetting to let you vote
or whatever it would be it fits in
exactly with what we're talking about
Donald Trump could be impeached for
trying to prevent us from having a free
and fair election one way we can make
sure we have a free and fair election is
by helping Stacey Abrams write fair
fight organizations vote save America
calm slash fair fight go donate we're
less than two hundred thousand dollars
away from our goal guys Elijah has said
that if we get to a million we can cut
the top off of this thing and dump it on
his head like a Gatorade bucket after
the Super Bowl so this is something to
look forward to relies on transcript of
us of him saying release might be it
might be a note summary but but
seriously like Stacey Abrams is one of
the most competent impressive inspiring
people the Democratic Party she knows
what she's doing she's seen an election
stolen from her because of voter
suppression she's not gonna let that
 happen again we got to support her
so let's hit this goal let's do it cool
thanks guys thanks for tuning in
