all right Ben you might have noticed
that things were getting a little tense
with Iran so we'll do a quick recap here
two commercial ships were attacked last
week in the Gulf of Oman the Trump
administration says that the Iranians
are responsible and the Pentagon
released video footage of what appears
to be an Iranian fast boat removing and
unexploded in mine from one of the
vessels the Germans the Japanese the EU
they want to see more evidence before
they're willing to firmly point the
finger at Iran but that has not stopped
Mike Pompeo in john bolton from
discussing potential military responses
and the Pentagon announced that another
1,000 US troops will go to the Gulf now
Trump seems to be in a different place
he described the attacks as very minor
to Time magazine and stress of the Gulf
of Oman is no longer that important to
us since we get our oil elsewhere I'm
sure that will make our allies in the
region feel good so per usual bend these
clowns are all over the map what did you
make of the video evidence and what do
you think should happen next well you
know unfortunately we are where you and
I Ward we're gonna be right which is
there have been these provocations after
provocations emanating from us and then
perhaps you have Iran doing something
stupid in response and we're on this
escalation cycle that we've been worried
about yeah they're a couple points here
you know look did Iran probably have
some responsibility for this I I assume
so but it matters that this
administration has no credibility I mean
it matters that they lied about Iran not
being in compliance with the nuclear
deal when they pulled out it matters
that they lie about everything and so I
think it is fair and proper that other
countries would say look we can't just
trust Mike Pompeo with a grainy video
too to verify what happened in this
event you guys have to present this
evidence you have to come to the UN
frankly that's what any normal
administration would do and so I think
it is fair to take the time to get to
the bottom of this but then the second
piece Tommy is like we're debating this
as if it's inevitable that we would like
go to war over these two tankers getting
set on fire right I just I don't think
that's where most Americans are that if
some crazy Iranian proxy or some
cowboy Iranians or even the Iranian
government decided to set a couple
tankers on fire that it's inevitable
that we would go to war with them now
the problem is both Trump and now Iran
are on this escalation cycle and the
question is how are they going to get
off of it yeah and that's what worries
me
totally man and it's not just the Hawks
in the White House that are a problem
Senator Tom cotton of Arkansas suggested
sinking Iranian ships in response which
that seems like an odd precedent as you
just noted that you would sink a foreign
country's Navy because they attacked
someone another country's commercial
vessel that feels like a bank shot
then there's New York Times columnist
Brett Stevens our old friend Brett Ben I
want to read you two headlines from
recent Brett Stevens columns March 29th
2019 the foreign policy fiasco that
wasn't withdrawing from the Iran nuclear
deal has paid dividends fast forward a
couple months June 14th 2019 the pirates
of Tehran if a-rod won't change his
behavior we should sink its navy thank
God we have the liberal New York Times
editorial board with these sensible
anti-war Iran policies right then and so
enraging right because first of all this
is so predictable right so Trump pulls
out of the Iran nuclear deal says that
that's somehow gonna fix things and in
fact everything's gotten worse because
not only do you have Iran now engaged
potentially in this provocation but you
have them announcing they're they're
going to restart accumulating a
stockpile of nuclear materials so Trump
has made the nuclear threat worse and
he's made the risk of war worse and this
is eminently predictable this is what
all the said was gonna happen when he
pulled out of the nuclear deal and so
you know masterminds like general Brett
Stevens you know or on the one hand
trumpeting a reality it doesn't exist
it's somehow pulling out the nuclear
deals accomplish something we're does
accomplish nothing
and then once inevitably that leads to
escalation now he's ready to sink the
uranium Navy the second thing I'd say is
it's amazing how these people talk about
this put aside the the pirates of Tehran
like the parts of the Caribbean sequel
here part six or whatever it is it the
the if you sink a navy
lots of people will die yeah it will
start a war Iran will kill people in
response and then will kill more people
there's something kind of grotesque
about the fact that we talked about
war like this like it's some videogame
after the experience of Afghanistan and
a rocket Libya and everything that the
idea that we're just kind of casually
saying whether you're Tom cotton or
Brett Stevens or whoever Lindsey Graham
that you know we're gonna we're gonna
sink Navy's is if that doesn't involve
significant acts of violence here why
the New York Times thinks this is a
perspective that is essential for this
debate is beyond mystifying to me
particularly when they've been so
consistently wrong and and so
consistently reflective and just saying
we have to escalate with the Iranians
which will lead to a war I don't know
why we said when we said it was either a
nuclear deal or the risk of war every
said we were engaged in character
assassination no we really believe that
and now you see that's exactly the case
they're gonna restart the nuclear
program what are we going to do about it
either you have a diplomatic agreement
that deals with the problem which we had
or you're exactly where we are right now
we're just things are escalating yeah a
grotesque is exactly the right word um
there's some more important issues
around the question of a military
response specifically whether it's
authorized by the 2001 AUMF or not and
then sort of how you would lay out the
Intel case to the international
community we are as I mentioned the top
very lucky to have every all Haynes
coming up on the show later who is an
NSC lawyer and deputy director of the
NSC so we'll dig into that stuff with
her but the other big news is that Iran
is increasing uranium enrichment
activity so they said that there a week
or so away from going above the 300
kilogram uranium enrichment limit set by
the Iran nuclear deal they announced
that they may also begin enriching
uranium up to 20 percent purity unless
the Europeans step in and give them some
sanctions relief so they really have a
gun to the head of the Europeans here I
mean the short version of why those
things are bad as they reduce the time
it would take for Iran to create a
nuclear weapon in the near term this
seems like a pretty obvious attempt to
divide the international community to
peel off the Europeans from the US I'm
curious what you think of this play from
Iran and it doesn't seem like the kind
of thing that might work better if you
didn't also attack a commercial vessel
like it there they're a little
incoherent as well there of course they
are and but again what's happened I
think is Iran has politics just like
America
politics and this is not to absolve them
at all it's just to say this was
predictable so the United States leaves
the nuclear deal reimpose the sanctions
even though Iran is complying designates
Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a
terrorist organization engages in all
this belligerent rhetoric sends an
aircraft carrier to the region and
what's happening inside of Iran is all
the hardliners are saying see we told
you you never should have made a deal
with the United States
we're being embarrassed we're not
getting the sanctions relief we deserve
because we were complying with the deal
so we have to do something in response
and what's interesting is Iran is trying
to calibrate well what can we do to push
back and show that we'll take some
action without crossing certain limits
right so they're not saying we're
kicking all the inspectors out we're
totally out of this nuclear deal we're
reinstalling all the centrifuges you
know they're testing can we escalate a
little to impose a cost on the West
essentially for not following through on
this deal again that the danger here is
how do you control this escalation we
take a bunch of steps the Iranians take
a bunch of steps we take some more steps
in response how do we get off of this
ramp towards a war and and that's what's
really concerning to me because the
people were counting on doing that are
the Trump administration and the Iranian
government and those are not the kind of
people that are going to necessarily be
best at defusing this bomb so it puts a
lot of responsibility on Europe to try
to figure out some way to muddle through
this
we're helped by the fact that Trump
seems to not want to actually fight the
war the problem is that John Bolton and
all the Mike Pompeo and the people under
and keep driving the bus and in one
direction and that's the direction of
escalation yep and it's hard not to just
again note the total incoherence of
their non-proliferation policies because
when when Trump was doing his 30-hour
whatever it was with George
Stephanopoulos over the weekend George
asked him about North Korea expanding
its arsenal and Trump responded I don't
know I hope not he promised me he
wouldn't so that seems like a really
Rock ribbed policy we have over in North
Korea yeah let's put a fine point on the
failure here which is some said pulling
out Iran do what make things better it's
made it worse
Iran is gonna start accumulating
stockpile again potentially he said he
was going to solve the North Korea issue
they're still building nuclear weapons
and he's pretending like they're not
both
situations are getting worse and the
Iran one is an entirely manufactured
crisis and the North Korean one he seems
kind of willfully determined to not
address it so right you know he's
failing on two of the most prominent
issues that he said he was gonna do
better than then Obama
yeah like existential critical global
issues oh yeah all right let's go to
some good news last week we talked about
the massive protests in Hong Kong over
the proposed legislation that would
allow extradition from Hong Kong to
mainland China the protests worked Hong
Hong Hong Kong's chief executive
apologized and they suspended debate on
the bill that falls well short of fully
withdrawing the proposal so we probably
should not expect these protests to stop
but just to give you a sense of the
scale of the protesters just to give you
a sense of the scale of the protests
organizers estimate that two million
people attended the protests out of 7.4
million residents in the territory so
imagine a us-based protest with like a
hundred fifty a hundred sixty million
people on the streets and that's your
equivalent um then what do you think the
takeaway is from what we've seen over
the last couple weeks in Hong Kong I
think that the takeaway is that people
that the authoritarian trend we see in
the world is not inevitable you know
that what all these people want you to
think whether it's even peeing or
Vladimir Putin or Donald Trump or you
know whoever that we all the
authoritarian jury talked about that
they're never really moving things in
certain direction and what the people of
Hong Kong have showed us is it does not
to be that way people can mobilize and
say no this is not what we want we don't
want to lose our civil liberties we want
to maintain our ability to speak our
minds and we can mobilize and that
should really offer people hope and it
should signal once again that while
right now in the world power is
concentrated in the hands of a lot of
people who want to keep a boot on the
throat of citizens there are more people
who don't want that than people who do
and if we can have the type of
leadership in the type of organization
that gets people in the streets and in
certain and democracies gets
to the polls we can overcome this
instead to me it's a very hopeful story
that even in a place where it seemed
like the trends are moving inexorably in
a certain direction that that people had
the courage to push back and it was back
in massive numbers and and frankly we
should take hope from that in the United
States as we're dealing with our own
version of creeping authoritarianism
yeah man protests work truly inspiring
stuff the photos and images in March
that we saw over the weekend so credit
to them let's hope that this continues
forward and there's a happy outcome
let's go to Egypt for a minute where
their protests did not have a great
long-term outcome a very weird story so
the former Egyptian President Mohammed
Morsi collapsed and died while on trial
for espionage in Cairo
so Morsi was Egypt's first
democratically elected president he's
the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood
until he was ousted in a military coup
by the current President Abdel Fattah
el-sisi so Morsi died exactly seven
years after his election but this feels
like a really big deal I mean the
morsi's family and activists have been
warning for a while that he was being
denied food and medicine and kept in
solitary confinement like really awful
conditions he didn't see his family
they kept warning that he was at risk of
dying and then he dropped dead in a
courtroom I mean I feel like this tells
you everything you need to know about
the current regime in Egypt
it does and you know it's interesting
got me thinking a lot which is Mohamed
Mursi was no saint
here but he was the one and only truly
democratically elected president of
Egypt and you know he was what came out
of the protests that removed Mubarak and
the elections that followed and ever
since then there's been this determined
push back within Egypt to crush you know
what what the Arab Spring represented to
put the military back into power to
eliminate any opposition across the
Middle East you've seen this kind of
counter revolution from authoritarians
all these people we've talked about
Putin aired on you know 2011-2012
of a turning point because I think a lot
of authoritarian saw the direction of
the Arab Spring and of protest and
social media and said we need to push
back we need to use these technologies
to our benefit we're not going to broker
any dissent and we're going to crush the
opposition and again Mohamed Mursi did
things wrong he governed in undemocratic
ways he was trying to change the
Constitution right
I don't think though I really don't
think he was some firebrand
you know they wanted to paint him as no
different from a terrorist and we've
talked about this before he wasn't some
violent radical he was a dedicated
member of the Muslim Brotherhood but it
matters that you have essentially a
government that removed him from power
through undemocratic means that crushed
the Opposition in the streets that
pained thousands of people killed
thousands of people and that quilt
League let him languish in a prison cell
and ways that led directly to his death
to me it's representative of this trend
that has been essentially the counter
revolution to the Arab Spring where
Egypt has been the epicenter of that and
we should all feel some regret and shame
about that that that this happened that
this happened in a country Egypt that is
the single largest recipient of American
foreign assistance again you don't have
to like Bahamut mercy or guru this
politics or like the Muslim Brotherhood
but you can't ignore the reality that
the kayu is elected president just died
probably from neglect and solitary
confinement in a prison cell it's kind
of a distillation of what we've seen
what we've seen with the killing of
Jamal khashoggi from Mohamed Salah and
what we've seen in the crushing of the
Syrian opposition what we've seen in in
in lots of different places and you know
it's interesting that Hong Kong thing is
happening at the same time and that
Sudan which you talked about a lot is
happening and Algeria these things I
don't think are sorted out and the story
is not over and you know I have to think
that the people who look like they're on
top now they're not inevitably going to
stay there yeah pretty tragic all right
let's talk about some Trump
cabinet news in the foreign policy world
so acting secretary of defense slash
future Boeing lobbyist Patrick Shanahan
is out at the Department of Defense
Trump is gonna name a guy named Mark
espera who is currently the Secretary of
the army and he's a former Raytheon
lobbyist as the new acting secretary of
defense so great The Post reported that
there were some pretty ugly family
issues in Shanahan's past that would
have complicated the confirmation
process and that could have been why he
dropped out I mean I don't know that
we'll dig into them but you know you
noted when we were texting about this
that it's very weird that someone with
those issues in their background could
get nominated to the deputy secretary in
the first place but I mean I guess I
just stepping back I'm not that
surprised that Shannon is leaving
because he seemed particularly weak in
the job Pompeyo was basically running
the entire Ron strategy including my
taking us trip down to CENTCOM this week
but you know it's pretty abnormal to see
something like this happen I mean an
acting secretary has been around for a
while to have a massive vetting
challenge that seems like a pretty big
failure of the process yeah I mean these
are really tragic family circumstances
and I you know we don't really know you
know you never know exactly what happens
in a family but it's clear that they
should have been red flags and what's
also clear is at a time when we're
really potentially on the precipice of a
conflict with Iran you're this complete
and utter dysfunction at the top of the
Pentagon and no real effort to try to
address it you know that you could have
someone there was so clearly vulnerable
and unconfirmed Balazs a secretary
defense have you gone through the
confirmation process it's been six
months the longest we've ever gone
without I think a confirmed secretary
defense in place John Bolton and Mike
Pompeo essentially running the ROM
policy from other places Bolton the
facto Secretary of Defense really if you
step back and look at it and and it's
it's it should be very worrying to
people that at a time when we have war
and peace decisions literally right in
front of us there's no leader of the
Pentagon there's you know you and I've
sat in the Situation Room the way that
works is you go around the table and the
secretaries take is their view and view
that
State Department and the Secretary of
Defense gives their view in the view of
the Pentagon and nobody's offering that
view yeah and what we know Tommy is that
when mattis was there you know no friend
of Iran he was pushing back on the
escalation with Iran and it's therefore
no coincidence said in the six months
since mattis has been gone you've seen
this escalation with Iran right and said
to me there's just a giant glaring
absence of leadership at the Pentagon
and what's most concerning is that seems
to be deliberate yep I agree
never mind the lobbyists right how many
lobbyists can we like they're they're
all lobbyists it is it's it's offensive
defense contractors and make you wonder
you know why are we supporting the Saudi
warned Yemen well whether it's Shan Han
or the new guy they both work for
companies that want to sell arms to
people who are using them in Yemen yeah
the revolving door is brought to you by
Raytheon all right I want to turn to the
trade war real quick for an update I was
reading this on the way in so the
European Central Bank said they are
willing or ready to provide stimulus to
the eurozone economy in response to the
international tensions and the trade war
so this would mean increasing their
purchases of bonds what's so-called
quantitative easing which they had just
kind of slowed down about six months ago
their general signs that the global
economy is slowing down but really I
just want to flag this bend because I
remember when we were in the NSC in 2009
and 2010 and we were fighting with the
Europeans about whether the the steps
that should be taken to fix the global
economy would require reduce spending or
more stimulus and the Europeans were
fighting for more austerity and we were
fighting for more stimulus and now the
Europeans are having to do increase
stimulus measures because of policy
steps taken by the Trump administration
it just made my head spin yeah
and yeah this is where domestic and
foreign policy come together because
what happens if the economy does have a
downturn you need some stimulus the u.s.
spent a trillion dollars on our tax bill
last year that was the rainy day fund
that was the money that you might spend
in the downturn to stimulate the economy
and it was a giveaway to a bunch of
corporations and rich people that did
very little to help the economy in the
mean term meantime except give it a
little sugar high
the problem is you already have a
potential downturn coming just in terms
of a cyclical downturn what Trump is
doing with the trade war and even
potentially driving up world prices with
what he's doing with Iran and Venezuela
it's adding variables that are likely to
accelerate a downturn at a time when if
that downturn happens we have much less
in the way of tools to respond to that
downturn the interest rates are already
low we spent the trillion dollars on the
tax bill and so you got the Europeans
trying to step in and here and fill this
void I think you know the potential for
this to go south on us over the next
year is probably higher than people
recognize and and it's directly tied to
the trade workers you know we live in a
world where if you heard the Chinese
economy slow down the Chinese economy
you had all these extra costs in the
form of terrorists like the bills gonna
come due at some point and it feels like
it's coming yeah I think so too
all right a couple more quick things I
want to follow up on an issue that we've
covered previously but certainly hasn't
been resolved yet
The Times profiled a man named Mohammed
Salim who is a Ranga Muslim refugee who
was driven out of Burma because of
violence that was in part incited or
fermented by propaganda on Facebook so
Muhammad escaped eyes one of the lucky
ones and got to India where he is now
seeing the same stuff on Facebook Hindu
nationalists posting things accusing the
RO hanga of cannibalism calling them
terrorists all sorts of horrific stuff
this poor guy and his family have had to
move four times I wanted to raise this
because clearly despite years of
international outcry Facebook has not
gotten the handle on the problem and if
we see a repeat of the sort of ethnic
cleansing and genocide that happened in
Burma in India where there are 340
million Facebook users and extreme
nationalism it could be a catastrophe
and I'm just I'm raising it because it's
an important issue and I don't know what
the hell to do about it
well you know in Burma for people to
really get their minds around this this
is a country that went from very little
internet penetration whatsoever to
almost 100% internet penetration
overnight and the entire experience of
the internet was through Facebook
because people in that computers they
had phones people weren't using Google
they were using Facebook and so all the
sudden people are holding in their hands
what they think is all the information
in the world and what they're consuming
is hate speech against their engine and
against minorities and against Muslims
and if you want to understand the
dynamic that has taken hold in Burma
that has fueled in part the setna
cleansing a lot of it is these hate
campaigns online that stigmatize Muslims
and Ranga and and the government may
have fueled some of that or the
government may have served someone that
wave and this is a real problem in
companies like Facebook they don't even
have any employees in a place like Burma
they just have an algorithm you know and
in this algorithm is hugely destructive
we've seen in Sri Lanka very good
reporting in The Times how similarly
minorities were accused in fake online
campaigns of forced sterilization that
led to acts of violence against Muslims
in a certain point this has to stop
because it's cause it's causing death
and destruction it's causing
civilisation of minorities and the only
way to deal with it is through much more
aggressive regulation you know how these
platforms operate and much more
vigilance from these companies to say
that they accept some responsibility for
what is on their platforms because
otherwise we're gonna have this follow
people like this poor man to other
places we're gonna see one of these hate
campaigns one after another
wherever the minority can be stigmatized
it will happen yeah yeah I don't doubt
that it's unbelievably difficult to
police billions of users in nearly every
single country in nearly every single
language on the planet but you know you
got a pretty big market cap throw some
money at the problem it's an existential
issue for these human beings who are
suffering well could be an actor I was
in and Burma earlier this year I met
with a guy who kind of monitors this and
he said look there was a hate campaign
here there was so widespread that
anybody who lives here saw it and it
said on 9/11 all Buddhists are go out
and protest Muslims and and like
everybody's getting this Facebook
message giving you take to the streets
to protest the Muslims and the Muslims
are getting these messages
said Muslims need to take arms to defend
themselves and it's clearly rooted in
people who want there to be violence
sectarian violence and they brought it
this guy I met with and some other
people brought it to the attention of
Facebook it said you got to pull this
down and part of what this guy said to
me is like look if you had someone
living here they would see this if you
had employees who are actually trying to
deal with this yeah you wouldn't catch
everything but you catch a good deal of
this stuff you have to be in these
places and live in these places and what
would cost Facebook to have actual
employees living and working in all
these places and then working on these
issues is a rounding error for how much
that kind of company is worth so yes is
it hard sure but if you look at how how
difficult what this is causing like they
have to do this in if they won't do this
then there has to be some regulation
from government to say if you guys don't
take this content down we're going to
compel you to do so yeah I agree
this is no excuse for allowing hate
speech up okay a couple twenty twenty
things and then we'll get to our guest
mayor Pete did an interview with Axios
and he said he would not reverse Trump's
decision to move the US Embassy in
Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem so
some context here every president in
recent history including President Obama
has promised to move the u.s. embassy
from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and that
didn't fall through on that promise
until President Trump been do you think
that these candidates should be pledging
to move the embassy back and if so why
do you think that's an important
commitment to me well I think here's the
first thing they should be doing which
is saying that they will reopen
diplomatic representation to the
Palestinian people in Jerusalem right
because in addition to moving the
embassy they also shut down the the
diplomatic representation of the
Palestinians which had been in Jerusalem
through our consulate there that's the
first thing yeah then the second thing
is I would say you know there's a way to
say unless we see you know we have we
have to see steps taken by the Israeli
government to make a Palestinian state
in a two-state solution viable or else
you know I
we'll consider moving my embassy back to
Tel Aviv so I think there's ways in
which people can try to suggest that
look it's politically very difficult and
I get that but I think at a minimum you
can introduce the idea that we need
Palestinian representation and we need
some progress on this peace issue I
think it's hard to put this genie back
in the bottle I'm somewhat sympathetic
to the candidates so I get that people
may not want to go as far as saying we
get Abu the embassy back but I think
there's ways to at least introduce and
to get booted as credit he said if we
see annexation there'll be consequences
in terms of the assistance we provide
Israel so it might not be yeah moving
the embassy back it could be in other
ways right right that's how I approach
the issue it's very hard to ask people
on such an emotional issue to say we're
going to reverse its decision move this
embassy back I do think that they can
say we'll open the Palestinian
representation and look at ways in which
we can try to exert leverage on Israel
to take meaningful steps towards the
Tuesday yeah
meanwhile in Israel over the weekend
Netanyahu did a big press event where he
claimed to name a new town in the Golan
Heights the Trump Heights since
President Trump recognized the Golan
Heights as being part of sovereign
Israel last March so basically it's a
big sign in the middle of nowhere but
that's the level of seriousness with
which foreign policy is now being
treated by B be interim it just it makes
it all look like just a total trade like
they're just they already redeemed at
train station after Trump and Jerusalem
like this is this is the worst kind of
you know there's a real-life it's like
not unlike the war comment made earlier
like there's real lives at stake here
like there was you know or the
Palestinians gonna be able to live in
security and dignity or these Raley's
who want to make peace with their
neighbors and be able to do that instead
we get like Trump Heights and Trump
station yeah last 2020 thing so tulsi
gabbard who we haven't talked about a
lot on this show former she's a rock war
veteran she's on the House Armed
Services Committee a member of Congress
from Hawaii who's running for president
so to this an event with the Washington
Post and she's been really pressed on
her foreign policy views a lot she said
some strange things about Syria using
chemical weapons or testing testing
out on it and she met with Bashar
al-assad back in the day but in this
event she argued that the US could
perhaps work with Assad and Vladimir
Putin to counter the rise of al Qaeda or
Isis fighters in the Middle East and
then when she was pressed on whether she
accepts now that Assad used chemical
weapons she said that has been reported
and called it quote a serious issue but
claimed that there is quote still more
information coming out from various
investigators and whatnot so I don't
know as curious what you make of her
foreign policy banks there are a lot of
folks on the Left who I think find her
approach interesting there's probably a
lot of I don't know what you'd call them
people in DC who believe that ultimately
the US will have to resume relations
with Assad in some sense since he's
clearly now in control of serious but
this continual casting doubt on the
chemical weapons use seems oddly
stubborn to me I mean I like I haven't
seen all the Intel that you saw back in
the day on what Assad did or didn't do
in Syria but it seems like the
international community is has weighed
in pretty forcefully here yeah I mean
the Syrian use of chemical weapons is an
open-and-shut case I mean they were
chemical weapons fired from an area
controlled entirely by the regime
we had intelligence I don't know how
much I can even go into that was pretty
clear-cut in terms of who ordered that
to be fired but even if you can't read
the intelligence that I read they
controlled this area they had troops
there they had chemical weapons there
and it was fired from an area controlled
by the regime at the opposition but I
did it this was some masterful false
flag is about as crazy a idea as
anybody could put forward the thing
about like a tulsi gabbard here is the
same challenge I have with like a Glenn
Greenwald Tommy which is I think there's
a place for like a healthy skepticism of
American foreign policy you know I think
you and I have given voice to that at
times that we've made mistakes that
there need to be challenging certain
assumptions but what I have problems
with is there
to recognize that that should not lead
you into the arms of Vladimir Putin that
that you can think that the United
States has done a lot of things wrong
over the years without thinking that the
answer to that is to embrace in some
fashion Vladimir Putin's worldview which
is essentially where this certain line
of thinking often goes this is an
fundamentally undemocratic authoritarian
liberal worldview and so that the
challenge for Democrats who who have
huge problems with American foreign
policy is to articulate an alternative
path there's something other than the
status quo The Blob the reflexive
interventionism the kind of bread
Stevens light approach that some
Democrats take versus saying yeah we've
gotten everything wrong and the chemical
weapons attack was invented and we just
need to deal with Assad and Putin's
right about all this stuff I I think
that is problematic now I would say that
I don't mind her having a view like she
should you know there's a sense that she
shouldn't even say these things I mean
frankly like let's have all these views
laid out on the table and have a debate
about it so she's entitled to that
position the one thing I think she's not
entitled to is her own facts about this
kind of weapons attack but you know
it'll be interesting the u.s. foreign
policy after Trump is in some ways going
to be like this blank slate because
Trump has blown so many things up and we
should be laying out here all the
different ways we can go from tulsi
gabbard over here to be bridge to Bernie
Sanders to Joe Biden who's more
conventional and just you know lay that
on for people to see yeah I mean what I
struggled with in some of these comments
is there's often this default to a
suggestion that we could partner with
various bad actors on counterterrorism
issues and I think that's one lazy and
to what got us in a lot of trouble over
many many decades in various places like
Egypt like you know think of all the
other regions we've had quote
counterterrorism partnership and we've
lost touch with our values and bigger
ideals and things we want to stand for
um I do think it's very important to
know our history and be honest about all
the
takes the US has made recent history
ancient history the Iraq war all of it
but you know it's think about this - I
mean narratives are very important and I
do think it's good to talk about the
United States and our values and what we
hope to be in the world in an
aspirational way because that encourages
people to try to live up to that story
and those values and if we're just
running down the u.s. as a malign force
in various places that that kind of lets
us off the hook to try to be better and
I don't know that that's the outcome we
want either no if you just say we're
like everybody else
I mean look we've made huge mistakes
that's all true but at the same time if
you're a protester in Hong Kong or
you're protester in any of these places
or you're a civil society activist you
need somebody to look - right I mean I
I've talked to people who've been held
in prison and said even though we know
the u.s. is hypocritical the fact that
the most powerful nation in the world
was saying that democracy and human
rights are things to be respected and
cherished and valued that had an impact
to them that was meaningful to them if
we vacate that role which Trump I think
is done then we're in a world where it's
just you know pure power that that rules
and values don't matter at all and just
because we have not reached our own
standard with consistency
doesn't mean we should just say let's
toss it all out the window here and I'm
not I don't I'm not trying to caricature
some of these views but I think we need
to figure out a way to appeal to people
desire for a politics that is rooted in
believing in something and that is
rooted in values and that says we are on
the side of people around the world who
want these things we are different from
Russia we are different from China we've
made mistakes and this is why by the way
Tommy Obama would acknowledge those
mistakes write criticized for it because
it was an attempt to say you're right
you're right about the Iraq war you're
right about torture but precisely
because we believe in these things I'm
trying to change these policies
ultimately that's the only way which
you're going to overcome this
authoritarian trend that we keep talking
about because somebody has to stand for
an alternative set of values somebody in
power has to do it it can't just be the
people in streets alone they need people
who are running governments who stand up
and yeah agreed
okay last story before we get to real
and this was my favorite one of the day
so a group of local Pakistani officials
were holding a press conference and they
were live-streaming it and inadvertently
made news when their social media
director turned on the cat ears filter
and allowed them all to be in this weird
you know
augmented reality situation for the
entire thing The Guardian reported the
story out they were sure that all
necessary actions had been taken to
prevent further cat incidents in the
future in Pakistan but I mean did these
guys just hit on something genius you're
been I mean imagine if a bunch of
government officials held press
conferences where you could around
and throw some animal filters on them I
mean people might actually tune in I I
think so I mean first of all it's kind
of funny that they said all necessary
measures have been taken it was s it
like they'd gone to war or something
like to deal with the cat filters the
I've often done with the fact that that
fear gets more clicks you know that fear
and hate campaigns get more clicks the
only thing that gets a lot of clicks and
response is usually cat videos or
snapchat filters so maybe these guys are
onto something right like maybe if we
just it's a way to make government more
attractive it's a way to humanize this
widow to reach young people who get
their news on snapchat Instagram like I
don't know like stream being one
democratic debate everybody could choose
their own snapchat filters yeah you
throw some kitty cat ears on Tim Ryan
and all of a sudden you know he's got a
big fan base something you're thinking
this guy you know might share my values
that's right all right when we come back
we will talk to former deputy national
security adviser or former deputy CIA
director genius lawyer have real Haines
you
