very pleased to welcome to the show my
senator and one of the leading
candidates for the Democratic nomination
for president Kamala Harris great to be
back welcome back yeah I think last time
I was a rowdy crowd that was fun San
Francisco have always been our rowdy
ascribes because it's like Saturday
night there's an open bar there but
they're engaged in they're huge fans of
you you tell I mean you know so they're
they're excited so your mother was a
civil rights act yes you grew up going
to protest yes but you ultimately
decided against being an activist
yourself and in your book you wrote you
know when activists came marching and
banging on doors I want it to be on the
other side to let them in yeah what was
appealing about being on the other side
of that door to you part of it was
honestly and candidly the idea that I
wouldn't have to ask permission to do
the things that I need I knew needed to
be changed and what you candidly well
for example when I became da of San
Francisco
almost immediately after taking the oath
I pulled out I'm gonna date myself but I
pulled out a yellow pad and a pen and
designed from scratch a reentry
initiative that was focused on first
time mostly first-time drug sales
offenders who were young adults who when
they were convicted would be felons for
life I knew we needed to do this
differently I knew that most of these
and most of them were young men most of
these young men were in that predicament
because they did not have any other
opportunities or options they were doing
it because it was a way to make some
money and I wanted to I wanted to use
the power that I had to show everybody
else that there is a different way that
this can be done and so I created one of
the first in the nation re-entry
initiatives and I'll tell you John when
I created this reentry initiative it was
called back on track
there were DA's
say what are you doing you're supposed
to lock people up not let them this was
what year was this 2004 not a lot of
people talking about criminal justice no
no I mean thankfully we've come a very
far away in a relatively short period of
time but back then oh and then part of
the way that we designed the program it
was about getting people job skills
development and training and jobs and
people would say to me what are you
doing I haven't committed a crime and I
need a job why are you giving jobs to
them I mean these this was the mentality
right but I didn't have to ask
permission I was the DA I was elected I
could do what I wanted and if the voters
didn't like it they kicked me out and
apparently the voters liked it and I got
reelected but I had the ability to try
something and and also to use the
influence that I had as not only the the
leader of the office but also
understanding that I had the discretion
to be able to make those decisions and I
didn't have to convince somebody else
that that's the could I may I exercise
my discretion that way from your time as
da and then your time is
attorney-general
what are you most proud of from from
that record I'm very proud of the work
we did on reentry because we ended up
the work that we did at a relatively
small scale in the beginning ended up
being a model that was replicated in
offices around the country the United
States Department of Justice designated
back on track as a model of innovation
for law enforcement in the United States
so I'm very proud of that I'm very proud
of the work that we did when I was
Attorney General I created a whole new
division of the California Department of
Justice which is the second largest
Department of Justice second only to the
United States Department of Justice and
I named the division the bureau of
children's justice why well because
attorneys general and certainly the
Attorney General California which is a
state of 40 million people it's a very
powerful office and it represents a lot
of people there is the the piece of it
that is about law enforcement there is
also the piece of it where the Attorney
General was responsible for protecting
consumers so you'll remember in that
role I took on the five big banks of the
United States
around the foreclosure crisis and it was
a big battle but we ended up prevailing
so I created the bureau children's
justice because I said this we seem to
think that consumers are just people who
can engage in a financial transaction
and the assumption there that's an adult
somebody owes a credit card the ability
to enter into a contract but if you
think about it more broadly children are
consumers and children consume a lot of
goods and services and in particular
children and children who are children
of color children who are in
economically poor communities consume a
incredible amount of public goods and
services and I created this division of
the Department of Justice saying we need
to oversee and make sure the children
are getting the benefit of their bargain
so we looked at things like in school
districts are the children getting the
benefit of their bargain around
education we looked at consumer rights
issues because when I stood back as AG I
looked and there was no state department
that had the responsibility protecting
children in that way yeah
I'm so I'm proud of that I'm proud of
the work again that we did around the
foreclosure crisis we pushed through
with the help of organized labor with
the help of lots of activists and
housing activists the
first-in-the-nation home owner Bill of
Rights which we created pretty much with
our friends in the legislature out of
whole cloth saying that there should be
legally certain rights that homeowners
have in the in the process of
foreclosure because of course when they
are foreclosed upon they lose everything
that represents their dreams and their
hard work and we need to make sure
they're protected in that process and
not taking advantage of do you wish you
had brought been able to bring a civil
claim against Steve manukan I know
people have asked that yes and yes but
here we had a challenge which is that I
didn't have the power to subpoena the
federal as him as a CEO and so we change
that we actually changed the law so that
well we have a bill that's that seeks to
change the law in Washington
that was one of the first things that we
did so that a state attorney general
would have the tools to be able to
subpoena and and go after what we
believed but needed to prove was
wrongdoing so when you were DEA you
looked at high school dropout rates and
you started sort of a truancy program to
sort of reduce high school dropout rates
then when you were Attorney General you
supported you were champion of a 2011
law that was a truancy law sort of
modeled after your experiences DEA that
law you know made it a crime for parents
who let their kids miss school too many
days in a row as a result you know some
parents were arrested for that because
of that law a couple went to jail and
other jurisdictions had no control over
that well so I guess the question is
would you support that kind of law the
California law as president no I
wouldn't so what went wrong with that
versus what you did his dear absolutely
unintended consequences to be frank when
I was DEA we never sent a parent to jail
the whole point to your to your
introduction of the issue was that I
took a look at and did an analysis of
who our homicide victims were who were
under the age of 25 mmm and I learned
that over ninety percent were high
school dropouts yeah when I went to the
school district I learned that up to
forty percent of the chronically and
habitually truant students were
elementary school students missing 50 60
up to eighty days of 180 day school year
and when I look closer I realized that
the system was failing these kids not
putting the services in place to keep
them in school to make it easier for
their parents to do what those parents
naturally wanted to do around parenting
their children and so I put a spotlight
on it and as a result of doing that we
ended up increasing attendance by over
30% because we actually required the
system then to kick in and do the
services that they were required to do
and sometimes had available but they
weren't doing the outreach with these
parents and so that was the whole
purpose the purpose was understanding
the significance of third grade reading
if by the end of third grade a child is
not at third grade reading level they
literally drop off mm-hmm and so but and
why because before third grade they're
learning how to read
then comprehension kicks in and they're
reading to learn if they've not weren't
learned how to read they can't read to
learn and then they fail and my concern
was if we don't take seriously the need
that we as a society should have to
ensure that our children are receiving
the benefit of an education we will pay
the price later and those kids will pay
the price which is that they'll end up
in the criminal justice system and
that's what I wanted to avoid I wanted
to avoid a situation where those
children end up being criminalized Oh
some for their entire lifetime because
we failed them yeah in the earliest
stages and so part of the what we wanted
to do and what we did successfully when
I looked into this issue John I realized
that there was no distinction in the
education code between truancy meaning
three or four unexcused absences and
what we were seeing which is kids
missing as much as 80 days of 180 day
school year yeah so we changed the law
to say no we need to understand like you
know if you think of it as in phases you
know yellow light red light red light
situation is the chronic truancy and we
actually got it in the education code so
now it says chronic truancy 10% or more
of the school year missed because we had
to understand institutionally that this
was this is a red light warning and
we're failing these kids if we're not
paying attention to the fact that there
are kids who are chronically truant and
what that will mean for their lives or
the or just that our failure as a system
to let them achieve their capacity so do
you think that the 2011 law shouldn't
have a lot you know shouldn't have
allowed some of these days my regret is
that I have now heard stories that where
in some jurisdictions da's have
criminalized the parents and I regret
that that has happened and and that the
thought that anything that I did could
have led to that because that certainly
was not the intention never was the
intention never was the intention um so
you said that when it comes to
electability voters are gonna want a
candidate who has the proven ability to
prosecute a case against the president I
would ask you to case against the
policies of them right right yeah I'm
sorry I know some people took that out
of cotton you were out there gonna
prosecute the president but what does
that case sound like coming from you I
remember I was on the Kerry campaign in
2004 and one of our problems was there's
like a million targets that George Bush
gives you right you know he's
incompetent he's extreme he said what to
you is the case that you want to make
against Donald Trump if you get up there
on that stage next to him well it's it's
first of all to successfully prosecute a
case you need to collect the evidence
and there's a lot of evidence right
there is the evidence that that he has
he has created policies that are
absolutely against the principles and
the values of who we say we are as
Americans and so for example the policy
that's about separating children from
their parents at the border in the name
of border security when in fact it's a
human rights abuse being committed by
the United States government you can
look at a number of things that relate
to immigration actually in turn on that
point including what he did with the
dakka dakka was was created by our
former president understanding that
children who were brought here so many
before they could walk or talk who have
been proven to live a productive life
there in our colleges and militaries
working in fortune 500 companies that
they should be given if they can clear a
vet if they're not committing crimes
they should be given protection from
deportation we put a policy in place and
when we told these kids that you have to
qualify for this protection and give us
information we also told them if you
give us this information we will not use
it against you for the purposes of
deportation this guy comes in and breaks
America's promise to these kids right
you can look at the playing politics
with trade and and and in conducting
trade policy by tweet and and the
evidence is clear about how that has
hurt
American workers do be it farmers or
folks in industries and the the way that
this president has conducted himself
with this unilateral approach to policy
as it relates in particular to issues
like trade and foreign affairs and
national security and what invariably
that will mean in terms of real peril to
us as a nation in terms of not only our
standing but our security there is
plenty of evidence to prosecute the case
against the policies of this president
and to show him ill-equipped to lead
this nation ill-equipped to be the
commander-in-chief and that he needs to
go um you mentioned immigration you've
been a fierce advocate for immigration
for a long time when you were in
California Attorney General and DA as
well what do you think about hooli and
Castro's proposal to decriminalize
illegal entry so it would go back to
being a civil infraction obviously if
you don't have your papers you could
still go through a deportation hearing
you could be deported but by not
criminalizing it you wouldn't have these
long detentions anymore I'm not familiar
with his proposal I'll take a look at it
but as a general matter I'll tell you
what I've said for years which is being
an undocumented immigrant is not a crime
you know I mean the the the the idea
that people are suggesting that it's it
is a violation of rules there's not
that's that's not the point though the
way it has been characterized as to
suggest that undocumented immigrants are
criminals which has led them to this
president being able to then suggest
that they're murderers and rapists and
so as a as a former prosecutor I will
say that this is an absolute
mischaracterization of the issue in a
way that is deceptive and in a way that
is dishonest and I support anything that
is about characterizing it in its proper
form and its proper form is to recognize
that when people are fleeing harm when
they are asylum seekers when they are
coming
here for opportunity like all the
immigrants before them we should not
call them criminals we should and if
we're gonna be true leaders put a path
in place to let them gain citizenship
which of course that does not exist
right now and that's part of the case
against this president there is a
bipartisan bill that if passed and if he
would indicate that he'd sign it would
create a path towards citizenship for
the 11 million plus people who are here
but there's been a failure and an
absence of leadership on this and you
know why part of my my theory of this is
because this president and this
administration needs a villain they want
a scapegoat that's what they have done
on this issue because of their failure
to have a plan for the future of our
country and that relates to a number of
things the future of work that relates
to the kind of displacement that we're
seeing around the country
because of economic issues but what do
they do they want to create a scapegoat
in immigrants and then they pass a tax
bill that is designed and it has the
effect of benefiting the top one percent
and the biggest corporations of our
country
it's an abject failure of leadership and
they're playing smoke-and-mirrors and I
would suggest to you that the American
public is smarter than that would you
would you go back to the immigration
enforcement policies of the Obama
administration or do you think we need
something different because obviously
yeah they you know those have been
criticized as well well I mean you'll
remember that I there were very few in
very rare instances where I disagreed
with that administration this was one of
them no secure communities was a failure
I studied it and it became clear to me
that the policy was leading to ice
picking up people by ices own definition
who were non criminals like by ices
definition they were not criminals right
and being picked up under the
policy and I was opposed to it in fact
as Attorney General I then issued a
statement to all of the sheriffs in the
state of California saying you do not
have to honor those detainer requests
because they are requests not mandated
and so I would urge you to look at what
is being asked of you and make decisions
based on what is truly in theirs just of
Public Safety and and I will also say
this about that policy and how I feel
generally about these this issue yeah
and again as a former prosecutor I want
that the rape victim that the victim of
you know horrible crime will be able
without any hesitancy to run in the
middle of the street and wave down the
patrol officer instead of having a
policy which is what is the natural
extension of these kinds of approaches
having a policy which makes local law
enforcement do the work of immigration
enforcement which means that that victim
will not report that crime against her
because bottom line no matter what bad
thing happened to her she's also got
babies at home and her natural instinct
will be to endure any kind of abuse
versus letting her children suffer yeah
and these are the real consequences of
those kinds of policies which is why I
disagreed with the administration before
on that with your communities what does
ice look like under a common law Harris
presidency and what sort of direction do
you give to your DHS secretary because I
know it seems like eventually in the
Obama administration by the end we got
there but part of it was you know you
have this agency that sort of drags its
feet the bureaucracy drags its feet and
it's sort of tough to change this
enforcement to your point and I serve on
the Senate Homeland Security Committee
and I have been I'm sure they would
describe relentless in addressing the
failures and the dysfunction of that
agency it has actually been found by an
an audit of sorts to be the most
dysfunctional of all federal agents
of its size it is a massive need of
reform and it's about its bureaucracy
it's about failure to Train
it's about failure to to be clear about
policy and enforcement of rules and and
so under a Harris administration there's
gonna be a lot of cleaning up under
Harris administration issues like asylum
for example we are gonna honor the
process and not try to circumvent the
process and expedite the process for the
sake of some political goal as opposed
to the sake of justice and fairness and
what is right under Harris
administration we will reinstate daca
until Congress can get its act together
and pass comprehensive immigration
reform under a Harris administration we
will not have local law enforcement do
the work of federal immigration
officials because local law enforcement
needs to deal with their own priorities
and issues and under a Harris
administration the President of the
United States will not use her bully
pulpit in a way that is designed to
vilify and scapegoat as opposed to
elevate public discourse and and and
reflect the true values of who we are as
a country you've talked about that your
first legislative priority as president
is the lift Act which is piece of
legislation that you've introduced in
the Senate it's basically a two trillion
dollar middle-class tax cut it would
provide I believe up to $3,000 for
individuals $6,000 for families per year
will make under a hundred thousand
dollars a year and for the individual
Alexander fifty right okay um what made
you decide that that should be the the
top legislative priority obviously
there's a lot of ambitious policies you
proposed Medicare for all green New Deal
new Voting Rights Act what made you
think that I'm supporting all of those
but I will tell you that this is my
priority at among priorities but but a
first priority because it's clear in our
country right now almost half of
American families are a four hundred
dollar unexpected expense away from
complete upheaval yeah $400
that could be the car breaks down that
could be a hospital bill you didn't see
coming in America today in 99% of the
counties in our country if you are a
minimum-wage worker working full time
you cannot afford the market rate for a
one-bedroom apartment in America last
year 12 million people borrowed on
average four hundred dollars from the
payday lender at an interest rate of
often in excess of 300% America's
economy is not working for working
people and so my first priority and and
that is why I am I as president would
put this in place the lift Act is about
lifting up middle-class working families
so that and it's it is really a simple
concept the tax credit of up to six
thousand dollars a year that they can
collect at up to five hundred dollars a
month which will make all the difference
between those families literally being
able to get through the end of the month
or not it's it's pretty simple and
straightforward economists have
described it as what will be the most
significant middle-class tax cut we've
had in generations in large part because
it as it has been proven would lift up
one and two American families two and
three American children and one in seven
Pell Grant recipients because remember
and I'll tell you why it's one in seven
Pell Grant recipients statistically one
in seven Pell Grant recipients do not
they're they're not living with their
parents right so it's those kids who are
making it on their own without any
parental support this would lift them up
as well that's great um on health care
there's a Kaiser poll a couple months
ago it says you know fifty six percent
of Americans would support Medicare for
all that number drops to thirty seven
percent when they hear that you know it
means the elimination of private health
insurance you're a supporter of Bernie
Sanders single-payer medicare-for-all
bill you've also talked about the need
to just get rid of private insurance do
those poll numbers scare you out are
they concerned you or do you think
Democrats can make the argument that we
should eliminate private insurance that
we'd be better off that way so I do want
to correct the record
I'm not saying we need to get rid of
private insurance I don't believe we
need to get rid of private insurance and
and if you look at it it's that for
example under Medicare currently under
the current Medicare system private
insurance is still their medicare
advantage you can get supplemental
health care through private insurance so
that's not my vision that that we would
get rid of private insurance that being
said I believe that the bottom line and
anything we can do to deal with this is
is something we should consider is that
health care in America is too expensive
so we have to cut costs and we have to
have greater quality of care and that
means a number of things including that
people have access to comprehensive
hosts of whatever they need to actually
be healthy or to relieve their pain so
Medicare for all is certainly a goal
because it can achieve that but my
vision of Medicare for all includes that
in Medicare for all everyone would be in
the system and that it would include
Vision Care that it would include dental
care that it would include hearing aids
that it would include maternal health
means that it would include early
childhood development issues that it
would include a heavy emphasis on real
resources for mental health that is my
vision of what Medicare for all it can
be should be and that's the goal so all
the issues I mentioned lift act Medicare
for all immigration reform obviously
require legislature to pass Congress
yeah do you have any hope for
bipartisanship if you're president in
2021 like do you do you think they're
obviously served in the Senate do you
think there are any Republicans in
Congress who would support any of those
Medicare for all green new deal would be
there for that so let me just first tell
you I fully intend to win this election
and then looking forward on your point
about Congress part of how I think about
the what is at stake right now is you
know a lot of people talk about the
current occupant of the White House and
he shouldn't be there we've got to get
rid of him
that's a given
beyond that we really better be focused
on the fact that even if the election in
November of 2016 had turned out
differently we would still be a nation
in flux we would still be a world in
flux
we have ascending and descending
economies around the world shifting
populations in large part because of
climate the climate crisis we have so we
are in the midst of an industrial and
digital revolution so the question
before us will be after November of 2020
what will America standing be in the
midst of all of this flux and part of
the concern that I have is this for the
last couple of years we've been staring
at our belly button while the world is
passing us by and part of the failure of
leadership is that we've not been
addressing core issues that must be
dealt with and it is making us weaker
Congress is not acting on so many
important issues I've got a bipartisan
bill with James Lankford from Oklahoma
because he and I for two years were the
only two United States senators who were
both on Homeland Security Committee and
the Senate Intelligence community
committee so we were in a unique
position to receive a lot of information
that demanded what we did which is to
create a priority around improving the
security of elections and the bill
essentially would upgrade the state's
election systems do you know they won't
put it on the floor for a vote it's a
bipartisan bill they won't put it on the
floor for a vote so this is about
critical infrastructure our elections
not putting on them you look at it in
terms of the issues of infrastructure
period yeah where are we puttin that on
we're not dealing with with climate the
climate crisis at all we are not dealing
with issues like immigration at all and
nobody else is going to come into our
country and fix our problems and in the
midst of us failing to address our
problems
others are growing and are
moving into the places where we have
left a space and a vacuum and so this is
a long way of saying this on day one
part of my approach the metaphorical day
one part of my approach would be to
bring Congress together and say guys we
gotta fix some things because we are
becoming weak as a country yeah because
of our failure to come together and
solve some critical issues and problems
so I mean I remember in the 2012
election Obama used to say if I win this
one the fever will break and maybe these
Republicans will start working that
didn't obviously happen and then it
seems like the party's only become more
radicalized under Donald Trump how do
you pass this very urgent necessary
ambitious agenda if the Republican Party
Mitch McConnell in the Senate treats you
like they treated down Barack Obama well
let me just say that as an aside the
really important point everybody's focus
on the presidential I know I know but
just like in 1801 Senate that's exactly
right and in 18 when we said take back
the house and that became the mantra and
that became the the slogan and the cry
and the call and the song yeah 2020 I
take back the White House and got to
take back the Senate yeah because that
is a very specific thing that must
happen in order for us to get at least
in a in a faster way to where we need to
go in terms of breaking the gridlock but
I'll also say this I I think it is a
mistake to for on the politics of 2020
to put too much emphasis on 2016 because
I think that this is a very different
time than 2016 and I think 2018 tells us
that I would also suggest that it is
different because we are seeing the
emergence of these countries that are
are not aligned with us in terms of our
values we are seeing the kind of growth
around the world of those who will fill
the vacuum that we
and on the issue of for example climate
and the climate crisis we are seeing
each year's shoot every shoot every day
yeah
the urgency growing and growing and
growing on that issue so I would suggest
that in 2020 there will be it will be
much more apparent than it's been before
not that it hasn't been before but more
apparent I think than before that that
we are facing critical moments that must
be addressed
would you consider eliminating or urging
the Senate to get rid of the filibuster
if if say if we win the Senate in 2020
we're still only going to have 50 150 to
static senators at best you're the
Democratic president you got a green new
deal on the agenda you got Medicare for
all the lift Act seems like you could
maybe pass through reconciliation so
maybe you only do need 51 votes for that
but what do you would you know what's
what's more important I guess the
institutions in the Senate and keeping
the filibuster or I just got to get some
stuff done so I am open to the
discussion but I would suggest that in
addition to the concern about keeping
the tradition of the institution there
is a practical concern that I have which
is were it not in place they probably
would have run roughshod over Planned
Parenthood and all that we need around
women's access to reproductive health
and choice were it in place this this
approach that is being advocated we
probably would have lost the Affordable
Care Act so I those are my concerns
while recognizing fully recognizing what
what the obstacles that filibuster also
presents right so Trump famously picked
his Supreme Court judges from a list of
25 nominees that a bunch of right-wing
groups put together um would you
consider putting together a list of
potential Supreme Court justices how do
you think about you know what a Supreme
Court justice should be have you thought
about any potential great Supreme Court
justices that we should have on the
bench
well I I will say this about the Supreme
Court of the United States it is it is
one of the most important symbols of our
commitment or lack of commitment to the
concept of justice hmm you know
inscribed on that marble equal justice
under law that we have said and it is
our is our ideal right it you know we
and we have many ideals many important
ideals and and part of our strength is
that we fight to reach them part of our
strength is also we're clear-eyed and
realizing we haven't yet reached them
yeah but it it is such an important
institution for so many reasons that are
practical and also a statement about who
we are in terms of our democracy and our
strength as a democracy and then by
extension our strength around the world
because we are a democracy okay so I'll
say that that's one way that I think of
the United States Supreme Court an
additional way that I think about the
United States Supreme Court is this had
that court not decided Brown be Board of
Education I would literally not be in
this interview with you and there are so
many other issues I was proud as the
Attorney General of California to refuse
to defend what I believe was clearly an
unconstitutional law which would which
denied same-sex couples the ability to
marry right had we not pushed that case
the in the direction that it went that
the United States Supreme Court would
not have ruled so that wedding bells
then rang around the country thankfully
right so the decisions made by the
United States Supreme Court have real
impact on real human beings everyday and
for that reason we must all have a sense
of urgency about who is the president
United States and who was appointed to
the United States Supreme Court that
being said I will remind you it was Earl
Warren former attorney general of
California actually mm-hmm
who was a Republican nominee to the
United States Supreme Court who led then
a United a unanimous United States
Supreme Court
to decide brown v board of education
another one of my heroes and one of the
reasons I actually wanted to be a lawyer
as a child is Thurgood Marshall who was
a great civil rights activist what never
been a judge and was appointed to the
United States Supreme Court so you can
look at the history of some of the most
noble and important decisions that have
been made by that court and then look at
who was on the bench at that time and
you'll see in a whole assortment of
people who each even if dependent you
know regardless of their party at least
in these two examples we're committed to
what's inscribed on that wall to making
sure that justice and equal justice
under law came out of that building so I
don't necessarily I don't have a list
that Senator Harris but what would be
important to me is that that I think
it's really critically important that
people who serve on the United States
Supreme Court have a diversity and a
variety of life experiences I really
strongly believe that because again back
to the earlier point the decisions that
court makes has real and direct impact
on real human beings and we want to know
that when the decision is made on high
and what could otherwise feel like an
ivory tower right we want to make sure
that the people making those decisions
understand how that's going to hit the
streets and what it's gonna mean so
that's one of the I think an important
quality um quick foreign policy
questions Bibi Netanyahu just won
re-election one of his promises right
before the election was he said he might
annex West Bank settlements if you're
president Netanyahu decides to annex
West Bank settlements what do you do
well I'm completely opposed to a
unilateral decision to annex and and and
my but I would express that opposition
how do you how do you see
of your support for Israel Ajay no
you're you know strong supporter of
Israel with the policy is under
Netanyahu the direction he's taken that
politics like what what what can you do
as president
yeah to show that yes we support Israel
but I'm unhappy with the direction that
yeah sure
so you know let me be clear I support
the people of Israel and I'm then that
I'm on ambiguous about that right
supporting the people of Israel does not
mean it should not be translated to
supporting whoever happens to be in the
elected office at that moment yeah and
so my support of Israel is is strong and
it is sincere there is also no question
that we must speak out when human rights
abuses occur we must work with our
friend which is Israel to to do those
things that we collectively know are in
the best interest of human rights and
and and democracy because it is that
shared commitment to democracy that from
from which the relationship was born and
so we have to hold on to that right
right I also believe that there is no
question and a Harris administration
would be very forceful and working
toward a two-state solution there has to
happen and what kind of diplomatic
pressure could you exert on Israel to
make sure that that happens which at
least push them towards that direction
well there are a number of things I mean
it but it has to be about opening a
channel of communication that is that is
honest and not informed by a lack of
information or a lack of historical
perspective or a lack of concern and I
think that all of those are concerns
that we should have about the current
administration Venezuela would you take
the military option off the table at
this point yes I don't believe that we
should i I do not believe that we should
take military action at this point what
drives you crazy it's about the
party what do we get wrong and what
should we be doing better a couple of
things I think we could do a much better
job because you said the party yeah so
I'm not talking about Democrats no no
party all of us right and so I will say
two things one I and this is not about a
statement if it was currently leading
the party just a general statement about
where we've been sure we could do a much
better job reinforcing the states and
their Democratic parties I you know
there are certain states that through
the strength of the leadership in those
states and kind of the what however
their their system has been in place and
has been fortified especially in those
off-cycle years they're very strong
there are others that have atrophied and
at a national level we should be paying
attention to that and also should agree
that we can't just helicopter in the
states at the time of the big election
that is the fancy election that
everybody's talking about and then we
pull out right after you can't win and
and and also because look everything
that has it happens at the national
level you just go back and do the math
and you can see a connection to what
happened at the state level both in
terms of issues like redistricting but
in terms of who is Secretary of State
and one who was elected Attorney General
and what that meant in terms of what was
the Affordable Care Act gonna be
challenged or not
who is gonna conduct the the voting and
and conduct the elections of that state
and what that means you know in terms of
national implications so that would be
one the second would be I think it's
really a mistake to fall into a trap
that started I think it'll eat maybe
predated it but November right after the
morning after November of 2016 which is
a conversation that I've heard many
times
which suggests hey we gotta go get back
that guy in the Midwest which is code
and the conversation happening one part
of why I have a problem with it is so if
that if what that's supposed to be
referring to is blue collar working guy
we've always been the party that has
been the fighter and the protector of
working people of organized labor of of
all that that they deserve in terms of
the dignity of work in terms of
receiving wages and benefits
commensurate with the value that they
that they produce so a concern I have is
that yet again it's but it's you know
started or it was active this
conversation in the autopsy of November
of 2016 and it has continued to today
who can talk to the Midwest right really
okay so you're are you suggesting then
that there's a different conversation
that happens in coastal states are you
suggesting there's a different
conversation that happens in the south
like what exactly are you saying when
you say that well how do you how do you
think about the voter who voted for
Barack Obama in either eight or twelve
voted for Donald Trump and 16 and then
in a bunch of districts decided to vote
for the Democratic candidate in 18 I
mean we we did win some of those voters
back how do you think about that vote or
what motivates that person how you
should talk to that person well I'll
tell you that I first come from a place
of deep deeply held belief that the vast
majority of us have so much more in
common than what separates us and the
way I think about it is what I call the
middle of the night thought the 3:00 in
the morning thought the the witching
hour you know when people wake up in the
middle of the night that thing that's
been weighing on you right well for the
vast majority of us when we wake up
thinking that thought it is never
through the lens of the party with which
were registered to vote that's true but
the vast majority of us when we wake up
thinking that thought it is never
through the lens of some simplistic
demographic a pollster puts us in yeah
and for the vast majority of us when we
wake up thinking that thought it usually
has to do with one of just a very few
things our personal health both of our
children or our parents for so many
Americans can I get a job keep a job pay
the bills by the end of the month retire
with dignity for our students can I pay
off those student loans for so many
Americans can I help my family member
get off their opioid addiction the vast
majority of us have so much more in
common than what separates us and I'm
going to tell you as I'm traveling
around the country as a candidate for
president that is reinforced to me
everyday and so I think that's how we
talk about it or at least that's the
spirit with which we think about issues
that black or latina mom and that guy in
the Midwest you know that metaphor know
they're waking up in the middle of the
night having the same thoughts so back
to your question about Democratic Party
it'd be a huge mistake for us to fall
into a trap of denying the commonality
of experiences and I and I do want to
add though that I also believe and I
gave a speech at Netroots nation about
this that we also cannot fall in the
trap of this stuff that centers around
this term identity politics right so
let's talk about that for a minute
yeah from my perspective the term
identity politics is the new word it's
the newest version of the that phrase
race card so people will talk about oh
we can't talk about identity politics
right and so when they bring that up
it's meant to either marginalize the
topic of discussion or just shut you up
or quiet you down so here's how I feel
about it
when it's brought up identity politics
it's usually when we're talking about
race gender sexual orientation so here's
how I think about that where America
stands on those issues which often are
about civil rights where America stands
on those issues is about America's
identity
so don't come at me and Democratic Party
don't fall into a trap of Sano we can't
talk about identity politics what where
America stands on those issues is about
America's identity hmm Bernie Sanders
just did a Fox News townhall it's been
reported that now mayor Peter judge
isn't talks with him to do one as well
would you consider doing a Fox townhall
that's something that what do you think
about that audience like trying to reach
that audience you think that's a that's
okay
I plan to compete for every vote and I
as far as I'm concerned every vote is on
the table and I'm not excluding anyone
in terms of trying to earn their vote
and compete for their vote so you know
the audience is that's how I feel about
the audience you know and then but we
could talk I think there's a whole other
conversation to be had about how Fox
News does their work and and and the
bias with which they do it yeah for sure
yeah you did a really fascinating
passage in your announcement speech you
said some say we need to search to find
that common ground I say we need to
recognize that we are already standing
on common ground and then you said I'm
not talking about unity for the sake of
unity and I believe we must acknowledge
that the word unity has often been used
to shut people up or preserve the status
quo what do you mean by that and yeah I
mean anyone in specific no I wasn't
referring anyway I mean this is this is
you could just different moments in
history but the idea being that it's the
same point I guess I was partly making
about the identity policies which is
unity for the sake of unity meaning that
in order for us to be unified certain
people have to suppress their issues or
suppress any issue no yeah no you know
it you know kind of like hey everyone
has to get along so stop mentioning that
thing that is an issue in a certain
community because we all need to get
along and be unified no then that's not
truly unity true unity is when everyone
has equal voice when when the issues
that that that impact people are treated
with equal respect
and priority yeah um you've experienced
a lot of firsts in your career historic
first first San Francisco da who was
female who was black who was
asian-american first California Attorney
General who was female who was black who
was asian-american as you think about
the historic first that could come back
and black woman to be United States
Senate in the history of the United
States yes and then if you become
president first black woman first woman
first black woman president United
States
how do those weigh on you those first
thinking about those third four or do
that so every time I've been elected
these reporters would come up to me put
a microphone in front of me and ask this
really original question so what's it
like to be the first fill in the blank
to which I would respond well I don't
really know how to answer that question
because I've always been a woman but I'm
sure a man could do the job just as well
good answer and you know or people will
say okay because you've been the first
woman this woman that woman want to do
these things talk to us about women's
issues to which I will respond you know
I am so glad you want to talk about the
economy or sometimes I'll say I'm so
glad you want to talk about national
security right like what those are these
are all women's issues and women's
issues should be everyone's issues that
being said I do also fully understand
and carry as a real weight of
responsibility understanding what it
means in terms of my ability to break
these barriers what it will do and can
do to provide a path for others my
mother you said many things and one of
them
she'd say calmly you may be the first to
do many things make sure you're not the
last and I carry that with me as a great
responsibility I'm you know some might
even say a great weight of
responsibility I take it very seriously
you're fantastic cook yes I love to cook
when you don't get to cook because
you're on the trail too much what's your
favorite junk food well
wait okay well I my whole guilty
pleasure passion is nacho Doritos but I
heard you 800 by myself
on election night but get ready handle
and then I my second favorite is cheese
popcorn like any white cheddar cheese
popcorn
I'd like crazy from Chicago I love but I
don't like it mixed with the caramel
yeah no I and then I pick them out and
but you know like there's a Garrett's
like they opened a pop-up International
Airport oh the International yeah and I
was trying to talk to the guy about can
you just give me the cheese but that
being said I do love to cook I love love
love to cook and and you know what I've
started doing
when so on the road I've asked the team
that when we do get to eat anywhere I
would really prefer that it be a
family-owned run that's not a restaurant
and and so that's what we've been doing
as much as we can and I'm collecting
recipes from all the family place in
Reno Nevada
Sabrina's and I and so we walk and we're
and it's and it was like small she's got
small kitchen it's a small restaurant
she comes out to greet us and we're
sitting down and we all ordered I had
these incredible enchiladas and she's
got this cilantro coconut rice on the
side to die for see I'm one of those
weird cilantro people oh you are okay
you're not going to appreciate it but
okay but it's so good it's so good and I
was like can I get the recipe and she
looked at me she was like nope okay no
wait and then we stayed and we stay and
then we hung out we hung out for a
minute the whole team we were all having
lunch together and then finally as
relieving she walked up to me and
whispered the recipe in my ear and I
cooked it that is damn good one voter at
a time right there so I'm collecting
recipes so then for example Rodney Scott
in South Carolina so you know South
Carolina there's a whole thing about
barb oh I know but
one region vinegar-based another reason
mustard-based another reason a region
tomato base and do not know you can
confuse which region does what because
they will throw you out and so Rodney
Scott is this guy who it was his
family's barbecue place he inherited it
he'd got a James Beard nomination
oh wow and so we went and hung out there
and I tried to give his recipe for the
barbecue sauce he didn't give it to me
but I'm going back back but in like the
best greens you've ever had so right
Komal Harris thank you so much for
joining us good luck out there
you
