it's time for okay stop roll the clip
the panel can say okay stop at any point
to comment CPAC that special time that
special time of year where Candice Owens
bashing Gorka and a bunch of people with
20,000 Twitter followers who are one
drink away from saying maybe Jews are
lizards get together maybe that's it'll
say maybe they get together and they
saying we are the world but about AOC
banning cows anyway president Donald
Trump who somehow is the real president
showed up on Saturday to get in on the
fun let's roll the clip
Robert baller never received a vote and
neither did the person that appointed
him and as you know the Attorney General
says I'm gonna recuse myself okay stop
he's doing characters now he did a Jeff
Sessions and what's great is there were
stories that reported that behind the
scenes he did that country lawyer
impression and a lot of her like oh this
is the reduce is another ridiculous
story in the fake news New York Times
and there is it sees CPAC and you know
all I want to do now is do it to shut up
I don't shut up
well I don't know I can't
I guess gays are people that's that
that's what I have it's terrible and I
said why the hell didn't he tell me that
before I put him in how do you reduce
yourself the guy named David Weigel 10
years of all the people I thought Trump
would make famous like the nerdy dude
from the Washington Post he took a
picture of an auditorium that had like
it was like middle of the day and he was
like not a whole big crowd and then the
President or the unite it was
during the present because it was a
present the United States asked
the Washington Post to fire him that's
right and it's now maybe two years later
and he's still on it and they're saying
about there was something about seeing
him say Dave why bawl out loud like like
I don't know why but I felt such a
kinship with Dave why go in that moment
like it felt like it was like saying a
siblings name it was like like it's like
so oddly personal like to mention just
to mention Dave wykel a guy that we all
know yeah Dave we almost went to a
Beatles concert in and that will Ringo
concert in Vegas last year what I'm
sorry the kinship it's a real thing
didn't get that email listen he said
almost
I guess you're better friends with him
than we asked I mean he likes prog rock
he has a mustache he gets confused for
it El Chapo from the dprk parody Twitter
account the President of the United
States has been carrying a little grudge
for an for a Washington Post reporter
for an Aaron tweet from early 2017
summary 'no no listen to this he wrote
an article he got there four hours early
he took pictures of an empty arena he
then put out a note something to the
effect not very good crowd charge mr.
president
this is also specific and he's acting
like it's not affecting him
he's like I don't know if you heard of
this guy Dave waggle he wrote this like
thing I don't know what it said it said
this it said he was there like super
early to like it was like specifically
like four hours early like if you look
at the timestamp on the tweet that I
remember word-for-word he's a
loser like what is going on this is a
man who was thought about this every day
of his life since it happened and I
don't know the last thing I tweeted
don't look it up and I never saw it
because I don't follow the guys
[Laughter]
I don't even know how it came up
[Music]
