now it's time for a game called okay
stop we'll roll a clip and the panel can
say okay stop at any point to comment
earlier this week Eric Trump appeared on
Hannity for the latest edition of for
the the latest rendition of which
Trump's son can get the most attention
from Father by appearing on Fox News
Eric shared his thoughts on the radical
left agenda let's take a look
Democratic primary quickly turning into
a contest who can be the most radical
here with reaction from the Trump
Organization chilled me to the core
those eyes are dead and I just think
that's what you're starting with nothing
after can be good go ahead so we played
you can't have the choice of healthcare
we're gonna stop drilling natural gas
all our resources all the jobs with it
the lifeblood of our economy and I'm
listening and I'm saying this is great
for your father it doesn't make any
sense I mean the Democrats are not the
party of JFK they've become so
radicalized they want bankrupt the
system stop okay stop what was that word
rocco boca lies we'd be some some
article eyes i am done with marble mouth
white men on TV seriously black people
in this country have to speak two
different languages basically and these
 can get on TV mangling the
one they learned free health care for
all how do you pay for this stuff i mean
we would become venezuela we become so
many of these other countries it doesn't
it doesn't work this i want them okay
stop look give people health care is not
what America is all about
alright America's about this this guy
running a fake business for his father
who got the money from his father who
got the money
from stealing it from black people
that's the story of America story of
America is a guy named Fred Trump
bilking poor black people taking that
money giving it to his son interest free
that son using tax breaks from the city
that his father got from corruption
using that money I
connections to the mob to build an
empire of shitty buildings and then when
you up that business use reality TV
to create a fake image of yourself as a
business hero then use that tube use the
name to put it on buildings you don't
own and then from that convince the
Republican Party to make you the nominee
and from that become president while
secretly pursuing deals from Russia and
from that your son gets on Hannity
that's the American dream
I mean America's about hard-working
people America is about capitalism
America is the greatest country in the
world because you know people work for
that American Dream and it seems like
Warren wants another bite at the Apple
after you paid all your taxes I mean
it's it's it's it's insane and they
become the the party of obstruction and
nonsense and investigations because
stuff I think it's only fair that we let
congressman Schiff respond because I
feel this is quite personal well first
of all I was just gonna say stop because
it's too painful to watch that guy no
matter what he says then you add Hannity
Mixon it's just like slow torture I mean
this is sort of the television
equivalent of waterboarding but but for
for that guy to be talking about
obstruction and stonewalling you know we
live through two years of the Republican
Congress stonewalling any kind of
oversight trey Gowdy you might recall as
benghazi trey the guy that brought us
the endless Benguet well by the way he's
gonna be a new Fox contributor there's a
surprise but in his entire tenure as the
chairman of the Oversight Committee he
issued only a single subpoena and that
was when he had one foot out the door
about two weeks before the end of the
session so they obstructed everything in
terms of meaningful oversight and
watching this guy lecture about that is
is more than anyone should have through
a door I think you're I think you're
right but you know in fairness to him
he's not doing this to make an argument
he's doing this because he came from a
household in which his father could not
express or really
variants genuine love and so this is a
means of trying to get that love either
from his father or from other strangers
I'm feeling really really guilty now
about what I just said
no I yeah I think we should all think
about how we've been treating Eric Trump
I've known your dad for over a couple of
that's the greatest guy in the world I
just I just want to close but that would
by saying that to me Hannity looks like
you know the movie inside out is that
what it was with the with a little
little inside him yeah to me he's what
happens if anger one day went in and
just killed the other emotions and then
just was at the board
