this is a holiday mailbag episode we're
doing this again again again because you
all had so many questions we just had to
do it warm again mm-hmm our first one is
from Boosh wonnered I believe him I want
that newsletter I bet there is one be
careful what you wish for
it's Megan calories new venture what
something has been kept can it ever get
taken out if you will what would it need
to do to be taken out of storage what is
this a riddle okay I need you first of
all when we say keep it to something it
doesn't actually get locked away in a
storage like where there is a an
interesting difference here we should
make which is between keeping something
and canceling something yeah we really
typically reserve canceling for like
monsters I mean so I would say most of
the time things are brought out of
storage necessarily because we don't
know how to dispose of listen there
was a time I didn't I would never have
said I might have said keep it to her
like years ago when she was doing all of
those unnecessary Nicki Minaj collabs
that there was a time I was not ariana
grande fan right I feel strongly about
her didn't really care about the music
and look at me now so wearing your
rabbit ears exactly you can't see it
it's as long as I am tall and and I've
come back from it so I feel like you can
you can reverse a keep it I mean I'm
sure we've said keep it to Justin
Timberlake many a time and and money
many more to come sweetie
I was out somewhere and I heard rock
your body and Ed oh I was listening to
future sex love sounds I was like damn
that was good Timlin and thanks for
Ralph or rock your body yeah I think
that's maybe the issue on man in the
woods
who'da justin terminally work with not
two of the most prolific producers to
ever make Unabomber that's right yeah
who else was a wooden shack and Leo in
the revenant that's right yes of course
um also okay can I say something about
rock your body for okay the year that
song came out until I was corrected by
multiple friends okay when he says I may
have you naked by the end of the song I
thought he said I'm gonna dip your naked
body into this sauce what is in your
brain I have I'm gonna dip you naked in
this what did you think he said to jet
it at the Super Ball something like that
I always forget that he wrote that
McDonald's jingle yeah I love it
he's like responsible for a cultural
moment he's like secretly done during
that's the money that bought Jessica
Biel's failed restaurant it's God I know
you know I I'm glad to have been on the
front lines and when I reviewed it I
brought my friend Goldie he was three at
the time she was like three or four
Goldie seemed to enjoy it but I do
remember we ordered a club sandwich with
so the club sandwich right is like 20
bucks and then we added caviar on top
was an option because we were expensing
it and then it was like a 55 dollar
sandwich let me tell you club sandwiches
do not need caviar with like the bacon
and stuff on it - yeah oh they popped it
on top and so then you had to kind of
like scrape it off and out it wasn't
oh that to say not surprised it's gone
seems like a poorly put together caviar
sandwich - right Oh pay $25 just for us
to throw this on the bread anyway
Yvette she would like to know if you
have to listen to only one Christmas
song for the rest of your life what
would it be all I want for Christmas is
you yeah I feel like that's the answer
also I feel like we're heading towards
that as a society like it's just going
to be that song for the rest of time the
Lambs are gonna take out every other
song right you think the Lambs will gain
and strength as the years go on yeah
okay paola right this is technically you
can argue it's not a Christmas song but
it's in name right we need a little
Christmas I love that song cool can I
can I also say I went down a deep all I
want for Christmas is you rabbit-hole
like a week
and learn that Mariah Carey the genius
the goat wrote that song with one other
person oh yeah because she she often
does not get the credit she deserves
where she actually writes most of her
songs and like her hits and she there
was an estimate that she has made guess
how much money she's made from that song
just that because it's like number one
every year I would say it's like thirty
million dollars maybe like over three
billion close sixty million dollars from
that one song and it's never gonna die
and it's never gonna die that is how you
do it listen she is the queen as I was
saying with um Emenike when we talked on
the show like she doesn't have anything
to prove to these girls she had people
physically leaving their home to buy
albums right right now people are just
like I want to listen to you know this
Camila Cabello song let me just stream
it from my back I had to get my mom to
drive me to Target to get that glitter
soundtrack oh sure yeah it was that took
some work I owned rainbow that was the
first one I bought by her but I had a
cousin the only person of color I knew
my entire life until I was 18 she had
all of Mariah Carey's albums and she
taught me to like her where did you live
the suburbs of Chicago are Poland took
over let's just say it I've heard of
them white flight yes let's do it let's
do another question this is from Jenny
Jenny says I am a fan from Nicaragua and
I wanted to ask what is your favorite
show that was ultimately cancelled
mine was Pushing Daisies what's up
Nicaragua I don't know what Nicaraguan
act what was yours care I don't know I
don't know if this is a favorite but
this is maybe this is one in recent
memory there was a show I think it was
on TBS called sirens that was actually
like a really good comedy is about EMT
worker
and it was really funny and it was like
pretty they were in Chicago the part
with black people but I don't know it
was just like a it was one of those just
like well-written enjoyable comedies
that I could put on but it was like TBS
and they're weird and so it was canceled
gotcha
um so for me I was a happy endings
person for a while
I enjoyed that show I had to be
convinced for a while because it was in
the wake of 30 rock and I was still
mourning that but it really did pick up
the pieces nicely and I think I got a
Casey Wilson I think she's made happy
endings is great hilarious like
you can literally just throw it on yes
and I'm always gonna laugh they all are
so talented
yeah right they're all hanging out they
all seem like nice people
what is mine I mean I would go with
something like having ending to but
actually I think it's the one that um
Jenny picked I love these days was a
great show I actually have to amend mine
it is American vandal oh yeah cuz I
cannot believe Netflix cancelled it
after only two seasons both seasons were
 hilarious that premise like that
the whole that show was so smart and
funny and good and I am NOT happy about
it so that is my pick it always is kind
of an Irving when there's an entire cast
of people you've never seen before and
they're all great right they were um
they were so good and like it's it's
nice to see them sort of out in the wild
now but yeah that show was great
well what season two of insatiable next
question this is from Brandon who would
play you and your co-hosts in the movie
version of keepit Oh God can I tell you
something I couldn't think of Andrew
Garfield's last name recently which made
me feel like I was beginning my still
Alice decline he is allegedly canoodling
with Rita Ora oh I know so
Rita Ora play you and Andrew I mean like
there's there's there are so few people
on the planet with this like five head
situation I've got going on and he makes
it look handsome so I would go with him
okay
have I don't I have a thing I don't
think anyone looks like me like I've
never seen a gnat or just someone where
I'm like oh I see the resemblance
other than like my family so I don't
even so there's that I don't know who I
would get to play me mm-hmm
even in spirit yeah I'm trying to think
in spirit keke palmer
that's began I spent some time with her
and she is energetic she's very sweet
but had like a ton of energy which I
don't know if that's my particular vibe
but she's a good actor so maybe she
could pull it off he was playing IRA oh
yeah oh you're waiting for me to pick
you should the face he just made at me
was like he has his hand on this he has
his chin on his hand like he's Jayne
Mansfield like posing in a portrait pic
for IRA
I'm sure there's like an obvious answer
to this Cara you coming up with anything
over there I'm not good at these ire do
you have someone in mind I don't I don't
know for me it feels weird
can I play myself I guess you have to
that tour class yeah I did yeah
Stanislavski uh-huh yeah that's not the
one where you pretend the orange juice
is there no Stanislavski is just like I
believe I am here yeah yeah the other
one is I don't know Sturm and Drang yeah
I know I know words I know theater words
I'm playing myself okay that was a weird
question I guess it wasn't a weird
question
we just can't answer it this is from Lou
for IRA do you keep up monthly with any
comic books and if so what is your
favorite current title I'm sorry I read
this question I didn't mean to enable it
but go ahead Wow first of all I still
read spider-man the Miles Morales
version and I've also been reading
Wonder Woman
I know I've followed off on comics
lately there are some really new
interesting titles coming out from
vertigo that I really want to get into
like
American carnage that one looks very
interesting and it's a race in America
so I'm not I need to get back in with
romick's how about y'all tweet at me I
fell off I've been busy
they're trying to I mean I just haven't
been reading books well should we do the
next book question yes so and asked what
was Kara's favorite book she read in
2018 and wants one book you all would
recommend to understand the current
moment and damn and that is three
questions and what's Lewis's favorite
Karen Carpenter's song how nice of her
I gotta say the book that I enjoyed the
most was the truth about animals which I
talked about like incessantly but it was
so it was just like the world is crazy
I cannot believe there are this many
animals I cannot believe all this stuff
is happening they do all these things it
was so like it's just like my mind was
blown I can't believe that the world
exists and all of these things are in it
and that was like a crazy entertaining
read a book right now I'm reading a book
called the death of truth which is real
depressing and it's on like be a it's
sort of like the attack on reason and
truth in the age of Trump and it goes
through just like this whole it goes
through this whole history of like
post-modernism and how we just sort of
got into this where everything
was kind of subjective and because
language could be subjective and all of
the and that's how you end up with
someone like Trump who can just say
words that don't mean what they mean and
and says that they mean what they mean
and it goes through like Hitler and
other fascists and things like that so
it is it is light in that is ace it is a
small book it is like pocket you know
it's a one you can adjustable terror
yeah but it is it is like a pretty
intense read but I think it is very
necessary considering what we're dealing
with right now my favorite carpenters
song is probably I know we're waiting in
the edge of your seats
yesterday once more but I would also I
mean like the classics we've only been
just begun superstar it's that rainy
days and Monday's but yesterday once
more I love a song about nostalgia touch
me when we're dancing I know you love
that song that's your favorite album by
then it is made in America
son I do like the carpenters that's
surprise twist I like them all year
whatever people asked me about this
podcast I'm always like guys secretly
IRA knows all the I do he just
laughs at me for talking about it
that's called bullying speaking of boys
actually by the way I did remember
you should read West Coast Avengers and
Hawkeye by Kelly Thompson so she's a
great writer anyway that's it so we're
we're nearing the end of this guys we
got one more question oh okay you ready
mm-hmm
from Colin what are your thoughts about
New Year's resolutions and what are
yours
I'm always pledging to do all the
time due to being a progressive active
living my own life type of person that
said I'm not hateful about that's right
every day is a new year for me because
I'm losing my mind honestly I could
stand to read a lot more do you know
what I could stand to do more watch more
television shows I just like movies
because they're short and then you're
done with them and I'm daunted by TV and
there's so much I haven't seen that I
have pretended to see but I'm also
what's your what's your biggest TV lie
that you feel most you like the worst
one that you said that you watched the
other one I've watched mm-hmm
I've watched two episodes of marvelous
mrs. Maslin I wish I had seen that's the
biggest one that you're concerned about
oh I've never seen Game of Thrones I've
never seen God like I did actually watch
like Mad Men was the last show I watched
all of so anything in between I'm
well damn mmm I love a New Year's
resolution you know I just love marching
into the new year's board room he's
throwing it all on the table so you make
one every year I'm thinking about
dynasty again okay sorry that's all I do
I was also gonna say what is a new
year's board room 2018 is often what see
many nineteen's office I've got some
things to say okay okay I don't like a
new year's resolution I like a new
year's mood so I like going into the new
year with a general like whose mood are
we trying to do this year is this summer
CAIR year is this gonna be a Michelle
Obama year am I gonna try to do a lot of
work am I gonna do like a kasi year
where I maybe just try to find a man to
spend all of his money on me just like
you know it you have to December choose
yes just like a general mood into the
year less than a resolution I want to
Eve yer listen just like a castle in
Europe somewhere drinking champagne and
taking care of some white man's kids
listen she's pregnant now - mm-hmm
is she still in the talk she sewed it up
I don't know you can never know who's on
the talk at any given moment it's it's
not illegal
she's married to like a very very rich
white man she does need be doing the
talking I think she's got a little boy
that's why she went on to her Gwen
Stefani it was great
recently like two years ago oh good mood
for the year so we all have to find rich
white husbands I also feel like she has
looked the same ever since she has been
famous which is definitely the 90s Lois
you know what it television sure you
missed Eve's sitcom which was owned a
boutique oh sure yeah yeah hold on but
my favorite part of that sitcom was that
it was called Eve and I don't believe
the name of her character was named Eve
it starred her as well on Seinfeld his
name isn't so no way never mind it is
yeah
she played Shelley Williams well the
show was called Eve going with that mood
in 2019 just like you want
that is our resolution yeah Merry
Christmas featuring Eve is that what you
say on Christmas Eve it is but I say now
yeah what you know you know like Gwen
Stefani Merry Christmas featuring Eve
okay I think that is the perfect note to
go out on this year Louis I am you know
what I'm not sorry I'm
I cannot believe you stuck with us all
year
wolf what's your problem god bless bless
you all everyone
