all right ready ready welcome to pod
save America I'm Jon Favreau I'm John
Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor later in the pod
my interview with Democratic
presidential candidate Kirsten
Gillibrand who stopped by crooked
headquarters
earlier this morning had a little chat
first first candidate a first declared
candidate to come into the headquarters
to darken these doorways hopefully not
the last but first we've got a lot of
news to get through including Trump's
proposal to end the longest government
shutdown in history the fallout from
BuzzFeed story about Trump and Michael
Cohen and Kamala Harris's entry into the
presidential race Tommy tell us what's
on what's in store for PS 2 W this week
well Ben and I are gonna talk to a
member of parliament named David Lammy
about brexit Theresa Mays future and
what the hell are good friends across
the pond are gonna do because this is an
ongoing disaster
yikes mm-hmm yikes love it I hear your
big return to the stage happens this
Friday love it or leave it is back
finally this Saturday a new show comes
out we'll be at the 24th at the improv
and then you know there'll be show a
week after week like you're used to yeah
and we're going back out on the road you
sure are come see us on tour pods if
America has dates coming up in
Charleston New Orleans and Durham love
it or leave it as coming to DC Chicago
Madison Milwaukee and more DeRay and the
pod save the people crew are heading to
Philly
Brooklyn Portland Seattle San Francisco
and LA buy your ticket tickets are going
tickets are going but you can still get
some at cricut.com slash events go get
them
there'll be the one who couldn't get
them go get him I think DC lover leave
it is sold out
okay well then then don't don't pitch
that was saying I'm just the one to
pitch I'm just saying that's the sort of
a warning to you if you live in a
different city mm-hmm shot across the
battle all right the news we are now 31
days into the Trump shutdown which has
become the longest government shutdown
in the history of the United States over
the weekend Trump threw out a new offer
that he had negotiated with Mitch
McConnell Mike Pence and Jared Kushner
tough negotiating partners okay well
that's not how it works you drive a hard
bargain Jared yeah so here's the deal if
Democrats agree to 5.7 billion dollars
in steel slots
well temporarily agree not to deport
700,000 immigrants who are protected by
daca and the hundreds of thousands of
immigrants with temporary protected
status but only for three years Nancy
Pelosi and Chuck Schumer immediately
rejected the offer but Mitch McConnell
is holding a vote on it anyway guys what
do you think about the deal you know I
was in the contemplatively this weekend
Oh as I watch watch out everyone i watch
all of twitter take an ugly interaction
on Capitol Hill as a symbol for
everything that's gone wrong in this
country as Republicans put forward a
completely bad faith proposal and then
pundits eat it up because that's their
job and they live under the glue they
live under the like luxurious protection
of a system they always assume will work
just fine you forgot that the third
thing the the the media just
self-flagellating over what is the
future of media if BuzzFeed possibly
maybe got one there was there was a lot
of garbage this weekend and I just sort
of at some point just put my phone down
and I now can't find it I'm on with the
deal Tommy it's it's a ridiculous offer
right so I mean the the the carrot
they're offering to Democrats is
remember that Trump canceled the daca
program
he also he's the one who screwed over
all the dreamers for in this country for
no fault of their own Nick came here his
kids and he also cancelled TPS
protections for a bunch of people from
coming from countries that were
suffering from natural disasters or Wars
or horrible situation he called them
 countries so
countries he took these things away and
now they're offering to give it back so
essentially what Donald Trump did so he
he tried he took Chuck and Nancy out to
lunch they went to Wendy's and they got
they got a burger and they got some
chicken tenders and some fries and a
drink and he grabbed their tenders and
their fries and he said if you give me
half your burger I'll give these back to
you and that's his deal no well that's
almost that he said I'll give the
chicken tender back to you but then
after you have a bite I'm gonna take it
back again that's only three years right
the temporary chicken tender and and
listen if you look the other way I'm
gonna kick this brown person the
nuts
that's also what he made as part of his
due
also yogi 5.7 billion dollars the the
the deeper you dig into the deal the
worse it gets
originally you know they said it was
like this this thing called the bridges
act that was introduced in Congress but
it's not like that because Steven Miller
got in there and originally the plan was
to protect anyone all dreamers who were
eligible for daca which is like 1.5
million people and then Miller said no
no no we're only doing the 700,000 who
actually are protected by dr. right now
so he already took it down and then they
have this crazy asylum policy in there
that says that Central American miners
children from Central America can only
apply for asylum from their home
countries so they have to send in an
application which is also not how it
works they be they slot it in a
paragraph that would just radically
change the way the asylum process works
the point of asylum is you are you have
to leave where you are because you are
at risk and they're saying no no just
chill and apply in your home country
yeah it doesn't work that way and the
other thing we should point out is the
reason that Trump has not successfully
eliminated daca and the TPS protections
is because people sued this is now held
up in court the Supreme Court has so far
decided not to take up the docker case
which means that all those protections
by the way for people were protected by
TPS and daca are still there yep so he's
basically extending the status quo for
the short term right now
it's just worth remembering because I
you know there's been you know
editorials calling on Democrats to make
this deal and there's been pundits on
television looking for an opportunity to
hit both sides and it's what's always
accepted in this is like what what's the
leverage here why is it that the
government being shut down is leverage
for Republicans and not for Democrats it
was also the same thing during the Obama
years when they would threaten to
default on the national debt why is it
that why is it that Democrats it is
understood and accepted by our political
culture that one party simply can
account simply accepts and is
comfortable with vastly more cruelty and
chaos and that is their leverage point
why is that an acceptable way to govern
and why do why do pundits who think
Democrats should accept this kind of a
deal want to embrace that kind of
governance why is it that they think
right now at a time of which we have
this
unhinged person who shut the government
down in a fit of pique why is it that
the way they think we should govern is
Republicans put forward a Republican
proposal and Democrats accept it because
Democrats are the only people who care
about the about the federal workers
that's just an accepted part of this
debate one of the thing is that they've
seen it all over and over again they
said whew
Republicans have added 12 billion
dollars in sweeteners for disaster
relief sweeteners like just think about
like you know those you know those
Democrats the only people who care about
the disaster victims oh wow what a
sweetener that is for us a sweetener
 you
sweetener especially when 56% of voters
blame Trump and the Republicans I mean
the data makes clear that they have no
leverage and I don't want and it's an
unpopular piece of legislation a don't
want a lot and the only Republican
member of Congress in a border district
will Hurd has been talking about how a
wall is useless because he calls it
basically a glorified speed bump because
a wall only works if it can temporarily
slow people down and then you send out
human beings to get them yeah but it
take the response time for the Border
Patrol is hours to days so a walls not
gonna do much for you uh and love it to
your question I mean I thought that Eric
Levitz at New York Magazine put this
very well which is the president has
made a decision to deliberately inflict
suffering on the American people as a
means of coercing a co-equal branch of
government into doing his bidding that
is what's happening here it's like and
that is how you have to cover what's
happening right like if as a pundit you
want to say you know what Democrats
should still do his bidding and be
forced into doing whatever the person in
a co-equal branch of government says to
do and that's more important than you
know then doing that and risking the
incentives that gives Trump to shut down
the government the future is still
better than the suffering that's being
inflicted on people right now in this
country you can say that but at least
set out that that's what's happening
here
well right that's what's happening yeah
it's it's um it's like you know I come
back to this because it really was what
what I one of the reasons we're okay in
the sense that the country has not
totally ground down to a halt is that a
lot of federal workers are showing up
and working without pay
and they're showing up and working
without pay because they think it's the
right thing to do because they want to
keep their jobs when the government
comes back they want to earn their back
paid they're not sure what's right or
what's wrong they're not sure what's
legal or what's not they're being told
to show up there's a lot of reasons a
lot of people can't write cuz they can't
afford child care they can't afford the
gas what have you but we are coasting we
are coasting on the credit that our
institutions will work that that that
government will generally function that
yeah they'll pass a CR and yeah they'll
go back and pay the employees and yeah
this is just a rocky spot on the road
but if we give in to this kind of
governing this is the future this is it
this is how it will look
there will be no normal times normal
times will be over and all these pundits
a lot of them wealthy a lot of them
disconnected generally just assume
assume that normalcy is something that
happens by accident it doesn't it
doesn't it could be like this all the
time forever and if and if we don't draw
a line if we don't draw a line and fight
for just basic decency and how we govern
and push back against this we will get
that kind of government and I will I
will be very surprised if of these
pundits then turn around and realize
it's their fault yeah so the Washington
Post editorial board ran a piece called
make a deal save the dreamers that tells
Democrats quote to refuse to even talk
until the government reopens does no
favors to sideline federal workers and
contractors I mean unbelievable
it just it's I feel like the press often
defaults to this both sides criticism
because it's so easy it's easy to say it
takes two to tango cuz you don't have to
dig into the details of the policies
yeah where the proposals or the history
of the context but in this case the
analysis is quite simple President Trump
said he would gladly shut down the
government to get Democrats to bend to
his will right and that is not in this
case an acceptable way to government I
mean our position is we're happy to
debate border security funding but let's
open the government first here's six
bills that would do exactly that and by
the way I guess whose position that was
over and over again said every single
day last year when there was a shutdown
over daca Mitch McConnell how many times
did he say to Democrats open the
government will negotiate Paul Ryan said
open the government knew it will
negotiate and and and now like the idea
that
would negotiate before he opens the
government all that means like you said
love it is next time Donald Trump's
gonna say Oh will this work last time so
this time I'm gonna say let's gut
Medicare yeah Medicare in this budget
I'm shutting down the government I care
and then I'm gonna have you negotiate
with me so maybe we won't got all of
Medicare but we'll make huge cuts to it
and I'll wring that concession out of
you because I know the Democrats
eventually will fold because they care
about people getting over and I
don't I know that I have now that I
proposed food stamps are only for white
people I'm gonna shut down the
government right until I get it in a
normal and normal negotiation with a
normal group of people in a normal
president you would find a way to meet
in the middle but we know thanks to the
New York Times that when Nick Mulvaney
the chief staff tried to find a middle
ground between what the Democrats
proposed and what he proposed Trump
screamed at him and told him he
it all off in front of a giant group so
of course they have no faith in the
traditional negotiation also just two
other things one this is a Donald Trump
has been president for over two years
exactly hump day everybody but and he
had Republican control of both houses of
Congress right this was a fight he could
have had at any moment he chose to have
it now that's one that number two
Democrats did come to the table and we
actually offer 25 billion dollars as
long as there would be permanent
protections for dreamers with none of
the restrictions in legal immigration
that Stephen Miller wanted the reason
that that deal didn't happen is because
again and again when when we get close
to a deal to protect dreamers and give
him border security which by the way
Democrats have been doing for a decade
or more more than a decade giving in to
border security demands right when you
get close to a deal the Ann Coulter's of
the world in the Rush Limbaugh's of the
world and the Stephen Miller's of the
world throw a fit and insist on drastic
reductions in legal immigration and all
kinds of poison pills to scuttle the
deal this is the fight they want they do
not want the government open and they do
not want to win so a The Washington Post
reported that this latest deal was sort
of made in consultation with Mitch
McConnell and so you could tell there's
some kind of dark evil strategy there
from McConnell because that's what he
does it seems as though what
donal wants to do now is put this not
really compromise on the floor right and
vote and then be able to say okay look
republicans are trying to open the
government to now I don't think that
McConnell has anywhere near the votes he
needs to pass this because he needs
sixty which means he needs seven
Democrats to crossover which I don't
think he has I don't know if he has any
right now Joe Manchin said he was
undecided so what is that what is the
strategy what's McConnell up to here
why look I don't think we know I I think
one thing is clear they were in a really
really bad situation right they this
does make their situation slightly
better because now they can say all
right there was a House bill that passed
there's a Senate bill that passed it it
looks like governing it looks like let's
just get into it they just want withhold
Democrats into a negotiation let's get
him into the negotiating they can blow
it on something and then then they can
be against a specific policy as opposed
to being against the government being
shut down over Trump's demands
right and the depositions that yeah has
been and continues to be open the
government and then we'll talk and we're
open to any discussions after that which
is the right thing to do so what's your
Democrats next move be I mean I did this
on the substance they cannot accept this
proposal right so this thing is dead on
arrival and I think we need to just
maintain our position and I guess they
can go back to trump and say offer
something else something different but
his stupid Saturday speech didn't work
it didn't move anyone his oval office
address didn't work it didn't move
anyone workers are about to miss another
paycheck on Friday I mean I think that
we should be we the citizens of this
country who are worried about the
government being closed should be
putting as much pressure as humanly
possible on the White House and on
McConnell to move yeah I also think it's
look it's it's not hard to right now
it's not hard to say what Democrats
should do when the options are when
there's this bad faith proposal that
isn't a compromise that violates our
basic principles of what we believe
government should do and it's part of
this evil habit of governing by crisis
and shutting down the government and
using human beings as leverage my
question would be like well what what
would have happened if out of that
negotiation between narcissists his dumb
son-in-law and dead-eyed zealot named
Mike Pence came out with a true
compromise something Democrats actually
believed in what would our position be
because I have a feeling actually that
suddenly all of our protestations about
how this is no way to govern would kind
of diminish in the face of a legitimate
option I think you still have to say
hold a vote to open the government fund
all the other departments don't fund DHS
fund everything else and then we pledged
to hold a vote on or at least hold a
debate maybe not about hold a floor
debate on this compromise like that you
just I mean that's the that's the only
way this can go I think that's right I
think that's right because I think we
have to mean it when we say we are not
gonna see to this kind of governing we
really have to mean it it's important
because because you know what I were
spon stew the Washington Post the
response to these pundits has to be our
goal is not just to end this shutdown
our goal is to stop governing by
shutdown yeah it has to stop yeah I just
think the fears that Trump historically
in business and in politics has taken
fights like this to such an extreme that
he's willing to harm himself in the long
run to win in the short term against
 Merv Griffin or whoever whatever
weird person he was competing for a
casino for there's ever time sorry about
this the other day read it so that's
scary
then that should be scary to Mitch
McConnell because Trump is very willing
to drive the bus full of Republicans off
the cliff and just destroy the party and
it looks like from their approval
ratings that is starting to happen well
I think you're right I think that's
where the pressure needs to be on Mitch
McConnell and everyone's like oh that's
silly Mitch McConnell would never go
against her okay well maybe he wouldn't
but he's got vulnerable senators and he
wants to be Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell honey
Mitch McConnell hates Donald Trump's gut
turtle looking power-hungry nut has
built up an entire career by being smart
and savvy and his grifting comes
along and takes the presidency he's got
a drive in Mitch McConnell's does not
get to be Majority Leader if he doesn't
have Susan Collins and Cory Gardner and
Jody against and Tom Tillis there and
whatever other Republicans are
up in 2020 so I think that's what I saw
there are protests planned by federal
and labor unions on Wednesday I do think
we've been saying this like I think the
pressure has to get ratcheted up here
you know David Leonard wrote a piece for
The New York Times where he talked about
like this is this this shutdown is
basically showing the limits of the
resistance movement and that and and we
said this before to everything else you
know Muslim ban the women's March the
rally for you know family separations
there's this groundswell yeah and now
there's 800,000 people without paychecks
millions more who are hurting this the
New York Times is talking about it's
hitting the poor homeless people we've
talked about Native Americans who aren't
getting government services over this I
mean there's a lot of people barely
 hanging on right now and people
in this country if you care about this
like people need to stop get out into
the streets and start protesting
especially in DC the capital should be
swarmed all the time yeah it's also I
think one of the problems is that it's
um there was no clear moment at which
this became such a required like
national protest I would say that we're
about to hit the second paycheck
paycheck miss yeah and to me like that
is a big moment a huge moment because
you know what they're all there are a
lot of people there's a lot of people
that couldn't go without one paycheck
but there's many many more that can't
miss a second and the ripple effects of
that you know ya need not only places
that need childcare but there are people
who rely on places that provide
childcare there were that require kids
from federal workers to show up to pay
for the childcare yeah there there are
going to be huge long-term consequences
for this and I think the second pay
period should be the moment where
everybody just erupts yeah The New York
Times story on all the other HUD
programs that are not the people who
can't get money to like purchase a house
that would allow their special needs
kids to feel safe
I mean homeless veterans elderly people
this thing is it's getting really bad
for a lot of people it's acute pain and
you know by the way good for the New
York Times they did a story on Trump
voters yes but this time it was Trump
voters who are fed up with Trump because
of the shutdown finally they finally end
up they went into some of those coffee
shops but finally when some of those
diners they found some people who
like let's show you guys some quick
breaking news sure mark warner
introduced the stop stupidity act
stupidity stands for shutdowns
transferring unnecessary pain and
inflicting damage in the coming years
all the government except the White
House in Congress to stop further shut
our we won great economy quick as we
know in the Senate it's a real art
there's certain staffers who just they
spend their time coming up with the
acronyms for the speech the whiteboard
someone said something to me which is
which was so smart which is that see
this you think the smart move is to come
up with an acronym but actually the
smart move is to not come up with an
acronym because if the bill name is
boring it gets called by the names of
the senators who introduced it which is
why like if dodd-frank had if dodd-frank
had a clever name he wouldn't call it
dodd-frank but we call it dodd-frank so
Dodd and Frank get their name all over
no Chris Dodd can just sit around their
socks and what is it you don't know but
their names are etched in stone one last
note indivisible is leading a national
coordinated day of action tomorrow
Wednesday January 23rd excellence is a
national call day you can join by
calling eight four four two three six
two three seven three tell your Senators
to pressure Mitch McConnell to end the
shutdown excellent all right let's talk
about the Malheur investigation
just hours after we finished recording
our Friday bonus episode on the BuzzFeed
piece about Trump suborning perjury
BuzzFeed had a bonus of their own Robert
most person Peter Carr issued an
extremely rare statement about the story
in which he said quote BuzzFeed's
description of specific statements to
the special counsels office and
characterization of documents and
testimony obtained by this office
regarding Michael Cohen's congressional
testimony are not accurate
BuzzFeed however has said that their
sources are telling them to stand their
ground that their reporting is going to
be borne out to be accurate and that
they're saying that their sources are
not wrong brian Stelter asked Anthony
Comey a directly what if your sources
are wrong they are not wrong he said
guys what's going on here because I have
to say this is this is a real mystery to
me I have no idea
fascinating it is fascinating it's
really hard to understand what's going
on I think it's hard to understand for a
few reasons
one a lot of the sources involved with
all these stories are famous Liars right
there you know these are we were talking
about people like Michael Cohen and
others who have made their careers lying
there they're lawyers or liars they're
lawyers lawyers or Liars so that makes
it hard for the journalist to suss out
what's going on second thing is that the
Muller investigation itself has been so
tight-lipped and so hard to get
information out of third thing we don't
really fully understand the equities
involved in why they felt the need to
put the statement out right so like if
we had we're starting to get some you
know that Rosen Stein was involved and
and and why they felt they needed to do
essentially Giuliani and Trump or
someone from the White House might have
called yes and and then finally the last
piece is we don't actually know
precisely what they're disputing right
so all of those things make this really
tricky to suss out what's happening tell
me what was your reaction watching this
unfold over the weekend well it was so
funny because I took a few days off so I
saw the Thursday pot come out and then I
read the story and then I saw the bonus
come out before I had time to listen to
the bonus episode they disavowed your
they pre butted your bonus one day we
finally accede to everyone to be like
bonus bonus bonus you guys are go back
to do and we're like ok ok
boom news three hours after that I saw
the demands from Marcy wheeler who has
been on the show before you can read her
stuff two empty wheel net has a smart
theory
I mean basically she thinks that
BuzzFeed's sources are the Southern
District of New York because hat parts
of this case are getting spun off to two
other folks and she thinks that BuzzFeed
sources are there and basically the way
they framed
let me just remember how I said this she
and she thinks that the Southern
District of New York was sort of more
aggressive in framing Trump's role in
the various cover-ups specifically the
hush money to stormy Daniels and other
she thinks that that Muller's folks are
not going to be as aggressive in talking
about the way Cohen was directed by
Trump in terms of the cover-up in this
case because Cohen is cooperating
witness for them
and they need to be able to back up with
other sources anything they have Cohen
saying so long story short and I
probably just confused you
she thinks that Butler's folks wanted to
make clear that they were not the source
for this story a-and that when Cohen
told Congress that he was not directed
by Trump to specifically lie about the
Trump Tower deal but that he was just
trying to match Trump's own rhetoric she
doesn't want them if they don't want
something out there that makes it sound
like he was unreliable in that testimony
yes so the key here is Cohen's sorry the
key here is Cohen sentencing them oh not
the one that Muller riled but the one
that Cohen filed cones lawyers filed in
that memo they admit that Cohen lied to
Congress quote in accordance with or
quote to support and advance Trump's
agenda and then here's the actual quote
from Cohen I made these statements to be
consistent with individual one's
political messaging and out of loyalty
to individual one that is really
different from what Cohen said in the
hush-money case where he said I was
directed by individual one to make these
payments to do whatever fact here's an
audio of a call what we're talking about
it so it's very interesting that like
and Marcy makes this point Muller
doesn't want to get out ahead of moto
doesn't face Muller needs Cohen to be as
reliable as possible on the issues where
he's focused on right so he said Marcy
was saying Moeller doesn't need to prove
that Trump had a role in Cohen's lies he
needs to prove that Cohen kept Trump and
Don jr. in the loop on the Moscow deal
itself right to do that he can't have
Cohen's testimony looks like it with our
sentencing memo
look like it was fault or blacked out
the fact that that Trump actually
directed Cohen to lie now but you'd
think that like so that portion that I
just read Peter Carr apparently
according to the Washington Post sent
that portion to BuzzFeed at one point as
an FYI and BuzzFeed was like oh we
thought that was just an FYI we didn't
think that was disputing anything but it
is interesting like if you read that
that's what Cohen said and your buzz and
the other reporters at BuzzFeed
you must think to yourself like okay why
would Cohen not say that he was directed
to lie in this case but was
did say he was directed to lie in the
SDN y case well so but I think there's I
think two things one I think this again
comes back to this problem which is
Michael Cohen I think it's hard to deny
has been very far in over his head for
quite some time it's always hard to suss
out why he's lying or if he's lying
right so I think that's the first thing
and the second thing is I also think a
lot of this comes down to like what does
it actually mean to be directed by
someone to do something what does that
actually semantically mean like if it
was if it was a game of telephone or if
it was implied so to me like a lot of
this comes down to a matter of degree
that I think we'll maybe understand
ideally will understand in in due time
like what exactly
BuzzFeed sources were defining being
directed as yeah right because I like
there's a lot of versions of that right
if if you know if they've done if
there's some email where it's between
Don jr. and Michael Cohen where it's
clear that that Donald Trump knew about
something does that is that being
directed by Donald Trump well someone
say yes someone say no I just I think a
lot of this is ultimately gonna be
reduced to semantics and we just don't
have the underlying documents yet yeah
and just something to know when we
mentioned this before about these
BuzzFeed reporters Jason Leopold and
Anthony Cormier not only were you know
they part of a Pulitzer Prize winning
team at BuzzFeed for reporting in the
past they they're the ones who broke
open the Trump Tower Moscow deal story
in the first place they broke that story
a lot of people said what is the story
it's not corroborated by other outlets
and then sure enough it was corroborated
by robert muller in the filings that he
in the cohen sentencing memo right so
their reporting was a hundred percent
born out in the Moscow Russia story and
the rest of the sorry in the Moscow
tower story right but notably in that
story their sources were two FBI agents
who were familiar with the matter in
this story in the latest story about him
direct in July it was two federal agents
to enforce federal law enforcement
agents a part of the station so it very
well may be the same so one of the
reasons they might trust their be
trusting their sources right now it may
be the same two FBI agents who were part
of SDN why who gave them the Trump Tower
Moscow story yeah I mean now weird way
deep down aspect
yet I would hold but sure I mean they've
done a great job also like stepping even
further back BuzzFeed posted the dossier
when everyone told Ben Smith and the
team there that there were the worst
people in the world for for you know
giving credence to steal and boy it
turns out that that was the right
decision right so I think these guys are
certainly they feel like they're their
body of reporting stands for itself yeah
that said you know like I do think it's
there was some processed fouls in the
process of trying to get comment from
Carr and the special counsels office on
this that they probably could have
tightened up to avoid this right
disaster but here we are I wonder if
they knew they were getting that
statement if they would have run the
story anyway and that interesting
because they they stand by it you know
yeah look one other thing that also must
be just weighing on BuzzFeed is that
Rudy Giuliani has just gone out there
let's go to shark and just with all
credibility absolutely destroyed them I
mean I've never seen such a sharp legal
mind at work it's like take notes
Harvard Law Students so a master a
master is before you on Sunday Rudy told
CNN's Jake Tapper then the president was
involved in discussions about a
potential Trump tower project in Moscow
up through the end of the 2016 election
a timetable that contradict you what
Trump's team has previously acknowledged
though Rudy had said something similar
to that to George Stephanopoulos like a
month ago Giuliani has since backtracked
issuing a statement on Monday that his
comments to CNN were merely hypothetical
and not based on conversations I had
with the president this was after he
told CNN last week that he quote never
said there was no collusion between
Trump's campaign and the Russians only
that there was never any collusion
between the Russians and the president
comments he also walked back in a
follow-up statement
guys some people say that Rudy purposely
says crazy on TV to soften the
ground for some bad news that he knows
is gonna break but isn't it possible
that he just says crazy on TV I
actually I'm one of those people I do
believe that amidst inside this word fog
that he unleashes there is there is some
desire to get certain bits of it out
there I just believe that that's been
true all along true stormy Daniels yeah
sure yeah that said I do think he just
is a very confused man I don't know
anymore there's a
to the man though the look on his face
the the quotes he's like yeah I mean he
does a follow-up interview with New York
Magazine where he's like everything
you'd all get tapes I'm sorry I'm sorry
what tapes oh I shouldn't have said that
no tapes no lady it is it is wild the
things he's just vomiting up and next
thing you know you're gonna be telling
me that that body buried behind Trump
Tower is important what body
no body behind Trump Tower who said
Trump Tower he was asked at the end of
that interview what he thinks about his
legacy and everyone should read this
really do and he said I'm afraid it will
be on my gravestone Rudy Giuliani
he lied for Trump somehow I don't think
it will be but if it is so what do I
care I'll be dead I figure I can explain
it to st. Peter I have some bad news I
have some bad news for you I do not
believe st. Peter is gonna have time in
his schedule
I mean lost in the weeds of all this is
just how much the story has changed on
the Trump Tower issue alone I mean first
at first they tried to say that there
were no real negotiations over a Trump
Tower the Trump was barely involved it
was over for the Republican primaries
and then we learned that they went to
the middle of 2016 we got all these
emails from Felix shader about how our
boy can become president of the USA and
we can engineer it
we know he was reaching out to Russian
military intelligence officials we know
that Michael Cohen was cold emailing
Dmitry Peskov Putin's press secretary
then he actually got a call back and it
successfully nobody so you know look
Cohen Michael Cohen was gonna go to
Moscow until June 14 2016 and that day
he killed the trip because the
Washington Post reported that the
russians hacked the DNC's so everything
about this is fishy BuzzFeed or no
BuzzFeed it doesn't matter this is a
massive story and it has to be a huge
part of Muller's investigation too we
know and it's one of the reasons that
probably they spoke up like the idea
that Donald Trump and Michael Cohen and
all the rest of the goobers were
talking directly to the Russian
government about a deal that would
involve sanction banks and GRU officers
right up until the election the election
the presidential candidate altum Utley
one was talking about doing a deal with
a hostile foreign power that he knew
because he got a briefing from our own
intelligence agencies yeah but Russia
was at
hacking our democracy he knew that and
he was still doing a deal with that it's
also not clear that the election is the
end day because at one point Rudy said
November yeah you'd like November you
can just throw November out there
vaguely a big thing happens in
the middle of November and as these
talks were ongoing they were changing
the Republican platform to make it more
favorable to Russia they were they were
talking about NATO they were
talking about getting rid of sanctions
his campaign manager was forwarding
their internal polling to some Russian
Intel asset so the whole thing the
collusion is right there seen right away
there and I realize like suborning
perjury is like an easier crime for
everyone to understand and it puts like
a neat little bow on it
but it seems like there's bigger things
at stake here actually yeah that's
actually we're worth remembering too
like the BuzzFeed story I think people
latched on to it rightly because it was
such a clear-cut case of of a crime and
the kind of crime presidents have been
impeached for in the past but in a way
that's like a meta crime you know it's a
meta crime and like but the but what is
not in dispute right now are all the
underlying causes for the need to lie to
Congress which Michael Cohen has been
giving them copious information about
right all right let's talk 20 2000 good
skipping from big topic to big motion
right around the corner for this problem
on Martin Luther King Day senator Kamala
Harris of California declared her
candidacy for the Democratic
presidential nomination in 2020 she made
the announcement on Good Morning America
and released a video on social media
she'll be visiting South Carolina in the
coming days as well as hosting a kickoff
event in her hometown of Oakland
California
Harris joined the Senate two years ago
after serving as both California's
Attorney General and the District
Attorney in San Francisco her campaign
platform includes proposals for Medicare
for all and bail reform it also includes
a 2.8 trillion dollar tax cut designed
to help middle and working class
families and tax credit for low-income
renters guys what did you think of her
announcement and what are her strengths
as a candidate I love everybody kind of
scrambling the timing you know like the
the symbolism was cool doing it on
Martin Luther King Day and then 47 years
ago Monday shirley Chisholm became the
first woman to seek the Democratic Party
nomination for president so there's a
lot of it was a weighty date to choose
I would have liked a little bit longer
of a video not to get too far into the
weeds but like you're gonna put out a
video you make it make it two minutes
tell me a little more about yourself in
your bio yeah that's cool I'm interested
that she's going to South Carolina first
I think it speaks to the fact that her
team thinks that she might have a path
to the nomination that doesn't
necessarily include heavy investment in
Iowa and New Hampshire and then they can
benefit from the California primaries
getting moved up in the process so talks
about how things could be scrambled this
time I think she'll be formidable you
know she put out a very progressive
platform there's already people raising
questions about her work as a prosecutor
so she'll have to handle that but you
know she's gonna be a good candidate
yeah anybody watched on those hearings
knows that she's I wouldn't want to
debate senator Harris no I think I think
Camille Harris in those hearings when
she is questioning someone is that is
when she is in her element that is when
she seems like this is who she is this
is this is what she has been doing her
most of her life she's comfortable she's
sharp she's powerful in her questioning
like that that that that's a stretch
Jeff Sessions folded like a cheap suit
in those hearings when she asked him two
questions in a row yeah she also by the
way she you know she is in after she's a
black woman running in the Democratic
primary who has embraced quite a few
most progressive policy positions and
that right there puts her in a very good
position to win the Democratic primary
in 2020 just everything what is on paper
right now you know what she has done
what she is proposed and as tommy's
mentioned I think she also has she's a
good calendar right like if she can get
through Iowa New Hampshire whether
whether win a win any either one or
whether she plays as well you go to
South Carolina heavily african-american
population South Carolina that's where
Obama really started pulling away from
Hillary and then you're right you've got
California her home state in March and
you got a couple other states with heavy
african-american populations on that day
Virginia North Carolina Tennessee and
Texas yeah I mean I guess you know what
I was struck by just sort of because
there was the
Gillibrand announcement who you talk to
on my site to hear the interview and the
Harrison announcement what is striking I
think right now is what makes these
announcements similar right there's a
lot there's a kind of threshold of
progressive policy that we're seeing the
kind of top-tier candidates embrace and
all of them are feeling their way
through like how do i how does how does
Trump factor into this how do I talk
about myself how do I demonstrate that I
understand the kind of anger and the
desire for kind of big answers that are
coming from the base and I think we see
Warren also kind of trying to prove you
know her bona fides on that same thing
for Gillibrand same thing for Harris
same thing for Castro and others and I
think what what I'm interested in now is
okay
you know everybody's putting out their
best foot forward like this is this is
how I'm gonna present myself at first
this is how I'm starting this journey
and I'm just generally genuinely
interested in what happens next like how
do they start to differentiate into
themselves from each other and not in
just a kind of branding and messaging
way but like starting to really get a
feel for what they care about like what
their priorities will be what their
staff represents what proposals look
like the thing they're gonna be pumped
about and interested in talking about at
every stop
like what drives them what genuinely is
driving their interest in being
president beyond just the desire to be
present how will you deal with adversity
yeah there's horrible story right pops
up or the first bad interaction with a
voter who doesn't like you and yeah cuz
that's inevitable and and by the way
just one other thing to that to Tommy's
point like the first thing that cracks
that cracks open that gets through this
built yeah apparatus right that kind of
tears it apart and like reveals people
because I think that is the one the one
truth that still that still applies
which is that for all their faults like
campaigns in their exhaustion and their
relentlessness get the truth out of
people and what makes them tick and that
is so important right now for the
primaries because we we only get two
percent one person to general I will say
two and you know I've noticed notices
every time we've seen her speak or talk
to her she really does speak the
language of activism I mean her parents
were activists and when you hear her
talk about the civil rights movement
when you hear talked about activism she
talks about justice a lot
she's very well-versed in that language
and that makes her I think her public
comments her speech is better we
mentioned adversity so she'll also face
challenges particularly around her past
as a prosecutor Harris calls herself a
progressive prosecutor and talks about
her work
combating implicit police bias keeping
first-time offenders out of jail
prosecuting sexual assault victims and
banks who screwed over homeowners hurt
by the foreclosure crisis but a recent
New York Times op-ed by law professor
Lera Bazelon who DeRay recently
interviewed on HUD save the people said
that Harris wasn't that progressive as a
prosecutor and argued that she's fought
to keep people facing wrongful
convictions in jail didn't fully support
certain sentencing reforms defended the
death penalty even though she's
personally against it and you know it
and Connell Harris's people push back
and said you know that's not true didn't
provide the right context so there's
been arguments on both sides of this
there's been some activists who defend
her in the criminal justice world and
there have been some who've criticized
her how much of an issue is this and how
does she how does she deal with this
well the good news is I think it's a
real issue right I mean the good news
for for the movement of the country on
the issue of crime and is that we're
talking about understanding that mass
incarceration is actually a bigger
problem then say being as hard as we
possibly can on on criminals I mean
interestingly just this weekend I think
Biden apologize for the 1994 crime bill
something that he used to champion his
role in because it had draconian sand
because it had draconian sentencing for
crack convictions so I think that this
will be a big piece of the conversation
this cycle she's also out talking about
reforming the cash bail system so that's
also gonna be a piece of this I mean I
don't know how well she'll handle it I
don't know all the details of the
criticism or the response but I think
like it's gonna be something we hear
about throughout the primary and that's
a good thing yeah I guess I got I think
it's a you know it's a serious challenge
to her ability to win over progressives
it's already gaining traction it's an
important story to me you know I think
there's several candidates in this race
they're going to face questions about
previous positions that either because
they represented more conservative areas
when they were first running or because
progressive movement has pulled the
center of the party to the left are
going to have to answer for and to me
there's sort of two there's two there's
two versions of that conversation one of
them is this is what I used to believe
and I've come to believe something else
I used to believe that that being tough
in this way was really important and you
know and I've come to learn that there
were harms that I didn't fully
appreciate whatever it is depending on
the issue but I think one of the
challenges will be how do you make that
case when what's also true as I took
these positions when they were
politically more popular or in some way
politically necessary to my success as a
candidate and some race or into some job
and now that I'm in a Democratic primary
in which those positions are Anathem of
ujin's of the base I have a different
point of view and I think being able to
to deal with that political reality is
really really challenging my advice to
every candidate who does this is just be
honest be honest about the past missions
don't I make apologize if you are truly
sorry and truly believe something
different now right kirsten gillibrand
who you'll hear from I mean I didn't
even ask her this because it's the only
thing she's been asked for the last two
weeks and she announced which is like
you know she used to be further to the
right on immigration on guns she has
said she's sorry she said she's
embarrassed by these positions she's
ashamed of these positions right and if
that's what she genuinely believes then
that is the right answer if you are not
embarrassed if you are not ashamed if
you don't know if you still believe that
what you did was right back then you
should say that by the way you know like
I don't I think the key is to stay away
from anything that even is a whiff of
political opportunism either way right
so yesterday Harris responded to some of
these criticisms she said there are
cases where there were folks that made a
decision in my office and they had not
consulted me and I wish they had the
bottom line though is the buck stops
with me and I take full responsibility
for what my office did so in some cases
she saying maybe I should end this like
and I think as she goes on she's gonna
have to explain every one of these
decisions that she made and some she can
say you know maybe she'll say that was
someone else in my office but still
that's my responsibility another she
might say look this is why I did what I
did and I stand by it
another she might say you know what if I
had done that again
I wouldn't do the same thing because I
believe something differently now but I
think the key is you have to be honest
about why you made the decisions you did
even if it is politically not
complicated well except I agree but what
if the answer in some cases is I was
from a conservative district and and
this was the only way I could win well I
think I'm asking well I think yeah
that's one way to say it you can also
say the same thing as I was from a
conservative district those were the
people I was representing and that's
what I heard from my constituents and I
was elected to represent my constituents
I think he can also be I think it's also
fair that in some instances it will be
that you were told a series of facts
that were wrong like the Iraq war is a
good analogy I think because all those
senators and members of Congress were
handed intelligence saying that it was a
slam-dunk case that Saddam and al-qaeda
were linked that Iraq had WMD all that
 was wrong they had to know somehow
that the US intelligence agencies were
all lying to them right so with respect
to criminal justice reform there
presented all this evidence that that
crack was somehow worse I mean I I'm not
excusing them but that was what Biden
said is that he was presented a set of
pacts that were just completely wrong
and I think it's going to be hard to
explain that yeah people it's a
complicated argument because you're
right like you can you can hear people
even as you're talking about Iraq be
like how can you excuse I know I'm like
I'm getting more cautious as the words
come out of my mouth I know that people
are gonna attack me I'm just trying to
explain it like Russia changes remember
we work for the guy who was against the
Iraq war so we know that like you can
also look at that same intelligence and
come to the other conclusion but you're
right it's I guess the point I think
you're trying to make it's like it's
it's some of these issues are
complicated and you have to judge people
like within the context of the time they
were in now there may be other leaders
who in that same context in that same
time period or a much bolder we're much
more progressive took the right position
and if they're running then they should
say that right that's a really good
point too because I think one of the
other lessons too is I think a lot of
times candidates end up looking back and
paying for politically older politically
expedient positions because there were
very sincere arguments around Democrats
being tough on crime in the 90s but one
of the reasons Democrats were tough on
crime is they were trying to demonstrate
something to voters they were trying to
prove that they weren't the
could sure that Republicans under in the
in the Reagan years had made Democrats
out to be then that look we're gonna put
cops on the street so you can trust us
we're law in order to and you know now
it's all these years later and we've
we've changed and come to see things
differently and and then that worry that
political concern led them to make bad
policy decisions and it is a lesson to
people today do not let
consultants and pollsters and and
Washington in general let you make
decisions out of political expediency do
what you think is right and if we wait
and if what's right is progressive great
if it's more centrist that's fine too
but it should be what you believe
you know yeah I mean look those policies
were wrong they were racist they were
they needed to be walked back and I'm
glad that were having a conversation
about it
no it's like what you said at the
beginning of this conversation which it
is a credit to the activists on the
ground who have made criminal justice
reform an issue in this country because
they've raised awareness about it that
is the only reason we're talking about
it right now it's not politicians that
brought it to the forefront it's
activists on the ground and here's I
think the really good news is I do think
that one thing that's making this
primary already feel different is I
don't you feel what you feel from a lot
of from a lot of these candidates is
their desire to prove to Democratic
voters that they get it that they're on
their side they're not trimming their
sales they're not afraid of Republican
voters they're not out there trying to
convince independents that they're
centrist they are trying to prove that
they that they have heard loud and clear
that we are going to be for bold
progressive liberal policy answers to
the challenges we face and we are
willing to stake our chances on making
that case rather than some mealy-mouthed
Center answer what I'm more interested
in is oK you've you've evolved or you've
moved over the years and now you're
proposing big bold policy ideas are you
gonna stay there because the real test
is when you stay there in a general
election when it's tougher to do that
and then the even tougher test is do you
stand there on that position and push
those policies when you're present
United States you've got competing
priorities you've got a lot of political
pressures you've got a bunch of
conservative Democrats still in Congress
that aren't gonna back you know you've
got Republicans who don't want to work
with you on anything right like
we'll use which positions will you stand
by which will you really fight for and I
think sussing that out from each
candidate who's going to be real when
they get there is gonna be the challenge
of the primary yeah that's really
important that's really important to you
because policy positions are one thing
but the reason Obamacare became
Obamacare is because there was a person
in that job who took the chance and you
know all the all the criticisms that get
leveled against Obamacare now getting
that done was the accomplishment of a
century and there were there were many
people around Brock Barack Obama saying
to go for something smaller bill will
pull the bill go with a patient's Bill
of Rights a small expansion of med
expansion of Medicaid you will lose if
you keep pushing this is what he was
told by advisers Barack Obama said I
don't care if I'm a one-term president
this is more important I'm gonna push
this you should elect a president who
was going to do that when told by a
bunch of advisers that's something that
we all care about is very unpopular
which is why for all the branding and
all the messaging and all the kind of
videos we're gonna see now when push
comes to shove it does actually matter
what these people say when they get the
unexpected question when they're on
their heels when they're exhausted when
they're when they face a setback when
they face a problem because that's what
presidents face every single day okay
and we will be talking into one of these
potential presidents right after the
break with we'll be back with senator
Kirsten Gillibrand really uh who's a
really not good candidate no no joke
who's like a no chance person move back
with Jill Stein right after this can you
fit the bunny joke we'll be back with
Jill Stein right after this
you
