in America I'm Jon Favreau I'm Dan
Pfeiffer right here in studio here in
Los Angeles unbelievable so great in
just a bit we're gonna talk to our old
pal David Plouffe Barack Obama's
legendary campaign manager about all
things 2020 he will also be here in
studio what a great day he recruits from
Delaware in this video first one dude
from Delaware still will not come to
this studio now that you said it John
okay yes
Chris Coons not welcome first we've got
news to talk about lots of news to talk
about from an explosive story about a
whistleblower and the President to
Congress's first impeachment hearing to
Trump's war on California before that a
few housekeeping notes if you want to
understand if you want to understand
what the hell happened with that attack
on Saudi Arabia over the weekend and the
ensuing risk of war with Iran don't miss
pod save the world this week Tommy and
then also discuss the Israeli elections
and whether Bibi Netanyahu's career
might be over fingers crossed they also
discuss atom shifts explosive letter to
the Director of National Intelligence
about this whistleblower and they're
joined by Senator Chris Murphy who's
leading the fight to end our involvement
in the disastrous civil war in Yemen and
to prevent war with Iran next week we'll
be on the last leg of our 2019 tour and
there are still a few tickets left for
our San Jose Show on September 26th and
our Portland show on September 27th so
head to crooked comm slash events for
tickets our friend Adi Barkan released
his interviews this week with Pete Budaj
and hooli and Castro as part of his
uncovered video series about health care
in America head to Kirkuk calm / be a
hero to watch his interviews and don't
forget to order his brand new memoir
eyes to the wind as some of you know
because he follow him on Twitter Adi was
in the hospital for a fairly major
procedure this week earlier this week he
is out of the hospital he is recovering
so that is good news when he's fully
recovered and goes online again it would
be great if his book was just selling
like crazy so please go pick up a copy
of Audis book it is fantastic I promise
you you will not be disappointed finally
as you all know crooked media is
partnering with stacey abrams on fair
fight 20/20
her plan to fight voter suppression by
hiring full-time voter protection teams
in 20 battleground states next year we
launched on Friday night with the goal
of raising 1 million dollars and
Shaniqua our political director is here
with an update on how much we've raised
where we at Shaniqua four hundred and
seventy five thousand dollars so what
you can't see if you're listening is
Shaniqua has a giant bottle on the table
filled with jellybeans and she is
filling it up with more jellybeans to
indicate how much money we've raised
which is I'm sure is why she went to
college this is the viral content the
internet thirst for one person smiling
very broadly is Elijah he's gonna make
it
do this over again came up with this
idea we think it's great I actually love
the bottle this is great
anyway the important point here is we've
already raised four hundred seventy five
thousand dollars we're almost halfway
there but that's still only halfway
there
we need to get to a million by November
fifth I believe and look this is maybe
the most important thing we can do
between now and 2020 aside from pick a
nominee is to make sure there are teams
on the ground in these battleground
states to fight voter suppression we
know this works we have seen it work
before but this is still right now the
biggest hole in the Democratic Party
strategy in 2020 and Stacey Abrams is
doing everything she can to make sure
that we can fight voter suppression so
go to veyts vote so go to vote save
america.com
slash fair fight donate share tell your
friends we need all the help we can get
thanks Uniqua thank you great job great
job Elijah great job jellybeans oh you
can let Leo in to pick up the video
again sorry Elijah okay let's get to the
news Dan we have to start today with the
Washington Post story that broke late
last night I
just gonna read the lead on this one the
whistleblower complaint that has
triggered a tense showdown between the
US intelligence community in Congress
involves president Trump's
communications with a foreign leader
which included a promise that was
regarded as so troubling that it
prompted an official in the US
intelligence community to file a formal
whistleblower complaint with the
Inspector General for the intelligence
community the sourcing here is to former
US officials familiar with the matter
the story has been confirmed by NBC and
the New York Times NBC also confirmed
the fact that the communication in
question was a phone call Dan I'm no
expert on the inner workings of the
intelligence community but this sounds
gonna fooled me on Twitter I am yeah uh
this sounds like a big deal how unusual
is this what the is going on here
we don't know what the is going on
but it's you know I think one of the
reporters lost I think Kendall a nyan of
NBC I think said we're gonna need to
find a new word other than unprecedented
to describe this yeah because we should
be very clear is that a intelligence
official who by some reports worked for
some period of time the gnash Security
Council right that's true
filed a whistleblower complaint to the
Trump appointed inspector general in the
need to in the intelligence community
yeah thank you to the Trump appointee
Inspector General in the intelligence
community we should and we should tell
people I was thinking this morning like
what an Inspector General does what our
what our Inspector General is why are
they in these departments what's going
on they're the independent watchdogs
they are supposed to look investigate
malfeasance corruption other problems we
are we know about an Inspector General's
because there have been a lot of
Inspector General's working in the
Justice Department investigating the
various things that went on around the
Comey firing Andrew McCabe's that's how
we hear about them it's a always a
little bit of a fishy situation because
they're appointed by the President and
then investigate that president's
department and Trump has not been known
to appoint people straight shooters
straight shooter is respected on either
side and so the fact that this Trump
appointed inspector general read this
complaint deemed it to be in these are
terms urgent incredible which means by
law they are required to immediately
send it to the congressional committees
of oversight so that Congress can be
aware of it and look into it that has
not happened and by determining that
it's credible and urgent that is also
that's a legal determination that means
you have to have the whistleblower has
to have witnessed something that either
breaks the law involves serious abuse of
power or in dangers national security in
some way so it's not just like I saw
Trump
I heard Trump say something on the phone
with a foreign leader and it made me
uncomfortable because I disagree with
his policy position it couldn't be that
right and this person would know and the
Inspector General would also know that
Donald Trump and any president has very
wide latitude to declassify classified
information whenever the president would
like to make decisions negotiate with
foreign leaders in private on his own
like prison has a lot of latitude when
it comes to talking to foreign leaders
negotiating national security
declassifying intelligence so the fact
that the Inspector General and the
whistleblower would know all this and
still you find this complaint urgent
incredible tells you it might be
something pretty big it in fact it
likely is on its face it is something
very significant it has to be to reach
this level and to be the the it's
important to also understand that the
Trump administration is bloc essentially
in violation of the law by refusing to
send this to Congress so it is something
that the whistleblower thought was so
alarming the Inspector General found met
this incredibly high bar of urgent
urgent incredible and the Trump
administration the Acting Director of
National Intelligence is so worried
about the impact that will have on Trump
that they are keeping this whistleblower
complaint from Congress in violation of
the law which is making Congress Adam
Schiff and the House Intelligence
Committee and and other leaders in
Congress very very angry as they should
be the other thing to note here is that
before the Acting Director of National
telogen joseph mcguire chose to keep the
substance of the complaint from Congress
he consulted wait for it people at the
Department of Justice and as we know
attorney general bill Barr has basically
been his role has been covering up for
Trump and not acting as an independent
attorney general like the Attorney
General should since he's been appointed
so that sort of raises a bunch of red
flags that DOJ got involved and and told
them to withhold it from Congress I mean
this whole thing is very concerning we
don't know enough yet the Acting
Director of National Intelligence what
was actually was it the whistleblower
who was in Congress today no it was the
IG it was the inspector right the
Inspector General a concern Michael
Atkinson was in front of in closed
session the intelligence meeting refused
to at least as of the recording of this
podcast convey the substance of the
complaint to Congress in violation of
the law like that is the most important
point yeah this is not you don't that
the Director of National Intelligence
doesn't get to decide that a
whistleblower complaint that is deemed
urgent and credible can be withheld from
Congress that's not in the light it's
actually in fact it's a violation of the
law right now so that's that's where we
are yet again someone is breaking the
law to cover up the breaking of the law
of someone higher up on the food chain
of course Donald Trump has tweeted about
this this morning quote another fake
news story out there it never ends
virtually any time I speak on the phone
to a foreign leader I understand that
there may be many people listening from
various US agencies not to mention those
from the other country itself no problem
knowing all of this is anybody dumb
enough to believe that I would say
something inappropriate with a foreign
leader while on such a potentially
heavily populated call yes I am that
dumb I am dumb enough to believe that
it's a pretty telling tweet since Trump
never argues I don't commit the crime no
he just argues I'm better committing the
crimes and you think I am he's offended
that we think he's bad at committing
crimes not that he commits crimes it's
uh yeah
so without engaging in completely wild
speculation that's what Bryan's for
which week you can check if Ryan's
Twitter feed look he may be correct in
which case I'll say see I always knew
Bryan was right
what do we know so far we know it
involved a phone call with a foreign
leader mm-hmm we're aware of a handful
of phone calls that happened in the
general period around when this
complaint was filed it was filed in
early August and on July 31st the
president had a phone call with one
Vladimir Putin yes and what did there
was also he talked to the the Dutch
foreign leader so I'm sure he was
probably saying all kinds of things it's
almost certainly gonna be the Dutch
foreign leader he traded Eric for like a
pallet of wooden shoes but what a bus
that would be the what is there was
around the Putin call there was a lot of
suspicion our friend former Obama
administration ambassador Russia Mike
McFaul was struck by this call because
the Trump administration described it as
cooperation on fighting the wildfires in
Russia in Siberia it's what they talked
about Donald Trump offering his
assistance to help with the Siberian
wildfires this was wild California was
burning by the way and it was just like
no no I want to concentrate on Siberia's
wildfires with my friend Vladimir Putin
and the Russians described it as
measures that can improve bilateral
relations which often means sanctions
which was McFaul interpretation that's
the same interpretation our friends
Tommy and Ben had I do I did believe at
the time it was possible that Trump
called Putin just cuz he saw there was
wildfires it's sort of this is like a
dated reference for when people used
actual phones but it's sort of like
being in Middle School and calling the
person you have a crush on to find the
biology homework
hey yeah just I just wanted to talk to
about the fire fires that's right well I
have about the fires yeah I mean it
definitely reminds me of this meeting
was about adoptions yes a little bit but
who knows we don't know we don't know we
will hopefully find out soon I think one
reason why the sanctions thing is
relevant is like you talked about how
presidents have this broad authority
from derive from article 2 of the
Constitution to conduct foreign policy
and what they deemed to be the best
interest the United States Congress does
have the power to limit that to very
specifically limited and Russian
sanctions were an way it
early on the Trump administration where
Congress passed the law because they did
not trust Trump to act in America's best
interests on Russia's a limited his
power they exist example of how a
president can steer can overstep their
bounds historically is around country
where in the 80s the rake administration
believed they wanted to help the contras
overthrow the government Nicaragua
Congress did not want them to do that
they passed a law called the Boland
Amendment to stop to say that no no
funds could be spent up the Contra
Contras rig administration decided they
didn't like that they sold weapons to
Iran and then gave that money of the
Contras which led to a huge massive
scandal and could have let and could
have put a lot people in jail but hadn't
been pardoned right and so this is like
there are parallel we don't know what
this is but there are parallels between
the Boland Amendment Nicaragua and the
admit the sanctions law and Russia in
this situation not to say that Trump has
a point because of course he never
really does but you do wonder like on
these calls with foreign leaders there
are a bunch of people listening and so I
kind of wonder what would so alarm a US
intelligence official over worked for a
time in the National Security Council
but not potentially alarm everyone else
who heard the phone call on both sides
I mean potentially potentially the
answer is they're all just a bunch of
lackeys who didn't think it was a big
problem yeah I mean it was the right bit
than Putin and his goons also kept it
secret it's sort of curious well Putin
and his goons if it was Putin and we do
not know that's right we don't know if
it was they hinted at something in their
readout without the concerns that the US
would have for the politics or the law
of sanctions relief but you're right
there now Trump early on circumscribed
the circle of people who listen to his
calls directly because of the the
transcripts were getting around and
leaking because he was saying insane
and so it's a smaller group than four
would be for an Obama call for instance
but there would have been other people
on that call now worth noting in the
brian potential conspiracy theory area
here
Boulton resigned there are two former
officials who are quoted as the sources
here right is very interesting also
resigning were
dan coates the Director of National
Intelligence and Sue Gordon who was the
deputy director who was going to take
over as Acting but Trump did not trust
her and so needed to push her out in
order to elevate this mcguire fellow who
seems to be doing exactly what Trump
wants which is Ranta law-breaking for
the purposes of protecting Trump and
another person who resigned in August
was John Huntsman ambassador to Russia
oh that isn't interesting yeah so it's
just a lot of I mean again we can we got
the red string we could go all that time
you listen to this you probably know all
the answers yeah but look at least we
know that this Congress and these
Democrats are gonna do whatever it takes
to hold this administration accountable
right there someone is drafting a letter
right now segue to our next topic so the
House Democrats haven't been super
successful in using their power to hold
the administration accountable for its
wrongdoing on Tuesday
former Trump campaign manager Corey
Lewandowski confirmed during the House
Democrats first official impeachment
hearing that he is a frequent and public
liar and he also confirmed that the
Mulla report was correct in stating the
Trump asked Lewandowski to help him
obstruct justice by threatening the
Attorney General to stop investigating
the president but Lewandowski also
turned the hearing into a circus by
refusing to answer even the most basic
questions and generally being a huge
 to Democrats on the committee
how much of the hearing did you watch
and what were your initial impressions
I watched none of the hearing in real
time same I did I lived my life and I'm
happy about it sometimes you roll the
dice and you say maybe other things will
happen we won't have to discuss this and
I rolled the dice and lost because here
we are snake eyes I did what I did was I
like what I I went to Erin Roop are from
Vox and I just he he is a journalist who
uses video to capture what's happening
in real-time at Trump events but he also
did the Lewandowski hearing so he sort
of he's like the redzone of the Trump
era and so I watched all the highlights
from that so I feel prepared for this
conversation so what were your what are
your initial impressions of the hearing
like what do you mean because so I was
watching I was not watching the hearing
I was watching the coverage of the
hearing on Twitter as it's going and so
the first however many hours was
what a circus what a disaster you got a
lot of reporters both sides in this like
oh it's a it's a partisan circus and
this is a something this is why people
hate Washington
both parties are crazy both applause I'm
like oh and then suddenly at the
end it got a little bit better once they
had an actual lawyer questioning corey
lewandowski instead of people just who
just wish they played lawyers on TV
which are politicians I think they're
they're probably three takeaways and we
can maybe we'll probably talk about each
of these individually one there is Corey
lewandowski's performance and what that
says about modern conservatism
yeah we just important we should start
there the second is what it the ways in
which the hearing did not go well for
Democrats is directly tied to a larger
conversation about the impeachment
purgatory in which they are currently
living mm-hmm and then the third part is
if we were in an actual legal proceeding
the information in that hearing was
incredibly damning to an obstruction of
justice charge against Trump yeah and so
let's start with the first yeah let
start with Cory like Cory Lewandowski is
a absurd figure he's like a it's not
even a JV player he's a freshman team
Republican operative who just having to
be the only guy who would go work for
Trump he didn't even get Trump elected
he got fired mm-hmm for being bad at his
job and abusing physically abusing a
reporter yeah and just generally
terrible human being but his performance
here today I think is about more than
just Corey Lewandowski being a terrible
human being it is I think it sort of
speaks to the Assaf off'
occation of Republicans yeah which is
the only the best way to succeed in
Republican politics right now either as
an influence peddler in Washington or a
candidate out in the country is get the
support of Trump and the best way to get
this word of Trump is to act like as big
an to as many people as possible
and we Donald Trump who theoretically
has a job like he there are tasks that
come with the presidency there are these
meetings in which you were supposed to
attend he tweeted out he thanked Cory
for his opening statement he tweeted out
the video of Corey state bed and so heat
Cory got what he wanted which is it was
a campaign launch yeah he did not treat
it
as you know a hearing where he was under
oath to talk about potential crimes
committed by the president he treated it
as his campaign launched for running for
Senate in New Hampshire we know this
because you know aside from the fact
that he acted like a huge and
said all kinds of ridiculous
he asked for a break halfway through the
hearing and then went outside and
tweeted a website that was potentially
his campaign Senate website so the whole
thing was about trying to and then he
figured he would defend Donald Trump and
be loyal because the way to for a
Republican to win in 2019 is to get the
blessing of their mob leader Donald
Trump I mean a trite it really did look
like a TV mob trial with a witness who
is essentially agreeing to serve time
for the boss yelling at the prosecutors
in the jury like in that that is what
goes for loyalty is fleeting v for
Donald Trump yeah I mean you know the
the memorable line from Corey
Lewandowski that he said towards the end
is I have no obligation to be honest
with the media because they're just as
dishonest as anyone else so one would
think that for someone who is
contemplating running for the US Senate
admitting in public that they lie all
the time like he just did would be a
campaign ending move not in today's
Republican Party know it positive for
Corey Lewandowski the only thing he
needed out of this hearing is for Donald
Trump to shower praise on him Donald
Trump who once fired him so that wasn't
necessarily a done deal but he wanted
Donald Trump to shower praise on him so
he can go to people in New Hampshire
Republicans in New Hampshire and say
doesn't matter if I lie doesn't matter
if I don't have the experience doesn't
matter if I'm a buffoon all you
need to know about me is I got the
Donald stump Donald Trump seal of
approval stamped on me that's it that's
all you need to know vote for me and it
might work and it might work and I'm my
primary in the primary yeah hopefully
hopefully we'll be a little different in
the general so what what a value
actually came out of the hearing for
Democrats who are looking to conduct
these impeachment hearings I think one
of the goals of Nadler at all was to
the other has made the point and I think
he is one percent correct that
obstructing the Muller investigation is
an impeachable offense yeah but also
obstructing Congress's oversight into
the president is also in a teachable
offense we know this because it was one
of the articles of impeachment filed
against Richard Nixon and this was a
demonstration of the effort of the Trump
administration to obstruct Congress's
constitutional obligation to do checks
and balances and we have Corey
Lewandowski was refused to answer
questions because the White House had
told him not to he was asserting
privilege Corey Lewandowski has never
worked in the federal government he is
just a outside adviser to Trump there is
no such thing as executive privilege
when it comes to someone who's never
worked in the way I don't know it is
just know that you can't spend there's
no such thing it's made up it's
crazy and he which is a saute which
would speak to an effort to the light
and he was operating under the explicit
and public instructions of the White
House to do this which is White House
basically putting up a sign that says
impeach me on the front of the White
House and so that part of it was
important the other important part that
we cannot forget that gets lost in all
of the internal democratic debate about
impeachment is Corey Lewandowski was
forced to tell Congress as he did Muller
that Donald Trump asked his political
henchmen to pressure the Attorney
General into ending a criminal
investigation into the president his
campaign and his family that is
significant that happened the other
thing that would take from that is Corey
Lewandowski is loyal to Donald Trump
like no one else he would swim through a
sewer with an open mouth for Donald
Trump and he refused to do this it was
an order so crazily illegal that he did
not do it which but that does not extend
that is not exculpate Trump the actual
ask of the ask of asking court alluding
to ask you to do that is a crime and we
discussed a major crime from the
president in Congress on live TV yeah
you wouldn't know that it was it's like
buried in the like tenth paragraph of
some of the story look you've got
somebody get through nine to ten
paragraphs of optics before you can get
to the facts that is a rule of modern
journals I will say when I woke up the
day after the hearing
some media outlets handle this right
like the top of PlayBook talked about
what we actually got out of the hearing
of value which I thought was great I
thought the New York Times did it well
too you know some other outlets didn't
do as well know who you are if you know
who you are that talked all about the
 optics before you talked about
the fact that the president's political
henchmen confirmed the special counsels
belief that the president obstructed
justice there you go that's the hearing
he also by the way we found out that he
that court Lewandowski demanded immunity
before he would talk to Bob Muller
so maybe Corey Lewandowski you know it
might be done something wrong possible
but he demanded it we found out that he
so he admitted that he lied to the media
demanded immunity from the special
counsel we found out that Trump asked
him to obstruct justice and the Trump
asked him to obstruct Congress's
investigation by refusing to answer
questions seemed significant but look we
we should talk about the Democrats and
sort of like how this hearing went right
because while we learned all these
things from Cory Lewandowski we learned
them at the end when Barry Burk a lawyer
for the Democratic staff questioned Cory
Lewandowski before that it was a bit of
a show so what does this sort of
say about you know the Democratic
strategy around impeachment
well let's deal with the lawyer first
member questioning first lawyer should
always do it right a staff lawyer or if
you're in a situation where you have
someone who was on the committee as a
member who is a trained litigator and
interrogator like Kamala Harris on the
Senate Judiciary Committee yeah and it's
just the five-minute time limit where
you have to waste two of your minutes in
preamble is never enough time to
actually get to the truth of anything
because you as soon as you get going
they hand it to some Republican who's
just going to throw gorilla dust in the
air and then we start all over again
and so having a what having an attorney
do it whether it's a staff attorney or
one person over a sustained period of
time is a much better approach that is
never going to happen it just will not
because members of Congress look in the
mirror and they see Daniel Kaffee like
that shouldn't that is just how it is
and we had a conversation we had it
after Bill Barr we had it after Michael
Cohen we had after Mark Zuckerberg it
smaller
a subject matter expert to ask questions
like there's a couple people in Congress
who were good at this Adam Schiff is
very good at it right he was great in
the Muller hearing Nadler is good at it
freshman members AOC very good at it a
lot of you just aren't so great and this
isn't like a participation
trophy exercise worth like everyone just
needs to get there a couple minutes to
feel good about themselves like is is
that more important than making sure
these hearings come off well and achieve
their goal of bringing public opinion
around to a while the why the president
needs impeaching or even just finding
the truth forget public opinion right
yes actually like so you take a Oh see
who is great at this but it's still five
minutes and then you hand it off and so
a better approach is start with a
Democrat at one Democrat doing it for
some extended period of time and then
the Republican staff attorney or member
can do it for the same amount of time
yeah but the public will be better
informed by that for sure and I I will
say you know and this gives me pot we
should talk about this it gives me pause
about sort of the broader Democratic
strategy or any strategy around
impeachment hearings is the Republican
strategy here is very simple and it
tracks with Trump's overall strategy I
think in the election in 2020 and during
his presidency which is like when they
can make things seem like a
circus like everyone's yelling like
we're all focused on like small minutiae
of you know who's insulting who they win
right like they know how to play the
media Republicans know that a vase
scream and insult and yell at people
then the media won't report that as
Republicans are screaming and yelling
and insulting people in turning into a
circus the media will report it as both
sides are at fault and partly they do
that because they know they're going to
get a rise out of the Democrats on the
committee as well and the Democrats will
return the insults right and so they can
learn emma-crats into the vortex of
 so that everyone's yelling at
each other this is there going to be
their strategy through impeachment this
is going to be Donald Trump's strategy
in the 2020 election it's heli one it's
how we won in 2016 let's focus on small
 controversies and let's forget
the big things at stake here and so my
question is do the House Democrats have
the capacity to focus on the big stakes
and the truth and not get drawn into the
 they got drawn into during the
first couple hours of a Lewandowski
hearing no and that's not I don't it's
not even an indictment of the Democrats
individually or collectively right it is
the way the system works advantages the
Republicans that is the the way punditry
works the way media works is we live in
a both sides world and Republic it is
too Republican advantage to pull this
into a contest of the lesser of two
evils yeah and that is going to happen
now the whole frame in the election I
think it can theoretically in a
presidential race you can change that
dynamic like in a one-on-one person
against Trump takes a lot of lot of
discipline a lot of messages to plan but
you can do it and you can and you do not
depends as a presidential candidate on
the filter to be the primary sources
exactly through the America people you
get you can run ads you speak directly
you have that ability it's much harder
in Congress so it's just it's very
challenging but you give yourself the
best advantage to do that is if you have
a clear plan and a strategy that is
obvious to the voters to the media and
you tell them where you were going right
like this is really important that in
these confusing situations like these
you have to like we always yell about
people quote unquote signaling the play
and say what you're gonna doing in a
situation like this you have to lay out
a timeline a process in a goal and say
we're gonna do this first our next step
is this and then this and you you sort
of tell them the story in advance so
they can follow along yeah and you not
just say one say oh you have to hit
people in the media over the head with
this kind of stuff over and over and
over because there's so much going on
out there and you just have to keep
repeating the message now in fairness
one of the big problems one of the
reasons that Democrats can't do this
can't have a very clear strategy that
they communicate about impeachment is
because they're divided on impeachment
right so political publish the story of
Wednesday night about the tensions
between Judiciary Committee Chairman
Jerry Nadler and Nancy Pelosi who quote
criticized the panel's handling of
impeachment in harsh terms complaining
committee aides have advanced
push for us ting President Donald Trump
far beyond where the house Democratic
caucus stands Democrats simply don't
have the votes on the floor to impeach
Trump Pelosi said and you can feel free
to leak this the story came out in the
heels of Nadler telling WNYC
quote personally i think the president
ought to be impeached and that he
believes the house should act on
impeachment even if the senate will not
remove the president because congress
has to quote vindicate the Constitution
meanwhile policy then said of Corey
Lewandowski that she quote would have
held him in contempt right then and
there which many people are interpreting
as a swipe at Nadler Daniel what the
 is going on here what I don't know
like what doesn't it mean no I and I
feel bad for dad ler because nailer is
doing what he should be doing doing what
the Constitution requires doing what is
not only morally right but what we have
argued is politically astute which is
pushing forward on a number of hearings
that will result in hopefully an
impeachment you know bringing articles
of impeachment against the president
United States
what is Nancy Pelosi doing here's what I
think Nancy Pelosi is trying to do which
is she has made the political assessment
and it is informed by her members yeah
right yeah yeah we it is important we
say Nancy Pelosi is shorthand here and
you can also make the argument that if
Nancy Pelosi really wants something she
gets it and she could convince all these
more moderate members or swing district
members to go along with impeachment and
I think there's a good argument for that
she could but this is not just Nancy
Pelosi this is a lot of the people that
we all elected in 2018 we campaign for
them we give it to them and it is they
believe me the plural assessment that
Trump committed impeachable offenses but
because there will be no actual
accountability for that other than a
vote the house and because public
opinion is so so on impeachment
therefore it is not it is it is overly
politically risky to do it because I
think it would be different if you'd
there was a belief the Senate could if
you could actually remove Trump I think
people would have a different approach
to this but it is interpreted by some I
don't agree that's interpreted by some
to be a show vote and are you willing to
put your race on the line
for a chef up now I would argue you're
putting your race on the line period you
are in a contested yeah it's not like
your Republican opponents is gonna drop
off the ballot if they're NRC and hide
from the news you can't hide from
politics it's happening but so like they
are incredibly divided on this and like
we often make fun of the press for their
heat-seeking missile like look for Dems
in disarray means we are actually in
disarray here like that is a fact
you have Dems our industry you have
Jerry Nadler and ANSI Pelosi two leaders
in Congress the two most important
people for this conversation found
impeachment completely on different
pages and this Speaker of the House
feeling like the Judiciary Committee has
pulled her in a place her caucus does
not want to go and you have the
Judiciary Committee and a lot of the
members feeling that the speaker is
keeping them from where they want to go
and they're telling everyone about it in
what's what's bizarre here is you know
in the political story says this Nancy
Pelosi has signed off on every move that
Jerry Nadler has made she signed off on
the court documents that state that this
is an impeachment inquiry so in and you
know privilege i appalled said this in
the story to she doesn't want to say the
word impeachment but she signed off on
all the documents which again like if
Nancy Pelosi just wanted to go out and
say look I know that he should be
impeach I think it's bad politics
I'm never gonna be for it I'm against
this it's just a bad idea and that's
that I would seriously disagree with her
but I might respect that more and might
respect it as a strategy more than what
she's trying to do right now which is
have it both ways which is you know okay
we're gonna let Jerry Nadler go forward
a little bit but then I'm gonna pull
them back and then I'm going to take
swipes in them and caucus meetings and
then I'm gonna say things like you
should have held Corey Lewandowski in
contempt when I'm against impeachment
like what are you doing try feel like
this strategy of trying to have it both
ways and straddle this is the worst of
all worlds one of the most important
lessons that I learned for our time in
the White House was most of the time no
decision is worse than a bad decision
yes and we are living in the no decision
more particularly in a situation where
this is a 50
1:49 proposition and reasonable people
can be on either side of that whether
everyone agrees it's the right thing to
do
what people are disagreeing about is the
politics of it and it is a fair
political question to ask since the only
thing the house will be doing is putting
a Scarlet eye on Trump right we're not
gonna remove him from office so it is
fair to debate the politics of that and
people are coming down either sides of
it we think it's the the right politics
although the last few weeks have caused
me some concern yeah Matt me too
no I mean I look the reason that we
think it's good politics the reason
we're for impeachment aside from that
it's the morally right thing to do and
then he deserves to be impeached is that
we've argued that the Democrats can put
on essentially a show and and hold
public trials and public hearings where
there's enough media attention on that
that people in you know American people
who are not yet on board watch these
hearings and say yeah this guy does
deserve to be impeached
yeah he's committed a lot of crimes yeah
he's really corrupt and maybe if I'm on
the fence maybe you know I do need to
come out and vote against him and make
sure that the news is filled with
stories about Donald Trump's corruption
and his wrongdoing so that the news is
not filled with all kinds of stories
about the Democrats and the Democratic
nominee
that's about what that's our calculation
but that depends on the Democrats
running a good impeachment hearing and
running a tight ship and not falling
into their traps and I'm not sure they
can do it it's everything to date it's
been concerning I just want to say one
more point on Nancy Pelosi sure I just
want I think we should be fair to her
and this and I think people can mate
like we disagree with what has happened
to date we would disagree with her
position on impeachment and people of
every right to be to do that I think the
critics of Nancy Pelosi has to be rooted
though in the reality of her position
which is she could not tomorrow say we
are going to impeach Trump and just do
it right the Speaker of the House is
more is not a dictator they really keep
like this idea that everyone's like
Frank Underwood or Lyndon Johnson I'm
like twisting arms make but that's
not how Congress works at most she is a
shepherd she is moving a bunch of sheep
trying to get them to go in in the right
direction and they are not doing that
now she could say so I don't think she
could say you were definitely impeaching
and I'm gonna make sure that happens she
could say we're definitely not
impeaching that was the thing she could
say yeah and so that is that that is the
choice that I think lies before her and
her Congress this is at some point do
you just pull the band-aid off and the
sooner you do that either the sooner you
say now those gonna send something the
floor and we're gonna deal with it or
we're not gonna do it then at least
there was strategic clarity and we can
figure out what we're doing but right
now it is a swamp of terribleness and it
is concerning no one is no one is
benefitting by what's happening right
now not the people who want to do
impeachment of people don't know each
minute it is actually helping Trump
because it's distracting from it is like
the impeachment because we're talking
about the impeachment process and we're
not talking about the impeachable
offenses yeah but that's what it comes
to that was the cloud over yesterday's
hearing or Monday's it whatever data
it's all process that's what we're
talking about because that's all that's
happening and we cannot get enough media
coverage of the substance so that's
where we did start today that's not
that's not what struck me the divisions
within the Democratic Party or what's
driving the narrative which is
unfortunate to say the least well okay
let's move on president Trump's been in
California this week where he announced
that he will use the power of the
federal government to prevent our state
from setting higher emission standards
for our cars to go further on a gallon
of gas and not contribute as much to
human extinction
this past summer four of the major auto
companies made a deal with California to
meet the state's fuel economy standard
instead of just satisfying the federal
rules which are lower but even though
some of the biggest automakers
themselves support California's position
Trump said that he's getting rid of the
waiver that allows California to do this
California officials have already
announced plans to sue once the
administration has officially taken the
action so much for the states rights
party huh so much for that big scary
federal government coming in to take
over to trample on your rights Donald
Trump wants to make it more expensive
for you to drive your car
that's it that's it Otto Otto companies
the people who are profiting from all
this are saying yeah we'll make
cars that go further on a gallon of gas
we will agree to do that here in
California more so than other cars
they're made across the country and yet
and yet Donald Trump doesn't want that
to happen now he's saying oh this is
about cheaper cars but that is
yeah this is about oil company profits
what is that what's a why is Trump's
justification so here what does
he well because it is cheaper for
consumers in the long run to have more
fuel-efficient cars right yeah like
whatever you whatever you save in the
shirt like and also we're in this world
now where all of these automakers
because of the market are realizing that
the market demands that with a few what
people want is cars that consume less
gasoline because they can pay less for
gas right it's not just it's it's
chiefly about making sure that you know
one of the biggest emitters of carbon
which are cars in transportation sector
in general you know emit less carbon of
course that's gonna help save the planet
but it's also gonna save people in the
long run if you do have to fill up less
and Donald Trump's just coming in here
and and by the way and what happens in
California affects the rest of the
country because California is such a big
market right that now if Donald Trump
has his way you know there'll be more
gas guzzlers that's basically what he's
fighting for and oil companies will be
richer like that that's what it is so
that's that's one attack that Trump has
launched on California he's also become
obsessed with homelessness in cities
like LA in San Francisco last week the
Washington Post broke the story that the
administration is actively considering
plans to crackdown on homeless camps
here in California and possibly move
people into facilities run by the
federal government federal officials
have apparently looked at a historic
building over by LAX as a potential site
for such a shelter when traveling on Air
Force One on his way out here Trump said
that quote we can't let los angeles san
francisco and numerous other cities
destroy themselves by allowing what's
happening and lamented that homelessness
issues are ruining quote the prestige of
these cities he also said that he's
personally heard complaints from people
like foreign real estate investors who
are deeply concerned about how tense and
most people are affecting their property
values what so why is Trump obsessed
with this issue why did he suddenly
decide to care about homelessness and in
our cities here in California because
deep in his dark soul there was a
glimmer of empathy no Trump no it is
important to Trump's political narrative
to tell a story of cities which are a
proxy for places inhabited by liberal
elites and people of color right as to
all these favorite groups of people yes
as threatening hellholes
right that are overrun with immigrants
that are encroaching upon they're gonna
they're gonna hate it there so much
they're gonna move to your suburb or
your rural town and so it isn't like
this has been the it is that like the
exact thing that a seventy plus year old
white guy from Queens great whose brain
was pickled in the 80s thinks right like
it is a very simplistic racist view of
cities
yeah there's Thursday there's a
political benefit here as there is with
everything that Donald Trump does and
you can see it in the electoral results
even since 2016 where you know American
politics today can be you know one way
you can look at it is this deepening
divide between urban areas in this
country in rural areas in this country
urban and suburban areas in sort of
rural and exurban areas and Donald Trump
wins with grievance politics and he wins
with fear and he's trying to make his
America in the rural areas and exurban
areas afraid of the cities and and and
angry about the cities because he wants
to continue deepening that divide so he
isolates people who live in the cities
as bad whether it's people of color
whether it's immigrants whether it's
liberals those people are bad they are
taking all of our money they are
draining our resources they are filled
with dangerous people they are a blight
on America I am fighting the war against
the cities and the liberals in the
immigrants on your behalf that is his
message he's also angry because he's
unpopular in those places yeah that's
part of it too I mean we should also
just it is important to acknowledge that
homelessness is a huge problem in the
cities in which we live it
it's a huge problem and it's a huge
problem that you know the Democrats
haven't come up you know of failed
enough Democrats haven't come up with a
solution or at least a workable solution
there's plenty of great policies out
there not a lot of workable solutions
yet and there were this issue and the
reason that people are homeless is
multi-variable
right there that is it can be there are
there are regulations in California that
are making it incredibly hard to housing
cost housing colleges in the economy
rent open York right there's a whole set
of things that massive inequality
economic inequality so no people don't
have the there's not a silver bullet
solution I know the silver bullet
solution is not however the federal
government rounding up the homeless
people and putting them in a camp which
is what Thomas Trump proposed and we all
just went it was like in the ninth
paragraph of a story like we have anyone
talked about it since then it is one of
the most craziest things
anyone's said in a long time it's
incredibly scary it's incredibly
dehumanizing it's like you know
years and years on HBO come to life here
the way that Trump I mean I know that
the homelessness is is a problem it is a
crisis this is how Donald Trump talks
about it though quote we have people
living in our best highways our best
streets our best entrances to buildings
and pay tremendous taxes where people in
those buildings pay tremendous taxes
sorry where they went to those locations
because of the prestige in many cases
they come from other countries and they
moved to Los Angeles or they moved to
San Francisco because of the prestige of
the city and all of a sudden they have
tents hundreds and hundreds of tents and
people living at the entrance to their
office building and they want to leave
in Donald Trump's mind the problem is
not the thousands and thousands of
people who have fallen on hard times who
probably worked you know probably had
homes at one point lost their job locker
rooms can't afford the cost of living
with their families they take that you
know they have children they are in and
out of homeless shelters like that's not
the problem the problem is that those
people are a blight on the city it is
the most dehumanizing thing you could
say it is it is scary to listen to a
leader dehumanize people like he has
done like I think the way to think about
it is Donald Trump does not care about
the person who has to sleep in the
street his concern about homelessness is
not the person was to step over the
person sleeping in the street yeah and
it's very and it's very scary
you know that like he's art you know
he's already has this war on immigrants
specifically immigrants of color right
not the ones from Norway of course and
you know now he's moving from that to
homelessness right he's trying to sort
of siphon off parts of the population
that he deems either dangerous or a
blight on the cities or whatever it's
it's really really but this is very
Giuliani era New York City type politics
on steroids yeah I was the power the
federal government with the part of the
federal government and I think the
language too is is is really amped up
what kind of you know what are Democrats
doing about this what kind of plans of
Democrats had I saw that Bernie has a
housing for all plan which I think is is
great it's you know I think it's two and
a half trillion dollars over ten years
and you know he aims to end homelessness
and enact a national cap on rent on rent
hikes we saw you know better work was
out here this week he toured Skid Row in
in Los Angeles and and and talked to
homeless people and homeless advocates
so that's good but I don't know if
you've seen it
how do you think Democrats should handle
this i I think the there you're gonna
need a whole series of approaches right
Reston Medicare for all to like some
element if this is mental health right
Medicare for all or or some of these
other universal health care plans to
expand access to health care would keep
people more access mental health
services we have to deal with substance
abuse issues brownie is exactly right
that we have to make housing more
affordable in this country it is
unaffordable in these cities and is
pushing people out it onto the streets
and elsewhere and so you its limit this
is a NIMBY problem right not my backyard
right there's a lot of like wealthy
liberals who would say that they want to
care about homelessness but when you
start building affordable housing in
their neighborhood say absolutely not
they get the shelter somewhere else
right so that's a huge problem too
so there are a lot of problems here but
like Donald Trump isn't serious about
any of these problems this is a
political wedge issue for him and you
know he's seems to be obsessed with
California for a very specific reason
California doesn't love him right it's
in its liberal and it's a it's a
caricature of everything that Donald
Trump wants to talk about in this camp
so he comes out here to make sure that
our cars are more expensive scapegoats
homeless people and then he spends the
night in Beverly Hills raising 15
million dollars for his campaign from
richest people just in case you were
wondering what's going on behind the
scenes while Donald Trump is engaging in
his culture war he is trying to steal as
many of the make himself richer when his
campaign take as much in the nation's
resources as he can for himself
destroying the planet to own the lips
that's it that's it okay when we come
back we will be talking to Obama
campaign manager David Plouffe
