welcome to positive America live and get
this microphone to love in addition that
I love its back he says tryna figure out
hey keep his microphone from killing him
looks like one of those Boston Robotics
like dogs
it really does yeah this is like um that
black mirror episode yeah you know the
way anyway I know this is why you tuned
in with us as always Priyanka asking
questions got Elijah here on camera NAR
you know we're ready to go we're so
we're ready I'm in a mood he's in a mood
you're in a mood the rare quad for me
paid promo by Howard Schultz or no we
don't do that okay okay oh all right
well kick it off with some 20 20
questions
sure first up we have one about ranked
choice voting should we use it in the
primaries what are the pros cons what
are your thoughts you think love it I'm
very interested in ranked choice voting
I think that Toby what it is yeah so so
basically ranked choice voting yeah so
so in a crowded field right this
actually just happened in the city of
Chicago and actually it's not just about
Democratic primaries in terms of the
presidential primaries the basic idea is
like let's say let's say there are three
or four candidates in the field right
and you have a favorite who you really
like but that person's like an underdog
and then you're forced to have this
question do I vote for the person I
really really want to win or am i
strategic with my vote and because I
want to stop another person who has a
better chance of winning from winning so
I'm gonna vote for someone I don't like
as much to keep someone I really don't
like from winning even though the person
I love the most is a person that I wish
I could vote for but they don't have as
big of a chance a real-life example of
this and what led the state of Maine to
move to rank-choice voting was Paul
LePage was governor of Maine he was like
the Trump of Maine before Trump was
president crazy guy only one with
40-something percent of the vote the
first time and still under 50 percent of
the vote the second time
and they're like how can this be that
someone who the majority of people in
Maine don't want to be in office because
he's so crazy continues to win
we should move towards Wayne rain Joyce
voting right and so the basic idea would
be everybody would vote for their first
choice but then they would also mark
their second choice their third choice
their fourth choice all the way down and
then there's a then there's a vote the
person who does the worst they're
knocked out and then all the person who
voted for them first or gave them their
first choice position they get to vote
then for their second choice person and
then you basically add it up the idea
base the the fundamental goal of rank
choice voting is to say in a crowded
field we want the person that the most
people want to win to ultimately win the
election the simplest version would be
if you had an election with two
Democrats and a Republican and 60% split
their vote between the two Democrats and
the Republicans got 40% you would want a
system that said hold on a second even
though the Republican got the most votes
in this race the majority that people
preferred a Democrat so let's say if one
of those Democrats had dropped out
because they came in third where would
all the people that had voted for that
Democrat go and the majority of their
votes would have gone for the other
Democrats so it's a more democratic way
of choosing someone in a crowded field
and it leads to something called what
they call Instant runoffs so basically
you cast the vote you slowly knock off
the people doing the worst you add up
the the second and third and
fourth-place votes up the up they kind
of kind of march up the chain right and
so you're left with kind of two people
facing off and the person who has the
most support ultimately wins yeah the
idea is the majority's voice should
carry the day right like that we should
have a candidate that is amenable to the
majority of voters yeah and this isn't
like a partisan thing right there are
places where this would help Republicans
places where would help Democrats I just
think it's a fair way to deal with a
crowded field yeah that's the other
thing it would replace in some instances
is a runoff election yes so we know that
where there was a runoff election we
remember in the state of Georgia for
Secretary of State
after Stacey Abrams lost the
governorship there that we thought maybe
the Democratic and and the Democratic
candidate or Secretary of State could
win in the runoff the problem with
runoff is they're very costly and a lot
of times I'll people don't show up
and it's hard to get them to show up for
a run awful and so they just showed up a
month ago and like they want a second
election like so you just have the
runoff built into the ballot right all
the people voted so all the people that
so basically all the runoff is is a
chance for the people who voted for
someone who's no longer in the race to
basically vote again right without all
the complexity and costs of running a
new election in which there's less
turnout so basically you just say to
everybody hey imagine there was a runoff
who would you vote for that's really all
rank choice voting does it makes a
runoff happen instantaneously and it's a
really smart thing and if we had one
actually in the Democratic primary it'd
be really fascinating to see what would
happen because one thing that you would
see is less of a desire for individuals
to kind of stake out some some
unassailable personal space but rather
kind of compete not only for for their
votes but the votes of others right it
would become another way we're
collaborative and well it cuts it cuts
down on negative campaigning as well
because you don't want to attack a
candidate whose supporters you may need
to win over yeah you want to be
everybody second choice - you know it's
also my life because because the because
the Iowa caucuses but always a
bridesmaid because the Iowa caucuses
work in some kind of similar way where
like you need to hit the threshold of
15% to be viable in a caucus you know at
least 15% or your supporters have to go
to another candidate it's one reason why
Democratic candidates in Iowa they call
it I owe a nice but Democratic
candidates in Iowa tend not to attack
each other too much because you don't
want to piss off other people's
supporters in Iowa because you'll at
some point need them to caucus for you
and then I when I saw viously distinct
from Minnesota Nights which when you're
very nice publicly but then when you
shut that door you go crazy pass all
right this next question is about the
crowded field as well
it's March of 2019 we have new
candidates Democratic candidates for
president basically weekly at this point
for someone who's skeptical of polling
data after the majority of major outlets
got 2016 so wrong what is the utility of
scrutinizing polls this early into 2020
presidential campaign with seriousness
should we be looking at them how should
we be reading them I think if you are
looking at polls at this stage to
predict who is going to win the
nomination
you should be spending your time
elsewhere yeah but I do think that said
I think that polls are valuable I would
also say that like the polls in 2016
national polls again were pretty close
we had polls in a couple of Midwestern
states that were clearly off and there
was a problem there but overall a lot of
the polling was correct and the polling
in 2018 was quite correct except for
public pollsters are still having a
problem figuring out how to poll Florida
though the private pollsters on the
Democratic and Republican side both had
that race much closer than the public
polls but that was sort of the glaring
example in 2018 of polls getting around
like most of the 2018 polls were largely
correct I would say also people tend to
care about how correct polls are only
when they are so a poll being off by 1%
meaning the difference we know Hillary
Clinton winning and losing Pennsylvania
is held up as a greater failure of
polling than polling being off by say
three or four percent say in Virginia
Democrats actually outperformed the
polls by a huge amount but because it
didn't go against the outcome people
don't care about it so keep in mind that
we care about polls being off by a point
or two when the wrong thing when they
get it wrong by who wins but that's
actually not a bigger error it's just a
bigger impact and again the danger here
is when you take one poll and freak out
over the numbers in a single poll right
the more polls you read the more polls
you look at and sort of averaged
together the firmer the ground you're
standing on and so I think like if if
there's one ball I'm sorry if there's
one poll showing you know Joe Biden in
the lead in Iowa and Bernie in second
bulla yeah you can't really take it
seriously if there's 10 polls that shows
them in the lead well what does that
tell you that tells you if the race were
held today which it's not it's not gonna
be held for another 11 months that's
like two presidents for me right then
you know Joe Biden would be in the lead
that's all it tells you that doesn't
that it's interesting for sort of
analyzing where the field is right now
candidate strengths and weaknesses I'm
always interested in polls that asked
Democratic voters what are you looking
for in a candidate what qualities are
you looking for what issues do you care
about I think those are all really good
polls I think horse race polls who's up
in who
at this stage aren't as useful I would
also say too even if we knew like even
if you did a poll of all voters and you
got the exact breakdown of where all
voters are right now the Democratic
primary even then for each of us as
individuals evaluating candidates it has
very little value why are you reading
polls what are you hoping to understand
what is it teaching you are you trying
to understand Democratic electorate are
trying to understand other people and
not yourself
right like why do we care about polls
none of us right now we're deciding on
resource questions for various campaigns
right like keep in mind that like the
culture has elevated polling us to be
something important it gets way too much
attention it's not it's interesting it's
good to know maybe it'll help you decide
down the road between something you
wanna maybe be behind somebody you think
as a better chance of winning the actual
primaries right there's a lot of reasons
to read polls but they just get so much
attention yeah I think I think it's
valuable to know what voters are
thinking who they like what kind of
qualities they're looking for in a
candidate issues they care about stances
on issues all that kind of stuff there's
value in knowing that but you're right
like horse race stuff it's it's fine but
it's not uh yeah not the best use of
time
read some other stuff I don't know we
have a newsletter I read that what a day
one-year anniversary yesterday yeah
wow thanks it's the the wood anniversary
pay paper paper paper Wow for a
newsletter cool very cool okay this next
one is from Christina she wants to know
what to do and how to help Democrats win
in 2020 if she right now or even maybe
later doesn't have strong passionate
feelings towards any particular
candidate she really wants a Democrat to
win really wanted it to be Hillary in
2016 but right now is like I want anyone
but Trump what should someone in that
situation be doing to help a Democrat
win well boy do we have fun for you the
name of the fund
no I'm look I know it's called unify or
die but I'm looking up the name of the
website go to crooked comm slash go to
vote save America comm slash unified
comm slash unify and you can donate to a
fund that will go to the old we'll go to
the Democratic nominee when he or she is
chosen at the convention it's so
important and it's a perfect thing for
people to do right now who are just
looking at all the candidates and saying
I can't decide yet well you can
definitely support the eventual nominee
which it sounds like this person wants
to do so you know and again I also you
know another thing another thing too you
know I feel as if we're about to like
you know we're about to have this big
debate and if your point of view is I
think all the candidates are pretty
great and I just want to win there's
gonna be a lot of people out there that
they're gonna think you're you know
you're not getting in the fight you need
to pick a side you need to be pretty
vicious about it but you can be kind of
like bumpers on the little bowling alley
that we're about to go to and you for
thinking that I want me everyone should
work really hard to figure out who is
the best candidate to take on Donald
Trump it's a very very serious decision
but we also need to make sure that we
don't we're not disqualifying anyone in
the field they're all better than Trump
every Little League coach needs a parent
who's like you pieces of to
get this together you're gonna kick
that of the team's ass and then you're a
huge and then you need one and then you
need a coach it's like I just want all
the kids have a good time you know you
need both coaches you don't I mean you
need the one that's like I'm gonna rip
their hearts out you know the
ones be like lemonade vote save America
calm slash unify this next one let's see
yeah URL common crossword answer just
would point out oh oh you know I do more
you know all right this next one is
about Joe Biden what do you guys think
about his decision to wait until April
to officially get into 2020 Pfeiffer's
often noted that the most valuable
resource in campaigns is time is Biden
sacrificing too much by waiting for any
of these candidates at this point
well III do think it's different for
different candidates I think that Dan is
right time is the most valuable asset
here and that said every candidate has
11 months until the Iowa caucuses April
used to be early this used to be this is
a another country's they don't start for
a while from now
what we do is stupid and crazy April
used to be early
now April's late it's it's yes I think
that for a candidate like Joe Biden who
has very high name ID who has a staff
that has been with him for a long time
everyone knows he can afford to wait
more than other candidates who haven't
jumped in by now yeah like I think we're
a be a ders in a motorcycle away from
being ready to hit the road everyone
knows who Joe Biden is he's got a whole
staff in waiting so he can probably take
a little extra time he's got a you know
a fundraising network all that kind of
stuff I think for someone like Beto
O'Rourke who needs to put together a
whole staff and hasn't run a national
campaign before like the you know the
the timing issue for him is probably a
little more serious I think it's even
more serious for people because Beto has
some name ID as well for the people like
your Steve Bullock's governor Montana
your Michael Bennett's senator from
Colorado some of the other folks who are
still out there deciding whether they
want to run I do think timing matters
for them even more because most people
don't know who they are
and they don't have a national staff or
network or anything like that and you
know they're sort of losing time here
well Donald Trump come down that
escalator Julian came into our lives at
June 2015
mm-hmm mm-hmm yelling about Mexican
rapists that's what it was I can we all
laughed and here we are here we are here
we are anyway
Wow love an uplifting stream hurry up
and figure it out Joe yeah okay this
next one is a or get off the
front-runner you know spot what kind of
a joke get out the front or pot
you know I mean whatever this is going
thanks Eliza okay this next one is for
the people on Twitter we have lots of
people asking for you guys to talk about
this DNC fox situation with this debate
would someone like to address what the
proposal was and
why this is a bad egg I'll just set up
the contact so that you can okay you go
up this is the DNC Democratic National
Committee is currently deciding which
media outlets can host the primary
debates it's not the general debates
they don't make that decision but just
the there's going to be a series of
sanctioned primary debates that are
sanctioned by the Democratic National
Committee why do they need to be
sanctioned by the DNC because otherwise
every media company in the world would
say come to our debate that'd be too
many debates candidates can't all pick
the DNC is gonna pick the debates who
the debates are sponsored by they've
already decided that you know I think
NBC and CNN are gonna do the first two
so they're now just trying to figure out
the rest of them and it was leaked that
the DNC was at least considering a
request by Fox News to host one of the
primary debates and then today they just
they said that they would not be doing
so that's love it turn down your volume
good decision Democratic the Democratic
primary should not have a debate hosted
by Fox News now why why shouldn't they
right does it answer the question why
Fox News is not just a conservative
media outlet it is not the MSNBC of the
right it is a right-wing Republican
propaganda apparatus we knew this before
Jane Mayer story in The New Yorker
outlined just the various nefarious and
unfair and immoral and unethical and
unprecedented connections between the
White House and Fox News bill Cheyne
used to run Fox News now he runs
communications for the White House Sean
Hannity has special access to the
president you can barely tell the
difference between where Donald Trump's
messaging and Sean Hannity messaging
begin and end they have spent the last
two years being on Donald Trump's side
not just taking not just elevating the
caravans stories not just elevating the
more racist and bigoted messages that
Donald Trump has tried to use to incite
his base and win elections but it's also
about what they refuse to cover they
don't cover the scandals they don't
cover the gaps they don't cover the
corruption they don't cover the mistakes
they don't cover the chaos they avoid
covering the things that hurt Donald
Trump and they do it for a concern for
with concerted purpose to help Donald
Trump and Republicans
it is a propaganda outfit now is it true
that inside of that operation there are
people like Chris Wallace and Shep Smith
and maybe that's it who are legitimate
journalists who do their best inside of
that organization to ask hard questions
and do a reasonable job of holding both
sides to some account of course but that
doesn't matter that doesn't matter
because the question that we should be
asking is not why doesn't Chris Wallace
and Shep Smith get a get a turn asking
questions of Democratic candidates a
debate it's how can Chris Wallace and
Shep Smith consider themselves
reasonable journalists and decent
journalists who care about the country
while working for one of the most
destructive political organizations in
American history the Democratic Party
has no business giving credence to Fox
News there is no excuse for it there is
no reason to do it and there's no pundit
or journalist who should who should
guilt Democrats or suggests that somehow
this makes Democrats weak we're afraid
to demet to debate conservative ideas it
is absurd it is the right decision and
we should not be afraid to call Fox News
what it is just because there is a set
of DC politico's who cannot admit to
themselves what Fox News has become
because if you admit what Fox News is
you have to treat it differently and
accept what has actually happened inside
of that organization and inside of the
the media on the conservative side it's
it's the closest thing we have in this
country to state-run media imagine if
there was a series of candidates from
another party trying to take on Vladimir
Putin and they all had to have a debate
on Russia TV which is state-owned
television in that country it would it's
the same thing as the only the only
difference is Donald Trump doesn't own
Fox News he doesn't direct them to do
anything they just do it because they
like to they're just doing it for fun
they're carrying his water carrying his
agenda I mean there it is it is the it
is an political arm of the White House
messaging operation that's what Fox News
has become and to legitimize that or to
normalize that or to give any kind of
credence to it as a party is is crazy
and not something that we need to do
this idea that like the argument is well
there's a lot of independent voters even
Democratic voters who watch Fox News so
don't you want to reach those people
yeah if they like let you stare into a
camera and just start
to them directly but you're not gonna
get a fair shot out of Fox News but even
Chris Wallace even Bret Baier even like
when you know megyn kelly did those
debates and in in 16 they're asking
questions that are that are biased and
slanted towards what their conservative
audience wants that's what they do
because they are a propaganda machine
yeah it's just it's so silly it's why
waste your time on it it's also like
that's also not where Democrats need to
be appearing to reach the voters that
they need they should be thinking about
like going on trying all kinds of
different ways to reach voters because
like a lot of younger vote like
certainly younger voters aren't watching
Fox News of any political persuasion
they're on their phones so like as
Democrats think about where to go to
actually reach new voters Fox News is
not reaching the voters that we need to
win this election no one is entitled to
host a presidential debate and I I agree
actually I think Chris Wallace would do
a good job I do I like Chris Wallace I
you know in terms of people that have
asked even Republicans tough questions
he's done a good job because they think
it's their home team and then every once
awhile he'll surprise you right he's he
did a great job interviewing what's his
name C+ Santa Monica fascist Miller all
the rest but you know they are there to
lend credibility to an organization that
deserves none and I to me Chris Wallace
Shep Smith Bret Baier I do not believe
their decision to stay inside of Fox
News is a defensible one and until they
reckon with that choice they have no
business moderating democrat debate
that's it
got it okay so this next one is about
the actual Democratic president who
hopefully will get elected in 2020 when
or if I think this person is assuming
when when that happens how does this
person get around Mitch McConnell and
actually get things done I'm very much
interested in in an aggressive approach
just that the GOP has been in furthering
their interests under Trump yeah I mean
one thing that the next Democratic
president won't be able to do is sit
down with Mitch McConnell and work
something out
because Mitch McConnell like his stated
goal
back in 2009 when Barack Obama took
office was to make Barack Obama a
one-term president - he had a strategy
it's a very now public strategy of
obstructing every single thing that
President Obama did even when there was
a financial crisis even when we proposed
to include tax cuts in the Recovery Act
which is what Republicans like it's like
no matter what kind of conservative
moderate policy will offer them no
matter what kind of crisis we're having
Mitch McConnell has decided that the
best political strategy for Republicans
is to block and obstruct every single
thing that a Democratic president does
there is ZERO reason that would change
after a Democrat becomes president less
like one in 20 Christmas 2020 Mitch
McConnell is in his sleep shirt and he
puts on his hat and he takes his candle
to go get a cup of soup and there before
him is a ghost a ghost of Christmas past
and over the course of that night he's
visited by three ghosts each that brings
him to a different part of his own life
to show him the mistakes he made that
led him toward a future in which he is
alone looking back on a looking back on
the choices he made to be political and
partisan and vicious instead of caring
about the American people the first the
first ghost is a a very high John
Boehner just got a putter just a putter
one hand the Edible just kicked in and
he's like let me tell you about the
Republican Party has eaten caramel corn
from from way back when when we used to
try to compromise with Democrats ya know
so I think deal so how do you get how do
you get an agenda passed as a Democrat
so if Mitch McConnell controls the
Senate then we're in some trouble Mitch
McConnell controls the Senate the
Democrats don't have a majority then I
think the next Democrat is gonna have to
figure out democratic prisoners gonna
have to figure out what executive
actions that they can take climate
change national inversion with in the
confines of Milwaukee within the
confines of that they can take without
Congress its cost and beyond executive
actions I actually don't know what they
can get done they can try to you know we
can get the house to pass things we can
try to pressure you know vulnerable
Republican senators who
up in 2022 to decide with the Democratic
president but I'll be honest with
everyone if if we don't take back the
Senate in 2020 we just take back the
presidency I don't know how the next
Democratic president gets a lot done
legislatively I think you have executive
actions I think you can do plenty on
foreign policy I think you can appoint
some some great people to post if you
can get them through the Senate if you
need to but I don't know what you get
done with a Democratic Senate do you I
do not John it's a tough slog honestly
our best-case scenario is still having a
bare majority in the Senate in which
what we're trying to do is convince
moderate Democrats to go along with the
most progressive version of climate
legislation or health care legislation
possible I mean this is theirs
winning is not enough it's going to be
very very hard no matter what happens
yeah cool okay these next one are about
different policies first one is about
immigration so Luke Skywalker mccr ATS
do enough of all people really love it
okay
he's asking do Democrats do enough to
explain what a pathway to citizenship
actually looks like I think the argument
for comprehensive immigration reform
would be much more persuasive if
politicians weren't afraid to discuss
clutch's pearls details and nuance yeah
you know it's funny he's like I've
thought about that because we used to
talk about what a pathway to citizenship
looks looks like all the time all the
time when we were writing immigration
speeches for Barack Obama all the times
we sort of because I think partly
because the hope of comprehensive
immigration reform is so distant right
now because Republicans control so much
of Washington that we haven't talked
about it but yeah what a pathway to
citizenship looks like or would look
like at least under the comprehensive
immigration reform that Barack Obama
tried to pass that passed the Senate but
then died in the house because it was
controlled by Republicans it would mean
if you're undocumented in this country a
first of all you can't be deported B
unless you're a criminal
B to get to win citizenship I'm sorry -
to get citizenship you would have to we
take usually say go
the back of the line meaning that there
are all kinds of legal immigrants here
who are trying to become citizens who
are waiting and have been waiting for
quite a long time to get their
citizenship and so you don't want to
you can't cut those people in line if
you're undocumented and so you have to
wait for that there's been talk about
paying a fine some kind of a fine there
you have to pass a citizenship test and
know enough English to pass the
citizenship test and I think that's it
yeah there's a long waiting period just
takes a while and so while you're
waiting you can't get deported but maybe
you have legal status in this country
which is different between hey it's not
quite having citizenship but it's also
not living in the shadows with the
possibility of being deported yeah I
mean I you know why has comprehensive
immigration reform fallen so far out of
favor from criminal background check -
sorry so you know why is it falling so
far out of favor the you know the the
the first big push for it came under
george w bush you know this was
something that was a considered a
bipartisan and popular proposal and yet
i think one of the lessons one of us ins
of trump but even before trump is that
undergirding what on what at a surface
level is viewed as a popular set of
policies path to citizenship border
security reforms to the reforms to the
legal immigration system reforms to how
we enforce immigration laws inside of
the country while kind of at the service
level those were seen as broadly popular
there was something standing in the way
of getting it through and what we what
we see now is beneath those polls saying
that the majority of Americans wanted it
was this vocal Republican base that did
not want comprehensive immigration
reform and was that and was actually
feeling quite disenfranchised inside of
their own party and were hungry for a
more nativist and naturalist Republican
president which is what they got in
Donald Trump I mean immigration and
trade were the two issues that Donald
Trump made the centerpiece of his
campaign they both happen to be two
issues in which there was a Democratic
and Republican consensus people like
Marco Rubio people like Reince Priebus
people like Paul Ryan they believed in
the wake of 2012 the name
Gration reform was one of the ways in
which they were gonna build a
cosmopolitan Republican Party with
younger voters with urban voters they
believed it was their future and Marco
Rubio was one of the first people to
realize that wasn't true which is why he
quickly abandoned that when he started
running for president so to be honest we
can explain comprehensive immigration
reform we can splain a path to legal
path to legalization path to citizenship
till we're blue in the face what we
actually need to do is win some
elections and that's it's it's and and
we can win them on immigration we can
win them on health care we can win them
on the economy but the answer to this is
more power step on a path this isn't
yeah that's right that's right
putting Democrats in power number one
yeah all right
this next one is has been tweeted about
a lot we're jumping to it because people
want to know about this new house
resolution against anti-semitism in
response to Ilhan Omar um and the
language use and critique she made this
person is asking or is saying that the
GOP only notices anti-semitism from the
left yet we ignore yes we acknowledge
that congresswoman Omar needs to be more
cognizant of her rhetoric on the issue
but as a Jew who voted for her I agree
with the policy debate that she wants to
have how do we get back to this policy
debate it's a great question I would
first suggest to everyone to listen to
this week's pod save the world Tommy had
been to a fantastic job of talking about
this on on that podcast today
I mean look so just to what Ilhan Omar
said the quote is I want to talk about
the political influence in this country
that says it is okay to push for
allegiance to a foreign country and so
what she's referring to there is the
fact that a pack a lobby that is very
pro-israel you know tries to push people
to you know come out in favor of strong
ties with Israel and a defensive of
Israel and she says that that is and
she's calling that allegiance to a
foreign country the reason that many
Jewish people and many other people
found that problematic is because that
is the idea that Jews are having
allegiance to a foreign country or to
another country or to someone
besides the country where they live and
call home is you know a an anti-semitic
trope from years ago it's one thing that
that Hitler said in Germany to that you
know that the Jews stabbed the Germans
in the back after World War 1 and
weren't really loyal to Germany and
stuff like that so you it is important
to be careful with your language and as
Democrats we want people to be careful
with their language whether it's you
know engaging in anti-semitism or racism
or sexism or Islamophobia like that that
is a big thing for us and so if someone
on our side says things that aren't
careful like that even if she didn't
intend it to be anti-semitic it's
important to say okay that was poorly
worded I'm Ron that said the reaction
has been it's like I mean yes it is all
bad faith all the time from Republicans
like they do not call out the insane
instances of anti-semitism in their
party whether it's Steve King whether
it's Donald Trump saying that there are
very fine people on both sides where
there were you know marchers in the
streets of Charlottesville chanting Jews
will not replace us I mean the examples
are all over the place in the Republican
Party like obviously they're bad faith
hypocritical attacks I also don't think
that the Democratic response which is to
throw a resolution on the floor about
this is really that useful frankly yeah
look you know you step back from this
for a second like one of the reasons I
think this debate is contentious and
quite stupid is that it's also punditry
we're so drowning in Pondicherry that
even this is a debate about punditry
like don't use don't impugn people's
motives and suggest that they support
Israel because they're a they're a lot
they're they have an allegiance to a
foreign government over the United
States it isn't right to say that about
Jews it wasn't right when people said
that about Catholics and the Pope
it's not a good thing to do not just
because it plays into an anti-semitic
trope though that's the most important
reason but because you're assuming
people's motives you are presuming
people's motives and you're engaged in a
kind of ad hominem Punda tree around why
people have certain views it a doesn't
really get you anywhere be it invites
these bad faith attacks from Republicans
and see it gets
no we're closer to the actual substance
of what we're trying to figure out which
is what what the US policy towards
Israel should be when we have this we
have the a right-wing government
empowered in Israel we have Israel as a
country that a lot of American Jews
believe it is their a moral obligation
to support because they believe in a
Jewish state they believe that Israel as
a democracy deserves to exist they
believe that the United States
supporting Israel is in the US as
interest yet at the same time have
legitimate deep concerns about the way
Israel behaves toward the Palestinians
that deserve to be addressed and you
know that incredibly complicated issue
has not been helped at all by the debate
we've been having about the silly
resolution and this debate about this
one member of Congress being attacked in
bad faith in part because Republicans
are always looking for an excuse to
separate Democrats from support for
Israel and because she is a Muslim woman
and Donald Trump knows that when he
tweets about her that his base
loves it we should have we should be
able to have room in this country I
think it's important to be able to put
together constructive critiques of both
AIPAC and Israeli policy especially like
because we are such a close ally of
Israel and we send a lot of money there
like we should we should be able to
criticize their policy and it there's a
lot to be critical about right now and I
think that everyone who wants to do that
Ilan Omar included she could be a very
powerful voice on what Israel is doing
wrong and the plight of the Palestinian
people which we don't talk about nearly
enough in this country and when you're
gonna position a power like that all you
have to do is just make sure that you
choose your words carefully right I
realize the Republicans don't do that
they don't use their words carefully and
a lot of them you know they've said all
kinds of crazy but like we just
have to be better we just have to be
better like I guess my big thing on this
is like it's just it goes everything is
blown so far out of proportion like all
you need to say is like yeah choose your
words better next time that's it just
just be more careful I will always
remember if you go back to Donald
Trump's tweets about Jon Stewart there
is a when Jon Jon Stewart was making fun
of Donald Trump Donald Trump started
Jon Stewart and he would always put a
question mark next to the word Stewart
right because Jon Stewart's that's a
stage name right his real name is John
it's a Jewish last name whatever it is
and he started putting a question mark
next to Stewart sometimes he would use
the Jewish last names it was 100%
undeniable anti-semitism from Donald
Trump he has been he has been exciting
the anti anti-semitic parts of the
Republican base the entire time as he's
been running it's why he said there were
very fine people on both sides you look
at his yeah journalism around his past
and the kind of anti-semitic rhetoric
he's used behind closed doors called
Jewish people good negotiators and look
you know I've made this offer at a lot
of people cooking media you if you're
buying a car bring me okay but that's
for me to say that's for me to say okay
one last one before we're into the fun
ones but this is kind of a cool question
a little bit of art once I sat in a jeep
dealership and I said I'm not leaving
here with that thing attached to the car
because if you think I'm paying $500 for
some you add it on try to get
some more money out of me it's not
happening how'd it go they took it off
oh my god alright this one is asking is
there something that we should be
talking about more we've been talking
about a lot of things there's been a ton
of meat here but is there an issue
something that we should be talking
about more but aren't what is the most
under covered news story or issue in
this moment in time in your opinion or
like something that you think deserves
more coverage that's a great question
yeah still not talking about economic
inequality enough it is it I mean
Elizabeth Warren's out there pounding
the pavement on this I know that it's
it's a Bernie thing too I know
common law Harris is you know that her
first legislative priority is the lift
Act which would you know give a tax cut
to low and middle income people so
there's a lot of there's a lot of
policies out there in the Democratic
Party getting those Paula
is to break through into the
conversation that we have in the media
on Twitter on cable is in getting any
policy to break through is very
difficult yeah I think that's right but
I mean like the the the the Connell
Harris tax proposal is a good example of
as I think what we actually don't talk
about like that is a reasonable way to
kind of try to use the tax code to make
up for the concentration of wealth and
the concentration of power that we've
seen but I am I think I still think what
is missing is a policy debate kind of up
like those are downriver answers right
what do you do when wealth is gathering
in the hands of a precious for you and
middle-class people or don't have as
much power to negotiate for themselves
either as consumers or as employees
automation taking over a bunch of jobs
we're still haven't figured out how to
live in a global economy where you can't
just you know fix everything by with
more trade agreements or fewer trade
agreements right to me it's like we're
looking at how you deal with the
symptoms but not the actual disease and
the disease is what's allowed
corporations to gain that much power so
I'm interested in that debate right
about regulation and market-based
competition and how we kind of defend
ourselves against what it seems to be a
natural process now in this economy of
consolidation and power occurring to a
few hands I mean that's one I another
issue that I do think is is privacy and
privacy on the internet privacy to hear
that a Mark Zuckerberg today just said
that he was reorienting Facebook's
mission towards privacy oh I'm gonna
sleep like a baby tonight knowing that
my mark is on the case so obviously the
reason that Mark Zuckerberg is starting
to say these kinds of things is because
they do fear regulation I am I am
interested in a coherent democratic
vision for how to protect us as
individuals from the collection of our
data the collection of our location the
collection of our personal information
information that has not been protected
nearly well enough Katey Porter into was
on um was in a congressional hearing
with the I believe the CEO of Equifax
and she asked him you know can I have
your social security number of course he
said no that would be terrible for me to
say my social security number out loud
and then she's like that's interesting
because you're currently claiming in
court that there was no harm done when
you leaked 140 million Social Security
numbers you're claiming that no one
received any damage from that so we have
created the situation which companies
can a collect a huge amount of
information and be not be held
accountable when they don't protect it
well enough and see we as individual
consumers have no real sort of simple
practical access to knowing what's
collected about us how to delete it how
to control it and I think figuring that
out is a really big question that I
think will be on a lot of people's minds
moving forward and I will say even
though there's been a lot of discussion
and debate around the green new deal
lately
it has mainly focused on you know
farting cows and you know Republican
attacks about getting rid of all
airplanes all this I still
think we are not talking enough about
and Democratic candidates aren't talking
enough about with the exception of jay
Inslee who's basing his entire campaign
on it climate change I mean I just you
know I just listened to Chris Hayes is
pod with David Wallace wells who just
wrote the uninhabitable earth and it is
 terrifying it like listening to
it gives you an existential angst about
what is gonna happen to this planet in a
very short time at a time that we're
still gonna be alive and you know our
children if we have children are gonna
be alive certainly Johnson what's your
position gotta get it out of the air
gotta get up there all right gotta get
that carpet over here and we gotta take
it out of the air you've damn right I'm
looking for a short car this is America
all right and there's no problem we
can't let Fester for way too long before
we find a shortcut shortcut sure cut
that's a slogan we could also do what we
need to do to reduce carbon emissions
with the technology we have today when's
the last time when's the last time
America did that huh did what we had to
do in advance you know we'll just bet
that some some scientists out there is
gonna figure we got it get it out of the
air we're gonna get it out all the guys
if that works great
think about it listen I'm not I'm not
happy about it not what I want all right
I'm just sayin all right cool and now to
the fun stuff oh okay cool
this first one I think might be for you
John not not you John this is about the
fence jump I just want to know your
thoughts now that we've gotten to this
pivotal moment The Bachelor franchise
what did you think did it live up to the
hype I'm gonna do a crossword I think
this show is setting back the cause of
humanity I mean what was that the
episode last night
I didn't watch women too long women tell
always I heard it was vile it was not a
great moment what yes okay so Colton The
Bachelor no crossword gets gets really
upset because the woman spoiler alert
you guys watch The Bachelor that much
later I mean people are anyway
Colton's really upset about something
and he tries to escape tries to escape
it's crazy
Chris Harris I love it I love it I just
found out from that aside that there in
Portugal comes out after he jumps over
the fence and just sits going what the
 and he starts bleep no this breaks
into a trot it's great TV basically a
personality breaks out listen you know
what I say about Chris Harris I was
telling my office man Chris Harris Chris
Harrison cannot fall asleep unless there
was a loaded gun in his mouth
I'm sorry that is a you can just I mean
what a life that is the only way he
feels safe alright you know what it
means more TV questions we want to know
what your reactions are to the new Game
of Thrones trailer so but I'm so accept
that we have scheduled tours on the
night of the premiere and the night of
the finale we gotta figure that oh wait
we gotta figure it out we're gonna
figure it out alright we're gonna figure
it out your live shows just gonna be
guys things you gotta figure out my
ideal scenario alright is that we do a
pod save America live show we talked
about the news trump at trump bad end
shows over dunk bad and Peach but also
focus on the issues and of it then
and yeah then we go right to everybody
shut the up all right go to the
bathroom get a soda get a cocktail and
then we're gonna all watch it at the
Anthem
we're gonna watch them across we got to
figure out if it's possible I don't know
if it is we're gonna work on it okay
now I've also started watching Game of
Thrones from the very beginning and I
don't know if I'll be able to get
through them all I'm gonna go emmeline I
decided we're going back to seas cowards
you start at the top you start at the
very top why is that camera not on me
you start at the very top why is the
camera not I say we got dragons in the
in the in the trailer we got John and
Daenerys walking towards a giant like
maybe maybe John will finally rat ride
one of the dragons love hearing people
talk about this show because it just
sounds so crazy
because you have it no I don't want to
you know what you know what Priyanka
don't come at us having watched the
bachelor in Portugal and then be like
game were throwing what's it all about
give me a break give me everyone a real
wall to jump over well yeah what do you
want to talk about I thought you want to
talk about a wall that Mexico's not
gonna pay for that was a very athletic
you naughty meow we're gonna build a
wall and the White Walkers been in the
wildlings will pay for all right okay
last question how did each of your dogs
get their names
well pundits a sort of self-explanatory
now I mean I just was looking for a name
that I thought would do the best on
socials mm-hmm that's right
Leo born in August looks like a little
lion so we call them we easy we know the
story behind Luca I don't know the story
behind Luca I don't people do want to
know also if you're got like your dogs
will now get cute rain gear because Luca
has cute rain gear that's been on
Twitter I mean that's a great question
I'm sure Emily will have seen Tommy's
tweet and have already purchased the
rain gear by the time we're done just
pundit brave the elements
she doesn't need rain gear and it's not
getting anything and it's gonna get wet
she's gonna shake it off like a
dog all right amazing and a stream
thanks everyone for joining we'll be
back next Wednesday bye guys
