ladies and gentlemen Federal Roarke
[Applause]
[Applause]
got the crews crew in the house
so I see a lot of pundits and reporters
on Twitter suggesting that supporting
your campaign is emotional it's
irrational because you're down in the
polls Texas is too Republican they're
trying to say like this race is over
focus on more moderate Democrats because
you know even if their values on the
line with yours that's the smart money
that's a smart bet why are you right and
they're wrong we we've spent the last 21
months on the road have been to each of
the 254 counties of Texas you can't be
too red or too blue for us to show up no
one written off no one taken for granted
we don't discriminate based on party or
any other small difference at this
moment that this country needs to come
together and those you know picking up
on what you all were just talking about
who live in a state that ranks 50th in
the country for voter turnout not by
accident but by design go into those
who've been pushed aside drawn out of
their democracy bringing them in not
just into this campaign but leading this
campaign so that we are following going
to the places that no consultant worth
their salt would ever allow us to go to
and that's why we don't have a
consultant on the team we're going to
colleges universities high schools going
to the Rio Grande Valley
so reliably Democrat it's in the bank
why show up take it for granted we're
going there to make sure that folks see
themselves in this campaign going to
Abilene and Muleshoe and Childress and
Amarillo and and folks are coming out I
don't know that they're reflected in
anyone's polls right now and what's so
exciting is that they're coming out not
for the candidate not for a political
party they're coming out for their
country they see this as our defining
moment of truth and they will be here to
be counted to stand up not just for
themselves but for the generations that
follow and we're just extraordinarily
lucky to get to be part of this so I
feel really good about our prospects not
just on the 6th of November but in the 6
years that follow and delivering on
these very high expectations that we're
setting right now
today President Trump tweeted federal
Roarke is a total lightweight compared
to Ted Cruz you will never be allowed to
turn Texas into Venezuela he's coming to
Houston next week what's your response
to him injecting himself into this
campaign and how is this whole venezuela
thing going i had not heard about that
sweet i have lost a lot of weight on the
campaign despite all the water burgers
and fried pies and everything that we're
eating
we're just gonna continue to stay
focused on on texas this this is a
distraction an interesting one these two
guys at each other's throats throughout
the Republican presidential primary
during which Ted Cruz left the state he
was supposed to be representing in the
Senate
never mind that there are 254 counties
in Texas he visited every one of the 99
in Iowa I went to New Hampshire South
Carolina everyone was it there are those
states where he was still potentially
competitive and and now now they're
together again
and so that's great for them on Texas
and and on being with with people who
want to hear about what were for in in a
state where nearly half of teachers are
working a second job just to make ends
meet how do we get behind them so they
only work one job teaching directly to a
child and not a high-stakes standardized
this state we we bore witness to kids
literally being taken by force if
necessary from their parents as they
were at their most desperate vulnerable
moment kids who tonight are on foster in
foster care homes in a tent city and
Tornillo months later not knowing when
or if they're gonna see their parents
again
we can lead the way on insisting that
that never happened again we reunite
those kids now and that we lead the way
in rewriting our immigration laws in our
own image and let's begin with those two
values and then add to that them us
every single dreamer feared freed from
the fear of deportation by being made a
US citizen here in this country now so
they can live to their full potential
contribute to their maximum capacity
it's just staying on immigration for a
second I mean Donald Trump like his
whole strategy is to scare you talk
about immigration and it scares his base
into thinking that people are coming to
take their jobs the immigration debate
runs through Texas national Democrats
seem like they don't want to talk about
immigration they don't know what to say
they don't know what their policy is you
are talking about it every day
what should Democrats be saying about
this issue and what do you know that
they don't again something picking up
from what you guys were just talking
about get off the back foot and and quit
be in defense of nothing to apologize
for everything to be proud of El Paso
Texas my hometown connected with steal
our bodies forming the largest by
national community in the hemisphere and
it's just absolutely amazing and
beautiful and the place that Amy and I
are so lucky to be raising Ulysses and
Molly and Henry and El Paso also happens
to be one of if not the safest cities in
the United States of America not in
spite of I would argue because we are a
city of immigrants people chose us left
their home their comfort their language
their family to start again strangers in
a strange land and their very presence
not just to do better for themselves and
their family but to do better for all of
us this country that they were called to
and inspired by their presence makes us
stronger more successful and and yes
safer and more secure so lead with the
thing that we understand
better than perhaps any other state
we're this defining immigrant story and
experience and it's one that we should
be proud to tell to the rest of the
country and this is this is an issue
where I think you can bring Republicans
and Democrats and independents to the
table and if you ensure that you don't
allow the perfect to become the enemy of
the good right you can make progress on
in ways that are gonna make all of our
lives better so that this is one clearly
that Texas should be leading on right
now and lead by example we have
everything to be proud of and to
celebrate here in this state yeah I
watched her to mate the other night with
Ted Cruz it looked like a blast
he went out there and he pretended to
care about the deficit when he just
voted for a two trillion dollar tax cut
he says he wants to protect people with
pre-existing conditions when he shut
down the government for 16 days in red
green eggs and ham to repeal the
Affordable Care Act
he's either unaware that Google exists
or a liar or both how do you run against
a liar I'm asking for a friend who may
be running in 2020 yeah you know we've
really been conscious about not
organizing against anyone or against
another political party and defining
ourselves by what we are for the
ambitions to go from being the least
insured state in the United States of
America to leading the way on guaranteed
high-quality universal character being a
state that is at the epicenter of a
maternal mortality crisis that ensures
that we're losing more women than almost
any other state almost any other
developed country and for women of color
three times as deadly to be here in
Texas
a state that shut down a quarter of its
family planning clinics making it so
hard for women to get access to care to
a cervical cancer screening to a family
planning provider what if we were the
state to lead the way on guaranteed high
quality universal health care and health
care that means mental health care
primary health care specialty health
care
and healthcare when we say Universal
that also means every woman making her
own decisions about her own body and
having access to the care and we
understand the consequences of failing
to do so better better than anyone so
we're gonna stay focused on those
ambitious goals and your point of
ensuring that we're not defined by our
fears that lead to walls and Muslim
bands and the press is the enemy of the
people and taking kids from their
parents and locking them up in in
detention camps there's a real
consequence of this slip that could very
well become a slide for our country and
we've got to get it back and that's what
I see that the people of Texas rising to
to this occasion to be the match for
this moment to ensure that when the
people of the future are counting on us
that we are not found wanting and so
yeah it's it's it's a really exciting
moment in Texas and I'm just lucky to be
a part of girls I again yeah last
question a few years ago you didn't have
this national profile but today 800,000
people gave your campaign money a whole
lot of people want you to run for
president what does that feel like and
what does it say about the state of the
Democratic Party and like what we're
hunkering for from our politics in this
country yeah I don't know what if what
it says about that the Democratic Party
is perfect I'll just tell you running
this without a single dime from a single
political action committee no special
interests no corporations doing this
people human beings and and all of the
love and the support and and the
kindness that we have received has just
been the most amazing thing that I've
ever been lucky enough to be a part of
and so I just want to make the most of
it I want to win this election
I want to serve this state for the next
six years in the US Senate and do
everything I can to deliver on the
expectations that we've set with and by
for one another and I just feel very
lucky to do it yeah yeah so thank you
[Applause]
