welcome to pod save the world this is
Tommy Vietor on the line all the way
from New Jersey
the exotic location Princeton New Jersey
is Ben Rhodes Ben how you doing good man
this book here Princeton saw lots of a
lot of world√µs in the audience that's
fantastic
a lot of Obama for those of you in DC
I'll be it uh both American University
in Georgetown Thursday so come check to
that all right check that out um later
on in the show I talked to Cuba expert
marguerite jimenez about all the ways
donald trump has rolled back the
historic changes to u.s. Cuba policy
that you negotiated then and I want to
ask you about that a little bit later
but first I want to start with Sri Lanka
North Korea testing more weapons some
news out of China Trump finally getting
his visit to the United Kingdom the
Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day a
major election in Ukraine so it's a
packed one as per usual lot going on
yeah la will tighten that up all right
let's start with Sri Lanka so on Easter
Sunday there was a series of horrific
bombings at churches hotels restaurants
in Sri Lanka anywhere were there
Westerners the bombers used high-grade
explosives they were coordinated and
deadly attacks the death toll I believe
is that three hundred and twenty-one
people as of this recording Isis is
taking credit for it they said it was
designed to target Christians Westerners
there are reports that the Sri Lankan
government had some intelligence warning
them that the attack but actually didn't
do anything to prevent the attacks which
is troubling and will likely lead to
major changes there are also reports
that some of the attackers had traveled
to Syria some have suggested it was a
response to the New Zealand mosque
shooting which I don't know maybe they
said that but that seems ridiculous to
me a Isis doesn't need a reason to kill
innocent people
you know the Sri Lankan government has
taken some steps to impose a curfew and
block social media networks but then I
mean I guess I'm trying to figure out
what this tells us about Isis there's a
lot of talk recently about whether or
not Isis hasn't been defeated in Iraq in
Syria but to me this says we have a lot
more work to do globally to to stop the
threat
yeah I mean you know first of all has
it's an awful tragedy and in a country
that you know had recently climbed out
of like a brutal civil war so kind of
compounding that fresh wound in Sri
Lanka I think what it tells us if it is
Isis and the indications are that
there's some role here is that this is
the direction that Isis will move in and
you know we've talked about the fact
that as they can no longer hold
territory in Syria in Iraq they'll
probably more into a more traditional
terrorist organization albeit a
particularly lethal one and that they
will probably seek out what this tells
you is that they may seek out places
where they see vulnerabilities you know
so countries like Sri Lanka that may
seem like easier targets you know then
say a Western country with advanced CT
capabilities and that may be what we're
looking at and I just had Morse back
into sponsoring these types of attacks
that is opportunistic and picking places
where they see vulnerability
interestingly the Sri Lankan government
has been badly divided the Prime
Minister is you know a political
adversary the defense minister and so
one of the reasons why information might
not have been shared is that you have a
rivalries in this government and so it
looks like they found a soft target to
go after and and again it may seem that
Isis will shift to that type of
targeting and particularly targeting
that seeks to pit you know Muslims
against Christians or against people of
different religions and it's a reminder
that you know Isis may be defeat in
terms of its territory but it's probably
going to be with us for some time as a
terrace group yeah and as an ID dot and
yeah and as an ideology that's gonna
fester and so you know when you hear
Trump say we need to roost loosen the
rules of engagement for US service
members or quote-unquote bomb the
out of them those are temporary wins
right long-term we are fighting an
ideology we are filing a a well-oiled
propaganda machine unless we figure out
how to better combat the ways that
they're inspiring people and getting new
adherence to their horrific ideology
this is gonna be a forever war and I
think that people in Washington just
don't seem to always get that
ya know and you know the posting doesn't
help you know the obviously the
religious frame
you know Isis seeks to prey upon the
notion of there being a war against
Islam or of Islam against others we
should be trying to isolate Isis from
the vast majority of the world's Muslims
who reject their points of view we
should be trying to strengthen countries
like Sri Lanka that are emerging from
conflicts you know these are the kind of
hard work of many years that you know
Trump is not putting that work in you
know and so I just hope we'll see these
places out I think it's also kind of
interesting that you see the Sri Lankan
government shutting down social media
seeing social media as a threat I think
you might see more that frankly in some
other countries as well um so that could
be another new trend yeah that was very
interesting um go to North Korea for a
minute last week the North Koreans fired
a new kind of tactical weapon
this was not a nuclear test it didn't
look like it was an intercontinental
ballistic missile but you know it was
seen as inflammatory and largely as a
warning to Trump and I imagine the South
Korean government to say Kim jong-un
wants sanctions relief and he feels like
we're running out of time he's running
out of patience North Korea had
suspended weapons tests like this since
about November of 2017 North Korea
interestingly also announced that
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is not
allowed to be part of future talks they
called him a bunch of funny propaganda
words then what did you interpret who
then what did you make of this this test
in the attempt to ice out Pompeo and
what do you think the response should be
well look there's no question that North
Korea doesn't do something like this
without a message behind it I mean they
know how the testing of any weapon is
going to look around the world they
wanted it registered by the United
States and other countries that they're
not happy with how things have gone and
that they are still willing to push the
envelope when it comes to you know going
against the will
United States and in the West and so
again I think this is a message that
Trump's diplomacy has not yielded any
results because they had been no
rollback of the nuclear program no
rollback of the missile program all
there had been is a moratorium on these
types of tests and now we see then you
know starting small this isn't a nuclear
test but there's they're sending a
message yeah yeah I think the Pompeo
piece their form shopping you know they
know they haven't Trump somebody who's
eager to have this good relationship
with Ken someone who kind of over rules
his own team and kind of praising him
and making concessions to can the times
on issues like military exercises and
with the South Koreans and they're
testing whether they can get away with
that whether they could say yeah we
don't like comparing Bolden we want to
deal with some other people here and you
know Trump is invested so much and this
idea that he has some special
relationship with Kim jong-un and Kim is
now showing that that won't constrain
what he does in terms of his weapons
programs and and frankly that may lead
him to feel like he's emboldened to
choose his interlocutors on the American
side yeah and so I think this exposes
the failure of Trump's diplomacy today
yeah and let's be honest I mean he
probably will be able to jawbone Pompeo
out of this process and I'd note that
Trump a couple days ago suggested he
might be open to a step-by-step deal
that you know baby steps through
denuclearization whereas earlier has top
people have been insisting that North
Korea had to fully dismantle its nuclear
weapons and its programs first before
they'd get to sanctions relief maybe he
will get what he wants here I don't know
I mean Trump's looking for a win I just
suspect he doesn't really care how he
gets there yeah but and you know a
foreign adversary or any negotiator is
going to choose to hear the message they
want to hear so if you know you're North
Korea you're kin and you hear Pompeyo
talking about insisting on
denuclearization and then you're a trump
saying all kinds of stuff that is short
of that well of course they're going to
choose the softer message coming from
Trump and it just shows yet again the
danger of having all these mixed
messages coming after your
administration they can't even get on
the same sheet of music internally how
on earth though they can execute some
complex negotiation
the North Koreans and Trump clearly
thinks that just the optics of him being
in a diplomatic process with Kim is some
kind of win even if he's not
accomplishing anything and frankly he's
found a willing betters for that
approach from the Republican Party in
some of the media when in fact there's
just no results to show and that's why
you have Trump saying no well I've heard
the war that Obama was gonna start
because he has to move the goalposts off
of dealing with the nuclear program to
just making the fact of him having this
relationship with Kim the win but as
we're seeing it not really yielding
anything yeah
staying in Asia for a bit so Xi Jinping
is gonna host I think like 40 world
leaders in Beijing this weekend for a
conference on their belt and Road
initiative which is this trillion dollar
plus investment initiative and something
like 70 countries they're gonna build
ports railroad lines pipelines all kinds
of critical infrastructure in Asia
Europe Africa with the goal of you know
building closer alliances with these
countries creating new trading routes
etc so Putin is apparently the guest of
honor the u.s. is not sending a
representative but the UK is so this
isn't like a pariah state hangout this
is a major conference so then I mean the
one thing you hear everybody talk about
is that China's rise is a looming
long-term challenge for the United
States but you know one really talks
about solutions when you see a
conference like this does it make you
worry do you think we should attend and
more broadly if you were in government
for the next eight years how would you
deal with major diplomatic flexes by
China I think that this is the most
important geopolitical development in
the world everybody focuses on Russia
the people who are mopping up during the
Trump years in terms of expanding their
influence are the Chinese and if you
look at bellroad this bellroad
initiative you know it starts in East
Asia and goes all the way down to Africa
it's this massive economic and
infrastructure a plan that they have but
make no mistake here this is all on
China's terms right so yes people are
paying into an infrastructure
but the Chinese are financing these
projects in many cases they're building
them with Chinese workers they're
putting other countries into debt traps
because countries have to go you into
debt to China in order to finance some
of these programs you know the terms of
the deal are written in Beijing and
frankly what we dealt with in government
is a lot of these Southeast Asian
countries or South Asian countries
African countries who are getting
uncomfortable with the extent to which
arrangements like this we're kind of a
backdoor for de facto Chinese dominance
of their economy now how would I deal
with it
well the TPP was the vehicle to deal
with it because essentially what we were
saying the Obama administration is we
need our own club that essentially has a
higher standard here for how you deal
with trade and for how you review
projects and for how you protect
intellectual property remind us no quick
witty weakness making sure remind us
real quick with TPU sorry let me just
say a cleaner can you remind us real
quick what TPP was yeah so the transfer
partnership was a trade agreement
between the United States and 12 other
major economies in the asia-pacific
region
so key players and allies of ours like
Japan Mexico and Canada were in that but
also countries like Vietnam and Malaysia
and Singapore we were essentially trying
to build the counterweight to this
growing Chinese influence and say the
Chinese have the belt road initiative we
have TPP and TPP has higher standards
TPP will ensure that there is less
corruption and how trade goes down TPP
will provide protections for things like
intellectual property they'll be
protections for the environment and for
workers rights which obviously is not
part of the Chinese approach to how it
looks at at trade and so you need some
counterbalance to what China is doing
some alternatives
otherwise these countries like a Vietnam
or like a Malaysia just kind of get
rolled over by the size of China and the
influence of China I don't think we can
can or should try to stop something like
the belt Road initiative and frankly I
think it probably would make sense for
us to be present at meetings like this
in to accept and understand that
there is going to be increased Chinese
influence in certain parts of the world
but what Trump is doing is essentially
completely feeding the field not so much
because they're not sending a
representative conference but because
they've pulled out of TPP and they've
kind of pulled out of engagement with a
lot of these countries in Asia and the
message that's being sent to these
countries is look you better cut your
deal China because the Chinese are going
to be there the Americans aren't there
Tommy I'll tell you one story I remember
talking to a Vietnamese official about
TVP and the Vietnamese said to me look
we had a rival with the Chinese for a
thousand years we have all kinds of
problems with China we would rather
actually have a close relationship with
you guys but we know they're going to be
there they're right upstairs they're
right north of us in their giant TPP is
the test of whether you guys will be
there whether or not there's an
agreement that binds our economy to
yours and when Trump cut those cords to
these countries they were left with no
choice but to succumb to the Chinese
terms for how trade is going to function
and that's why this is such an important
initiative it's the Chinese writing the
rules for how the economy is going to
operate across vast swaths of the globe
man I mean it does put a whole different
light on America first when you think
that the Chinese government made a
decision to do foreign investment on a
scale that's like 7x what the Marshall
Plan was for you know post-war to
reconstruction of Europe mean they
obviously see that it's in their
interests it is frustrating and
unfortunate that you know not only the
US government doesn't necessarily agree
but I think a lot of the American people
don't view foreign investment in
infrastructure development as important
or potentially beneficial to us because
we demagogue in our politics well and
Tom you other consequences like you I
know care live at their hinga issue
right
the massive displacement ethnic
cleansing that's taking place in Rakhine
State and and Myanmar
well bellroad initiative goes right
through the kind state there is a
pipeline envisioned as a part of the
belt road initiative that goes right
through rekon state including areas
where the ranga used to live the chinese
are currently putting a million Rieger
Muslims in
German camps so the idea that the
government in Myanmar that is
increasingly dependent on China
economically and depend on the bellroad
initiative would be less inclined to
take human rights concerns into account
is a ripple effect of this sorting out
of how politics works right so the
removal of the United States from the
picture and a lot of these places and
the creeping Chinese dominance in latias
places has all kinds of consequences
that go beyond even just the bottom line
of the Chinese again dominating the
trading commercial relationship yeah
frustrating all right let's move to the
Europe for a minute so two years ago
Trump was promised a formal state visit
to Britain it got delayed and delayed
and delayed but we learned today
breaking news that he's finally gonna
get it is that because brexit is solved
and the people of London have stopped
hating him no absolutely not he's it
about seventy percent disapproval but
he's heading over for three days in June
they'll hang with the Queen they'll
probably stay in Buckingham Palace
remember that not that long video Trump
attacked the Muslim mayor of London
just after a terrorist attack he
retweeted a gross inflammatory
anti-muslim vism anti-muslim video
posted by far-right activists so
question one is how do you think the
Teresa may wherever as Prime Minister at
this point should handle him in second I
mean do you think there's a cost to the
u.s. and our standing in the world when
a president is so unpopular that you get
protested on a foreign trip to an ally
as close as the UK yeah I mean I you
know first of all I remember well Tommy
our state visit to the UK was a lot of
fun yeah but I will say that it was a
different reception right they rolled
out the red carpet for Obama he spoke to
the Parliament you know he had huge
crowds lining the motorcade and the
message was that the US and the UK are
together and that this American
president is uniquely respected around
the world London is in many ways you
know with New York like the
International City right so it has kind
of a like hold on the imagination of the
world beyond even just the US UK
relationship I would imagine that any UK
Prime Minister is going to try to keep
him at arm's length that he probably
we'll want to spend as little time in
London as possible maybe go out to the
the Camp David version of what the Prime
Minister's you know country residence is
a place called checkers
get him as far away from places where
there could be protests you know the
Queen has to maintain her famous stiff
upper lips and probably thinks she needs
to do this to demonstrate that Bracks
it's happening that you know the US and
UK still have this relationship but the
problem is going to be the whole purpose
of a visit like this like why does this
happen it happens because you know we're
tea to reaffirm the special relationship
we have with UK and these values we
share and the things we sample around
the world but everybody's going to see
that that's because
everybody's going to see that the people
of London hate this guy right there
gonna be protesting in huge numbers and
wondering I've world√µs out in the street
in London against this and Trump is a
manifestation of the same brand of
politics that has tied the UK and that's
right exactly and so I actually think
it's a net negative for everybody
involved in a way because it's not going
to make it look like the US and UK and
the people of the United States and
United Kingdom stand
shoulder-to-shoulder it's going to make
it look like we have this deeply loathed
president even in what is supposed to be
the capital of our closest ally right
and he still thinks over you that the
Chinese leader won't be protested in the
same numbers he still thinks of himself
as mr. brexit the guy who called the
election I don't think he realizes that
years later that the nationalist
populist fervor that was brexit has done
more damage to the UK than maybe any
other country on the planet besides ours
and people are so absolutely sick of it
and they probably don't want to deal
with him either yeah he can't he can't
deliver what they want right so like
part of what the bracket people promise
is if we can leave Europe but the United
States is so important in the world that
we can have a closer relation of the
United States that can make up for some
of what we're losing with Europe but
Trump has been single-handedly
diminishing us credibility in the world
and your standing in the world and so
the idea that they can make up what
they're losing in Europe through the
relationship of the United States is
discredited by the person of Donald
Trump
nevermind the idea that the notion that
they're gonna have some trade agreement
rapidly agreed to with the United States
it will make up for the European Union
breaking off from the UK that - I think
it's been proven to be a fallacy nothing
can replace Europe in terms of the
United Kingdom's trade relationship so I
think in general this is only going to
highlight the false promises made by
both Trump that he would restore
America's you know be respected again in
the world and by the brexit people who
said that somehow you could have your
cake you need it - you could leave the
EU but kind of you know have low
consequences for that and and have this
closer relationship with the US the the
crowds in the streets protesting will be
the evidence that that's not true yeah
some may be good news out of Ukraine so
a comic actor with no experience in
government or the military will be the
president Ukraine
Vladimir's olenski won an astounding 73
percent of the vote he ran against
corruption poverty he did not dive into
some of the the anti-immigrant
nationalist sentiments that we've seen
in so many elections around the world
you know it was a genuinely interesting
surprising outcome the election looks
like it has been relatively free and
fair so far so I don't know what do you
think Ben is is good news I mean it's a
it's difficult to tell he's a comedian
who played a president on television a
television show was he's a man of the
people kind of president look he's
preferable to some of the other choices
the other potentially russian-backed
people some of the other more nativist
people I think we just kind of don't
know what he will actually be like an
office know he's backed by some pretty
powerful people there so I'm sure he has
his own connections but he has a certain
kind of populist appeal that he's you
know developed this relationship with
people watches show and who see him as a
as a charismatic figure who might be
uncorrupted I think what it may me tells
me is how much the Ukrainian people are
just completely sick and tired of
corruption and a corrupt political
establishment and Russian influence and
also the influence of gun
billionaire oligarchs they're just
looking for anything that feels new and
different and fresh which is kind of a
common thread in many countries around
the world I think we'll have to wait and
see
you know what approaches he take to the
deep-rooted challenges that Ukraine has
if he can remain kind of above the the
corruption that is ensnared
just about anybody else who's held high
ops in Ukraine you know that would be a
good starting point but you know I think
the jury is still very much out and
let's be honest in an ideal world you
would have political figures other than
people like this who could fill that
void right so I think it's actually a
sign that you know Ukraine's politics
need to to you know have further to go
here that there's an alternative other
than you know essentially you know a
comedian who can you can take on this
kind of role yeah 41 year old actor /
comedian I mean Petro poroshenko who
need beat was was not great but yeah
they need to do a little bit of
institution and party building and
career development for our politicians
over in Ukraine that should be the next
on the agenda yeah and keep in mind the
Russians had a lot of money into their
politics to corrupt people right so
they've been kind of dealing you know
with a deck that has been somewhat
stacked by Russia and and you know I
think the people are just searching for
someone who is not going to be a Russian
puppet and is not going to be lining
their own pockets in office and I think
that you know the Mon main takeaway is
that everywhere around the world this
concept of corruption and and the
frustration people have with corruption
at a boiling point and frankly you know
it should be in the United States - with
the people we hadn't shot yeah a few
more quick things while we're close to
Russia obviously the mahler report came
out last week it is being digested it
has been discussed on cable news ad
nauseam but I'm interested in if you
think that there's a foreign policy
angle one I mean do you think that it
says something about the American system
or process or government that there was
ultimately some transparency around what
occurred and do you think that could
anyway act as a deterrent for a future
actor
to try to interfere in our elections or
I don't know I mean the more cynical
take in my mind is that Putin succeeded
beyond his wildest dreams he installed
the guy he wanted as president and his
actions are still ripping our political
system apart to this day to include the
molar report but what do I know I'm just
an American trying to live in this world
no I look I think they're two really
important points right the first is the
reason you know one of the things that's
been interesting in the response is that
all of this this stuff that happened all
these contacts with Russia right the
fact that we know that the Trump people
knew that Russia was intervening in the
election and the Trump people sought to
help Russia interfere in the election
the Trump people built campaign
strategies around the Russian
interference that they knew was going to
happen the fact that none of that was
criminal I think what that points to is
that nobody ever envisioned that
something like that was possible true
you know it's like nobody ever thought
that there might be a scenario in which
a major party nominee would choose to
seek the help of a foreign adversary in
swinging the election in their favor
right so that actually points up just
the extremity of what happened because
it should be criminal it should be
criminal to work with a foreign
adversary to interfere and just
facilitate their interfering in our
election and so you know the first point
is just how much there was this
vulnerability rooted in the system that
nobody ever could have possibly
anticipated why would we even have to
write a law saying that you shouldn't
facilitate a massive intervention in our
election by a foreign adversary because
people just didn't imagine that that
would happen I think the second thing
from a foreign policy standpoint Tommy
is that we must look like a joke to the
rest of the world saying there the look
of course this happened of course the
Russians played a critical role in this
of course the Trump people went along
with it look there's no debate about
whether build bars or page letter
exonerates Trump in foreign countries
they're looking at this in this sizing
up and they see exactly what happened
which is Putin got it
exactly what he was setting out to do
and the fact that you still have
everybody from present Trump down
through the entire Republican Party
running interference for that
I think sends a message the rest of
world that that we're just not prepared
to deal with this and that we're not
strong enough to stand up to this and
it's yet another reason why to be R in
the positive America territory it makes
no sense to take impeachment off the
table because it sends a message that
the United States will not address this
and will not enforce accountability for
what took place right
and I think that's a very worrying
signal to any other foreign adversary
who might ever want to duplicate what
the Russians did nevermind Russia itself
a heated debate that will continue uh
two more things one so April 24th which
is when this pot comes out as Armenian
Genocide Remembrance Day it commemorates
the genocide of 1.5 million Armenians by
the Ottoman government starting in 1915
and went on for several years for many
years Armenian activists including a lot
of folks here in LA have been pushing
Congress and candidates and presidents
to condemn the Armenian Genocide and
specifically to call it a genocide but
the geopolitical complication is that
Turkey modern-day Turkey flips out about
this issue they react with angry threats
you know I believe to include
threatening kicking out near the US
military or you know all kinds of things
so Obama promised to call the air media
genocide a genocide during the campaign
he failed to do so as president I know
you and I have talked about this before
and sent me at the power to and you feel
like that was a mistake what do you
think candidates should do you know in
the face of history like this that is so
dark and so evil and yet you know pretty
clear on the facts but there is this
overriding geopolitical consideration
with Turkey I mean so we just call them
out on their on their lies and deal with
the consequences yeah and look you know
we should have done this we should have
recognized you I mean genocide the first
year in office you know once we failed
to do it then in a weird way it made it
more difficult to do it going forward
and which we still should have done
going forward because the Turks saw that
we back down and we
consider this decision and in that way
it kind of raised the the drama around
it I think is look at genocide occurred
this is central to the experience of the
Armenian people which includes a massive
diaspora here in the United States and
you know particularly obviously in
California and I just think as a matter
of course like we have a there's a
reason to call history for what it is
right that's part of how you will in
from history and that's part of how you
try to prevent history from repeating
itself and so I think candidates should
say like this was a genocide and and
they frankly coming into the
administration to avoid the kind of
buildup just called like it is from the
very beginning yeah I'm yeah it's a
genocide I know you don't like that
turkey but this is just a matter of
history and you know if they're
consequences they're consequences but
the reality is like you have to stand
for certain things in the world and you
have to you have to be guided by facts
and this is a set of facts there was a
genocide and and so there's no reason to
prolong this drama around it yeah I mean
look it's particularly in one genocide
occurred the United States has a duty to
call it out and and call things for what
they are and you're right I mean you
don't learn from history if you avoid it
or pretend it didn't happen to the the
what was promised at the time was a
broader rapprochement with Turkey
working together closer as allies
through NATO through various other means
in fact the opposite has happened right
I mean air duan has got an increasing
they've turned away from the West and in
many specific instances so we got no
real value that I can see out of hiding
history and and you know putting a
political consideration ahead of our
values screwed us in both cases yeah I
mean in look there are serious
geopolitical concerns at Turkey right
like we you know they're helped prevent
the flow of foreign fighters into Syria
and they help manage the refugee flows
into Europe when those were exploding
and they obviously you had to show we
wanted them to show restraint with
respect to the Kurds there will always
be a reason to not stir the pile of
Turkey
but you can't you know then if you're
always looking for that reason you'll
find it you know and if you believe that
this is the right thing to do then do it
and you know frankly some other
countries have and they've been able to
prepare their relationships with Turkey
you know there's a benefit to just being
straight about facts when the facts from
the history and you know I used to hate
every year when you know finding
different formulations for discussing
you know the tragic events of 1915 or
you know what have you that everybody
knows what happened this was was like
one of the first instances the word
genocide was invented in part to
describe what had happened to the
Armenians you had something Samantha
writes about in her book and I just
think that you know given the importance
of this so their Armenian people and to
the history of the phenomenon of
genocide it's even if there are risks
involved I think you do the right thing
yeah agreed
last thing so our whole interview coming
up with Marguerite Jimenez is about US
Cuba policy and all the ways Trump is
unwound the historic changes that Obama
made that you negotiated so folks should
stay tuned for those details but I just
you know I wanted to get your
reflections on on how you feel about all
this I assume not great but I mean I
don't know well how did you feel
watching him turn back the clock on this
policy and what are you hearing from you
know Cuban people who I'm sure you met
along the way and still speak to about
what will this do to them yeah I mean
you know what
what's so devastating about these latest
around the policies is they're cruel and
mean spirited and I know Margaret are
getting the details but this is just
hitting Cubans right this is just saying
you were there putting caps and
remittances the Cuban Americans consent
to their family right that that doesn't
hurt the Cuban government it hurts the
Cuban people directly this something
vindictive about it this this idea that
they're going to you know start limiting
Americans capacity to travel to Cuba the
American people they want to go to Cuba
but why does our government get to tell
you that you can't travel to Cuba you
can travel to spend any other place on
earth but you can't go to 90 miles from
Florida
to the Cuban people and by the way that
American travel that directly supports
the Cuban people Americans are staying
in Cuban air babies they're having a
dialogue with the Cuban people they're
putting money directly in the hands of
the Cuban people not the government just
like an American who eats at a Cuban
owned restaurant or rides in a Cuban own
taxi not government-owned there's been
this growing private sector in Cuba that
we are now devastating by these policy
changes and so it's hurtful in that
level in that it's just so mean-spirited
and and it will have devastating
consequences for individual Cubans
beyond that Tommy like what really sucks
for me you know people say like how does
how do you feel it's not the scorecard
that you know we had an achievement that
he's unwinding it's that these are human
beings and and we got their expectations
up you know ninety seven percent of the
Cuban people and public opinion polls
supported the open the United States
they thought that after decades their
lives were finally going to get better
that maybe the stupid conflict the
United States that this this wall was
finally going to be listed in that the
Americans had travel down there and
they'd be more connected to America and
the Cuban baseball players could play in
the United States and that their lives
would improve and and frankly I believe
that that kind of opening would do more
than anything to Bro a positive change
in Cuba because if Cubans are more
connected to the outside world then they
won't live in this kind of mummified
environment that they're living in like
they don't drive those classic cars
because they love nineteen fifty
Studebakers I stay typing because of
this crazy embargo that we imposed on
that and so to me it's so painful to see
all these people who I saw their
expectations raised at the end the Obama
administration now having their hopes
dashed again by the United States by
thugs like John Bolton and political
hacks like Marco Rubio who are just
doing this to appeal to some narrow set
of the electorate in South Florida
that's a disgusting way to make policy
that impacts people's lives like this
and I hope Americans and including Cuban
Americans but pay more attention to just
the base cynicism
be behind this approach that is
punishing people who have already
suffered enough and who have enormous
talent and things to offer and the last
thing is a tommy's in Cuba this only
helps the worst actors right like
whoever the hardliners are in Cuba who
hate the opening of the United States
there are the only people who are happy
about this because they get to say see I
told you so you were wrong to ever trust
the Americans and we need to be more
ideological and we need to be more all
in with Maduro like we are guaranteeing
that we're pushing that those Cuban
hardliners in the material into a corner
and they know how to play that game and
they know how to try to wait us out and
we're letting everybody else down so
it's also stupid as a matter of foreign
policy it's not going to promote change
in Cuba it's going to prevent change in
Cuba so as you can see I can't get
worked up about it but it just it just
sucks to see people you know who've
already suffered for decades under a
stupid American foreign policy watch you
know that I'm compounding this mistake
yeah cruel is exactly the right word and
it is just so so frustrating I said one
thing I mean it's not inevitable like
this can change back quick like work
that we did to break the logjam
you know if a Democrat wins they will be
starting further down the field and
opening up an engaging Cuba and that is
the inevitable direction of things I
think you open yeah another reason to
organize our butts off in 2020 been
great talking to you buddy travel safe
and everybody in DC should go see Ben
later this week
yep back in sick man All Right see you
soon bye-bye
you
