yeah I understand Benghazi to understand
Trump right because Lindsey Graham isn't
just a piece of now he's been that
piece of Lindsey Graham I said it
damn it
finally he's a piece of lying lying
lying lying and raising money off of the
death of for America so anyway that's my
little speech this Fox producer told you
when you asked how did I Susan Rice US
ambassador the UN no oversight role over
the embassy or the consulate in Benghazi
or embassy security generally how did I
become the villain and he said
individuals make great villains right
did how did you receive that it was
really it was fascinating yeah you know
to have an inside perspective on how Fox
operates so he was even more you know
forthcoming than that he said you know
look Fox has this very deep bond with
its viewers and it knows how to energize
and rile up its viewers and making them
angry is how they get ratings and a way
to make them angry is to create villains
that they can target and you know and
vilify and you always need fresh
villains and you know the explain how
the original Fox villain was in fact
Bill Clinton I'm in Barney Frank and
some others and you know we were sort of
new iterations as a JV villain and and
Hillary of course became a major Fox
villain yeah but I had given them all
the wherewithal he explained to be
villainize because I'd given him five
different sets of video on these shows
and they could loop them and they could
turn me into a new villain and now on
Fox many years later they just need to
say my name and it's like you know like
people start twitching this is like an
automatic you know trigger point so it
was fascinating to learn from that
person's point of view how they engage
their viewers and now you can see it
playing out and it's you know Trump is
the master of it he makes people angry
every day
