hmm welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor later in
the pod you'll hear a conversation Tommy
had earlier this morning with the
intercepts Mehdi Hasan about the
terrorist attack in New Zealand but
first we're gonna talk about the global
rise of white nationalists inspired
terrorism and what we should do about it
why Donald Trump spent st. Patrick's Day
blasting off about two dozen batshit
crazy tweets and all the latest
developments in 2020 primary news I love
it there's a new lever to leave it up I
know because I was in it you were we had
a great episode of love it early but
John and I ran through the week's news
in a rapid-fire fashion stay for the
commentary on the Boeing 737 and not a
fan william HMAC a hot-air balloon and
then we went to our live show in
Milwaukee with Angela Lang news and
activist move on Ben wiggler and Akilah
Hughes returning champion it was a great
episode we drank beer and we talked
about beer sounds fun and Foxconn there
are still some tickets left to our
Boston and New Hampshire shows in April
come see us pod save America that's who
we are we're gonna be there I think we
have oh we have Heather McGee is gonna
be our co-host in Boston and Alyssa
Mastromonaco will be in New Hampshire
with us yes I think crooked comm slash
events grab some tickets alright let's
get to the news dozens of people were
killed in New Zealand on Friday in a
terrorist attack on two mosques in
Christchurch parts of the massacre were
broadcast on the internet after a
sprawling manifesto had been published
online earlier that day the suspect an
Australian who was arrested after the
attack wrote in his manifesto that he
moved to New Zealand for the purpose of
the attack identified himself as a
racist
listed white nationalist heroes and said
that Donald Trump was quote a symbol of
renewed white identity and common
purpose the prime minister of New
Zealand has said that the suspect will
be tried in her country and that New
Zealand's lawmakers will begin this week
considering changes to the country's gun
laws so on Friday
Donald Trump was asked whether he
thought white nationalism is a global
rising threat and he said quote I don't
really I think it's a small group of
people that have very very serious
problems is he correct he is a you
know he's not correct at all
I mean not so in the past decade 73% of
all American extremists related killings
have come from the right-wing the ADL
says right-wing extremists were linked
to at least 50 murders last year a 35
percent increase over 2017 so clearly
clearly these violent right-wing attacks
are increasing stepping back a bit when
you look at the growth of far-right
extremist parties not only is their
presence increasing globally but in part
it's because Steve Bannon is running
around Europe helping them in fomenting
all the garbage that they're trying to
do so like it's a huge growing problem
yeah and the violence is clearly a
growing problem also the actual number
of hate groups has increased over the
last couple years in the United States
white supremacist propaganda efforts
more than doubled last year the number
of racist rallies and demonstrations
went up a number of hate groups reached
a record high after three years of
decline during the Obama administration
this is all according to the
anti-defamation league so love it yeah I
mean you know there's this term
stochastic terrorism which I think it's
always worth coming back to you in
moments like this because I think the
debate you know about the rhetoric of
right-wing politicians and white
supremacist politicians like Donald
Trump then turns into this conversation
of who's responsible and I think one of
the challenges of dealing with a global
phenomenon of white supremacy that has
far-reaching horrible consequences for
societies around the world long before
anybody engages in a terrorist attack
right I mean the white supremacist
ideology Donald Trump profits from
politics you know makes enter to his
politics is about Fanning false fears
and bigotry to propel his agenda that
has nothing to do with the wall it has
to do with the corporate power and and
his own corruption and what-have-you
but you know what happens when these ten
politicians use anti-muslim rhetoric
when they use anti-immigrant rhetoric
when they talk about how we're being
invaded this is something that Donald
Trump does is what you see with Tucker
Carlson Laura Ingraham Sean Hannity this
what you see across the right is what
you see now growing because of steve
madden around the world that lands and p
bull's brains it lands in the P in the
brains of people who then embrace the
kind of right-wing racist politics and
it also lands in the brains of people
who are willing to do something
destructive and violent and what they do
is they raise the temperature when you
raise the temperature things boil up and
so everything these politicians are
doing is contributing to environment in
which we are seeing more of these kinds
of terrorism
he literally pivoted from his answer
dismissing the rise of right-wing
terrorism into an answer about like
invaders on the southern border yeah you
know the exact language that dehumanizes
people so I want to dig into the
rhetoric from right-wing politicians and
Donald Trump itself but first
Kevin Roose wrote a piece in The New
York Times that was called a mass murder
of and for the Internet where he notes
that the attack was conceived online
teased on Twitter announced on the
online message board h√± broadcast live
on Facebook and replayed on YouTube and
reddit what do we what do we do about
this how much responsibility to do these
tech and social media platforms there I
think they have an enormous man
responsibility I mean YouTube we've
hammered on Facebook for a long time for
a variety of reasons and part fake news
Twitter has certainly been subject to a
lot of criticism but youtube is a
radicalization algorithm right we all
worry about like the rise of robots
coming to kill us that
algorithms on Facebook are you you're
two hops away from I'm using a term on
YouTube - I'm sorry you are two hops
away from YouTube being some topic - you
know some Alex Jones content which takes
you to something else that is far more
troubling and frightening and like
people are prone to believe these
conspiracy theories that's what these
things are these conspiracy theories
about white genocide and in the white
race being replaced by others they're
prone to believe these things we're all
it's humans have been prone to believe
crazy conspiracy theories for a long
time and what the internet is done is
supercharged our ability to find that
stuff but like also on top of that
Donald Trump has created this Mogga
internet universe that has helped people
find this kind of stuff like for example
during the campaign he retweeted an
account called white genocide remember
that yeah I think he might have done it
twice and the profile used the name
Donald Trump of wits and it linked to a
a pro Adolf Hitler documentary
I had the location of quote
right so like he's helped people find
this stuff on top of that like there's
this cottage industry of you know Mogga
people that came up during the campaign
one is a guy named Bill Mitchell he used
to tweet things that people found
ridiculous and people would dunk on him
and you know unfortunately his arguments
looks a little less ridiculous after
Trump won but the guy is still out there
saying that Trump was chosen by God he
literally said Trump's mind is a
supercomputer he built out this big
following and that guy last week used
his platform to interview a conspiracy
theorist who said the New Zealand attack
was a liberal false flag operation right
so like yeah the the technology the
individuals who are leading this country
are helping people find this crap I
think for a long time the argument from
the tech platforms in the social media
platforms is well these platforms are
neutral right and yeah and then they're
there you know there's also well they
just they just mirror what humanity is
what society is but the algorithm
changes that right like the algorithm
it's not it's not just a reflection of
what society is it's actually pushing
you towards content that is more hateful
like these platforms are contributing to
people who appeal to the worst of
humanity silos are real right like you
get into the silo online whether it's on
reddit whether it's in you to whatever
else with other like-minded people and
there's improper you know propaganda
works we've talked about this right like
and the more you're exposed to the stuff
the more propaganda that's that's pushed
out right like if you're some like
alienated young white dude who's
sitting there it like this like this
killer was and you are suddenly
radicalized by all of this hate that
you're seeing on YouTube and everywhere
else not just in Australia or New
Zealand but all over the globe from the
 comfort of your own home that's
very dangerous yeah I mean and tech
platform technically firms have our
 responsibility to do something
about this yeah I mean look
tech companies talk about all the
advantages that come with technology the
efficiencies the amount of the speed
with which you can do things right that
is that it's like email versus mail
right the same applies when you're
talking about groups of people coming
together and radicalizing each other
right it used to be people how to go
drive somewhere right now they don't now
it's right there their computer and you
know there's there it's a
and I think one of the challenges too is
that this this eco system is effective
at every level of involvement on the
part of people who see it right
right-wing white supremacist
anti-immigrant anti-muslim propaganda it
works at the it works at the furthest
distant right
planting just a little seed of concern
in people's minds planning a little seed
of concern about Ilan Omar in people's
minds planting a little bit of anxiety
about an issue they might not even bring
it up with in the back of their minds
they have a little concern this it
doesn't start like hey come be a Nazi
but but so so that has a huge impact
right that affects behavior that affects
how people view Muslims that affects how
people make decisions you go one step up
and it's not people watching Fox News
regularly and now their politics are
changing right or now they're they're
seeing more of this stuff on Facebook
because that's what their friend shared
right you go one step up and we all you
know people we people have we have
relatives who have become kind of
enamored of online right-wing culture
who become embittered
hard to talk to because they're so in
this kind of ecosystem and you keep
going up and you keep going up until you
end up at this tiny clutch of people who
are willing to do terrible violence but
the problem is this stuff is effective
for the politicians and the and the and
the groups that pursue it at every level
right it doesn't hurt the right wing to
have these seeds planted at the bottom
and it doesn't particularly hurt them to
have these kind of troops in the middle
that cares so much and so you know
that's all in this whiteness doesn't
care I mean Trump dismissed the rise of
right white nationalism but then this
morning on TV Kellyanne Conway was asked
if Trump's rhetoric was somehow
responsible for the shooting and in her
effort to dismiss any possible
connection she said I hope everyone will
go online and the shooters manifesto
because she thinks it will exonerate her
bus so she's cool if people go read a
document that could radicalize more
people as long as you don't plain
something that's responsible that is
this white house in a nutshell I mean
yeah on Sunday acting White House chief
of staff Michael vania said on Fox News
that it's quote absurd to suggest that
Donald Trump's words influence the
alleged attacker and that quote the
president is not a white supremacist I
mean Donald Trump called during the
campaign for a total and complete
shutdown of Muslims entering the United
States and currently has a travel ban in
place from bolt
muslim-majority countries okay and then
you know people were sending this around
this weekend remember during the
campaign at one of his rallies man
stands up and says we have a problem in
this country it's called Muslims we know
our current president is one Trump says
right we need this question man says
when can we get rid of them
Trump says we're gonna be looking at a
lot of different things a lot of people
are saying that like you can't tell me
that rhetoric like that and you know
they said that like you know John Kelly
and Jim mattis tell them we're fond of
saying well put the words in one in one
basket and Trump's actions in another
yeah but it's like when you're talking
about what inspires and radicalize
people it's words words do that of
course and and again like you know this
is I think you can't lay any one random
act of violence at the feet of any
politician or any sentence or any
sentiment express what happens is all of
this rhetoric over time reaches a lot of
people and some of those people take it
literally and if enough people start
taking it literally enough of those
people will then you know have enough
people take it literally a small subset
of them will act on it and that is just
a reality and and so no can you say to
Donald Trump - Donald Trump specific
words cause a specific event no but -
Donald Trump cause this this rant this
rise of random acts of of anti-muslim so
I'm contributing - absolutely yeah look
in 2017 he retweeted like anti-muslim
snuff films that were so oh yeah
disgusting they had been posted by a far
right-wing party in the UK that the he
was rebuked by the British government
yeah like if this is there's nothing new
here and it is just building and
building and building but the same time
he's out there talking about reacting to
his enemies with violence he did this
interview I think it was with bright bar
where he was talking about how he is the
support of the police the military
bikers for Trump right and we have tough
people so if the left-wing goes to a
certain point you all get very bad right
he encouraged yeah I goes I have the
tough people but they don't play it
tough until they go to a certain point
and then it would be very very bad yeah
I mean he told his people at his rallies
to knock the hell out of hecklers he
told the cops that he liked it when they
roughed up suspects I mean he is he's
pushing people towards this rhetoric and
he's pushing them toward
or violent actions as being okay how
should Democrats talk about this and
what should the next president do about
this what can the next president do
about this that's a very open question
okay I like what let's pick up here I
mean I think that the ver minimum is the
call it out and I think we need to get
past this little game where we pretend
that it's somehow not contributing or we
worry about offending the fox news's of
the world by staying quite clearly that
Trump's language is fomenting violence
his policies are bigoted they are do you
call him up call him out I mean I saw
that this morning Jerry Nadler announced
that the House Democrats are holding
hearings on white nationalism I think
that's a good start I think you're right
like talking about it calling it out is
a good first step you know you see just
send our durn 38 youngest female head of
state you know in New Zealand and she's
it's just watching her for the weekend
to consoling hugging people standing
with the Muslims in New Zealand just
watching someone like play the role that
presidents used to play not just Oh Bob
like like all US presidents and we had
people and like something bad happened
in the country and the president would
console people core decency you know she
also announced plans to ban
semi-automatic rifles right after that
which would be something completely new
here in America you know you saw I saw
mayor Pete Buda jej sent a letter to the
Muslim community in South Bend where he
said you know you're not only loved but
needed
he also said white nationalism kills
right like I think talking about this
more and exposing it more is one good
step it's not sufficient but it's one
concept also probably dedicating more
resources in the Department of Justice
in the FBI it's actually going after the
white Nationals investigating these
groups is probably pretty important as
well for the next president yeah I think
also a lot of people have talked about
the success that some of the internet
platforms have had getting rid of Isis
propaganda and they have had far less
success in getting rid of white
nationalist propaganda and I think the
reality is there's not been enough
pressure but also it's harder because
white nationalist propaganda runs all
the way from
like it's there's no clear line between
far right-wing anti-muslim violent
propaganda all the way to the kind of
acceptable right-wing racism we see all
the time right and because that gray
area they're terrifying of getting
inside of it but they have to know it's
this is the long-running problem that
facebook deals with that the media deals
with all the time is is it a political
opinion or is it hate speech
yeah and it's tough on the right to
figure that out and into the platforms
not credit but like I understand where
they're coming from because it is hard
to police all of this language right
like you don't know where to draw the
line but they need to start drawing some
lines right like I know this isn't
perfect this isn't a perfect exercise I
know there's free speech like you want
to be careful with all this and it's
like it's a balance but when you see
that this is creating so much violence
and hatred like maybe you should be a
little bit more lean to the side of
taking it down than worrying that a
bunch of like Republican commentators
and pundits are gonna yell at you
because they think that you're biased or
or when you learned that seven active
duty military members were identified as
being part of a white nationalist group
called identity Europa I think we need
to think damn hard about the amount of
resources being put towards you know
tracking penetrating and breaking up
these kind of groups because in 2009
with DHR released a report that talked
about the rise of white nationalism and
extremism and their likelihood of
recruiting former military members into
those groups because of their training
it received massive political blowback
Obama wrongly walked back the report and
we kind of hid from it because of the
attacks and that was a huge mistake and
we need to just be clear-eyed and honest
about the yeah there's one other
point too and love it you were getting
added a little bit on CNN this weekend
will lead shaheed was on from justice
Democrats and he was talking about like
Democrats sort of making the turn or all
of us making the turn as we talk about
why this is happening
and saying like you know billionaires
like Rupert Murdoch like the Mercer's
use this propaganda to tell people that
Muslims and immigrants are to blame for
our economic problems trying to divide
white people against black and brown
people you know so that there is no
class solidarity like it is a very
concerted strategy on behalf of
rich and powerful people right like they
want you to think that it's like poor
white folks who were driving this
movement and honestly it's it's it's
it's rich people who are doing this
Rupert Murdoch has more is more
responsible for this than almost anyone
else right it is a it is these are you
just got out yes I think that's
absolutely right and you know I think
one of the things it's hard to is it's
like even when it's not fomenting
violence it is still a false ideology
designed to scare people you know right
now in this country you know who are the
victims of religious based violence they
are Muslims and they are Jews right
that's who is getting the the brunt of
religious based violence right who's
committing the the bulk of of terror of
terrorist attacks and and you know
radical violent the u.s. it's white
supremacist organizations dick say I
would add african-american churches in
to the victims too right and so you know
it's exactly backwards and I think we do
have to talk about it I do think by the
way just you know talking about the
responsibility of tech platforms and
talking about the power they have in our
society something Elizabeth Warren is
doing something we all have to start
doing more because you know I also by
the way like I am not particularly
comfortable with handing uh you know
patrolling the speech of Americans to
billionaires in Silicon Valley any more
than I find it then I want to hand it
over to Congress you don't mean it's a
it's a difficult issue so I think part
of it is about figuring out how to take
some of that power back and not just
asking not just outsourcing this
responsibility to another group of
people somewhere else but figuring how
to make it our own responsibility
together I mean I do think that's
whatever that's what our Congress is for
that's what our governments for
ultimately I also think a piece of some
regulation here that's good yeah there's
also a piece of this that I think it's
understanding the scope of the problem
and I think like 4chan and and gab in
some of these places where this stuff
grows and Fester's were seen as fringy
and and I remember the morning of the
unite the right rally in Charlottesville
people were like if you'd only stop
covering these stupid nerds and khakis
walking around they wouldn't get the
attention they know this is a real
growing presence and threat
in danger and we need to recognize that
and understand that like this sort of
 posting online culture the the like
you know the the PewDiePie reference
like that's something that hundreds of
millions if not billions of people
understand and get and it helps launder
these radical views into like memes that
are allegedly funny but actually are not
they're Trojan horses to carry deeply
 up views that are gonna get
people hurt you can't ignore you have to
expose it
one less incident related to the attack
I want to mention on Friday night two
students from New York University
confronted Chelsea Clinton at an
interfaith vigil for the victims of the
New Zealand attack they were upset
because of sorry they're upset because
Clinton tweeted the following response
to a tweet that said Ilhan Omar's
comments about APEC and Israel were seen
as anti-semitic by American Jews in
Chelsea's tweet said quote co-signed as
an American we should expect all elected
officials regardless of party and all
public figures to not traffic and
anti-semitism one of the young woman who
confronted Clinton said quote this right
here is a result of a massacre stoked by
people like you and the words that you
put out into the world forty nine people
died because of the rhetoric you put out
there guys what do you think of this and
what did you make of all the people on
Twitter like yelling about this some of
them a lot of people defending the young
women so I found it all very silly I'm
sorry just silly and it's silly because
there are real serious issues at stake
right there are serious issues about
anti-muslim sentiment even being
expressed by liberals and not and
there's a serious issue about how even
liberals and even people who are trying
to be supportive of the Muslim community
feed into anti-muslim stereotypes in the
way they talk about Muslim Americans
right one of the one of the things I
think people point to often is often
like it's similar to how on TV shows for
very long time if you were a gay
character the stories that were told
about you were had to do with your
gayness right like if you're gonna be a
gator coming out or being secretly gay
bulimia and Rhapsody does this to it in
our politics when you're with Muslim
people are Muslim first
right the first thing we have to do is
prove their loyalty we don't ask other
people to prove that Lawrence Lee the
first thing we're expected to address is
their Muslim is their is their Muslim
faith and so I think that there is a
legitimate conversation to be had about
how we talk about Muslim Americans even
when we're trying to be supportive this
was not that this was maybe you have a
disagreement with how she addressed an
issue but to take that and take it to a
vigil and attack somebody and claiming
that they played a part in this attack
or responsible in some way for this
attack I think is counterproductive even
if there is a legitimate conversation to
be had underneath it all but Twitter
will not be that place and that vigil
was not gonna be that place I guess you
know if you want to confront Chelsea
Clinton about any given issue that is
your right
so I guess go for it but the the op-ed
that the sue individual wrote where they
said they believed Chelsea Clinton was
part of a bigoted anti-muslim mob and
quote that came after ill on Omar that
is ridiculous
again like what what's frustrating about
this is all of a sudden instead of
having a conversation about actual
Islamophobia and the things we need to
do to maybe address the problem we're
talking about attacking Chelsea
Clinton and a bunch of blue checkmark
journalists in you know in New York are
attacking her for getting paid too much
for having worked at NBC at one point
like what what is the value of this
conversation and and how do we just
decide that someone that we don't like
for unrelated reasons is somehow
deserving of this sort of reaction when
they were attending a vigil it's just
like right such misplaced rage and
energy yeah it's everything I
hear wasting everyone's everything I
 hate about it well here's the
thing there is like first of all Chelsea
Clinton is the she was there because
she's the head of an interfaith
organization seems relevant just just
you know but like whether it is
justified or not going up to Chelsea
Clinton it's almost like I know and I
didn't think that she deserved to be
yelled at like that at all but it's
almost beside the point like let's talk
about effective activism right like
activism is fueled by anger righteous
anger that's oftentimes very
understandable is an important part of
activism while you're acting you're
angry about something but it also
requires discipline and it requires
persuasion and like if those women young
women wanted to go up to Chelsea Klein
and say hey
that tweet about Ilhan Omar like that
really that hurt me and I think it had
contributed to some of this and I'm you
know I'm a little worried about it and
like what do you think about that you
really you made me mad with that tweet
and here's where I'm coming from like
Chelsea Clinton probably have had a
great conversation with them and none of
us would be talking about this what a
shame that would be how many yeah right
like how many minds
how many minds do you think you change
how many minds you think you changed by
going up to Chelsea Clinton and saying
that she's responsible for a massacre I
agree I totally I mean I agree with that
I also give them far more of a pass to
like feel how you feel in the moat in
the moment when you're very frustrated
and emotional it's the it's the then the
sort of the the online refs who are
supposed to be journalists yeah who just
decide to pile on someone that they
don't like because her last name is
Clinton it's just like it's transparent
it's obvious yeah it's childish I just
think I mean it's it's only just like
advice to activists right like I
remember Obama always used to tell us
because the heat from his community
organizing days like he was it's
underrated that you need a certain
discipline to be an activist right so
we're gonna and I'm sure look I'm sure
these young women have done that a lot
of times maybe it was just a moment that
they were really angry but like you we
really have to and and the people on
line by the way all the check mark blues
journalist they don't do activism right
which is why they all they do is yellow
on Twitter you know it's also you know
and this is I think part of the problem
too which is like okay so like I
actually do think there is a worthy
conversation about you know bad faith
like the role that Ilyn Omar was forced
to play in our politics because of bad
faith arguments on the right very
interesting and important conversation
yeah how does your denouncement of her
comments feed into that worth having
fine a random confrontation at one vigil
in New York City now it's the national
topic now we're talking about it yeah
and I don't know I don't think any of us
really know how to do this you know you
know how do you how do you how do you
look we're stepping into this debate
right now we're deciding this is worthy
of a conversation because we don't
believe that the conversation we saw
online was a smart or a good one so
we're having a different conversation
here and yet we are part of now this big
conversation about Chelsea Clinton and
woman who's responsible for us a
terrorist attack in New Zealand and so
like I think one of the things we all
grapple with is how do you participate
in the debate you're not sure should
even be happening because it elevates a
small thing and turns it into a big
thing and it happen
every single day and I don't think
there's very many good answers no look
and the reason the reason I wanted to
talk about it is for the point that I
just made is there are a lot of things
out there in the Trump era that are
making all of us very angry all the time
yeah and the the question hanging over
all of it is what do we do about it
what do we do with all that anger and
how do we bring about change and I think
there is a way there is a way to bring
about change that activists and
organizers have followed for decades
that is at risk because of the social
media environment that we have right now
and I think it's an I just think it's
something for everyone to think about
the Nereid there's it's which-which and
we just talked about algorithms that
push people towards anger and more fear
and you know the only out the only
algorithm really matters the human mind
ok let's move on to the president st.
Patrick's Day which he celebrated with
nearly two dozen tweets that attacked
John McCain Megan McCain a rerun of
Saturday Night Live Fox News executives
for not defending Jeanine Pirro and
Tucker Carlson Fox News anchors like
Shep Smith were not sufficiently loyal
to Trump and Democrats for trying to
steal the 2016 election first at the
quote ballot box as he put in quotations
then threw a coup guys what do you
think's going on so two quick points one
I do love that he criticized SNL for
going after him over and over again
because it was a rerun it's so funny
because I went to bed Saturday night and
was like oh cool we can watch Saturday
Night Live before falling asleep and
then it was like oh it's a rerun
and then I woke up and I'm like do we
miss a real Saturday life because
Trump's tweeting about it so he it was a
rerun so that was baffling to him in
terms of his angry tweets I do think
it's worth noting that Donald Trump had
to go to church on Sunday because it was
st. Patrick's Day and that clearly he
was angry about he's doing it from
church I don't think he tweeted from the
pews but I do think he was incredibly
angry about having to go to church I
think he hates going to church he
doesn't know what to do with his brain
during that time he can barely pay
attention the pastor did talk about
tolerance and how to fight cruelty that
rhetoric which of course I really got it
that are really good those cross kissed
him the off so who's this
guy why am I not talking to this
but I think the the SNL thing is
unbelievably hilarious and perfect but
he did ask the Federal Election
Commission or the FCC should look into
it so like that's a pretty direct threat
on a television show or network you know
in abridgement of freedom of speech he
also told Fox News to bring back Jeanine
Pirro who Fox had just recently banned
for saying something incredibly
Islamophobic pretty up to do in
the context of New Zealand that we're
just talking about he attacked him a
cane and wrongly said he gave these
steel dossier to the FBI during the
campaign actually he did it after and
then he retweeted an attack on Megan
McCain John McCain's daughter who had
responded to him I just want to quickly
note that pathetic Lindsey Graham could
only muster a sub tweet where he didn't
name Donald Trump and response so I
don't friend normally normally like wins
if someone fired off 24 tweets on st.
Patty's Day I assume they were hammered
we know John we know that Donald Trump
does not drink so that can't be the case
here I'm hopeful that maybe he learned
some Muller news and this is all just a
big prelude to the next thing but like
you know these these this is completely
unhinged but within the unhinged Ness
some really serious things like the the
FCC investigation into NBC or they you
know just dismissing a llama phobia out
of hand that like it's hard to process
ie attacked a deceased senator and
veteran for being last in his class at
Annapolis and his daughter
I said I'm finding that out now that's
what he said that is deranged
that is deranged
he's a dream just like part of what was
so alarming about it it's like we
haven't had one of these spells in a
little while the Donald Trump going off
on 20 tweets and it's like is it is it
alarming that these tweets are losing a
little bit of their shock value or is
that a good thing that we're not letting
them sort of distract us all from the
larger issues at stake here I think it's
fine I think it was an inevitable you
know it there's only there's only so
much shock we can muster that there's a
there's a natural equilibrium between
these this is not normal it's like well
guess what no normal there's a natural
you can err equilibrium between the
amount of shock his crazy tweets
generate
the amount of crazy tweets he's
generating himself and that seems like
we've kind of hit that the fewer the
more rare the tweets the more they're
shocking I don't know what to do about
it but that's just the reality on the
Jeanine Pirro thing I actually think is
a very easy one he's a racist and
Jeanine Pirro is a loyal racist and he
wants his loyal races back because she
was really good to him and he doesn't
care about the size of that he doesn't
care about the fact that she just went
into anti-muslim bigotry because hey he
agrees with it and being even if he
didn't wouldn't care cuz he likes her
and it's not like he's sitting there
thinking about what happened in New
Zealand because these things don't like
they fire through the synapse real
quickly and then they just move on know
that his brain is a well well-oiled
sluice way yeah information you you roll
you throw a marble in that thing it
comes out the other side faster one less
one less note though like he also
retweeted a qyn on account if you don't
know what Q naan is like it's honestly
it's like a crazy death cult where they
think that Democrats and celebrities are
all running a pedophile ring and that
one day Trump's gonna lock all them up
and then execute the wrong ones like
that's literally what it is reply all
from Kim with it a really great episode
on it check it out but like okay so
we're talking about these crazy like
dark corners of the internet conspiracy
theories when the president United
States retweets one of them it lends
them credence it has some credence the
darkest corners verifying is in the Oval
Office yes Chelsea Clinton fault all
right
Chelsea Clinton is responsible and it is
time we all face the fact that this
wealthy woman from Tribeca is
responsible she is cue there were two
Trump tweets I think are worth Democrats
paying attention to and those were the
tweets where he literally blames auto
workers for the closure of the General
Motors plant in Lordstown Ohio he wrote
that United Auto Workers Local 1 1 1 2 1
1 1 2 when I say 11 12 he wrote that
United Auto Workers Local 11 12
president David Green quote ought to
stop complaining get his act together
and produce this is after green twice
reached out to the White House for help
over the last couple months and got no
response from the White House later
Trump may be realizing that it was
actually a mistake that he did this
tweeted that he spoke to GM CEO and told
her to do something quickly about the
plant closure but she blamed it on the
Union and then he was like I don't care
just get it open so first of all back to
my point
he clearly she said
she she said there yeah she said
something on that call that's stuck in
his brain just long enough for to get
from his brain to the Twitter machine
which I'm sure he mischaracterized but
clearly she expressed some blame for
workers and then he just parroted it and
then someone's like you can't don't you
see she has an agenda on this call
whatever and he's just like oh I
stepped it again although it's worse
than that the initial tweet immediately
followed a segment on Fox News about the
plan so he was just live tweeting Fox
again but then I mean like big picture
blaming workers for a plant closure is
an interesting electoral stretch I'll
tell you I'm no pollster but I laugh I
put a pole on the field I'm gonna I'm
gonna take a wild guess that one I'm
glad sherrod Brown immediately got out
and responded but yeah this is something
Democrats could talk about literally
every day until the election I mean it's
1,300 jobs in Ohio there's there's a
whole story here about Trump you know
Trump at the Carrier plant in Indiana
promising jobs coming back into this
country
Trump promising factories are gonna open
up right and it's like everyone
dutifully reporting on it and they're
dutifully reporting on it even amid an
economic recovery where unemployment is
low these places in the Midwest places
like Lordstown places all over Ohio
Michigan stuff like that they have still
not recovered fully from the Great
Recession from the financial crisis and
there are people hurting and when you
look at the places where Trump won the
Obama Trump places were Trump won in the
Midwest and then swung back to Democrats
in 18 these are like there's you know
there's a whole bunch of people who
voted for Donald Trump in 2016 and voted
for sherrod Brown in 2018 voted for
Tammy Baldwin in Wisconsin voted for
Gretchen Whitmer in Michigan for a beef
Inc an hour in Cindy axon II in Iowa
right like so we know that there are
these voters who voted for Donald Trump
came back to the Democrats in 18 and
getting them to vote for a Democratic
president in 2020 he's going to require
a big push around this story that Trump
has broken promises to people in the
Midwest that he would bring jobs back
when in fact what he actually did was
his only legislative accomplishment so
far is passing a gigantic tax cut that
went to a lot of these companies and
actually incentivize incentivized
outsourcing jobs plus all of his tariffs
 right and one of the story a
lot of people know that a lot of things
we built in the u.s. we built from
imported steel and like these are many
things being it harder to make things
us yeah and I'm happy that the Center
for American Progress rolled out an ad
campaign on Facebook and Twitter and
other social media platforms hitting
Trump on the tax breaks for GM nice this
week so they're gonna be doing good that
we need that those are the kind of ads
that we need to say well that Donald
Trump is the grifter from the monorail
episode of The Simpsons and we have
reached the part where we were
discovering that actually he didn't
build very much of a monorail in Ogden
Ville and also the monorail is on fire
and analogy all right cool cool cool
Michael's with me like Michael's not a
comedy
they're paid to be with you be continued
Maggie you with me all right we got lots
of 20/20 news to talk about today Beto
O'Rourke has received lots of very
polarized coverage for his campaign
rollout in first trip to Iowa mayor Pete
Budaj edge is having a moment Elizabeth
Warren is turning out more new ambitious
policy this time on housing Kirsten
Gillibrand is officially launching her
campaign with a new video new slogan and
a big speech at Trump Tower on Sunday
Stacey Abrams is considering a White
House run and Joe Biden seems to have
accidentally announced he's running at a
dinner on Saturday saying quote I have
the most progressive record of anybody
running anybody who would run classic it
totally saved it totally oh no Joe the
cats out of the bag Joe why did you say
that Joe okay
let's stop with Beto who announced this
morning that his campaign raised a
record 6.1 million dollars of
online-only contributions in its first
24 hours surpassing the 5.9 million
announced by Bernie Sanders and all the
other Democrats running I think it's
fair to say that betters announcement
got more coverage than your average
presidential campaign roll out but I did
think it was notable that so much of the
national and Twitter coverage was snarky
too negative while the local Iowa
coverage and interviews with Iowa
caucus-goers were positive to glowing
tommy is the former Iowa press secretary
for Barack Obama what did you think of
that dynamic there will always be a
delta between the national coverage and
local iowa coverage it tends to be more
substantive and focus on issues and then
on the street you know conversations
that said the the national debate bleeds
into Iowa coverage in a big big way
that's true for all the TV
it's true for the Des Moines Register
like they all have the internet they all
have Twitter like they see this
conversation happening so it will
ultimately merge more than you want it
to but that's how it works I mean I I
thought that Beddoes smartest thing he
did was get to Iowa and get in the car
and do a whole bunch of events most of
the things they had done up to that
point or not how I would have done it I
thought the Vanity Fair piece was kind
of bad yeah I thought that the
announcement video wasn't great like it
I think that a lot of the things felt
rushed and like there weren't enough
people there to sort of handle the
processes to get it done right and I
think that's a direct result of taking
some time to think about this decision
like I don't begrudge anyone for
thinking really long and hard about
whether or not you're gonna run for
president but then there's going to be a
cascading series events which means you
won't have enough people on the ground
especially when you're not Joe Biden who
has been collecting people yes for
exactly 40 years in politics now like
the the blue the blue checkmark Twitter
uprising gave me a lot of flashbacks to
Obama coverage because I think a lot of
reporters confuse being cynical and
sarcastic for sounding smart and I think
that's especially true if you are trying
to have a message that's hopeful and
optimistic because it can often be
interpreted as being naive it's it's
more savvy sounding to talk about
process so you know like this is gonna
be a long process about one of the
people that is attacking him on Twitter
has a vote and now he's gonna go to New
Hampshire's ten counties in two days so
like those are the things I would do but
it was funny to see reporters like there
was a guy from the Atlantic who went
after him saying that you know he wasn't
even people weren't even googling his
name and it Nate silver from 5:30 I'd be
like hey if you search for better or or
or beto it's actually four times the
next candidates search histories it's
like a lot of dumb unforced errors that
felt like they were derived from people
wanting to look at the candidacy in a
harsh light at the start what would you
think so I think there's a good look
small story that that captures I think
this dynamic so how much money did Beto
raise in his first 24 hours
okay it's a big question right because
Bernie raised I think 5.9 million better
didn't put out the number right away so
it fed into this argument online that
actually there's uh there's no there
there his appeal was not as broad as we
thought he's not really seeing the
number because it's not very good betos
campaign is already foundering
he's already failed to properly answer a
question about health care he's already
failing to put substance behind his name
his video wasn't good his wife didn't
speak in the video these are all
symptoms of the fact that better work is
not the candidate he's not gonna work
it's never because all over it's done
it's all over then we learned today that
actually he raised 6.1 million meaning
he raised more than Bernie in his first
24 hours he's raising a ton of money the
enthusiasm is there good news for Beto
the court according to this new
conversation
he's frontrunner once again it's over
he's won he wrapped up the nomination
but here's the actual truth he did some
events in Iowa he has appealed to some
people there is a fundamental question
every single candidate that's in this
race is gonna ask a answer which is why
am I the person to take on Donald Trump
and become president in this moment
here's the here's here's what happened
no one has successfully answered that
question because it's not impossible to
answer it in the first days of your
campaign is a long process at the end of
which we will come together and decide
who is the best person to take on Donald
Trump and who is the best person to be
President I think Beto clearly has
charisma he has enthusiasm he's inspired
a lot of people there's questions about
substance there's questions about what
he would actually do as president he's
answered some of those questions well
he's answered some of those questions
poorly that is what the campaign is for
it's just a I know we say this a lot but
it is another chapter in Twitter is not
real life and you know people say well
why are so focused on Twitter I just get
out Twitter but the problem is all the
journalists are covering this campaigner
on Twitter and what happens on Twitter
then leads to journalists writing
political analysis based entirely off
tweets entirely off what's happened that
the conversation is going on Twitter so
it does matter it the coverage doesn't
there and it's not just better this has
to deal with this like I know we all
like every day is memento in
this campaign where we just like you
know we forget what happened but like
Komal Harris dealt with this lisbeth war
and dealt with this in the rows - like
Carmel Harris oh the prosecutor things
to be a huge problem every one of your
events can be talking about the
prosecutor thing Elizabeth Warren
everyone's gonna be talking about
Pocahontas and the DNA thing and all
that kind of no everyone's gonna be
talking about this lo and behold beto
same thing
people at the rally every when you
interview all these people who are going
to these events who are not committed
fans as another mistake people are
making a lot of these are especially in
Iowa they are undecided caucus goers and
when you if you interview them at commas
events or warrens events or better those
events none of the the people are
talking about online gets brought up
they don't talk about the work that what
they're saying is this person makes me
feel inspired
I like this person's plan for X I want
someone who does this just basic things
that normal human beings ask I do think
that you know the one the one Q&A that I
kind of made me scratch my head was on
healthcare and I think he you know
whether he sports medicare-for-all or
universal and I think that's gonna be
something's can be vetted out throughout
the campaign but like the money thing to
me is just your classic sugar high
processed story and like I wish
these candidates didn't feel like they
needed to release these 24 hours number
because they're ultimately kind of
meaningless and it's like you know so
there's all this smearing about how
Elizabeth Warren is putting out all this
great substantive important policy and I
just would suggest to some of the people
pointing that out who cover the politics
like cover the policy then you have
agency here you can you can focus on
whatever you want to focus on rather
than make it about that contrast of
coverage versus policy role it's like
yeah any well I would just say that this
this drove me nuts because I'm a
healthcare nerd about this but like when
when the full answer came out for Beto
and he said I like the I like the
Schakowsky bill this the bill by
Tchaikovsky and and rose and rosa
DeLauro and it's medicare for America
we've talked about this before this is a
similar to the plan that Center for
American Progress put together as well
and reporters finally when they got that
and they're like oh he did land on a
position that he likes this bill they're
like oh he likes to buy an option now
they're all right and he likes a
Medicare buy an option it's like it's
not a Medicare buy an option actually
and if you just go click on the plan
you'll find it out it's a plan that
enrolls half the country in Medicare
automatically and then tells everyone
else in the country you can enroll in
Medicare if you want to it's not it's
not a buy and it's not like a pub it's
not a public option at all and all I'm
saying is if you're gonna start
reporting all this policy and and
someone throws out an actual piece of
legislation all you have to do is just
go read the legislation 14 and
don't like partial quotes so Jane Fox
has written all about Medicare for
America long before bed io got in the
race there's all kinds of great stories
about it just go look them up and that's
the same thing with like Elizabeth
Warren's plans like you can accurately
talk about the plans and describe them
in an easy way like it's it's not hard
to figure out what's in a plan I will
say though look I think I don't I think
part of this is it's feeding into a
dynamic in our political coverage that
is very frustrating and that it is
personality and charisma driven as
opposed to policy driven a lot of them
than always always the case I mean well
I think it's more it's it's always been
the case and it's become more the case
with television the Internet and social
media but you know I think one of the
challenges Beddoe has is I think one of
the face these hard questions about
health care it's in a faces card
question on substance because a he's he
doesn't have you know Cory Booker has
outlined a set of sort of key policy
priorities and put out some new ideas
that he's gonna sort of take the lead on
Carla Harris has done that with the lift
act I think you Accord but hookers done
it with baby bombs Elizabeth Warren is
you know I've said this word just like I
mean just leading the field in terms of
coming up with intellectually serious
far-reaching but practical policy ideas
that all whether or not she's the
nominee become the the mainstream
position of Democrats for sure and into
that is where Beto is stepping which is
an incredibly sophisticated and
incredibly advanced policy debate and so
far he said well I signed on to the you
know I'm I like this this health care
bill I like Cory Booker's baby bonds
bills like okay but this is gonna be the
central question which is can you back
up the inspiration and charisma with an
agenda of your own that speaks to this
moment and if and I think because of how
he's done this it's just still an open
question which is why it's hard for him
to get out of these little these little
kind of so policy covers one story about
this from oh seven and then we'll move
on early on in that race
there was a SEIU forum about health care
and Hillary Clinton had already had a
detailed health care plan ready to go
John Edwards already had a detailed
health care plan ready to go Barack
Obama said I will pass universal health
care by the end of my first term in
office that was his promise he did not
have a detailed health care plan we go
to the SEIU forum and they ask him
questions about health care and his
health care plan Hillary Clinton gives
detailed detailed answers John arrows
give detailed answers Barack Obama
fumbles through it
and is maybe the angriest I had heard
him in the whole campaign because he
felt unprepared he felt like he didn't
do the work and the truth was you know
we were just getting a policy staff
together he didn't have time to put the
whole plan together and but he was like
that's no excuse I'm running for
president I need to put plans together
and we need to get this now the other
part of the story is because Hillary
Clinton was the substantive policy one
in the race Barack Obama then for the
next five or six months over corrected
and started getting into such detail on
every single policy to the extent Wars
and you know in Iowa he was given these
like 50 60 minute long speeches because
he won't
I remember you remember you were there I
lived through all this he wanted to
prove to people that he was super
substantive and it turns out people want
sub substance but not a ton of substance
because they also want message and
inspiration and it wasn't until the
Jefferson Jackson dinner that fall that
he then once again lost all of the
details on policy and got back to
inspiring people but just a process
point to you like it if you want to lay
out every single policy you're gonna
propose on day one that is an incredible
accomplishment and super admirable but
politically in terms of a communication
strategy it makes a lot more sense to
sequence them and phase them over the
course of a campaign so you might
actually get covered on each proposal
right yeah I think that's right my point
is just it's a balance I think is about
and I don't know that anyone's hid it
yet no just I mean Warren is dominating
the pond no but I'm saying like I'm
saying what she has to think about is I
have all the policy and now can I put a
story together what I think I would
argue she has yet some speech yeah I've
just one thing that Barack Obama had
especially in 2007 was a kind of a case
for why we should go with him instead of
Hillary Clinton right that was what it
was he was saying look I was against the
Iraq war from the start she voted for it
I represent change she represents the
establishment right there was this
fundamental case that undergirded every
single thing Barack Obama did which I
think innard him to some of the
consequences of maybe not having a
better friend than Hayes did not come
together until the very end of the
primary till the fall before Iowa
because we were just flailing before
sure and there are and there was this is
the problems no one has a case against
anyone else yet because there's 20
candidates but what I'm saying is that
like that deeper motivation
was there from the start whether it was
perfectly articulated whether it got him
over the hump whether it helped him win
debates I don't know
and I think the question for Beto is do
you have that deeper cause that is oh
yeah Calvin izing your company that's
the big question of course it's a big
question follow let's talk about me
repeat who's now crossed 65,000 donors
the threshold necessary to earn a spot
and the Democratic primary debates his
national profile has also been boosted
by a CNN Town Hall and of course his pod
save America interview with Dan Pfeiffer
mayor peat is campaigning on
intergenerational change and he actually
did a Fox News interview on Sunday where
he joked about owning the quote white
Episcopalian gay veteran Lane and the
Democratic primary when asked about
where his political beliefs fit within
the party he said quote I think everyone
wants to fit you on an ideological
spectrum and I think that has never been
less relevant why do you guys think
mayor Pete's catching on is he can
certainly catching on in some quarters
it's a great example of someone just
being really really smart yeah
you know I just think he's a really
really smart person there was also this
great anecdote that came out over the
weekend which was he was at an event he
was introduced to a Norwegian journalist
and then he just started speaking
Norwegian and the journalist was just a
gasp like how did this person learn to
speak Norwegian it turns out that mayor
Pete had read a book by a Norwegian
author that had been translated to
English he liked the author so much he
wanted to read more but none of the
authors other works were available in
English so he had to learn Norwegian to
read it Donald Trump is president yeah
aristocrat I just think you see someone
like mayor Pete at that CNN Town Hall
and he just sort of exudes a core
decency you know it comes from who he is
in his presentation but also his bio
having served in the military and like
there's just a lot of goodness about him
and I think it we're in a period of time
when it's easier to focus on the
contrast between Democrats on the left
but the contrast between mayor Pete and
Donald Trump is is so strong and so
interesting to see that I do think like
he's definitely having a really
interesting moment it'll be interesting
interesting twice in a row it remains to
be seen if he can maintain it if he can
have a great moment in a debate that
continues to help him surge but you know
it's great that he's getting a look from
people because that's the kind of guy
you want to run
for various offices yeah he said in the
Washington Post this weekend like I can
only be myself I don't know how to
create a persona I'm not smart enough I
don't have a big enough staff to do that
you know like I love it feeling so
humble
yeah because you know that someone could
never be really humble they only have to
be acting humble right he can be humble
but that was performed that was day of
course but it's performative humility
he's expressing his humble his humility
to report I'm not gonna attack my
repeats motivate I love mayor Pete I'm
literally in love with him he is the
love of my life you're talking about the
love of my life
yikes but you know he's he's just he's
running as himself when you have a sort
of shoestring campaign like that you
basically have no choice but to go just
say what's on your mind around yourself
and it turns out who he is he's a really
fantastic person yeah so that's why it's
working well so we can do more
speculation on Biden and Stacy Abrams
and and we're gonna talk more about Jill
Barron's kickoff speech after she gives
it on Sunday but I do want to end with
Elizabeth Warren who as we've just said
is just churning out new policy non-stop
over the weekend she announced her plan
to address the country's affordable
housing crisis it limits the ability of
big private equity firms to buy up
housing for the sole purpose of renting
it out which is a big problem that
drives up rent
it calls for targeted home ownership
assistance and minority communities to
close the racial wealth gap and it
provides funding for public housing
Warren of course has already contributed
a list of big ideas to the presidential
primary conversation including the
wealth tax universal child care and a
plan to break up large tech companies
like Facebook and Amazon on Monday night
she joined CNN's Jake Tapper for a town
hall broadcast from Mississippi so as
we've said she's clearly leading the
field when it comes to new ideas and new
policy especially a economic policy
how much has this mattered in the past
and how much should it matter or how can
she get it to matter or maybe she is I
can't answer that question no one can
but I mean I think a couple things are
important one like I sat down for 40
minutes with her and like it's not just
that she has great bite size policies
that she is a broader vision in theory
of the case for how she views the world
that is all woven together and it makes
sense and it ties into her message and
story and it's incredibly impressive
she's also running
an interesting campaign where you know
the top and top of the substance like in
terms of process she's doing all the
things in early states like Iowa that
you need to do to do well sticking
around take every selfie signing
people's things like meaning everybody
and which is important like the personal
politics lastly you just said she's
doing a town hall in Mississippi so what
what what is she doing there she's going
to interesting states to communicate
this message that are about a broader
electoral strategy so on every facet of
the campaign feels new it feels
different it feels interesting and I
like I think it's gonna catch on in
places like Iowa it's my guess Iowa
seems like a very good state for her
because I think she like you said she
doesn't just have these policies she has
and when I was talking about the story
earlier she is clearly woven together
because it has been her story throughout
her life a story about economic
inequality in this country and a rigged
system and what happens when
corporations have too much power and how
to rein them in she has nailed that she
tells it better than anyone in the
country anyone that I've ever seen the
question is can she broaden that story
out to include other facets of American
life that voters are concerned about
right and I think I think she probably
can right like I think she we're gonna
find out over the next ten months but
you know that I think that's but she
does remind me of like I remember in oh
seven oh eight like John Edwards was the
one with the just laser-like focus
economic message right well America's he
was too little some of that laser did
not make it all the way to that target
some went off to a crazy bathroom thing
right all before a bathroom well that's
where he got caught hounded by the
reporter he memory had hide in the
bathroom I don't remember the whole
story anyway
before anyone knew that 2007 happens in
this race and you know he was sort of
like quietly running around Iowa with
this message that was very appealing and
he almost caught us in the end I mean
Hillary got third in Iowa and like and
and we were what a night we thought for
a while that Evers is gonna win in Iowa
because this economic populist message
did so so well when the same thing
happened in 2004 with the two Americas
speech I mean look I think that warns
story about her
biyo and her family and the way she grew
up is incredibly compelling but it's not
like I've also been impressed with the
fact that she also gave AB major foreign
policy speech and I think only Bernie
has also done that and you know she is
completely fluent talking about nuclear
weapons or Venezuela or Israel Palestine
like she's just she's got it all yeah
that's the kind of stuff that like that
gets you ready to play the long game
right like yeah it's interesting you
know we talk a lot about like sort of
like oh where do you persuade people
where do you not you know and you know
persuasion inside of a movement inside
of a party is is much more possible on
policy because it's a much more of more
people acting in good faith and so it is
right we hope one would hope for them
and it often is but and so inside of our
primaries and inside of primaries
generally I think you do see a more
substantive policy debate and look you
know Donald Trump coming down that
escalator and saying they're coming here
they're rapists they're murderers it was
a policy argument right he came out and
said I'm gonna make an argument
immigration and trade didn't have a lot
of details but he had a policy and a
policy I make or policy argument for why
he was running Elizabeth Warren has the
has that has a democratic version of
that core policy argument and it has in
a lot of ways animated this primary so
far so that's actually I think
heartening that she is staked her claim
saying I'm gonna run on policy and every
single time she rolls out a policy it
does captivate the media it was capital
we should say that Bernie Sanders also
was leading the policy debate over in
2016 and you know as we took like most
of these on health care no one has their
own health care plan they've all signed
up well I'm sorry I shouldn't say that
Kamala Harris cory booker elizabeth
warren kirsten gillibrand have all
signed on to Bernie's Medicare for all
and that is their health care plan yeah
and then you have now better sort of
liking this Medicare for America thing a
Buddha judge also likes the rosa DeLauro
Medicare for America thing you had
sherrod who's not in the race anymore
but talking about just lowering the age
to 50 so you do have some variation but
most of them are it's Bernie's plan
remember when we were told to take
Donald Trump seriously but not any
observation Warren less well over time
no Bernie gave a funny interview on NPR
where the interviews that interviewer
asked him he said you know you got in
this race in 26 2016 now all your
policies have been adopted by all of
these other candidates
and if all these other candidates are
adopting your policies why are you in
the race and he's like shouldn't the
question be why are they in the race
he's really fine buddy he'll never stop
laughing at his dismissal of Howard
Schultz oh isn't that nice really good
so far that was a good Oh me no I was
talking about you Tommy oh I was blown
away all right we've done yet yeah when
we come back we'll have Tommy's
interview with the intercepts Mehdi
Hasan can you take us out with a little
more Bernie well don't say that again
after we because that was just the
transition oh now let's do the closed
wasn't that interview nice pretty good
the deepness and don't wait to get
savaged by you know whole bunch of
people for this I don't even know
you
also I am going to interview Cory Booker
tomorrow right here in in cricket
studious and so it'll be Tuesday
interview and we'll release it I don't
know either Tuesday night or Wednesday
morning I think Wednesday morning right
let me try it again yeah I forgot what
we're gonna erase it all right let me do
that again
also I will be interviewing senator Cory
Booker right here tomorrow Tuesday and
we will release that episode as a
special bonus episode of positive
America on Wednesday morning so check
that out too
check it out
alright I'm ready to rep you guys good
on ok cool alright here we go
online is Mehdi Hassan he's a columnist
for the intercept the host of the
deconstructed podcast in the host of
algae al Jazeera English's program
upfront Mehdi thank you so much for
doing the show thanks for having me told
me up here well I am well I hate the
circumstances under which we're talking
today but I I love speaking with you
we've had a bunch of conversations for
pod save the world because I there's
never been a punch pulled from your end
so I'm grateful for you for making the
time so thank you you wrote a piece for
the intercept a couple days ago that
said don't just condemn the New Zealand
attacks politicians and pundits need to
stop their anti-muslim rhetoric I think
a lot of people listening probably
assume okay that's a reference to Trump
but it's actually a lot more pervasive
than that can can you explain yes sadly
there's a lot more pervasive than that
because Trump of course has emboldened
Islamophobia and white nationalism he's
enabled it he's empowered it but he's
not the cause of it he's a symptom of it
he rode it you know he rode the wave to
power as it were he made it a core part
of his appeal to his base but
Islamophobia as part of the Republican
Party before him it'll be a part of the
party after him that's one point it's
the Republican Party more broadly than
Trump so in the piece I talked about you
know Ted Cruz in 2016
talked about calling on law enforcement
to patrol and secure Muslim
neighborhoods before they become
radicalized or Senator Marco Rubio who
said he was in favor of closing down
Muslim cafes Senator Lindsey Graham he
said if I have to monitor a mosque
I will monitor a mosque former governor
Mike Huckabee said Muslims in the Middle
East come out of Friday prayers quote
like uncorked animals what do you think
that kind of rhetoric has what impact
that has on people like the New Zealand
shooter you could argue and then I kind
of made the point that it's not just
about the right either it's easy to go
after Trump it's easy to go after the
Republicans these are kind of
low-hanging fruit it's easy to go after
Ann Coulter who talks about ragheads and
jihad monkeys or ben shapiro who says
the majority of the world's Muslims are
radicalized or tucker carlson who we now
know from these elite you know these new
recordings that came out talks about
iraqi muslims a semi-literate primitive
monkeys
those are all easy targets Tommy but we
need to have a much more difficult
conversation about quote unquote the
mainstream media the liberal media and
Democratic politicians who have
wittingly and unwittingly fed into this
Islamophobia that we're seeing across
the Western world who have you know
pushed some tropes about Muslims again
wittingly and unwittingly who have
talked sometimes quite openly about how
you know look at what Bill Maher says
about Muslims on his show being violent
and bringing in a desert culture it's
really worrying that it's so across the
board and so prevalent in all pockets of
our political debate yeah well so how do
you feel about the way the Christchurch
attacks have been covered by the US
media so far that's a good question I
mean the US media is always difficult
but we talk about the media cuz offices
as the newspapers which cover everything
more responsibly and than this cable
news which tends to cover things a
little bit more irresponsibly I mean
I've ended up doing a bunch of hits on
CNN and MSNBC over the last few days and
I have to say I was kind of impressed
for the first time that we were having
discussions about white nationalism and
Islamophobia I think that's partly to do
with Trump because Trump has kind of is
so polarizing a character that
journalists are much more willing to
talk about some of these issues it's
it's the silver lining of Trump he's so
bad he's forced people who were on the
fence to get off the fence and take a
position on things like racism and black
lives matter and Islamophobia and
deportations when they didn't perhaps
when your former boss was in office
there was a it was a much harder to
critique some of these things maybe
because the Democrats were in power a
lot of liberals were unwilling to talk
about some of these uncomfortable issues
I think Trump being in power has made
Islamophobia so brazen that you know
back in the day Tommy I've been writing
about you know white far-right terrorism
for years when I was in the UK I wrote
about it for the intercept a couple of
years ago in 2017 and people said you
know what they said oh you're just a
Muslim who wants to distract attention
from jihadist terrorism now they don't
say that because the numbers don't lie
and we're seeing this in front of our
face that sheer the sheer number of
attacks the sheer hatred that we're
seeing online and in front of us and I
think therefore that you know Don Lemon
did I went on Don Lemon show on CNN on
Friday night and he's devoted two hours
to talk
about white nationalism in-depth which
groups are on the rise where is this
coming from I went on joy and read show
on Sunday and we had a 13 minute
conversation which told me as you know
in cable news well that's an eternity
journey about Islam the way that media
covers Muslims so there are some bright
spots but you know there's always
there's always like you know there's
always in my country Britain I don't
know if you saw the Daily Mirror cover
which got heavily attacked the newspaper
where they had angelic baby boy who grew
up to be a far-right killing you never
have that headline for Isis killer would
you know you never would well so okay
I'd like to talk about some of the more
virulent nasty people in a minute but I
want to try to do a little self
criticism of maybe the ways you know
Islamophobic language gets laundered
through our politics like for example I
remember Barack Obama did an interview
with I been good Nick Kristof in like
2006 I staffed it and he talked about
how the the growing up in Indonesia the
call to prayer was one of the most
beautiful things you could ever hear and
I remember my default thinking was
that's going to be a political problem
right or all the times that someone
accused him of being a secret Muslim
born in Kenya the we was said no he's
not but you know maybe the next response
should have been but you what's the
problem if he were a Muslim right and I
wonder about that you said that to be
fair Colin Powell famous he said that
Meet the Press in a way if you remember
right I mean so I guess what course
corrections need to be made by I don't
know well-meaning people to fight this
stuff it's a very good question I think
I think look number one like with any
other kind of bias implicit bias you
have to recognize it right Tommy you
have to own up to the fact that we all
have biases about other groups and in
particular majorities have biases about
minorities and when we talk about
quote-unquote white privilege by the way
that's not a criticism of all white
people that's about institutional
systemic problems that applies to
Muslims in particular and it's very hard
for Muslims who don't you know people
talk about the way that
african-americans have been able to
overcome you know history of racism in
the u.s. and fight against their and
Jewish communities the difference with
Muslims of course is that unlike
african-americans they're not Christian
which African American had in common
with the majority and unlike Jewish
folks they're not white which our Jewish
cousins have in common with the majority
whether we're in a kind of double bind
as much as we tend to be majority
non-white
and we also have a very different
religion which people don't know very
much about so even amongst liberals it
tends to be a lot of ignorance it tends
to be a lot of kind of myths and tropes
that are spread about and even the
language the example I always use and I
cited it in the internet piece and some
some Democrats don't like it but I have
to make the point Bill Clinton at the
2016 Democratic National Convention gave
a speech in which he said and I quote if
you're a Muslim and you love America and
freedom and you hate terror stay here
and help us win and make a future
together now for a lot of people in the
audience they clapped it'll that's great
I spilled Clinton standing up against
Trump's Islamophobia a lot of Muslims
heard it a very different way they heard
it as a white politician former
president telling Muslim Americans many
of whom are born in this country
especially african-american Muslims who
go back centuries to slavery being told
that their citizenship their place in
this country is conditional on
quote/unquote fighting terrorism if
you're a Muslim and if you love America
this idea and that Clinton I don't think
he had evil intention it but unwittingly
perhaps he's spreading this trope of the
Muslim other the Muslim foreigner the
Muslim is not quite American unless he's
fight and even Hillary at the time when
she was standing up against Trump since
I'm a fiber kept saying we need to work
with Muslim arrogance to beat terrorism
well sorry Muslim Americans are more
than just props or instruments in the
war on terror and that's the kind of
kind of unconscious biases maybe
unwitting tropes that are spread even by
Democrats who are trying to do you know
who in their heads are saying well I'm
fighting against anti-muslim bigotry
yeah there's a there's a an obligation
for stood upon Muslim Americans to fight
terrorism that is not for stood upon the
rest of the population and Muslim
Americans are seen through a national
security prism rather than as an you
know any other community that has the
same issues the same struggles with
access to health care the same desire to
have their kids go to a great public
school the same challenges of you know
stagnant wages we see Muslim Americans
through the national security foreign
policy prism in the UK Tommy I'll give
you an example rabbit in the UK recently
when this issue of Islamophobia was
raised in Parliament by a Muslim Member
of Parliament raised the issue of you
know what's gonna happen about all these
attacks on Muslims and
at the and the Tory minister the
conservative Minister said why don't you
ask the Foreign Office Wow okay British
Muslims are a foreign policy problem
that is glad to see their idiot
politicians on both sides of the pond um
so speaking of idiots so judge
jean-pierre oh you know Trump's maybe
favorite Fox News host she suggested
that Ilan Omar congresswoman from
Minnesota puts her loyalty to her
religion because she's a Muslim ahead of
the US Constitution so Fox News
suspended her which felt like a step
forward but then over the weekend
President Trump decided to attack that
decision what was your response to Fox's
rare rebuke of judge Jeanine and then
Trump's subsequent broadside I mean it's
a reminder isn't it Tommy that
Islamophobia is so out of control now
that he even Fox News even the bosses at
Fox News think it's gone too far
I mean that is an astonishing that that
if Fox News thinks you're too bigoted to
be on air you're really yes and I think
that's been partly a result of liberals
and liberal organizations putting
pressure on advertisers which I think
has been great to put pressure on them
you know do you really want to be
advertising with choler Jeanine Pirro
or Tucker primitive monkeys in Iraq
Carlson that's been powerful it seems to
have worked in many ways let's see how
long she's off the air for I don't think
he'll be that long given Trump and his
base are putting a lot of pressure on
Fox to bring her back but again it
speaks volumes not just about Fox and
Jeanine Pirro but Trump himself this is
a man who less than 72 hours after the
worst anti-muslim terrorist attack in
years is agitating loudly and
passionately to bring her back on air a
woman who was openly Islamophobic and
you know the thing about Trump always is
he's always so much more passionate
about stuff like this isn't it Tommy
when it comes to like the actual
terrorist attack in New Zealand it's
very subdued it's kind of low-energy Jeb
Bush oh it's very sad and of course I
condemned what happened in New Zealand
and then when it comes to like the SNL
rerun on Saturday night or Jeanine Pirro
being taken off the air then it's oh my
god this is the end of the world that
it's ranting angry Trump he gets way
more worked up about a Fox News
Islamophobe being taken off air then he
gets worked up about an actual
Islamophobe gunning
50:51 remember that horrible death toll
right now in New Zealand in a mosque and
that extinct speaks volumes about how he
is an enabler of Islamophobia by
campaigning for people at Pierrot but
also how people like Pierrot even on Fox
News wouldn't have said to stuff a
couple of years ago but they say it now
and one last point on this issue Tommy
just to come back to the whole liberal
angle just so we're self-critical Bill
Maher on his show says pretty much what
Jeanine Pirro says every other week he
said comments very similar to Jeanine
Pirro and I don't see the same backlash
against him from I mean some liberals
yes some on the left but you still
Andrew Gilliam and major politicians
turning up for interviews with Bill
Maher I think Barack Obama one of his
last interviews in office was with Bill
Maher Bill Maher says Islam is a mafia
he's accused violent Muslims of bringing
quote that desert stuff to our world
he says the Muslim majority world has
quote too much in common with Isis has a
lot in common with Isis I think it is
phrased and we don't see the same
backlash against Bill Maher why because
he's a liberal yeah I don't know good
question so let me talk more about being
proactive so I guess in my opinion
another way we can we can show that
people care about the treatment of
Muslims globally is to start talking
about the fact that the the Chinese
government has basically imprisoned a
million Weaver's and re-education camps
in an effort to get them to renounce
Islam and their cultural identity it's
this horrific thing happening in plain
sight yeah can you talk a bit about
what's happening to the weekers and you
had a recent interview on this subject
with an informal advisor to the Chinese
government that they didn't go too well
for the interviewee be playing a clip
they'd have to say what's that playing a
clip there oh no no actually yes we
should yeah I don't know if I should
tell us about stand alone you can put
him whatever okay so yes Tommy I
interviewed Charles Liu who is an
entrepreneur informal advisor to Chinese
government on my head-to-head al Jazeera
English show at the Oxford Union a
couple of weeks ago and he he didn't
want to defend what was going on and the
Chinese know they can't defend what's
going on they just don't want anyone to
talk about it so they don't allow media
access to
province which is just province that the
Weger Muslims were turkic-speaking
people one of the many Chinese minority
groups in China there happened to be you
know a different language different
culture different religion there's ten
million of them living in shinjang they
call it East Turkestan they they think
it's been occupied or at least repressed
for fifty years the Chinese say no it's
an integral part of our homeland but
here's the thing there's about ten
million of them and right now according
to reports from US government folks from
UN officials from Amnesty International
they were believed to be up to a million
maybe more than a million Weger Muslims
in these detention camps that's one in
ten of the population that's astonishing
even for a country as big as China
they're just a proportion and they're in
these camps where they are being beaten
they are being quote/unquote re-educated
forced to kind of sing songs saying long
live Xi Jinping the president of China
they're forced to sing Communist Party
propaganda songs they're forced to talk
about you know shave their beards a lot
of these we go Muslims are not allowed
to give their kids names like Mohammed
the women are not allowed to fail kids
are not allowed to enter mosques
Communist Party officials are not
allowed to fast during Ramadan this is
in this province it's just honest it's
all well iam you even have Communist
Party officials Tommy going to live in
weaker houses can you imagine that now a
government official comes to stay in
your house to monitor you 24/7 there's
no concept of privacy I've never heard
or seen anything like it in any other
country on earth and I've covered a lot
of repressive countries in my time as a
journalist and yet as you say this is
China it's happening in plain sight we
know that the Western world has huge
trade and investment links for China
China is an economic superpower and
therefore you see government's holding
back and and not just Western government
even more disappointing Muslim majority
countries who you think would come to
the aid of their Muslim brothers and
sisters you know they speak very loudly
about Palestinians or Cache marries and
yet the Muslim majority world has been
virtually silent on the weak as the
government's at least because they're
all in bed with the Chinese the Chinese
government is investing in the Middle
East in North Africa in Pakistan you saw
the Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan
saying in an interview recently well I
don't know what's happening to the
Wiggins and I would never publicly
criticize the Chinese so that's a
problem you have Muslim majority
countries not willing to make a lot of
noise the Turks are now making
some noise and you have Western
countries uneasy about this although to
be fair the Trump administration may be
for its own anti-china agenda has made
some noise at the UN about the wiggers
to be fair - that you all sizes Tom
cotton gave a speech where he hammered
China on this pretty hard yeah and I
don't believe someone doesn't gives a
damn about the wiggers I think it's
because Tom cotton thieves China is a
geopolitical rival he's a hawk and
therefore the wiggers are useful
properly look I'll take it right yeah
I'll take whatever I can get from Pompeo
or nikki Haley did when she was
ambassador at the UN if they're gonna
raise the issue for their own reasons
fine but at least it's being raised
right now it needs far more coverage to
me I mean a million people men women and
children being held without charge in
camps and being forced to sing songs
about the president being told they
can't eat meals until they declare their
allegiance to Chinese communism and to
Xi Jinping that's astonishing yeah how
are we not we talk about genocide and
the Holocaust and never again this is
happening right now in 2019 in the
country where we get all our map books
and iPhones from I also can't imagine a
more self-defeating policy than
repressing other people like this and it
is likely to radicalize them and I don't
say radicalize because they're Muslim I
mean look at Northern Island right it
doesn't matter if you're if you're a
Catholic Protestant living somewhere if
you were completely repressed by a
government bad things are gonna happen
but I think that I mean is that a bug or
is that feature Tommy because there's an
argument that says the Chinese want to
want to kind of you know like Bashar al
Assad the argument with outside was
always he liked having he liked having a
radicalized upon he was able to point to
you know there were lot of Syrian rebels
who were not al Qaeda he was always able
to point it out Qaeda folks and say well
look I'm fighting a war on terror and
the Chinese since 9/11 have seen the war
on terror rhetoric of Bush and after
that unfortunately your boss and Trump
today as a way of basically you know
shutting this story down as an issue and
therefore you know so for example
straight after 9/11 when everyone was
talking about al Qaeda the Chinese
government turn up at the UN and they're
like well we've got our own al Qaeda
outlet everyone's like what they let the
East Turkestan Islamic movement the Etim
no one had ever heard of this group and
the Chinese government set up as a oh
it's a weaker terrorist organization and
within a year by September 2002
Tommi the UN and the US had lifted the
etim as a terrorist organization why
because they were linked to bin Laden so
it's been very useful for repressive
governments to always say well our
dissident minority is linked to al-qaeda
bin Laden Isis therefore let us do what
we work with them and they have they
have conveyed the entire Weger situation
through the discourse of the war on
terror yeah
one last question I'll serve along these
same lines I mean you recently
interviewed Eric Prince who is best
known as the founder of Blackwater which
was a private militia force that was
responsible for murdering 17 innocent
civilians and one horrific incident in
Iraq on top of a whole bunch of other
problems bloomberg reported that his new
company has been hired to build a
training center in that same region of
China where the weekers are being held
for some reason he agreed to do an
interview with you I will never
understand why these guys go on your
show when they're horrible people
he just he denied this report despite it
being in his own company's press release
do you believe him no I don't believe
him because he's Eric Prince and I did
an hour-long interview with him in front
of an audience and he was very how
should I put it
trumpian in his approach to truth and
falsehood he is the brother of Betsy
divorce he's a big Trump donor and yes
he burrows the Trump rhetoric of just
saying things of fake news and
misreported and with me as well and and
if people want to listen to the clip he
says oh that's a mistranslation from
Mandarin yeah asked him about you know
his company building training facilities
and I had to point out to him there was
no mistranslation for Mandarin we
literally printed it out in English off
his own company's website but you know
there's a thing they think this is
things that people like him in Kellyanne
Conway another thing they can get away
with just saying praising Fulford's and
hoping the journalist won't challenge
them I did challenge him and you know I
don't believe him I do think he's doing
lots of dodgy stuff in Xinjiang he
denies any role in any of these
detention camps he says we're just
training people in how to avoid getting
kidnapped
but look his company's majority owned by
Chinese entities linked to the Chinese
government think about that this is Eric
Prince
formerly of Blackwater closed Trump a
lie has been interviewed by Bob Muller
wants to get a contract to run the war
in Afghanistan Tommy that's his latest
proposal to privatize the war in
Afghanistan some mercenaries run the war
in Afghanistan for the US what I mean
think about that conflict of interest he
also working for the Chinese government
at the same time as he wants to work for
the American government I mean that you
don't have to be some kind of Tom cotton
hawk to see that as an astonishing
conflict of India I cannot think of a
worse idea than privatizing the war in
Afghanistan but that's a conversation
for another day Mehdi thank you so much
for doing the show in for holding all
these guys accountable everyone should
check out your showing out is your
English deconstructed podcasts and all
the stuff you're writing so I appreciate
them in thanks so much tell me thanks
having these combination of course have
a great day you too
you
