welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer later on the pod you'll
hear Dan's interview with Andrew Gilliam
who talks about his new
you
Meiri election strategy apparently he
has one finally as a little treat at the
end of the show you'll hear a quick
excerpt from our weekly pods of America
live Q&A where what a day's Priyanka
Arab Indy asks us questions that
listeners have about the news and we
attempt to answer them happens every
Wednesday here crooked media it's a
great time yeah I'd like to hear what's
that Priyanka answer the questions than
you ask i I think we should probably do
that I'm for that anyway you'll hear
this at the end of the at the end of the
pod and you know you can check it out on
Wednesdays if you'd like I know that you
watch every Wednesday damn I'm not even
familiar what you're talking about
see that's why we're doing it on the pod
so more people we get more eyeballs this
is this is a Elijah's genius okay also
before we get to the news a quick
heads-up about a special election in
Wisconsin next Tuesday April 2nd for a
seat on the state Supreme Court
Republicans are spending millions of
dollars to elect a guy who started a
school that allows banning teachers or
students for being in same-sex
relationships that's who they that's
their candidate for the state Supreme
Court
Lisa neubauer is the Democrat so if you
live in Wisconsin make sure to vote for
her I know we talked recently on this
pot about special elections and how
they're sort of going under the radar so
we will do our best to keep you informed
ahead of time of any special elections
around the country we see coming up if
you live in Wisconsin if you have
friends in Wisconsin family in Wisconsin
tell them to make sure to vote on
Tuesday that's a very important seat in
a very important state all right let's
get to the news the White House is in a
celebratory and vengeful mood after
Donald Trump's hand-picked Attorney
General exonerated him from criminal
charges based entirely on his own
reading of Robert Muller's report which
we have yet to see which Congress has
yet to see which no one has seen except
Robert Muller his team and a few people
at the Justice Department a report in
The New York Times described Trump
world's mood as follows quote any
caveats in the letter or the possibility
of surprises when more of the report is
released as
not put a damper on the celebratory
dinners at downtown Washington
restaurants the number of team worked
focused vote sorry the number of team
work focused photos posted on social
media or the hugs in the White House
driveway between television interviews
quote we're colluding kelly ann conway
the counselor to the president told
reporters as she embraced sarah huckabee
Sanders the White House press secretary
in the driveway after returning from a
Fox News appearance on Monday one
Republican strategist told The Times
quote the mood from the pundit class to
friends of mine that work in the White
House is over the moon ecstasy meanwhile
The Washington Post says that Trump
reportedly has a plan to see quote
vengeance and accountability from his
critics
he's accused FBI agents of treason said
that Adam Schiff should be forced to
resign Adam shifts Republican colleagues
on the house Intel committee released a
letter this morning also saying he
should resign the letter notably did not
quote a single word from Muller's actual
report but only made up a bunch of
 and talked about Barr summary
Dan we haven't talked yet about this on
the pod the you and I what was your
initial reaction to the bar report on
Sunday and do you feel any different
today well John was actually going to
cut this podcast short and cancel it and
all future podcasts because if you read
all the smartest most most both sides
the pundits and journalists on Twitter
and on the Internet we would know that
this is pointless because not only is
Trump going to win reelection he has won
reelection it is over he was sworn in
for a second term this morning a third
Forrester my hero which is a firm on the
latest copy of Greg Gutfeld two newest
book so we should just forget you only
focus on keep it and your your slightly
less political podcast because this
election is over don't even show me the
report I know what's gonna happen but
the we doing people this is insane
everyone we are at peak stupid right now
everyone is it stupid the Trump people
are obviously it's stupid
congratulations on reducing your
criminal exposure by 18 percent the the
media is engaged in a bizarre level of
self-flagellation
the worst people in the internet or at
their absolute worst on all sides
this is everything is stupid I will say
Dan I want to find the clip from a
couple weeks ago where you and I
predicted this exact reaction from just
about everyone did it twice there was a
different time seriously considering
getting back in the prediction game
because we we mailed this one maybe we
can't figure out oh who wins gonna win
quote-unquote elections and who is what
state what we do know is how the
political media Twitter industrial
complex reacts the things and it's it's
very easy to always bet that they're
gonna do it wrong which is what we did
we were right and look I will say that
the Trump world reaction which includes
everyone from the White House to Fox
News cuz it's all the same world did not
really surprise me in the least like I
thought they would be celebratory I
figured that they would start you know
making all kinds of threats against all
of their perceived enemies like that was
gonna happen no matter what
I guess they wouldn't have been a
celebratory if mauler found that the
president committed a crime for you know
in in in terms of conspiring with
Russians but they still would have
threatened people they still would have
yelled about the deep state I mean like
their their reaction was predetermined
long ago nothing about that surprised me
I'm not totally surprised by the
reaction of the political media either
but it's a little worse than I expected
I'm I'm even more disappointed in than I
thought I would and look again we should
never just we do this too much we use
the media as a blanket term the
reporters who have been dogged ly
pursuing this story from the beginning
there's a set of reporters at the New
York Times at the Washington Post at CNN
at BuzzFeed at all kinds of outlets
those reporters have just put their
heads down and they're continuing to try
to report on this and and they're doing
a great job and they've been doing a
great job all along but the more pundit
like reporters the reporters that write
political analysis
the pundits on cable the media reporters
right I they have just been doing such a
piss-poor job self-flagellating
talking about like punch I mean if I was
faced with a situation where even from
the bar report the bar letter you know
that Robert Muller who's a pretty
conservative guy chose to use the words
the president is not exonerated from a
crime I would probably be more
interested in talking about that than
writing a whole bunch of pieces punching
down it's some like fringy hashtag
resistance types and they're
Muller votive candles like it is
astonishing what some of these the
stories that some of these people are
writing when we have not even seen this
report but what we do know is that
Robert Muller and covered all this
evidence that the president United
States obstructed justice I mean I don't
know I don't know I feel like we all
collectively even though I would say we
warned about this here on puns in
America fell into this trap where and
maybe Trump led us into the trap maybe
he got there by pure Twitter instinct I
don't know but we set the bar no pun
intended so high for what would
constitute presidential wrongdoing that
anything short of that was then treated
as complete and total absolution yeah
this idea that we had to find
essentially a recorded phone call
between Trump and Putin two years ago
sending out a plan that involved hacking
disinformation campaigns on Facebook
followed by sanctions relief did
anything short of that would mean the
Trump did nothing wrong and everyone is
like we all saw it coming the entire
political people who engineer the
political conversation media
conversation in this country just saw it
coming and then just drove right off the
clicks and like you're right there if we
there is evidence of sharks
justice now whether that reaches a level
two by which either a person would be
convicted or a president would be
impeached
as a question we don't yet know the
answer to because they are hiding the
evidence from us which should also cause
it's people's spidey sense to go off a
little bit and certainly before we have
to I mean just it's so crazy that we are
all doing this without having read the
report it is a four page summary of a
report that is somewhere between 300 to
999 pages we don't know how much and
burn is like well bill Barr who didn't
believe that a president could be
charged with obstruction of justice said
this president shouldn't be charged with
obstruction of justice so let's all move
on let's pivot everyone I mean it again
flatulating pivot and again in addition
to the potential obstruction of justice
here is what we know for a fact and we
know this because Robert Muller has told
us through various indictments through
various court filings we know that the
Russian government interfered in our
election in 2016 that it's stole
documents from the Democratic Party and
disseminated them that it conducted a
social media campaign with the purpose
of trying to elect Donald Trump we know
that the Trump campaign and Donald Trump
himself knew about these activities we
knew that Donald Trump was briefed about
them by intelligence services in August
of 2016 and with the knowledge that this
was going on that this attack was
happening we now also know that the
Trump campaign was approached by
multiple people related to the Russian
government Russian government officials
themselves offering dirt in the form of
emails on Hillary Clinton we also know
that no one in the Trump campaign went
to the FBI about this we also know that
the Trump campaign and Donald Trump
himself specifically stood to gain if
Vladimir Putin and his government
approved Trump Tower Moscow which would
have given Donald Trump up to 300
million dollars his biggest real estate
project ever and Donald Trump lied about
that the entire time he had a financial
stake in making sure that he didn't piss
Vladimir Putin
by maybe telling the FBI that Russians
were approaching them with dirt on
Hillary Clinton he also had a stake in
potentially winning the election by not
telling the FBI that the Russians were
hacking our elections the Russians were
offering them dirt and he didn't do that
and he lied about it and various people
covered it up and his campaign manager
committed a crime and his deputy
campaign manager committed a crime and
his national security adviser committed
a crime and his lawyer committed a crime
and Donald Trump was implicated in
campaign finance violations we know all
of this to be true this is maybe one of
the biggest scandals in American
political history and people are running
around saying what a great day it is for
Donald Trump
well how exonerated he is he's feeling
so great it is what I hope it is people
hope it is beyond all comprehension we
are through the looking-glass
everyone has lost their minds I have one
just thought or message for our
reporters and pundits out there I don't
pretend to know what happens after
someone dies but I'm pretty sure there's
no both sides heaven where when you die
you go you go to the gates of heaven and
you have to present your articles to
show that you were you were willing to
appease your bad faith critics on the
right it is like oh look I wrote this
piece also attacking Democrats even
though we're publicans or hungover sent
and wrong st. Peter please let me hit
like it's just I don't we make the same
mistakes over and over and over again
and it's like I think there's more talk
about this but it is highly likely that
a lot of people are going to have a lot
of egg on their face after we read the
report yeah and once again all we're
saying is let's see the report because
we don't know perhaps perhaps even
though Muller said even though the only
words we've seen from Robin Muller
include the phrase the president is not
exonerated of a crime perhaps there's
zero evidence of any kind of collusion
with Russians perhaps we don't know we
haven't seen the report but
we've certainly seen a lot of links
between from
and and the Russians that the Trump
campaign lied about we know that not
from the media necessarily although
they've reported that we know that from
Robert Muller's indictments and his
filings we already know this anyway
and we know the President had incentives
to obstruct the investigation because he
was guilty of other crimes different
from collusion that we also know about
anyway it's a lot it's a lot we still
don't know when the public or Congress
will have access to Muller's report
Democrats had been pushing to see the
full report by April 2nd but House
Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler who
spoke with the Attorney General on
Wednesday told us that Barr said it
would be quote weeks not months before
Congress could see Muller's report which
according to the New York Times is more
than three hundred pages long Nadler
also said that bar would not promise
that quote an unredacted full report
with the underlying documents and
evidence would be provided to Congress
and the American people bar is set to
testify before Congress on April 9th and
Nadler said they may want Muller to
testify after bar Dan how legitimate is
this delay and could this all be done
faster if we were to be as generous as
humanly possible let's give it a whirl
bill Barr yeah let's give people the
trust Department it is a fact well try
again it is seems very likely there was
classified information in this report
from that originates from the
counterintelligence investigation that
began this whole probe yeah and there
must be a process to go through and
ensure that you are not publicly
releasing classified information that
can reveal sources and methods for how
the intelligence community to receive
that information however this could be
resolved much faster than the timeline
that they are on and I promise you if
this was reported out Democratic
wrongdoing they could get it done by
Sean Hannity's airtime tomorrow and so
yes there was a there should be a
process to go through and do this but it
is incredibly slow and it seems
intentionally slow to do what is a
pretty
clever PR ploy which is get the headline
you want on the front page and then get
the details on you know the 17th page
three weeks from now we've all moved on
from this topic to worry about whatever
the latest and probably with Jim an
outrage of the day is yeah I mean how
suspicious of bar should we be I mean
not at all suspicious John I don't know
what you're talking about he is a
card-carrying member of the Republican
establishment that is supplicated itself
in Donald Trump he wears very charming
very preppy zip up sweaters that are
involved with outs of Republicans
yes we should be suspicious that he
works for he decided to work for Donald
Trump in the middle of a web of criminal
investigations he auditioned for that
job by writing a memo saying that Donald
Trump could not be guilty of the crime
which he was by mere fact that he was
president so yes we should be suspicious
of him on the surface and then his
action since then are very suspicious
now maybe I don't want to head into
crazy conspiracy theory world here but
there everything the Trump
administration has lied about everything
and so we have every reason to want to
see the document and see it as soon as
possible before we take their word for
it
so there is a reason to be suspicious
here and Bars behavior since this report
plating on this desk on Friday afternoon
and giving us more reason to be
suspicious
yeah I mean let's remember that before
he took the job bar who I assumed had
another job or at least other things to
do with his life decided to sit down and
write a 19 page memo to the White House
in which he's called Muller's inquiry
into potential obstruction of justice
quote fatally misconceived and quote
grossly irresponsible that's what he
said about mutters investigation into
obstruction of justice before he took
the job in a 19 page memo I don't know
about you I don't usually have time to
write 19 page memos about just anything
and send them off
so clearly the guy felt pretty strongly
Muller's probe and then suddenly finds
himself the guy in charge of that probe
and wrote a letter saying you know what
Muller couldn't make a conclusion one
way or the other on obstruction of
justice so I will make a conclusion and
my conclusion is that we should not
charge him oh what a surprise after your
19 page memo yeah and it's not the thing
that is so I just I I my mind is
actually boggled by what it's out to
here because it is the position of the
Justice Department that a president
can't be indicted and it is the
responsibility of Congress to come to
the conclusion based on the evidence as
to whether their actions warranted a
high crime or misdemeanor as outlined in
the Constitution so why do we care right
no bar has to say about this it's not up
to doe bar no like his opinion is
interesting but it is not instructive
for what should happen here and it's
just like everyone is so in a hurry for
me to hopefully understand to get this
behind themselves that we are rushing to
close the door without having the
information I mean again like just
imagine imagine if this was Loretta
Lynch Obama's Attorney General saying
that even though James Comey and his
investigation said you know he couldn't
make a determination about Hillary that
Loretta Lynch said I'm gonna make a
determination
she's fine except in reality where James
Comey said is no reasonable prosecutor
would ever bring a case against Hillary
Clinton that's what he said and she got
in trouble because he also called her
reckless her actions reckless so but
this was even no reason what this one
was I can't exonerate Donald Trump I
can't examine their x' evidence on both
sides and then Trump's Attorney General
says I exonerate him I do it it's just
like yes Jim Comey sent me hundreds of
pages of information on said
investigation but I will not release
this can you mean
I mean the House Republicans would be
 burning on the White House our
determination here is really on it like
inappropriately putting his thumb on the
scale like I was listening to your very
excellent conversation machree
from the monday pod and you know and
everyone makes the point that in a
high-profile case brought by you know
being investigated the FBI or US
attorney whatever else it will
ultimately be the decision of the
Attorney General as to whether to pursue
that case it would go up that high you
know right in a very high-profile
complicated endeavor except yes that is
true if we're talking about a decision
to you know investing charge Facebook
well you know some high profile
individual but in this case and it's a
policy of the protesters they can't
charge that individual they cannot do it
it's not their job they do not have
proved you for that so he is simply
trying to influence the jury here to not
take up the case in this case the jury
of Congress and we're all like well this
makes sense except it makes zero sense
there's a totally inappropriate
determination for him to make he doesn't
get to make that tradition frankly
shouldn't make that determination for
knows what the evidence says so
last time I checked we do have one house
of Congress Democrats they currently
control the house oh actually we don't
anymore because some people talked about
collusion Kevin McCarthy speaker that's
right that's true what can Democrats do
to get the memo here what should we be
doing because I have to confess my mind
is even more boggled by the fact that
like you know Jerry Nadler just said I
talked to bar he said oh it's gonna go
past April 2nd that's unacceptable to me
we need to get this memo I'm like dude
you got a howl out your subpoena cannon
man like what yeah what what are they
doing what are they what should the
Democrats be doing I honestly don't know
we are adhering to these norms of
behavior that made sense before one
party decided to engage it
massive inappropriate criminal power
grabs everything I mean is this like an
enormous you say bill bar you were
weren't you testify by X date yeah well
we're gonna subpoena you you're gonna
release the report by this date or we're
gonna file a speeding we've already
filled out the paperwork we are all we
have to do is have someone drop it off
at your office like we like this is
Congress's responsibility put aside
politics how much you know Democratic
voters wish some people would go to jail
for some set of crimes so what like your
actual job here regardless of your party
is to be is sorry your actual job here
is oversight it is to be checks and
balances against in executive branch and
they are abusing their power here by not
by trying to cover up the evidence of
potential crimes and so every weapon or
tool at our disposal we should be using
and like just having friendly
conversations go bar because he is the
aulia he is the part of the jurisdiction
interior committee is not the way to do
it we have that we should should be more
aggressive here because if everyone
thinks we're everyone feels like the
Democratic is acting overly political
here we they were given their
responsibility by the voters to do a
better job in Republicans of holding the
Trump administration accountable for
their misdeeds and then that involves
investigating those misdeeds and simply
just being like well they said he
wouldn't get it so I'm going to ask
again this time stronger is not good
enough in my opinion and and they should
subpoena Muller to write like yeah issue
the subpoena let's schedule a hearing on
this day right they're gonna agree to
subpoenaed right subpoena you know get
par to testify get Muller to testify by
subpoena if necessary subpoena the
report and then if the Department of
Justice refuses then you know fight it
out in court but I do think the longer
that we wait here the more the political
media is they have done so far is just
gonna say Oh sour grapes Democrats just
hanging on to this thing let's move on
blah blah blah blah like just do it now
you know I don't understand the wait and
then even though it's been less than a
week since bars
and we don't even know what we'll see in
the Muellers report some Democratic
leaders have suggested it's time to
pivot to other issues like health care
the number three Democrat in the House
Majority Whip james Clyburn said this
week quote I believe that the Mulla
report has been done that's a chapter
that's closed health care is the
number-one thing on people's minds deep
breaths Jan why are Democrats so anxious
to move on to other issues like health
care so soon I I really like your
Clyburn and he has done a lot of good
over a lot of years in Congress but I
feel like in this case he read the stage
direction out loud like yes well yes
Democrats want to talk about health care
and other issues in the 2020 election we
know that because in the middle prior to
the complete and total exoneration of
all of all Trump scribes Democrats ran
an entire election entirely on health
care and other issues and so I was we
want to do that and any time we get a
chance to talk about health care is for
the good of our electoral chances but to
be just so blatant about it is a mistake
because you can do two things at once
you can investigate corruption and
criminality in trumps administration and
legislate progressive priorities at the
same time and voters get that and I
worry when we do things like this that
are so obvious and voters have a good
 detector and so they see this
and they say Oh Democrats are being
political right right and so it is
you're actually doing yourself more
damage in the getting to the issues you
care about then you would if you were
able to do it in a smart strategic and
ass more strategic tempo I guess look we
were among many people who all through
the 2018 election told Democrats let's
focus on health care let's talk about
health care all the time the Democratic
candidates to their credit they did that
there there's their campaign strategists
told them to do that the American people
wanted to do them to do that they did it
we are currently
a year and eight months away from the
November election in 2020 a year and
eight months I think that out of that
year in eight months we can take a
couple of weeks right now to
demand this report that will tell us
about an investigation that has gone on
for a couple years into one of the
biggest scandals in American political
history like this is such evidence of
the short-term thinking that
just pervades Washington DC where all
the people who work there can think of
is what happens in the next news cycle
whose winning or losing that day I can't
deal with any political pressure that's
happening right now I can't see beyond
the next month the next like it is crazy
they all work each other up there all
the staffers and the representatives and
the reporters and the pundits they're
all talking to each other and so they
all decided within 24 hours that the
narrative is bad for Democrats good for
Republicans Democrats would benefit from
talking about health care Republicans
want to keep talking about how this was
a witch hunt and then the narrative is
set and so they all respond based on
that it's so silly we are sitting here
in March of 2019 we have plenty of time
to talk about health care once we get to
2020 yeah maybe we should talk about
health care every day we just
saw a four-page summary of a three
hundred page report that has not been
released that could show unbelievable
presidential misconduct we don't want to
know about that we want to pivot to
health care and now I don't understand I
think the best way to understand what
congressional leaders say it's not the
macro politics of what the polls say or
you know what consultants are telling
them it's really about what members of
Congress are saying to them at the
weekly congressional lunch uh-huh and so
I have my assumption you know based on
some of the reporting you read is that
there is a you know Khyber and Pelosi
six that are cross pressured every day
between a set of we you know a set of
Democrats probably in safer just
to aggressively want to pursue something
that leads to impeachment right you have
reciate it to leave introducing I think
a resolution right this week about that
Brad Sherman and others introducing
articles of impeachment like a year ago
or you know months ago or whatever else
and then you have a whole set of members
who are very politically afraid of what
that process would do to their electoral
chances and and so that is where you
like that like their their reactions are
driven by that and the idea they can put
that argument behind themselves and move
on to what they believe to be more
fertile fertile ground that would be
good but what resolves problems within
the caucus lunch is not the same thing
that resolved larger political problems
and the this like abrupt pivot to health
care is I think it does a disservice to
the voters and actually it treats them
is pretty stupid because they knew they
do care about this and they do think
that you can care about this and health
care at the same time right and also
there's some things that are just beyond
political consideration right like we
deserve the truth about what happened
like our election our democracy was
attacked by the Russian government and
there were a whole bunch of links
between the government and the Trump
campaign and there were a whole bunch of
other potential crimes that Trump and
his the members of his campaign
committed like we deserve to know the
truth about that taxpayers paid for this
investigation although Paul Manafort
assets refunded us no
but we we just deserve to know about it
and at some point you just have to say
politics be damned right like I want to
know the truth about this and it is like
I said it is March of 2019 we have
plenty of time to talk about health care
and also we can do two things at once
yes of course we should also be talking
about health care I imagine and hope
that every Democratic candidate running
for president in 2020 is out there
talking about health care every day and
they should be we're gonna do that on
this pod right now here we go so a big
reason Democrat
should also be talking about health care
not pivoting to health care but also
talking about health care is that trumps
Justice Department submitted a filing to
the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals that
basically says it is now the position of
the Trump administration that the
Affordable Care Act should be dismantled
entirely and that the Department of
Justice will no longer defend the law in
court White House chief of staff Mick
Mulvaney reportedly pushed for this
approach over the objections of the
Attorney General and other legal and
political advisors and he convinced
Trump to take this position so Dan
before we get to the politics of this
how big of a deal is this decision by
the Justice Department legally and
substantively I'm not sure it is the the
legal and policy substance is as
important as the political importance I
guess we do our way to say yeah maybe I
wasn't expecting the bill bar Justice
Department to put on a very vociferous
defense of the Affordable Care Act as it
were to wind its way to court yeah it
sort of says what we've always known
which is that Trump and his part in his
party you want to repeal the law and
they don't care what comes next and so
it adds a little political argument than
substance
you know we had a conversation this
morning over text about how much we
should worry about the lawsuit working
its way through the system and I I'm
very worried about it and that's based
on nothing other than the fact that we
seem to be in a roll there were terrible
things happen all the time but whether
Trump Justice Department defends the law
or not I think is only quasi related to
how much we should fear that lawsuit so
the standard is that the Justice
Department defends laws that are on the
books that Congress has passed
regardless of you-know-who whether a
democrat or republican is in charge it's
supposed to be a political so the fact
that they're not doing that
you know is worrying from a norm
perspective but what people should know
is
so you know who's gonna defend the ACA
in this lawsuit right well you know
state's attorneys general will step up
and defend the Affordable Care Act in
these cases so yeah they won't have the
Justice Department in court with them
but the law will still be defended by
some people so you're right like we
should be as worried as we were before
that a judge in Texas a federal judge in
Texas struck down the Affordable Care
Act as unconstitutional that and we
should be worried as worried as we were
before that you know as it goes through
the appeal system that perhaps other
judges agree with that Texas judge but
the federal government deciding to
defend or not defend that law in terms
of what the outcome is probably should
not be incredibly alarming but it's it's
you know pretty alarming in the case of
you know this is a norm that people
follow but let's talk about the politics
of this it seems like nearly everyone
agrees that this is a monumentally
stupid move including House Minority
Leader Kevin McCarthy who reportedly
called Trump to voice his displeasure
so I guess no no yellow starburst for
him this week
dan how big of a political problem is
this for Republicans or will they just
lie about health care in 2020 like they
did in 2018 Trump tweeted on Wednesday
quote the Republican Party will become
the party of health care they yes they
will Y as they did for the eighteen and
it's still a big problem you know my
favorite reaction this was Liz Cheney
who is has some leadership position in
the Republican minority who said why now
because included in that is just the
most mind-boggling cynicism which is yes
of course we want to get rid of it but
we shouldn't tell anyone so after we
have tricked all the sorry
till after we've tricked all the voters
and then we're going to repeal it and it
sort of you're just it's a reminder that
Trump
such an accidental president that his
response to what is theoretically the
best day of this presidency is to
immediately pivot in the most aggressive
way possible to the issue that everyone
agrees cost him the midterm elections so
yes it's a big deal we should definitely
take advantage of it health care can and
should be the driving issue of the 2020
election because it is one that got that
has the dual effect of motivating
Democratic base voters and persuading
you know what we refer to as up for
grabs voters who can shift key
battleground states into the Democratic
column and it's just you know them
declining to defend the law in court is
just one proof point here like we also
you know they have Trump has proposed
budgets and the Republicans who proposed
budgets that basically eliminate the
Affordable Care Act as well that make
huge cuts to Medicaid that make cuts to
Medicare right so it's not like it's not
like this is just one thing that we got
them on like it is very clear now that
the Trump administration does not want
the Affordable Care Act to exist and
despite the fact that you know Trump's
like oh we're gonna have a great health
care plan he's been saying that since he
was elected president and we haven't
seen anything so I don't expect anything
now but it is clear that Democrats
should make health care and whether or
not we keep the Affordable Care Act a
huge issue in 2020 right like that just
seems like a no-brainer John noted
truth-teller and Milan critic Mike Pence
said yesterday that Trump was going to
send a bib plan to the hill
I'm Jim at which point I think Democrats
volunteered to drive said plan to the
hill that's whether they do it or not I
think what is interesting about this is
the voters care passing about health
care it is really hard to get health
care in the news to admit to shift the
conversation away from Trump's
outrageous behavior legitimate delimited
you very legitimate discussion around
the investigation into Russia and
correction of justice other issues that
dominate the headlines to health care
and Trump did that for the Democrats and
so it's good to take advantage of it and
we should look for every opportunity so
as you point
between now and 2020 so in other 2020
healthcare news there also happens to be
brand-new polling out on Medicare for
all this week
Quinnipiac asks the question quote do
you think that removing the current
healthcare system and replacing it with
a single-payer system in which the
federal government would expand Medicare
to cover the medical expenses of every
American citizen is a good idea or a bad
idea 43% said good idea 45% said bad
idea in August of 2017 the margin was 51
percent good idea 38% bad idea I should
also note here that Democrats in this
current poll think it's a good idea by a
margin of 60 9% to 19% the poll then
asked the following question do you
think that keeping the current health
care system but allowing all adults the
option of buying into Medicare is a good
idea or a bad idea good idea 51% bad
idea 30% with even Republicans saying
it's a good idea by a narrow margin dan
what do you think of these numbers and
what do you think has caused the dip in
support for Medicare for all the history
of the politics around health care
policy is pretty consistent which is the
more it's talked about the more
polarizing less popular again and that
has to do with the fact that really like
any debate around health care is a
debate between people's frustration with
the current system and their fear of
what a new system would look like and
and then when you add on top of that
this the fact that there's been sort of
a pretty one-way discussion in the media
about Medicare for all could you know
describing it as socialism and by
Medicare for all in this case I mean a
single-payer system similar to the one
that Bernie Sanders proposed in the
Senate and essentially all of his
presidential opponents who are in the
Senate sponsored that you know it's
being hammered and so you when it
becomes polarized around party lines
you're going to lose some of that
support I think the question here is
that
you say and there's also another like
choice is a huge variable in the
healthcare in the politics of healthcare
and that people always say they want
choice and it's why Republicans use it
as argument against the ACA it's
something before they're going for ACA
and so when you have a system that
offers you more choice than the other
one that one is like would it be more
popular on the surface under saying that
no one's got into the details of any of
this yet I would it's just one important
point on the choice thing is that choice
in health care is largely right
it is usually because most people exist
within the employer based system your
choice it's not your choice it's your
employer's choice and so your ability to
have the plan you like it's dependent on
your employer's willingness to give you
the plan you like whether we are
existing in the current system whether
we're just saying the pre-aca system or
whether we're existing in a Medicare or
for America system where people could
move back and forth between Medicare and
private insurance system and so we're
really for debating around the edges
here but you can see sort of the
contours of where this is headed and you
made an important point at the outset to
two things can be true here a lot of
people can say look I hate my
insurance company I hate dealing with
insurance companies I think all they do
is want to profit off sick people I
think that the paperwork they make me do
like 50 calls I have to do every time I
want to get a simple procedure paid for
that should be covered is garbage they
can believe all of that and they can
still think yes but if we're going to
the single-payer system what's that
gonna mean could that even be worse than
the situation that I'm dealing with and
so you know single-payer proponents will
say but the single-payer them they get
you know enrolling in Medicare is so
much better right like you're gonna get
free coverage you're not gonna have
co-pays you're not gonna have
deductibles you don't get to worry about
these things
and so it is then incumbent upon
proponents of Medicare for all and
single-payer systems just to not just
argue but prove that the shift from a
private insurance system to a
single-payer system would benefit every
single American
and that you know you're not gonna have
to pay more maybe you'll have to pay
more in taxes but you know you're also
not gonna be paying co-pays premiums and
deductibles anymore so you're gonna come
out as a wash right but yet there's
still that fear that exists among people
that even if they hate the current
system they fear the unknown and that
sort of the dynamic that's always been a
play with healthcare so Bernie Sanders
then made some interesting news on this
issue the other day in an interview with
Chris Hayes he called for eliminating
the insurance industry which he's done
before that part wasn't news but then he
was asked whether he'd support
democratic legislation introduced by
Nancy Pelosi to improve the Affordable
Care Act by expanding federal subsidies
and undoing some of the damage that
Trump has already inflicted on the law
and Bernie said he does not support the
bill and this is notable because Sanders
in the past has suppose supported and
voted for incremental reforms and even
progressive Democrats like Alexandria
Ocasio Cortes support Pelosi's position
dan what do you think Bernie's strategy
here is why do you think he gave that
answer well I had Bernie Sanders he
basically won the policy primary 2020
back in 2016 yeah and like hit one of
his huge differentiations with Hillary
Clinton was he had these very
progressive very bold very popular among
Democratic voter policy ideas including
single-payer and since then basically
he's the problem is everyone has started
to agree with him on all these things
and so it's harder from the grab there
and say I'm for single-payer I'm for
free college I'm for X because now every
candidate either supports his plan I
wouldn't note that all of these it's an
opponent immediately endorsed his
Medicare for all legislation when he
drew said the Senate a two years ago and
so he need what he needs to find some
sort of polity or I don't he needs to
find he's doing quite well otherwise but
he wants to apparently want some sort of
policy differentiation between him and
Elizabeth Warren him and him that was
before anjuman Cory Booker to become a
Harris whoever else and the and he's
doing that by trying to go for
laughs in being more pure on
single-payer I think that is totally
appropriate I think there isn't like if
I personally could wave a wand and make
something happen to plan that I would
pick movie Bernie Sanders's planet I
think the best way to do it would be
huge but all people in Medicare everyone
it's the same plan you will move the
power that not just insurance companies
but employers have over individual
people by controlling their healthcare
that would be the best thing and there's
very legitimate argument that that is
the best plan to start with heading into
a presidency because you know that
there's going to be efforts to try to
move it closer to the middle and so the
further to the left you start the
further to the left the middle is what I
worry about is the other part of the
Chris Hayes interview where he opposes
improving the Affordable Care Act
because that I think is a dangerous
level of purity which is you can be
because you're that by doing that you're
saying what I am willing to hurt people
in the current system to aspire to a
better system down the line and I think
that that is a mistake I'll say this
about this whole debate I think that
what we are having in the Democratic
primary right now is a debate over how
fast and in what way we transition to a
single-payer system in this country I
think like you said if and Barack Obama
used to say this if we were starting
from scratch in this country it would
make most sense to build a single-payer
system it would be more efficient it
would be more just it would be more
equitable it would produce better health
outcomes it would just be the best way
to go that is not the reality we have we
have an insurance industry in this
country that insurance industry employs
half a million people in this country we
also have 250 million people that get
their insurance from their employers and
so the question is how do we make that
transition from this insurance this
private insurance based system to this
single-payer system in a way that causes
people the least harm that is the most
efficient that is the most cost
effective and that you know that works
for everyone and that actually build
political
or not like trying to get Republicans to
vote for it but actually builds broad
popular support within the country and
that is the debate we're having Bernie
Sanders plan and that and by the way the
fact that we're having that debate is a
credit to Bernie Sanders and not just to
Bernie Sanders but to all the activists
and all the people in this country who
have pushed us to this moment it is a
credit to all of them but now we are
having that debate and the question is
Bernie's plan that has a transition
period as well I think it's like four
years and the way that Bernie's plan
works is first you know everyone up to a
certain age is enrolled in Medicare and
then the age goes down lower and then
you know you start from the bottom end
of the spectrum and then you know 20
year olds 30 year olds get enrolled and
basically you start enrolling people
ever more and more people every year
until everyone's enrolled in Medicare
that's the transition that Bernie's plan
envisions there are other options right
on one end there's you know sherrod
Brown when he was thinking about running
he was talking about alright let's lower
the age of enrollment and Medicare to 50
let's start there let's have all 50 year
olds plus be able to enroll in Medicare
then there's people like senator Brian
Schatz who have proposed a Medicare
buy-in that basically is that's like a
public option that's saying all right
there's all these choices of private
insurance you can choose a private
insurance plan or you can buy into
Medicare if you'd like that's a choice
then as you go up the spectrum then
there's Medicare for America this is the
plan that Center for American Progress
has come up with rosa DeLauro and jan
Schakowsky in the house have came up
with this plan that plan says all right
let's take every uninsured person in
America and everyone who buys their
insurance on the individual market and
let's automatically enroll them in
Medicare let's also automatically enroll
every newborn child in Medicare and then
let's say to every American and every
business you have the choice to move
from your insurance that you have now
into Medicare not a buying just you get
it you can enroll if you'd like and that
basically says that the idea behind that
is you know if you build it they will
come if you if you're worried about
Medicare we will show you how good
Medicare is and you have a choice to get
into this program right now
so these are all different ways of
transitioning to a single-payer system
and look some of them may leave private
insurance out there as a viable option
but the idea is you know we will show
you that Medicare is better than private
insurance instead of saying all right
everyone has to enroll immediately and
it's important to understand that that's
the actual debate we're having we're not
having a debate about you know at least
in the Democratic Party at least mostly
in the Democratic Party about whether we
should have a private insurance industry
where no one else enrolls in Medicare or
Medicare for all that's not really the
debate the debate is what does the
transition look like how fast is it what
is it cost what is the financing plan
all that kind of stuff and I think
there's like you said there's a lot you
know I don't know that there are any
right answers right now and I think it's
a healthy debate to have but I think we
have to be mindful that you know like
it's not just insurance company
executives and Republicans worried about
who cares about that but there's doctors
to consider there are patients there are
nurses there are people who get their
insurance from their employers there are
all kinds of things to consider we have
been through this with the Affordable
Care Act it is not easy and it is not
just about insurance companies and
Republicans trying to kill our plans
though that is certainly part of it it
is about people genuine fear and anxiety
about how to transfer into a system that
we know will be better for them and it's
tough right it's a tough debate yeah it
would say that if you are whatever turn
to all the various can't two things I
guess let me show you again two things I
think are born here one if you were a
candidate and you were running around
saying you're for Medicare for all you
have to very simply detail what that
means right Bernie has done that federal
work is at least his and each other
specific plan but he has expressed the
very specific piece of legislation that
he supports the Medicare for America
plan that you mentioned so you think you
have to say where you are on the
spectrum Sanders to some other version
of Medicare for all and it's not enough
just to like do the hash tag and move on
and I think that's true of every can it
doesn't mean you
be open to other ideas which is my ideal
plan to Sanders but I would certainly
sign a bill like Medicare for America
like you can you can have a range of
options and then second if you are for
Medicare for America or the cat plan or
something some other form of a longer
transition period as opposed to notice
that is not you are not a corporate
shill all right write it like we just
take a step back and recognize we were
having a debate within the Democratic
Party which about how quickly to move to
single-payer and back in ten years ago
back in the 2008 campaign when we work
with Obama the fact that we were having
a conversation about a market-based path
to universal health care we've seen it
nyeon the political suicide and so
enough they're like take the win here
people away it is to the credit of the
organizers who push so hard and keep
pushing of course that we're having this
debate as you said and look and the
answer that I gave and the one that you
just gave to is basically Elizabeth
Warren's answer on this which is she no
she sponsored Bernie's bill but when
she's been asked about it she said look
there's a lot of pathways to get there
there's you can lower ages you can have
buy-ins you can automatically enroll
people and you know I'm for whatever
pathway gets us there I've obviously
signed on to Bernie's bill but I'm open
to whatever path gets us there I think
Elizabeth Warren's giving great answers
on this okay so that's that speaking of
2020 strategy
Axios is reporting the president Trump
has won one former Trump campaign
official said they plan to one former
Trump campaign official said they plan
to quote make whoever the nominee is
radioactive well before they get the
nomination by making them look like a
far left extremist quote the plan is
stay at 45 46 percent in the polls
that's Trump and just make the other guy
radioactive they plan to do so by
highlighting Democratic positions on
Medicare for all the green New Deal
court packing abolishing the electoral
college and reparations
this comes as Mitch McConnell this week
forced a vote on the green New Deal
resolution purely as a political stunt
where forty-three Democrats voted
present and everyone else voted no so
just to start isn't the typical
incumbent reelection strategy to
disqualify their opponent by making them
look extreme isn't that what usually
happened
yes this story and no disrespect of
importance who wrote it but this story
is equivalent to someone reporting out
like scoop multiple siren emojis we have
a secret inside look at Duke strategy
winds and windy in the MT no boy
tournament Duke is going to try to score
as many points as possible while holding
their opponents to his few points as
possible yeah Captain Obvious
not really sure what the news is it's
also I've worked in a lot of campaigns
and quote unquote former campaign
officials are generally not good windows
into the current campaign strategy so
yes this was pretty obvious we all knows
what was gonna happen but someone got
some clicks out of it so how can
Democrats counter this because obviously
you know whether it's an obvious
strategy or not which we think it is and
whether the former campaign officials
knew whatever the they were talking
about it or not it is pretty clear from
Donald Trump's actions his words from
Mitch McConnell doing this with a green
new deal that they feel like what
they're gonna do is paint all of these
Democrats as extreme radical leftists
who have gone over the edge embraced
socialism and look at all these crazy
things they embrace how do Democrats
counter that I think you know we've
talked this before but it's sort of the
Wayne Gretzky little politics which is
you lose 100% of the arguments you don't
make yeah
and which is why I found the Democratic
strategy on the green New Deal
legislation to be somewhat troubling
like how it's not gonna play itself out
on the campaign trail Republicans are
like you support this socialist green
new deal and they're like no I would
know I voted present it's like we have
to go out make an argument for the
policies we care about in engage that
argument non-stop for the next few years
what we can't do is before something see
a bad poll and run away because they're
going to tour us with the new green new
deal as they depict it from now until
Election Day and so you have to make the
argument the second point here is either
this goes to the obvious of the strategy
but is the battle in a in a reelection
campaign is between the opponent's
intention to turn it into a referendum
on the incumbent
in the incumbents at cents to turn it
into a choice between the incumbent and
the Challenger and typically what that
would mean is that it should be the job
of the Democrats to only talk about
Trump we have to make this all about
Trump and that's Reggie his work they
have to pass I do not think it will work
this time yeah I think we actually have
to swerve out of that lane and we
actually have to paint very specifically
and clearly and concisely and
persuasively the alternatives to Trump
because there was a me notes
no that could be hard to make things
about Trump everything about Trump can't
make everything about Trump so the
Democrat instead of only talking about
Trump should spend much more time
talking about themselves and let Trump
talk about Trump because he does as good
a job in dining his own presidency as
anyone else could possibly do and so the
typical strategy of just making all
about the incumbent the one that Romney
used against Obama I think is in the
state here and even more so than before
we should be talking about what the kind
of what a Democratic presidents mean
what define the change that we are
arguing for because Trump will do a fine
job defining the status quo that
currently exists see I think we have to
make it I think Democrats have to make
it a choice as well and I think so III
would like split the difference I think
that it's a mistake to only talk about
Trump I also think it's a mistake to
only talk about our own alternative like
I think we need to people are going to
the ballot box they're gonna choose
between Donald Trump and a Democrat and
I think you have to lay out here is what
happens if you vote for Donald Trump and
you don't talk about like you know
here's what happens he says more crazy
 he has bad tweets he's mean to
people right like you know that that's
not part of it these are the policy
consequences of voting for Donald Trump
this is what's going to happen in your
life there will be 20 million people who
will lose health care anyone who has a
pre-existing condition can be denied by
their insurance company more people will
be ripped away from their families at
the border right we will make no
progress on climate change when we only
have 10 years left here's what will
happen if you vote for the Democrat we
will more people will get health care
right we will start combating climate
change we will have gun control right
like I do
think that you can make the choice on
policy terms and also unlike how it
affects people's lives and I bet I and I
totally agree but we cannot run away
from these positions which is something
that Democrats have done in the past I'm
sort of okay with the present votes on
the green new deal because I think
Democrats can say this was a stunt by
Mitch McConnell and the green dunya the
green New Deal resolution right now is
just that it's a resolution there's no
policy there's no legislation and once
we get to an actual Green Deal and we
have legislation and we have details you
know I'm gonna be for I'm for an actual
bill that could combat climate change
I'm not you know some resolution that
Mitch McConnell's putting there just to
 us like that's just a stump but I
don't think that any kind of bad polls
or Republican ads or anything like that
should force Democrats to run away from
this I think like you said you have to
make the argument you have to make the
argument and we should feel confident by
the way that there is popular political
support for enrolling more people in
Medicare for many of the planks of the
green New Deal you know Sean Malka we
just had a piece in The New York Times
yesterday Wednesday they data for
progress his organization and civis
which is you know run by former Obama
folks did some polling they ask the
question you know the green New Deal
would phase out the use of fossil fuels
with the government providing clean
energy jobs for people who can't find
employment in the private sector all
jobs would pay at least $15 an hour
include health care benefits and
collective bargaining rights to pay for
it we'd raise taxes on incomes over
$200,000 by 15 percent 46 percent were
in favor 34 percent were opposed so you
know some of this stuff is is popular
has popular support and we shouldn't run
away from it it's also it's I'll say in
defense of Democrats there isn't any
indication yet the Democrats are running
away from these things right now that's
this is more just like a cautionary note
based on past history not behavior we've
seen in the context of this turn
election but also the thing about
politics it is it isn't to find popular
things and make yourself care about them
right is to find the things you care
about and make them popular yeah and we
like the
literally the planet is at stake over
whether we can make people care about
climate change enough that they will
vote people out for opposing it and so
that is the task at hand here that's why
it's so important that people not run
away from the green new deal but also
that presidential candidates lay out
what their version of the green New Deal
looks like baby they do not have to
agree with the exact version that
Alexandra Cascio cortes and marketing
put out they can have a different
version of it or it can be more
aggressive we're less aggressive or
reallocate some of the aggressive just
among various different initiatives but
like we had like the key is to define
what you care about persuade people
that's right and then turn it into
policy that's why we're in politics to
begin with Hardegree okay when we come
back we will have Dan's interview with
Andrew Gilliam
you
