welcome back to pod save the world I'm
Tommy Vietor and I'm here in studio Ben
Rhodes yeah who you know you loved who
was excited to talk about general Flynn
with me today excited been waiting for
this my whole life
me too later in the show I talked with
ruqaiya Diallo who's a journalist author
filmmaker and activist in Paris who been
Mets in 2017 I think yes she was it our
Obama foundation summit and she you know
really got a lot of tension in France
for her activism you know progressive
voice on many issues in France and and
perfect to talk about you know what's
actually happening she she helps us
understand the yellow best move in in
France which has been roiling the nation
as you would say in an American headline
writer for like six weeks yeah yeah it's
actually a pretty big deal that's could
bring down a presidency or lead to some
major changes we don't know yeah listen
the interview and you'll find out but
then we have a lot of interesting things
to tick through today general Flynn was
supposed to be sentenced today yes
but after a little bit of back and forth
some extraordinary back and forth to the
judge yes the process was delayed yes
which is interesting um but so you know
there are a lot of crimes the general
Flynn is alleged to have committed he's
Trump's former national security adviser
he's a former three-star general who ran
the Defense Intelligence Agency before
essentially getting fired early by the
Obama administration
one thing that he is in trouble for is
unregistered lobbying for Turkey that is
no no his group the Flynn Intel group
receives a total of five hundred and
thirty thousand dollars for its work
just a quick refresher for all you
lobbyists out there when you lobby for a
foreign government you need to register
under the foreign agent Registration Act
if you don't it is a crime Flynn was not
very coy about his lobbying he wrote an
up head for the hill that was published
on Election Day
attacking a cleric Turkish cleric living
in Pennsylvania whom the Turkish
government has accused of helping
instigate a failed coup yeah the goal
was to I guess persuade members of
Congress or the administration to
extradite Gulen so Ben who is my say his
name right Fethullah Gulen yes and why
are the
Terk so eager to lock him up as general
Flynn might say ya know and you know
there's a grab-bag of criminality with
Flint and so we can start with this this
crime so Gulen is a cleric that used to
be an ally of air Dewan right so they
kind of came up in Islamist politics in
Turkey and at a certain point Gulen
emigrated to the United States and he
lives it like in Pennsylvania is
something of a recluse I'm like a Senior
Center yeah another guy in the mountains
in Pennsylvania but the reality is that
there's he has these followers in Turkey
who are prominent had been prominent in
the education system and the justice
system and became political opponents of
everyone's right and erawan had a big
falling out going and and and hated the
guy then there was this attempted coup
right which seemed to implicate and
involve some of these followers of Gulen
and Turkey now that coup was wild but
it's possibly alive 2016 I will I
remember watching just jaw dropped
these tanks rolling through yeah it's
like a legit you know old-school coup
attempt at least it didn't they steal
some like the Parliament it was it was a
wild thing everyone is on his plane
facetiming a message to the nation
saying stand up and resist the army like
yes it was I can't imagine the kind of
meetings you know it's a crazy day
although they did have it in hand pretty
quick and and so what happens after this
is it aired Wanda sides so that Gulen is
responsible for this coup this is why
this is important this wasn't some
fringe issue right it's easy to look at
this and think oh Flynn just signed up
got paid 600 K to lobby for the
extradition of some weird cleric this
was like one of the leading fire policy
issues of 2016 right
I remember being in meetings with Obama
and aired one where aired one would roll
up like a lawyer with all these like you
know those big folders and lawyers had
that can like fold out in Gordian
accordion folders thank you and you'd
have all these documents and he'd give
them to us you'd literally dramatically
give it and say this proves that you
know you need to send me Gulen right and
Obama would say to him and did say to
him look in our system unlike maybe
yours
I can't just decide to like extradite
guy who hasn't been charged of any crime
by a judge I can ask the Justice
Department to review all of your
evidence and make a determination about
whether we can extradite him because
he's a US person he's a lawful resident
United States we don't just render
people to third countries where by the
way Gulen would probably be tortured and
killed yeah so the Justice Department
looks at this and decides that no that
actually there's not any evidence that
directly implicates Gulen and what
happened in Turkey there's no basis to
extradite him so what's really important
to note here about Flynn is the Justice
Department had made a determination that
no there wasn't enough here to extradite
the guy so Flynn is not only signing up
as a foreign agent he's basically
signing up for that foreign agent to try
to reverse the actual finding of the
Justice Department and come up with some
other reason to extradite this guy right
so just like Mike Flynn undermined our
national security with Russia he's
really trying to undermine the rule of
law here because he's trying to say well
I support extraditing this guy even
though our own legal system has not
found any reasons to do so how would you
engineer a coup and Turkey from
Pennsylvania to begin with I mean like I
guess I've read a little bit about Gulen
and everyone's falling out and I think
it's like 2013 yeah but I just is this
just all a pretext to get him back
because he wants to take out his enemy
well you know everybody should read
there's a great Dexter Filkins piece in
The New Yorker about Google on a couple
years ago I mean there's one part
conspiracy theory one part truth right
again the truth is there are people in
Turkey who have been followers of Gulen
who are opponents of err Dewan right and
it does have a bit of a feeling of like
a secret society right like people kind
of meet underground they have
conversations they listen to audio tapes
of g√ºlen's you know sermons over the
years so it does have this following but
err Diwan has projected this onto like a
much grander conspiracy theory he used
to call Gulen a terrorist he'd call him
turkeys bin Laden to us and he really
said without evidence that Gulen was
really pulling the strings on all this
stuff all the political opposition that
Iran faced at home was because Gulen why
would everyone do
maybe he in part believes it maybe he
also just it's the bitterness of having
someone he a fell out with but also it's
convenient for her to want to say I have
no real political opponents at home I
just had these crazy coolness and there
is some real opposition erawan he's an
authoritarian right there's secular
opposition there are people who just
don't like the directions in Turkey and
he was convenient for aired one to say
no I'm the only legitimate political
leader in this country and all my
opposition are these kind of cultish
cool inist following orders from a guy
in rural pennsylvania that suited his
political narrative at the time and so
Flynn is essentially signing on for an
effort to extradite a guy without any
legal basis to do so and to basically
validate Erin's view of the world in
politics and Turkey which is that you
know this is a vast you know Gulen s
conspiracy orchestrated by this old guy
man nuts so ok so Flynn's arrest did not
stop these efforts by the Turks to get
Gulen back this week like yesterday
Turkey's foreign ministry said that the
u.s. was working to extradite him back
to Turkey I guess Sarah Sanders was
asked at the podium today and said Trump
will look at the Gulen tradition this is
what's so crazy about this right
is it
you don't go shopping for an extradition
like you don't go to another country and
say hey we'd like you to gin up some
reason to arrest this person who's
legally in your country and extradite
him to us like you have to be found to
have committed a crime there has to be a
basis to arrest this guy and the way the
Turks are treated this is like yeah we
know you couldn't find any reason to
extradite this guy but you Trump seem to
be hostile to the independence of the
rule of law in your country why don't
you just like render this guy and let's
be very clear about what we'd be doing
we would be rendering a guy without any
basis in the law to a country where he
will likely be tortured and killed like
that is not something we should dead
yeah dead man whatever you think of
guellen-- what is it dark there should
be legal protections you know that
extend to people live here and I think
like this context I mean it's
interesting in its own right but it's
also I think helpful context for all the
weird late-stage general flynn defenders
who are coming out of the woodwork
his sentencing like this guy was willing
to take a half a million dollars to help
try to send someone who our Justice
Department says is innocent get back to
a country that would torture and kill
him yeah that's not a good guy in my
book no and again if the Justice
Department finds reason to arrest
somebody then all by all means it's
written but like that hasn't happened
here it's been years and they're still
looking around you know for personal
profit for reasons to do this
yeah I mean so this Jenna in sentencing
is delayed you know we'll see what
happens here he's been cooperating with
the Justice Department to the point
where Muller's team said no don't give
him any jail time despite serious crimes
that we've been talking about including
lying the FBI multiple times before we
walked in here I was reading the 302
report after what the FBI fills out when
they interview someone like general
Flynn is there anything else about this
matter that you want to get off your
chest yeah no look I let's also remember
Mike Flynn lied about what he lied about
is he talked to the Russian ambassador
Keyes lyac about you know not paying
attention to the fact that we the Obama
administration who were in charge of the
government at the time we're gonna
sanction Russia you know indicating they
make some deal later and also about how
they should vote on UN Security Council
resolution I think what is notable here
right is that Mike Flynn was speaking to
the representative of the Russian
government knowing full well by the way
that that Russian government had just
interfered in our election to help
Elektron yeah right against the actions
of the US government that is sanctioning
that Russian government right there's a
lot of suspicion about why he would do
that let's also remember that like part
of the reason why there's been so much
focus on this is let's just assume that
the Russian ambassador's communications
are probably monitored right I mean I'm
not revealing anything but like those
reporters Flynn Flynn is probably
talking to a guy in our and tell them
somebody's gonna get a record of that
conversation so it's been so telling
about this right
his Muller would only extend this you
know recommendation of no sins and
choose not even to prosecute the turkey
stuff right if he's getting something
really really good from Flynn right
there's no other reason for Muller to
give Flynn such a pass unless the not
just the nature of the coop
but the stuff that he's giving is very
very valuable and what Mike Flynn would
know is well who told him to talk to
Keith slack was it Donald Trump that
directed him to talk to the Russian
government about working against US
interests did they discuss the Russian
interference in the election did they
discuss the cover story that they'd be
using for the Russian interference in
that election and if you look at this
flurry of activity in December it sets
up the entire obstruction of justice
case right because Trump comes in and
and when do we see him start obstructing
right
according to comit√© see polls call me
aside and says I'll let this Flynn thing
go right after pence you know it got
caught lying about it right and then and
then he fires Comey the the origin of
this is all the fun things so what's
clear is that Donald Trump is very
nervous about what Mike Flynn might have
told Bob Muller and that Bob Muller
thinks that whatever Mike Flynn told
them is so important that he's willing
to recommend no jail time even though
the guy's a criminal I think that
suggests that in this web of conduct see
he had with the Russian basa der that
our intelligence community would have
dead to rights he must have done
something quite extraordinary the Bob
Mello knows about and that you and I
don't know about yet and it's all could
have avoided Barack Obama said to Donald
Trump the one person who shouldn't hire
is Mike don't hire this guy it's not in
the right place let's say on Russia for
a minute because this is just a weird
week or a couple of weeks really of like
the legal system and government agencies
catching up with news reports that we
have alread years ago this week two new
reports were prepared for the Senate
Intelligence Committee that said that
Russian influence and propaganda efforts
were essentially on every major social
media platform yeah they specifically
targeted african-americans to try to
suppress the vote and divide yeah
African American community and that this
effort continued long long after the
election notably we learned that the
Russian troll farm loves Instagram so
they're like us Russian and Instagram
posts received a hundred and eighty
seven million engagements dislike it was
also notable that Google barely
cooperated and seemingly made it as
difficult as possible for the
investigators to understand how YouTube
was used so that sucks
Facebook took a lot of Google
should too so YouTube so I mean I guess
here's my question is
push this forward the Russians clearly
don't care that we've uncovered all
right yeah you mean you could kind of
match up their covert Instagram Facebook
propaganda with garbage that's on Artie
their overt propaganda channel all the
time so Russia doesn't care
Trump doesn't care no one's stopping
anytime soon we're gonna see this again
in the next election so like what the
hell do you think we should do about it
or the platform should do about it to
try to prevent you know communities in
the United States from having their
votes suppressed or being targeted or
you know all the things we should expect
to happen in 2020 ya know that's a
really good question because what we're
seeing is that the Russians you know
they find the places where there's
already polarization or there's already
some weird right-wing meme and and they
just plow content into it and jack up
the the anger I think that what the
platforms need to do is you have to have
you should be able to have some capacity
to know where the information that
you're looking at is coming from like if
you're looking at something that's been
shared on Facebook they should you know
the analogy I use Tommy is like
Wikipedia right which is a user control
platform as a step where it says whether
a source is verified or not yeah and if
there's some content that just pops up
there that looks weird and nobody puts a
footnote it says this can't be verified
right there should be some similar
mechanism to be able to verify where
content is coming from and if it's if
it's coming from Russia the in what we
learned in the Facebook investigation
they saw that this was coming from
Russia and did nothing to warn people
right at a minimum there should be a
capacity to let people know where
certain content is coming from it should
be relevant to the user of that
information that it's originated from
Russia right especially you're
representing your organization or your
page as a us-based
say black lives matter activist site if
that's coming from a troll farm in the
in Moscow that should be noted they
should be able to code things in a way I
look I'm not the the coder here but that
that alerts people to where content is
coming from right you should at least be
able to know who is trying to make you
unhinge
and angry about things or who's trying
to stoke division in our country other
governments have done this by the way
and the European governments have worked
with their broadcasting and tech
companies to say let's share information
together and flag certain content for
people notably the French right yeah and
and they've said like if we catch you
doing this multiple times we will pull
this stuff down right and look we had a
similar conversation with the tech
companies about Isis right then they
were putting all this radicalization
propaganda online and we had the
capacity to work with them to flag
certain content and then ultimately they
you know they've the companies had to
set their own standards but they pulled
a lot of that stuff down I don't know
why we should be giving a pass to a
bunch of Russian troll farms to randomly
be you know weighing in on matters of
social division and political
polarization in the United States yeah
it's not not a good trajectory and let's
be honest their profit margins are
helped by this right like what what gets
ad dollars is clicks that's right and
anger gets clicks so the Russian troll
farms helped a lot of these tech
companies like make some money that's
like Velcro truth yeah not good um I
want to turn to China quickly because
there's been some reporting on this
issue but not nearly enough given I
think the magnitude of what we're seeing
like the State Department is on the
record saying that China has detained at
least at least 800,000 and possibly more
than 2 million Weger
and other members of Muslim minority
groups in northwest China and basically
internment camps concentration camps
whatever you want to call it that is a
staggering number they are apparently
being detained without any actual
charges the families don't know where
they are and the goal is to essentially
brainwash them force them to renounce
Islam embrace the Chinese Communist
Party and you know go with the doctrine
so even more disgusting on top of that
there was a report today that these
prisoners are being forced to
manufacture products they get sold in
the US you know sweatshirts whatever
sportswear um this is staggering yeah
human rights abuse how should the West
be responding to a situation like this
right now it seems like silence yeah
well first of all like Tommy imagine if
we could actually see it you know there
are journalists in front of this and in
pictures of it I mean part of what's so
chilling here is it it doesn't get as
much attention in part because China
doesn't let you see it right and and you
know you've rightly called a lot of
attention to the situation with the
Ranga
we're in a relatively nearby place by
the way from Western China in the
cleansing taking place people in camps
the numbers are even larger than the
numbers of Ranga albeit it's more kind
of systematic I think what the analogy
is also Tibet right where the the
Chinese systematically over many years
just destroyed the culture and then kind
of any sense of independent language and
culture and religion among the Tibetan
people or tried to at least they're
clear trying to do the same thing here I
think the West should one do more to
expose what's happening here I'm sure
the US government has overhead pictures
of these places has information we
should be publicizing that information
yeah I think we should be presenting
that information you know at the United
Nations and just trying to shine some
spotlight on this cuz China thus far has
avoided any scrutiny for it that would
be the the initial and obvious place to
start and then you can go beyond that
and and try to identify particular
people involved who may be subject to
certain global sanctions regimes because
of violations of human rights I think
you can call for a kind of Commission's
of inquiry you know the UN Human Rights
Council but the first step has to be on
on shining a light on this yeah I mean
one one shout-out to an organization
that done some great work on this issue
is the BBC they did a report in October
called China's hidden camps where they
were able to do something basically what
you described then is like they took
commercial satellite imagery and they
were able to overlay the before and
after pictures and you see the scale of
these camps I mean there's thousands of
meters long by thousands of meters wide
I mean you know hundreds of thousands
tens of thousands people living in these
individual places just prisoner yeah and
I mean this that you kind of don't think
that things happen like this in the 21st
century like
up to two million people and camps right
try to imagine if this was happening in
some other part of the world to some
other religious minority right
mehran did this we would have ended
yesterday
Varane had camps with like you know
anybody we you know this and it does
present the the most difficult challenge
of our time which is it like China's
trying to prove that a purer than
authoritarian model can work you know
that you can get away with all this
stuff as long as your economy is
important and is big enough and thus far
the the chilling answer is they they
have got away with them yeah another
major story out of China there is um
there is a massive Chinese
communications technology company in
China called Huawei it's the second
largest smartphone maker in the world I
think after Samsung the CFO of the
company who is also the daughter of the
founder was detained in Canada a couple
weeks back on suspicion of violating US
sanctions against Iran
so to summarize Chinese company
apparently breaking US sanctions on Iran
detained in Canada massive diplomatic
yeah problem um my first reaction upon
reading the news was oh because
Huawei is not just any phone company
they are seen by many in the US
intelligence community as an extension
of China's military we don't trust their
products like you you wouldn't let
anyone who worked at the CI you use a
huawei phone because there's an
assumption that they could build a
backdoor into it or monitor that coms
what did you make of those reports and
like what do you think that the end game
is here of detaining someone who is so
clearly connected to the very top of the
Chinese government yeah I mean first of
all I don't really think I don't buy the
sanctions saying I buy that they are
violating sanctions right but the way in
which you go about enforcing sanctions
is not usually to start by detaining the
daughter of the CEO and the CFO you know
you you impose a fine you you call you
know there's something that's more
aggressive about this in the Trump
administration including the president
knighted States himself kind of alluded
to the possibility that this could be
leveraged in trade negotiations right so
this seems to be at the Nexus of
you know concerns about Iran but also
the kind of China trade dispute that's
taking place and it sets a very
dangerous precedent to be using people
as ships like this right because what we
saw is the Chinese already detained a
couple Canadians right there they could
start randomly detaining anybody for
violating Chinese laws they're holding a
couple American college kids I believe
right yeah they could just because it's
not hard to find some Chinese law that
somebody violated particularly if it
gets into politics right so the
dangerous game that they're playing is
it suddenly people become pawns in these
great power tests of strength like the
trade war I think the bigger context
here is on the text up with Huawei the
Trump administration and some of their
kind of national security Hawks are
trying to say we don't want Huawei or
any Chinese tech companies anywhere near
the supply chain that we depend upon
right because they'll infiltrate it
right and so they're they're trying to
kind of cut off Chinese tech from the
supply chain that America depends on but
that's the that that horse's left the
phone stop right yeah it's just like
Foxconn is pretty it sounds really you
know you know it sounds like a policy
you can design in a room but it's hard
to exist in real life
right so all these agendas are
intersecting here in this one case and I
got to tell you though like I was just
up in Canada there in this terrible
position right because like they're
asked to arrest this person by us they
cooperate very closely with our law
enforcement so they probably picked this
person up then they got the Chinese
detaining Canadians in and so can is a
good example of a country and this is
gonna happen more and more if we get
away from a system where countries kind
of follow the rules and abide by the
norms where you're gonna have like
countries like Canada they're just stuck
between the US and China fighting it out
here you know it sounds like the Chinese
might have already cut off talks about a
trade deal with Canada yeah they're
feeling the repercussions as we're
trying to stiff the Canadians on trade
deals and not a lot of Chinese business
people are gonna travel a Canada right
now and they're just a resting random
Canadian so I don't mean to me it felt
like look you've been the situation room
like a crazy extradition light or not
crazy because again I'm sure there's
some underlying
crime it's just the the extreme step of
tightening this high-profile person you
know that that wouldn't happen without
some White House process yeah you know
even if it originated in DOJ they would
call the white ass and be like hey you
know what do you think about doing X and
there have to be some White House led
process to make a decision to detain
this person and again to not do
something if it's an Iran single
violation like imposing some huge fine
on them first yeah I think one thing
that people probably don't understand is
the degree to which a single individual
can become a massive foreign policy
challenge I mean two Iranian hikers are
sorry to us hikers were taken hostage in
Iran there was an incident when we were
still in the administration like two
thousand eleven or twelve where a
Chinese activist sought refuge in a US
diplomatic facility and there was a
months of negotiations about how to get
him back to United States I mean it can
be it can become all-consuming for a
relationship of the country and and also
like take up a massive amount of
mindshare for a demonstration and that
yeah and that means that the basic point
here is if this was really about getting
leverage and trade negotiation I think
this is a really dangerous thing to have
done if it's really about a sanctions
violation we'll look at it and and
usually there are ways of addressing
that without starting some dominoes of
countries like China picking up you know
US and Canadian people in responses yeah
I'm not great two pieces of war news you
know those those places where US service
members are still fighting despite the
fact that Trump's aides tell the press
that he doesn't believe in the mission
and he will never seemingly visit them
the Washington Post reported that US
troops will now stay in Syria
indefinitely I guess that's the stated
policy these days without any real
debate or oversight from Congress
meanwhile in Afghanistan this week the
u.s. the Taliban the UAE and the Saudis
and the Pakistanis are holding peace
talks so you know that's hopefully good
curious what you think about the the
state of both of those wars and if like
a bunch of liberal activists listen to
this show are trying to figure out
what's happening or how we can maybe you
know
become more activist and I don't push
them to a conclusion yeah what they
should be doing well first of all do you
remember when we used to get criticized
and have to do this at least once every
conversation sure because Obama didn't
care enough about the mission you know
like his speeches weren't his heart
wasn't he didn't like rip his shirt off
and you have an American flag tattoo so
his heart was in that commission can you
imagine if we'd actually sent you out to
say to the press well he doesn't really
believe in the mission that's why the
troops it's it's appalling right on
Syria keeping troops there matters a lot
and we have no idea what they're doing I
mean like as anybody provided any
explanation about how many troops are
there and what they're actually doing it
so the first point is we just need some
transparency on this because troops can
stay in a place and that can lead to
kind of mission creep right so they
weren't there for one reason to dislodge
Isis that's been done what are they
doing now they may be there
participating in reconstruction or what
happens if there's an insurgency there
what happens if there's no conflict with
Iranian proxies in southern Syria or
they're gonna get gonna caught up in
that so I think there's more of a danger
than people think that the longer our
troops stay there the more we end up
kind of buying other missions for them
at a minimum the Democratic house and
this is what activists can do should
insist on and can compel greater
transparency yeah how many troops are
there how long are they there for what
is their mission you have to come here
before Congress in the American people
and explain this by the way like what is
the extended legal basis for keeping
them there right yeah so so these things
all need to be aired and and and you
know thus far this administration is
worded that despite Trump campaigning
right on a platform remember he was
gonna get us out of these wars what the
hell are we doing there yeah he's
escalated all of them right he said
publicly a couple times that he was
gonna get all our troops out of both
places but then walked it back I guess
nothing happens right and did the
mission creep just grows and then in
Afghanistan here I think activists you
need to be making the case that with a
Democratic Congress and with the
Democratic primary about to begin
people need to be just sticking out the
case that we need to get out of here
like
there are people who are going to serve
in Afghanistan this year who weren't
even born when the conflict started
right and there's diminishing returns
here and this idea I mean I'm glad that
we're engaged in and and in peace talks
I think the challenge is we had kind of
a mindset among some of the people who
worked on Afghanistan when we were there
that well we had to show the Taliban
that we're willing to stay forever in
order for them to make a deal right and
that was so basically you have an
endless justification to have troops
there in support of the diplomacy
I think the Taliban has shown that that
they're not going to go away just
because we're there you know and
ultimately what you need is the Afghans
to arrive at some accommodation amongst
themselves right and and and so I think
we can and should support that diplomacy
I don't think we necessarily have to
accept the logic that we have to signal
our willingness to engage in a perpetual
war in Afghanistan just to have a
diplomatic process underway yeah I mean
that was I feel like it was Petraeus or
no Petraeus or somebody floated the
prospect of a Korea style force posture
in Afghanistan which would mean tens of
thousands of troops for what 60 years in
a place where the people don't really
seem to want us there that and that
let's keep in mind that it's like we're
like let's you know it's great to you
here and I mean in Afghanistan we
haven't had troops here without people
wanting to try to kill them right and
and that presents a danger and that also
kind of demonstrates it this model we've
we've made a I mean you've heard me in
the past talk about the blob right I
love that the blob is just a term
everyone uses the thing now right
doesn't even always get ascribed to you
it's just sort of a denying thing I
should have trademarked it cuz I see all
these people say well someone once said
the blob but you know this was about the
groupthink around military intervention
ISM in the American foreign policy
establishment one of the assumptions
that the blob makes is there's a direct
correlation between the presence of US
troops in a country and things being
better in that kindness right as if like
well if we just had more troops in the
country things would inherently improve
in that country and in fact the recent
evidence you know this is
no by the way no disrespect to the
troops because their mission is to go
kill people or blow things up or destroy
things but the notion that just keeping
a certain number of troops in a place
for certain time is going to inherently
improve the situation there no in fact
our troops can become targets for
insurgents it can become motivators for
insurgents they can attract foreign
fighters they can exacerbate sectarian
conflicts because different sects are
playing one off the other it can
facilitate corruption because a bunch of
grifters like our prints show up and
they're like getting fat on the hog on
the contracts right so you know again in
whether it's in Afghanistan or Syria
Iraq let's not repeat the mistake of
just thinking you know this is a
mathematical equation and and US troops
in country makes things better an X
number of US troops will make things x
times better Afghanistan and Iraq have
shown that like that's not necessary
case we had a hundred and fifty thousand
troops in Iraq at the height of the war
and that was as violent a time as there
was in Iraq right yeah not good Ben
that's all I had anything else on your
minds no I I'm debating the in-n-out
truck downstairs the internet burger
service was quite good I highly
recommend it you will you're you'll
regret that's a new thing it's a today
thing our our office or Park area is
trying to make everybody get to know
each other so there's in and out and
there was a raffle
okay well that's you didn't need better
options around here yeah I think Michael
won something in the raffle our producer
Michael Martinez so that's graduations
was like a Minion's
USB yeah I wouldn't put that on my
computer
Wow is it a huawei you know whatever Ben
and I went to a million like g20 s g8
like foreign summits a lot of people
were handing out USB it was not here's a
party favorite bag with the USB and like
a listening device yeah I did in it we
you and I want to plug that both on the
trip after we went to China we're like
our phones just started suddenly like
doing strange things and like speaking
Chinese we had to turn in our phone or
not good this stuff about the Chinese
hacking and using Huawei is true I
should add yes and we should do
something about it
I just don't know if like starting a
slippery slope of high-profile
detentions is the way to go about doing
yeah we know our moral standing got
challenged by mr. Snowden too but that's
a conversation for another day yes
Ben thank you so much and now the
conversation with rakaia Diallo
you
