[Applause]
now it's time for a game called okay
stop roll clip in the battle can say
okay stop at any point to comment on
Tuesday at the White House Donald Trump
met with Nancy Pelosi Chuck Schumer and
a scarecrow dress up is Mike Pence to
discuss the looming potential of a
government shutdown what was supposed to
be a photo-op soon turned into something
much cooler let's take a look in the
house a majority of votes for a wall no
matter what exactly right you know if I
needed the votes for the wall in the
house I would have them in one session
would be done
it doesn't help because we need ten
Democrats in your shop you got I don't I
just like how Chuck Schumer is sitting
it feels like it feels like he's like
would you like a Werther's because
they're in my pocket so they're a little
warmed up they've been under my tush and
you seem like a good fella a nice
whippersnapper okay let me ask you this
just and we're doing this in a very
friendly manner okay stop because he's
looks like he's trying to message this
as it's happening you think and this is
friendly
this is friendly that's what we're doing
it were to me because friendly eye
someone told me that this is a friendly
thing everything who's friendly now I'm
gonna go say something heinous
at you also why does Mike Pence look
like he has gas
Oh like it looks like he's doing the one
check so here's what happened my so
about two weeks before this this
happened Mike Pence was sitting at home
with mother and they were and they were
having kettle corn which in his house is
just actual raw corn from a kettle and
he was munching on that flipping through
the channels and as he took one big bite
the Will & Grace remake came on and he
saw a gay person he wasn't ashamed and
it just sat wrong
I will win easily with the Republicans
it doesn't help to take that vote
because I'm not going to get the vote of
the Senate I need ten senators that's
the problem
you know Nancy's in a situation where
it's not easy for her to talk right now
and I understand that and I fully
understand okay stop can I say what I
need to say you're gonna edit this right
what in the entire what is he
talking about she can't talk right now
he doesn't know how to talk or read no I
so here's the thing Donald Trump as
given that he can he doesn't read
anything doesn't read his betrayals it
gets everything he knows from Fox and
he's so um inarticulate at this point
that he just just barks he just barks
discussion and we're gonna see what
happens no we have to have border
security
please don't characterize did I bring
this okay
[Applause]
like Nancy Pelosi
I am a I'm an a fan I have loved Nancy
Pelosi I believe she's the best speaker
in a generation if not longer I've said
that before I'll say it again she never
got the credit she deserved because
she's what there's no other reason Paul
Ryan's been on a bunch of magazine
covers they never put Nancy Pelosi on
not for a while and it's and you know
she faced this revolt and you know I
think there are legitimate arguments
there are illegitimate arguments I'm
much more interested in the argument
about pulling her to the left than I am
about pulling her to the center I am
interested in the argument about why we
need a new generation of leaders I'm not
an interested in argument that says she
shouldn't be the leader because she
shouldn't be the leader nonetheless she
doesn't get the credit he deserves for
being tough for being political
for bringing out knives when she needs
to break out knives for being nice when
she needs to be nice and I just glad
that she's getting this cultural moment
I'm just glad I liked it I heard her say
that and I was like people are gonna
like that furthermore that line don't
characterize the anger I'm bringing that
is better than its break no carrots you
guys this job that strength I'm bringing
is better than any line in that horrible
Ruth Bader Ginsberg movie trailer so it
is actually just disturbing on a writer
level that just on the fly she is better
than the best of Hollywood and there is
Nancy Pelosi Mertz now available on the
histeria website yes there is a great
hysteria t-shirt House Democrats who
just want a big different elections have
consequences and that's why the gun okay
so I just was like I haven't talked in a
long time
this meetings been going on for a while
I haven't said anything a long time I
was thinking I'm just think about what I
was gonna eat after and then all of a
sudden I realized I was sitting here for
a while
when should I talk when should I talk
when should I talk I'll wait till the
woman's talking about awesome
I do think you can even see a snapshot
in that interaction that Trump though he
may have disdain for Pelosi he respects
her and like when she was talking he was
nodding and then he heard Chuck even
like say a syllable and he was like shut
the up Trump where your weird
glasses that hook around your ears Chuck
I am proud to shut down the government
for border security Chuck because the
people of this country don't want
criminals and people that have lots of
problems and drugs pouring into our
country so I won't okay stop I would
like to point out just on a color level
yes that's from the hair matches the
chair it does
it does vary its history color scheme is
Crayola yeah I will be the one to shut
it down I'm not gonna blame you for it
the last time you shut it down it didn't
work I will take the mental shutter yeah
and I'm gonna shut it down for border
but we believe you shouldn't share it
down thank you very much everybody okay
I just will also just say that Chuck
Schumer when when Trump says I'm gonna
shut it down I'm gonna do the shutdown
it's my shutdown I own the shut down
anyone says otherwise you sent it to me
mr. shutdown Chuck Schumer's like yes it
reminds me of one nope I'm gonna skip it
I was just it's like it's like when I'm
at the deli one with my relatives and
the bill comes and like they didn't put
the soup on there and you're like free
 soup
[Music]
