yes welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
later in the pod you'll hear from three
candidates that Tommy interviewed for an
upcoming episode of pod save the world
that spotlights 2018 candidates with
national security and military
backgrounds he talked with Jesse Colvin
the Democratic candidate in Maryland's
first congressional district
Abigail Spann burger from Virginia 7th
and Lauren Baer and Florida's 18th the
full interviews will go out on
Wednesdays pod save the world but check
out different portions of them today so
also our first of four HBO specials will
be Friday night in Miami it will air at
11:00 p.m. Eastern the next three
specials will be in Austin Philadelphia
in Irvine California will also be
shifting the pod scheduled a little bit
during this run new episodes will come
out on Monday and Wednesday afternoons
for the next few weeks and then catch us
on HBO on Friday nights at 11:00 and I
believe it will also air again on Sunday
nights at 11:30 after John Oliver also a
whole bunch of states are coming up on
their deadlines for voter registration
check out if your state's one of them at
vote save America calm you'll also be
able to learn about more opportunities
to link up with people and do things
where you live it will really make a
difference check it out all right and
this is uh this is the last time I want
to talk about Brett Cavanaugh
for a while oh really it's gonna be our
 wives for 30 years I know well
we're gonna have to talk about him again
but I at least want to break after this
since we've been all kavanah all the
time on this pod
the man who responded to multiple
allegations of sexual assault by blaming
Democrats and threatening that what goes
around comes around was nevertheless
confirmed as the Supreme Court justice
by the smallest margin of any nominee in
a hundred and forty years two Republican
no votes would have killed the
nomination but in the end only one
Republican senator was troubled by
Cavanaugh's conduct temperament or
ability to be impartial alaska's lisa
murkowski Alaska's Lisa
Kowski susan collins the only other
potential swing vote supported Cavanaugh
and said she did not believe that he
assaulted dr. Christine Blasi Ford after
learning that Collins was a yes and the
Cavanaugh would be confirmed no matter
what Democrat Joe Manchin of West
Virginia also voted yes and that was
that Dan let's start with Susan Collins
who gave a speech explaining her vote on
Friday afternoon what was your reaction
to that speech and do you think she was
always a yes that speech was essentially
the a very long arduous recitation of
Trump Whitehouse and McConnell Senate
office talking points yeah it dealt with
none of the major issues it alighted
major facts it cited cases that should
have been an enactment to other things
that Susan Collins has claimed she
believed in and she she made a case for
Susan Collins being a partisan
Republican and not some sort of key
swing vote moderate voice of conscious
in the Senate she is pretty it she is
what she is what she is and we should we
have known this you and I have talked
about this if this isn't Collins has
been telling us for a month that she is
a yes yeah he was a yes before the
allegations because she was the only
person who sat down with Brett Kavanaugh
and came away with the impression that
he would preserve roe v wade which you
had to really twist herself into some
sort of judicial pretzel to believe but
she did that nonetheless she pointed out
to all of us that she had voted for
every Supreme Court nominee who would
ever come up from nominated by a
president of either party during her
Senate tenure and I think we ascribed
like she would serve a warrant a false
were shocked test for those folks like
us who were desperately looking for hope
and folks like the media who were
desperately looking for some sort of
hero in this or some sort of he you know
sort of narrative to hear about this she
was always going to be a yes and there
was we know that and nothing we get in
her way including very credible
allegations of sexual assault
a partisan temper tantrum and obvious
documented lie under oath before the
Senate on multiple occasions yeah I mean
if you go back and look at every
statement that Susan Collins has made
since the moment that Brett Kavanaugh
was nominated it is hard to find any
hint that she might have opposed his
nomination and that's not true by the
way with Lisa Murkowski statements Lisa
Murkowski generally kept her own counsel
during this and didn't make too many
statements but you could sort of tell
that Murkowski could like I always
thought that the most likely knows in
order were Murkowski and then flake
because who knows what flake might do
sometimes and then Collins and that's
not because I thought Jeff Flake was
gonna end up being some hero it's just
because Collins just everything she said
seemed like she wanted to get to yes and
look I I read her speech last night I
didn't see it
when she delivered it but I sort of read
it last night as we were preparing for
the pod I mean there's a case to be made
that she genuinely believes in her own
mind that he won't overturn roe v wade
that he is this model of judicial
temperament or whatever like she might
have convinced herself of that I don't
know but when you read that speech she
started the speech by attacking
Democrats for opposing Kavanagh when he
was announced like the whole beginning
of the speech was just an attack on
Democrats was incredibly partisan
especially for Susan Collins she also
talked about how she's always voted for
Supreme Court nominees whether they're
liberal or conservative and she did vote
for Roberts Alito Sotomayor Kagan
Gorsuch so she does have this record of
voting for Supreme Court nominees no
matter which party or no one you know no
matter who they're nominated by what the
president's party is the exception of
course is she didn't do much when
 Mitch McConnell wouldn't give
Merrick garland to hearing shouldn't do
anything I would love to be there with
Susan Collins hears about this whole
Americana thing because she seems to
have either been asleep during it or
have conveniently forgotten about it
because it was it is the context for all
of this and she conclude the ignored it
completely ignored it
which you know McConnell
when he did the garland thing part of
that was giving some of his members
cover like Collins to not have to face
what an awful thing he did because he's
like it I'll take the rap for this
I'm the majority leader I'm the one who
has all the power to not give Merrick
garland a hearing and you can all say
whatever you want that's what you do
with power and then also and this is
important she didn't really say this in
her speech so much but she said this on
CNN that she that she doesn't believe
she believes that dr. Christine Blasi
Ford was attacked sexually assaulted she
doesn't believe it was Brett Kavanaugh
so she believes Susan Collins believes a
theory that was almost universally
condemned as a crazy conspiracy when it
was floated by Ed Whelan Brett
Cavanaugh's friend who used to be at the
center on ethics and public policy
whatever the it was called the
conspiracy theory that when dr.
Christine Blasi Ford said that she was a
hundred percent certain that it was
Brett Kavanaugh who attacked her she was
just suffering from a case of mistaken
identity and it was actually someone who
looked like Brett Kavanaugh that's what
Susan Collins believes to be true she
didn't say I actually don't know who's
telling the truth and who's lying she
didn't say that no no she went with the
conspiracy theory about the Cavanaugh
doppelganger
so yeah I'm I'm pretty sure she was
already in the yes camp this is an
important point because you sort of have
to call on what is happening
here which is put aside Trump and the in
the sort of the far-right Magga heads
but what mainstream Republicans do
extent that that the terminal exists
want to do is have it both ways they
want to claim to be people who in the me
to era believe victims but in Congress
team forward credible but they also want
they want to be able to say that and
then also vote is this she was lying
because it is one or the other if you
say she is credible then you have to to
believe that she is correct when she
says that she's one percent certain that
Brent Cavanaugh attacked her and you
can't have it both ways and people
in susan house is trying to get away
with that yeah and it's just it's
ridiculous
it's the fights you know she might as
well have pulled out her Zillow maps now
I think I think two of the most
politically difficult no votes were from
Lisa Murkowski and from North Dakota's
Heidi Heitkamp who is the only 2018
Senate Democrat who's actually trailing
in the polls right now what did you
think about why they made the decisions
they did these two women and what did
you think about their reasoning you a
Republican a Democrat those who did the
right thing without regard to political
consequences Heidi Heitkamp took a huge
risk she could have gone to joe Manchin
route and just voted yes when the when
it wouldn't have affected the outcome
and she didn't do that and Lisa
Murkowski just stood up against a lot of
pressure from McConnell and Trump and
everyone else and did the right thing
and we should applaud that yeah oh
absolutely and you know especially
Heitkamp - I mean Murkowski ZUP in in
2022 she is sort of used to pissing off
her party a little bit right she and
we've talked about this before but she
won her last race with a write-in
campaign because of further right
Republican won the Republican nomination
and and Murkowski still won just with
the write-in campaign which is pretty
incredible so she has somewhat of a
track record of doing this Heidi
Heitkamp I have to say she is not in the
past been known to make very politically
tough decisions and votes being in deep
deep read North Dakota a state that
Trump won by what 36 points 40 points
someone will correct me it's a
line and she's up she's in the race of
her life she only won her last race by a
couple tenths of a point and now she's
in this race and she's trailing in the
polls and every consultant every poll
probably told her you know the smart
thing to do is just vote YES on this and
and move on she could have done with
like you said she could done with Joe
Manchin that she could have waited to
see how Collins voted realized that the
nomination
going through anyway and said it
I'm just gonna vote yes cuz it's gonna
be political easy and she didn't and
that is something that is something very
admirable and something very rare in
politics I also thought it was
interesting how high camps reasoning and
Murkowski is reasoning both sorted
centered around the inability of
Cavanaugh to serve as an impartial
justice on the court and it went to his
temperament in the hearings Heitkamp
said in addition to the concerns about
his past conduct last Thursday's hearing
called into question judge Cavanaugh's
temperament honesty and impartiality and
she later said on 60 minutes quote I saw
a level of anger and combativeness that
I thought was not something that would
qualify you to sit on the Supreme Court
similarly Murkowski said quote I have a
very high standard
this judiciary must be perceived as
independent as nonpartisan as fair and
balanced and in my conscience I could
not conclude the Kavanagh is the right
person for the court at this time so I
think it's interesting sort of as a
almost a road not taken' for Democrats
and we can talk about that later that
you know while the issue of the sexual
assault allegations became incredibly
divisive there was a way for red state
Democrats and Republicans in purple
states like Markowski and to look at the
situation and say whatever you believe
about what happened 35 years ago this
man has proven over the last couple
weeks that he is not fit to sit on the
court because he has threatened partisan
revenge against Democrats and said that
they made up this whole thing to attack
him like you know I just I think that
was an interesting set of reasons I
think you and I should it's important to
point out that we have been making the
argument for months that voting against
Kavanagh is actually the best politics
mmm matter what state you're in for a
Democrat whether you're in a red state a
blue state or a purple state and I think
that it's still the case for Heitkamp
but it is a very close call for sure and
so and she did this against the advice
of a lot of people and we should applaud
her for it and it reminds me of
when we were in the White House back in
2010 and the Affordable Care Act vote
was coming up and there were a lot of a
lot of Democrats in pretty red districts
who had a choice to make and they were
they were being told by a lot of
political consultants and reporters that
if they voted for the Affordable Care
Act they would lose can they vote did
the right thing because they knew they
might lose anyway
and if you're gonna lose you might as
well be able to look for something
endearing for the rest of time I think
hi Heidi head can't did that and we
should applaud her and we should help
her because she still has a shot to win
this thing it would be a 1 she should be
rewarded for doing the right thing in
two it would be an important political
less of the Democrats coming forward but
if she can win this race that there is
value in doing the right thing at the
police political explain anything trying
to win the argument is supposed to avoid
the argument what you too often resonate
Democrats try to do and I will say too
when you look back at that Affordable
Care Act vote a lot of people who took a
vote for the Affordable Care Act did end
up losing some Democrats but some
Democrats who voted against the
Affordable Care Act in the house some of
the Blue Dogs they lost to there was it
wasn't it wasn't necessarily true that
it you know the politics of voting
forward or against it weren't
necessarily clear in the context of an
overall way of election where Democrats
got crushed is that right the and you're
in a similar situation here where were
there no Kavanagh more there no Kavanagh
controversy Heidi Heitkamp would be
favored to lose that race right just
because it's North Dakota and she won in
a presidential election year where
Democrats tend to do better and so now
she and we're in a midterm and it's
North Dakota day and states like North
Dakota have become even more polarized
in the Trump era because it's a pretty
homogeneously white state and so she
might have lost anyway so you just don't
know yeah what we don't we don't know
what would have happened here either way
and so you got to just do the right
thing because you win the day after
election win or lose and you should feel
good about your time in office yeah
now let's turn to two Democratic Senate
candidates who ultimately supported
Cavanaugh's nomination West Virginia
senator
mansion and Tennessee's Phil Bredesen
mansion said that he had reservations
about his vote because of the
accusations and because of Cavanaugh's
temperament but found him to be a
qualified jurist that was a quote as for
bredesen he said that the allegations
against Cavanaugh quote didn't rise to
the level of being disqualifying ah dan
why do you think they voted this way
well I think in some cases we look at
red state Democrats and we presume and
I've worked for it a lot of residents
that they are true progressives who were
they in bluer States would feel more
comfortable being progressive right they
kind of sand the edges down they make a
bargain with themselves to get by in
these red states you're gonna have to do
a couple things you don't really like or
not or not do something's you want to do
in order to continue to be in the Senate
and give them ensure the Democrats
control the Senate is the most important
vote that any House or Senate member
makes is for the leader right yeah and
whether Nancy Pelosi or Chuck Schumer
have the gavel I don't think joe Manchin
is one of those secret closet
progressives who were you know were
there to be an influx of hipster
Millennials from Williamsburg Brooklyn
who moved into West Virginia he would
all of a sudden become Bernie Sanders
might I don't think that is I think that
this is who Joe Manchin is yes what do
you think about living just in it I
don't know I mean he Phil Bredesen was
when he was governor was very similar as
I mentioned and maybe and I don't even
know that it's it I think that there is
a I don't know enough to know whether
whether they like what their views are
on Brett Kavanaugh specifically but I
think they simply do a little from
column a a little from column B when it
comes to politics well then we call them
red little from column one and this is
something from the column right that
they think will give them permission and
do something around the Affordable Care
Act because that's the thing about your
mansion is he has had many opportunities
even before the formal Care Act was
implemented
to torpedo a and he has refused to do
that and now he may have sort of done
that under the table by giving his vote
to someone who will likely rule against
the formal character in court but Soviet
and so we you know it's it's really I
don't really know what to do I'm really
torn about this because I if you can't
stand up on the most important thing
possible by guys I pointed out you the
other day but I did a little math and my
daughter's four months old and if Brett
Kavanaugh served on the court until he
was Ruth Bader Ginsburg's age my
daughter would be 32 and so if you can't
stand up on an issue like this what's
the good of having in the party but if
we don't have your mansion and Phil
Bredesen we don't have a majority and
it's just Mitch McConnell for the rest
of our lives right I do I do think that
I mean we can talk about whether this
was good politics for them in their
states I think we don't know for sure
but if they thought that voting YES
would endear them to Republicans in any
way at least joe Manchin then got a
surprise when Donald Trump jr.
the the brilliant Donald Trump jr.
tweeted a real Profile in Courage from
lyin liberal Joe Manchin waited until
Cavanaugh had enough votes secured
before he announced his support I bet he
had another press release ready to go if
Collins went the other way
West Virginia vote for Maggie champion
champion Patrick Morrissey
Patrick right yeah so that was I mean
which just really illustrates the point
that we have made on all of these tough
votes if in fact Democrats are taking
votes with Trump or with Republicans in
order to show that their bipartisan are
somehow stave off Republican attack ads
on that particular issue they're fooling
themselves because the Republican attack
ads are going to come no matter what
yeah
and this is always matured this is not
something new in the Trump era where I
mean you look at all the Democrats who
voted for the Iraq war you know in part
to avoid being attacked as soft on
terrorism and then
Bush compared them to the bush of the
Republic there have been a lot in the
net and we have like I can't say this
enough you cannot avoid a political
argument you have to learn how to win a
political argument and if you think like
you said if you think voting for
Cavanaugh was going to mean they're not
going to attack you this obstructionist
then you are as been asleep for the last
thirty years in politics and maybe can't
maybe mansion president thought this was
the right thing to do I don't know
I'm disappointed in it and I wish we
lived in an American wisdom world in
which Senate power was allocating the
way in which we didn't depend on people
consult some compulsion of both for
people like Brett Kavanaugh until my
time with Supreme Court yeah I mean so
back to your question like what should
Democrats do about this during the past
several days too significant liberal
super PACs move on and Priorities USA
announced they would no longer be
supporting mansion and Bredesen was that
a good move I'm really I've been
wrestling with this decision I remember
some of this question four days now and
I just we need to win those Senate races
we do yeah I like I think I think I
understand why guys who sold ahead of
priorities did what he did and I think a
lot of his donors probably feel that way
just like we are liberal progressives we
wrote big checks to this organization
and we don't want our checks to go to
support people who put bread cabin on
the court I think that is a fair thing
do that maybe donor pressure I think was
a courageous move to do that and I might
have done the same thing that position
but I've kind of put myself in the
position of if I was a West Virginia
voter Yeah right
and so I progressive law of Richard
Nevada hate Trump hate Mitch McConnell
hate Brett Kavanaugh and I'm going on
the polls in 30-some days and what do I
do
and I think the answer is and it's
painful did you gotta vote for Joe
Manchin yeah oh look and then next time
we got thinking about whether maybe
someone should primary yes and maybe
maybe you never get that seat again but
I just don't know
there is an element of cutting off our
nose to spite our face to have
sentiments as your mansion it's no
bredesen and Mitch McConnell has a
Senate and we are it has the set is in
control the Senate for another two years
and he continued to run the courts with
having all lights and that isn't that a
problematic but none of this is fun it's
not locally it is a bunch of heart calls
I I've thought about this too a lot I'm
not thrilled with either of them I think
they were morally wrong and politically
stupid votes and I also think that since
everyone involved in this election has
limited time and limited resources if
you want to donate your time and your
money to other campaigns I wouldn't
blame you I don't know if I'd feel like
working or volunteering for either of
these guys in the next 30 days but I'd
certainly vote for them if I was in
those states I want them in the Senate
next year they I mean bredesen and
Manchin would vote to keep the
Affordable Care Act they're Republican
opponents if they win could be the
deciding votes to dismantle it 20
million people will lose their health
insurance lose protections for
pre-existing conditions millions more
that will happen if there are two
Republicans in those seats in 2019
instead of a Democratic majority that
will happen they're Republican opponents
would also build Trump's wall oppose the
DREAM Act background checks raising the
minimum wage Marsha Blackburn Phil
Bredesen this opponent believes
businesses should be able to withhold
services to same-sex couples
and mansion and bredesen are on the
other side of all those issues I just
mentioned they're on the right side of
even though they were on the very wrong
side of the Kavanagh issues and like
like you said we are talking about a
razor thin margin in the Senate where
one race could mean the difference
between Trump being able to appoint
another Supreme Court justice or not and
so it's and in terms of whether they
should be there or not in the Senate it
is not hard for me because like they
didn't they took a horrible horrible
vote but it is very real that they're
two Republican opponents
marsha blackburn and patrick Morrissey
could go to the Senate and be deciding
votes to take all kinds of protections
and benefits away from a lot of people
in this country and cause a lot of
people pain and we just can't do that we
just can't let that happen you know and
like I said I'm with you and like
because yes we have a we have a Senate
problem and if you look at the because
of the if you would since California and
Wyoming have the same amount of power in
the Senate if you just look at the
states that Obama won in 2012 and you
gave the Democrats both senators in
those seats they even only get to 52 and
that includes Florida Wisconsin Ohio
Pennsylvania Iowa and Michigan States
and Hillary Clinton lost and so there
Arnold what they're some Susan Collins
without their there the Arizona seats
there are a couple of seats that are
then sort of are in pretty blue or
purple train purple blueish states but
that's it most public ins are on Rock
red states and so to get to the numbers
we need we're going to have to have some
Democrats it is for red states whether a
tight camp or mansion or bredda someone
else and until Texas becomes totally
glue in that we can dominate politics
for a generation look and this is any
you know I talked about this in the
wilderness a lot like this is this is
the main reason that Barack Obama was
not able to pass even more progressive
legislation during his tenure it's not
because he got to the White House and
was like oh all I want to do is
compromise with Republicans or I'm not
gonna be as liberal as I said I was
going to be no he faced a Democratic
Senate that was first of all barely
democratic we only had a few seats
margin and for a little only for a
couple months
- also and he was working with people
who were senators in red states who were
very conservative more than we have now
we have a more Liberal caucus now in the
Senate but back then we had much more
conservative senators we have to deal
with these people all the time including
 Joe Lieberman and a lot of P and
a lot of Democrats from these you know
mountain plain states so it's it's
it's a tough reality but it is a reality
and I do think like you said I'm all for
now having some good progressive primary
challenger for Joe Manchin and Phil
Bredesen if he gets the seat because I
do think and and I think this is part of
why priorities and move on decided what
they did is we got to get to the point
where some of these senators in red
states these Democratic senators should
fear what happens when the base and
liberals decide to walk away from them
just as much as they fear what happens
when the more moderate and conservative
voters walk away from them so they have
to I mean this is just politics right
like they have to there has to be a
balance between which constituents they
fear the most that's how politics works
and so I do think it's good if once in a
while you know a super PAC like that
says hey you're gonna vote like this
we're not gonna be there for you or we
have a primary challenger that may be
that primary challenger doesn't beat
them but at least makes them move to the
left or a little bit I think that's a
good thing but as of right now when
we're three days out from an election
we're control of the Senate's at stake
and we could be witnessing the end of
the Affordable Care Act and health
insurance for millions of people next
year yeah we should vote for them and
now and I will say too it's not I mean
you mentioned all the states that Obama
won like it's not just like Joe Manchin
and Phil Bredesen in West Virginia and
Tennessee states that a Democrat is
probably not gonna win in a presidential
contest anytime soon but you know we
should be mad that Democrats didn't win
Pat Twomey seat in Pennsylvania in 2016
we should have a Democrat in pet in Pat
Toomey seat we should have a Democrat in
Cory Gardner seat in Colorado that is a
purple state Dean Heller see Jackie
Rosen should win in Nevada that's a
purple state that Hillary won Ron
Johnson seat in Wisconsin we should be
mad that Russ Feingold didn't win
in Wisconsin in 2016 we should have a
Democrat in the Wisconsin see Rob
Portman seat in Ohio like there are a
number of seats where Republicans are
holding them right now in purple states
or even blue states the Democrats should
take back and you know we have a tough
Senate map this year but at least in
2020 and 22 right yeah I mean there
seems to be had but we're gonna be on
the razor's edge for all the time they
just have a lot more safe seats than we
yeah that's why DC and Puerto Rico we
should make them states don't like
that's right little cheer for Michael
Martinez here DC resident so do you
think there was anything that Democrats
could have done differently to produce a
different outcome here no yeah I mean
obviously there are things the Democrats
could have done better but it's all on
the Martians that's what I think too you
know we we railed at the Senate about
fighting care and they fought and Chuck
Schumer held this caucus together until
the very healed everyone but joe Manchin
and he held it even even mentioned he
held them one of our big fears was that
there would be a parade of red state
Democrats who would come out early and
say they would vote for Cavanaugh and
take the pressure off of Collins
Murkowski flake they didn't do that I
mean even Manchin who I don't who
doesn't really listen to Senate
leadership like section or doesn't
control Joe Manchin waited until after
the outcome is no longer in depth and I
was gonna say look we should just say
that right like there's I think if Susan
Collins voted no on this nomination
there is no way that joe Manchin would
have been the deciding vote in favor of
Brett Kavanaugh right yeah I mean it
seemed very obvious that he was just
waiting to see what she did and then
taking I mean Joe Manchin did the most
political thing of anyone here where
she's he just littered like he wasn't
gonna be the deciding vote in favor or
against he just wanted to wait and see
what Susan Collins did so he could take
a freebie it was like one of when
senators send out their reaction to the
City Union before the president gives
the remarks just based on the excerpts
the wrong evening this is like dud
yeah it's Donald Trump was probably
right he put down shop juniors all right
he probably had two versions of the
threshold is sure and that just sort of
who Joe Manchin is but yet or for worse
but look I mean it's for worst thing I
thought about what Democrats could have
done differently to and I went through
the whole hearing I went through all of
this and you know I do think that during
the hearing when Cavanaugh
to fight for the second time and dr.
Christine Blasi for did I did think to
myself that when he went off like a
lunatic and started talking about the
revenge on behalf of the Clintons and
what goes around comes around there
could have been a moment where a
Democratic senator just kind of threw
away their prepared questions and said
what did you just do you're about to sit
on the highest court in the land and
supposed to be impartial you said that
it's so important for judges to be
independent and to be nonpartisan and
you just threatened an entire political
party in front of the whole world like
if you could have been an interesting
moment where the Democrats took it to
that but again even when you go back and
say what could the Democrats could have
done differently the question is what
could they have done to change
Susan Collins's mind because she was the
only one that was possibly going to vote
no on this nomination and when you look
at Susan Collins's reason it that she
believes that it was a case of mistaken
identity that she liked Kavanagh from
the beginning thought he was qualified
that she didn't think he would overturn
roe v wade I mean she met with victims
of sexual assaults there were protesters
there were her Democratic colleagues
trying to convince her Republican Lisa
Murkowski her good friend voted against
it she couldn't convince her like I
don't know what Democrats could have
done differently to change Susan Collins
his mind which is what we're talking
about when we say what could Democrats
have done differently like he you look
back at that at the hearing in right
maybe there's a world in which Democrats
and he were less of there five minutes
making statements and more there five
minutes asking or they coordinate better
and what the questions are gonna be but
there was never gonna be like a moment
from a few good men where Brooke
Cavanaugh was just who if you look at
the code read like that just wasn't
going to happen and this all comes down
to the fundamental problem with politics
in America right now and why we need to
chase it the 2018 is the fate of the
Republic depends on the good faith of a
handful of Republicans and when that is
the case we are in deep deep trouble
yeah there's never heed Emma Kratt can
do everything right and we still lose
and that's
and it's it's it's a it's a matter of we
don't have power we have no more power
today than we did on the day that Donald
Trump was elected at least in Congress
so I realize it's like incredibly
frustrating a Democrats lost or
Republicans won because everything is
viewed through the prism of winning or
losing but it's all about power dynamics
here Mitch McConnell has all the power
as long as he keeps his caucus together
and if you wanna criticize I'm all for
criticizing Democrats when they
things up if you want to criticize
Democrats wait till Democrats are in
power and do stupid things and could
have made different choices because they
have power and they decided to go one
way or the other
that's when we should criticize
Democrats they have no power they did
what they needed to do which is what
they all held together they fought the
nomination and they all voted no we just
didn't have the votes we just didn't
have the votes that's right I didn't get
so important because you saw all these
exhausting pieces that were like how
Democrats got eight out late on Kavanagh
how trumpet how Trump won you know all
of this no Dan no I didn't I didn't read
those pieces this weekend I I was so I I
was so angry I knew it was coming I was
like not reading the Axios
headline not reading this John Harris
piece in Politico not watching the
sunday shows because I knew exactly what
they were all gonna say you just they
can't help God love them they can't help
themselves they can't help themselves
everything is viewed through the prism
of winning or losing we could be in the
second term Trump could be rounding up
people with his secret police and if he
rounded up enough people they'd say big
win for Trump this week rounded up a
whole bunch of people Democrats didn't
do anything that's how they do it I'm
just that's the way they do it I know
that I actually wrote the outline on
most of that went on Saturday afternoon
and I had a section in there we were
going to go where we were going to go
through the tick-tock pieces for the
most annoying parts and then I saw your
tweet about how declaring you were going
to read them I didn't believe me
either but but I deleted from the
outline thank you I read a whole bunch
of news this week I wrote I read a
couple of takes on Kavanagh to but I was
not going to do the tick-tock from the
Beltway crew all right question where do
we go from here when it comes to the
Supreme Court some have called on
Democrats to continue investigating
Cavanaugh if we win the house some have
called on Democrats to impeach Cavanaugh
and some have called for expanding the
court to 11 seats if Democrats take
power love it and Tommy and I talked
about this a little bit a couple pods
ago but what are your thoughts on this I
think I feel about impeaching Cavanaugh
like I sort of feel about impeaching
Trump it would be great if we could do
it no what I mean is that's the gate
first in impeach second and it seems
pretty clear that the investigation done
by the FBI was cursory at best in that
and that is based and partly from some
of the limits that they allowed the
White House to put on them and it just
seems impossible imagine that you could
investigate a claim of two competing
versions of what happened an interview
neither of the people who were putting
forward those versions and so I think
you would if the Democrats have the
house or the Senate I think the charrids
did you shared committee should
investigate
I think they should subpoena the
documents from the investigation I think
they should subpoena correspondence
between Don began and a I'm sorry fishs
between of course I was treating Don
began and Christopher Ray a federal
Society bro of Brett cabinets
I think they should subpoena
correspondence between Ron Rosenstein
and Christopher ray another federal
Society bro Brett Cavanaugh's and get
the bond maybe nothing untoward happen
here but let's find out let's find out
there's more information to be have
let's investigate the things the FBI
decided not to investigate and let's get
to the bottom and maybe it will make no
difference in the world
it's the right thing to do and I think
the White House and the FBI should also
know that their checks and balances are
finally here and will be there will be
oversight yeah and I don't want this to
be
some Benghazi's circus where the
Republicans drag this on for years and
years purely for politics which they
admitted and made up all kinds of
conspiracy theories around what was a
very serious incident but I just want to
know the truth I think it's important to
know the truth I think I think we owe
that to dr. Christine Blasi forward I
think we owe that to Deborah Ramirez I
think we owe that to all the women who
have come forward on this like I think I
want to know the truth about what
happened and if it doesn't lead to
anywhere that's politically advantageous
for Democrats I don't care I would just
like to know what do you think about
expanding the court to 11 seats I don't
know it's just it's like sure why not
and then we'll expand it to 11 and the
long strands of 13 and eventually there
will be more members of scream courts
and Congress I don't know what it
accomplishes I think the thing that
Democrats need to do is there is an
element of justice as relates to Merrick
garland and so there is a if there is
another Supreme Court vacancy than it
should be held open it I don't care if
it's held open for six years
I really don't yeah and I think that
that is where we need to so in the short
term that's what we need to do like if
you understand it's 11 fine I actually
think I mean just maybe the Supreme
Court should be 10 people not not 9 and
if you have a tide it's probably too
controversial thing to change the law I
don't know if I don't just know what it
does I don't really know what it
accomplishes I'm much more interested in
focusing our energy around winning
elections
yeah the Senate and the White House so
that we can put people on the court I am
I am open to it I'm still willing to
hear arguments on both sides of it only
because work for one reason I think it's
easier to do than impeaching Brett
Kavanaugh impeaching him you'd need 67
votes in the Senate which we're never
going to get as we just talked about the
Senate thing unless unless you know
something comes out that is definitive
right and even then who knows but you
know you could pass
just pass a bill in the house in the
senate sign it by a democratic president
suddenly you have two extra seats I
think it's I think it's important
because we are getting to the point with
this 5-4 majority and again we have five
four conservative majority Clarence
Thomas is in his early 70s he is the
next conservative that might retire that
would retire because he's the oldest
conservator on the bench that is still a
long time when you think that Ruth Bader
Ginsburg is 85 years old that could be
15 years of a 5-4 conservative majority
and that's that's in the best case if
you know Clarence Thomas retires at 85
or something like that so that's a long
 time and the next Democratic
president and the next Democratic
Congress they pass a slew of progressive
legislation you can be sure that the 5-4
majority that's conservative which
includes a couple of real partisan hacks
in both Brett Kavanaugh and Clarence
Thomas are going to strike the strike
those pieces of legislation down and
we're not gonna have progressive
governance in this country for a long
long time and the fact that one of those
seats Gorsuch his seat was basically
stolen and the second seat Cavanaugh see
you can argue was illegitimate because
they jammed in a partisan who had been
accused of sexual assault
I think there's a good I think there's a
good argument for adding a couple seats
I don't know yeah you're right that
you're right that Republicans would
retaliate I mean that that's my fear too
is that next Republican president then
then that person adds two seats to but I
also think you know we're sitting here
Republicans probably gonna add seats any
Republicans did change the makeup of the
court at the end of the Obama
administration they kept it to eight
people for a year so there is no magic
number anyway yeah I mean I know I know
people that's crazy the end of the
market institution is blah blah blah the
other idea I heard was Matt Iglesias for
Vox said instead of expanding the court
to 11 why don't you reduce it to 7 which
you can do by passing a law oh you have
a so the law would say last in first out
by by girth Nishimura Kavanagh we're
down to 7 it seems great
that's even better let's do it the next
Democrat they're in the next demo cata
quality report whenever that it Todd
will aim at it soon should be in their
30s they should be a thirty year old who
recently ran a marathon it is vegan why
I want that LC you young person
we possibly happen to serve sixty years
on the court Danielle gray for Supreme
Court justice how about that done it's
starting the campaign now okay let's
talk about where all this leaves us one
month from the midterms where we are
right now Republicans are telling
everybody that the Cavanaugh fight has
fired up its base especially in the
Senate races also I saw Greg Sargent at
the Washington Post out with the piece
this morning that said you know a
democratic strategist did tell him that
they saw this fire up some Republicans
and even Republican Women and some of
these red states even if it even though
it was also hurting them in the House
race so and thanks to a few tightening
Senate polls basically the Washington
media is entertaining this narrative
about a new Republican advantage at
least in the Senate Republicans are also
telling everybody that the reason their
base is so fired up is because a good
man's reputation was destroyed by an
angry left-wing mob of professional
protesters funded by George Soros Trump
himself said during a rally this weekend
quote you don't hand matches to an
arsonist and you don't give power to an
angry left-wing mob Mitch McConnell also
used the mob language when he talked to
the Washington Post said the opposition
to Cavanaugh was a political gift to
Republicans and that his caucus quotes
stood up to a mob dan what do you think
about this new narrative and and the
Democrats overplay their hand in any way
which is the question that everyone's
 asking in Washington Oh
Democrats decide that they were not
going to ignore an allegation of sexual
assault against someone speeding towards
a lifetime appointment on Supreme Court
what like what is the other
option I mean what were we supposed to
do they say Anna just move on vote wall
go forearm it's like it is it is like
you have
if there was no other option this was
the right thing to do it was the only
thing to do and it frankly was the
politically right thing to do even
though I don't think that's why
Democrats did it is because to ignore
this and allow this to push forward
without doing the there Senate duty to
ask questions and have a hearing on it
would have been a also would have been a
political little political suicide I
don't know I don't know what Democrats
were supposed to do and is this the new
narrative or this mini reality
definitely new narrative this is new
reality who the knows I have no
idea you know what I don't know I also
don't care yeah it doesn't matter why
like this is a forecast for what's going
to happen in 30 days right it is saying
that because this happened today the
outcome in 30 days we're different we
have 30 days to decide which narrative
is right is it a blue wave is it the
right way Kavanaugh momentum Kevin all
surge over they call it isn't something
else like that's that is something for
everyone listening and all of us to
decide but it's going to happen that is
our choice it's the question turnout
enthusiasm volunteering campaigning hard
it's all of those things and like
elections are decided by what's written
in clinica and you and you know it was
30 days ago the anonymous op-ed I mean
there are so many news cycles and so
many narratives left between now and the
election it is head spinning but look I
mean do you think this new we don't know
if it will work but gee why do you think
Republicans are going with this new
narrative where they're sort of moving
on from they want to drag this out as
long as possible right so now it's like
moving from just about Kavanagh and this
poor man whose life was ruined now who
has a Supreme Court seat for life quite
a quite a ruined life now it's moving
from that to the angry left-wing mob and
we saw this narrative you know back
during the the Great Red Hen incident of
2018 you know we're back back to the
civility civility narrative where
Republicans are going to go around and
pick out the angriest
you know protestors on the left whoever
does something crazy on the left they're
gonna find that person and say okay this
person represents all of the Democrats
now and all the left and they're
basically going full Nixon and in 68
right there's all these kind of rabble
rousers and mobs out there and the
Republican Party the Republican Party is
the party of law and order the party
where the president the United States
has been implicated in two federal
crimes has possibly committed tax fraud
and his campaign manager national
security adviser and a host of other
aides have pled guilty to crimes and
also two congressmen two congressmen
indicted Republican congressman party of
law and order yeah yeah this is
incredible to me but who knows who knows
they are they're doing this because fear
is what motivates their voters really
that's what they believe motivate
suppose you're immigrants fear of black
lives matter fear of Colin Kaepernick
kneeling fear of ms-13 and now it's fear
of liberal mobs whatever that means and
I think that they're looking for their
service self-fulfilling prophecy here
which is you tell people that the base
is fired up and the basically pull more
fired up and yeah they're doing that
yeah I just I'm sure like there is a I'm
sure that the Republicans are more far
now this is something for them to rally
around it is as we've talked about
before the nomination of our cabin hall
is something that hardcore Trump voters
and soft Trump voters can unify around
because they care about conservative
governance on the court it's just like
this is anything on the tax cut right
everyone even the people who do not like
Trump or begrudgingly vote for Trump
find something they can get together and
everyone gets to feel like they're part
of their weird fucked-up party together
right it's like it's like the good old
days again and so I'm sure I'm sure
that's happening well that's insane it's
off for 30 days who knows
probably not it could we don't know well
for Democrats how do you think Democrats
to wrestle back the narrative to issues
and fights that are more favorable to us
or not just more favorable to us because
our base is pretty fired up too but
obviously we know there are these well
we've got non voters who are wondering
you know should I go to the polls will
it make a difference I don't usually
vote we've got some of these Obama Trump
voters out there who've gone both ways
we've got some of these Romney Clinton
voters out there for those people who
are trying to figure out you know which
party to vote for how do we sort of for
those undecided voters out there how do
we rest wrestle back the narrative I
think one we I know I know I know the
spirit of what you intended this
question but I wouldn't worry about the
naree oh yeah there was not a real the
narrative not a real thing
there's something you and I talked about
it's something to people who get
political play blog political political
playbook or acting ocm and our inboxes
who watch cable all day long it's like
that sweet thing right there there is
not it's not a real thing if the
narrative was a real thing Hillary
Clinton would be president because they
never give what sort of Clinton's going
to win so yeah don't worry about the
narrative I think we have to continue to
do what we have been doing and I think
don't avoid you know you hear we you
know you're getting we're getting like
petted by centrist Democrats saying
Democrats should avoid cultural fights
we lose cultural plates get back to the
economy here yes yes we should do all
those things but you don't get to decide
and what you like we can't we don't get
to ignore cultural fight either you have
to win them and pivot back to the issues
that are best for us and so we have used
Cavanaugh as a motivating factor for why
Senate control matters use it for why
elections matter and try to channel some
of the anger people have it and into
more volunteers more canvas there's more
fun bankers we just we have to deal with
it there's not a world in which we're
like oh Cavanaugh is over we're gonna
knock the you know knock the dirt off
our jerseys and we're gonna get up and
we're gonna get right back to wage
stagnation like it doesn't really work
that way we have to make a we have to
deal with it and give it back to our
issues yeah I mean I do think if I was
advising you're right about the
narrative if I was advising
Democratic candidates Democratic
campaigns people like us on the Left who
sort of talk about politics for a living
this election has to be about very big
things we have to make it about very big
things if this election turns on whether
Brett Kavanaugh was victimized or not or
whether the angry left-wing mobs are
scary or not then I don't think we do as
well as if we make this election about
very big issues that will affect the
lives of millions of people if the
Republicans win if if they win Congress
it will be the end of the Affordable
Care Act people 20 million people will
lose health insurance in this country we
just saw a story last night break
because the UN climate report was
released saying that now if we do not
move heaven and earth basically to
reduce warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius
within the decade by 2040 there will be
a global crisis of people sort of
fleeing the tropics mass migration you
think the refugee crisis out of Syria is
bad what do you see in 2040 when the
planet heats up and people aren't living
in the tropics anymore I mean these are
you talked about your daughter like our
kids will be in college when this is
happening when the UN now and all the
countries in the world say that the
world is going to be facing serious
serious humanitarian crisis by 2040 if
we don't act and we have one party in
this country which is the last political
party on earth that doesn't even believe
that climate change is real there are
very big issues at stake in this
election and if Republicans want to
 talk about mobs and protesters
and poor Brett Kavanaugh we should let
them do that and we should talk about
the big issues that actually
matter to people
that is very well said and if you want
to think about election smatterings is
we we have the clock is ticking and we
have pissed away two years we were
making progress on this issue not fast
enough we were making progress yeah and
we took a gigantic step back is we
elected a man who believes climate
change is a Chinese ho
and a party of people who ignore science
because the Koch brothers pay them to
ignore science and that's what matters
we don't have time to around here
we have to get people in office who take
things seriously and the Republicans are
not a serious party they're not they
there is whatever else their views on
tax reform or health care the size of
government that's all fine that's a
philosophical debate but when you ignore
science that everyone knows to be true
in order to get money from the Koch
brothers at the risk of the planet in
our children's future then you are not
you're not a political party you're not
a serious institution you're you're
basically coal
they're dangerous dangerous yeah it is
it is a colle turn around Donald Trump
and the Koch brothers money and nothing
else yeah we're all paying a huge price
for it and look and let them let them go
out there and crow about the economy and
they can talk about the headlines and
financial press and the stock market and
we should talk about how wages have
barely moved and health care costs are
rising and most students in this country
are drowning in debt right now and that
Republicans if they take Congress back
they're ready to pass another tax cut
for super-rich people so they can
continue to cut education and Medicare
and Medicaid and all the rest of it I
mean this is this is what we should end
look we do it stuff because I'm sure
campaigns are running these ads
candidates are talking about this on the
ground
it does help when there is news hooks
nationally for these issues and I do
think we have to be looking for
opportunities to talk about some of this
stuff I mean there's an ACA lawsuit in
Texas where a court in Texas could rule
that the Affordable Care Act is
unconstitutional as early as this week
we Democrats should be all over that
talking about health care things like
this UN climate report I mean they're
going to be opportunity you know
insurance companies that are sending out
all kinds of notices about premiums for
next year so look there are going to be
opportunities that we just need to look
out for to talk about issues that
actually affect most people's lives in
this country and not get in battles with
right-wing Twitter Twitter trolls about
you know whether someone's a
left-wing mob or not that's very not
very constructive yeah are you saying
here are you saying to our audience that
there is a pilot which getting into a
Twitter battle it's not constructive
believe it or not that is what I'm
saying me but in this one very specific
case yeah for the next probably not to
get you here time for the next 30 days
maybe maybe not so much and look I have
to say - we were Tommy and I went down
and we visited Katie Porter's field
office one of her field offices on
Friday and we were there right while
Susan Collins was giving her speech so I
don't even know what was happening
except I was getting all these texts
from my wife with a lot of four-letter
words so I knew it wasn't good but
talking all these volunteers and I was
asking them like you know what are you
guys hearing has everything going and
they were like look this is only
anecdotal but we've had Republican this
is Orange County we've had Republican
Women coming in over the last couple
days to our office saying I'm done with
the party
I'm um you know I want to help a
Democrat win we need to change stuff and
they were like they felt good they were
inspiring and it just reminded me of and
you know we always knew this when we
were on campaigns and we were like stuck
in headquarters looking at news all day
versus being out in the field when you
go out to canvass when you go out to a
field office and you volunteer you
realize that the energy on the ground is
so much better and inspiring and more
optimistic than if you are just sort of
scrolling through news all day and so
it's just yet another reason why
everyone should go out and volunteer and
get involved in these last 30 days
because it will make you feel better and
it will actually make a difference in
the outcome of the election yeah alright
that's that when we come back we will
hear from Jesse Colvin abigail spam
Berger and Lauren bear all of whom
running for Congress and all have
national security and military
backgrounds and they
talk to Tommy last week so you'll hear a
portion of their interviews next all
right
you
