San Francisco it's changed a lot in
recent years tech bros etc now a typical
gay experience in the city is Grimes
convincing Elon Musk's to watch blue is
the warmest color and try poppers too
much whatever but that's not true here
in the Castro here in the Castro still
gay as hell who's in bushes after
the show I'm gonna be there here in the
Castro you've got Harvey Milk and you've
got Muscle Milk you've got Zen
meditation centers and you've got
zendaya appreciation centers she's so
tall you've got big little eyes and big
little thighs you know what that one
means and I also just want to go back
and notes the muscle milk one was from
Travis who thinks gay people are still
using muscle milk what you do is you
cook lean ground turkey and then you get
it cold and then you put it in your
blender with water and you blend it up
and you drink that I am told by people
who care about that sort of thing I
clearly don't
but the Castro remains as always a
bastion for gay people it's a place
where we can be ourselves so tonight
we're gonna reflect on gay history in a
segment we're calling I am bad at that
I'm sorry this is never going to be lost
culture recess I am NOT going to be able
to synchronize myself with you I'm not
good at singing but I know a lot of
Supreme Court decisions okay I bring
other things to the table John please
stop shaming me for not being musical
okay point taken in 1794 Luxembourg
legalized sodomy and then in 1795 after
some really fun vacations their neighbor
Belgium did the same thing
it's like the president of Belgium came
back from Luxembourg and was like you
guys are not gonna believe the holes I
discovered Watson Berg bump up up up up
up up news in Chicago 1924 Henry Gerber
a war veteran an immigrant from the
first known gay rights organization in
the United States
the Society of Human Rights which housed
the first publication for homosexual men
friendship and freedom their newsletter
which I can only assume was published
through mail chip only sent out a few
issues before the organization's vice
president's wife reported them and
waited for their arrest then the chorus
of cell block tango began and honestly
can you blame her
John do you ever think about do you ever
think about if you had lived in the 50s
in the hours and like or or far from
heaven and you married a lady what it
would be like so good question guy
thanks for asking here is here's what I
believe I do not believe it is possible
for me to marry a lady I think my wife
and I would have been the best of
friends I think she would have had a lot
of interests and I would have supported
them I just don't think I can get it
done 1994 at a sleepaway camp a boy
named Ian he was good at soccer did an
impression to me that was just this it
was just
years in 1998 a young law student in
Minneapolis Minnesota called his parents
and told him he was gay and because she
knew that he was going through a hard
time
cher released the belief album she was
like I know I have been away I know I
focused on movies a lot for a while but
I feel that there is a very fat gay boy
out there who is balding and he needs to
believe in life after love and also that
he's strong enough in 1957 Frank
Khomeini was fired from his job at the
army map service for being gay and turny
petitioned the Supreme Court in 1961 for
relief arguing that the federal
government's treatment of him was like
Darren Criss being straight and affront
and affront to human dignity he was the
first person to make that civil rights
argument to our nation's highest court
his petition was denied but he lived to
see the ban on gays in the military
overturned and was even invited to the
White House by President Obama yes he
was he was just one man but he fought
for millions who didn't want their
sexual orientation to stop them from
doing the gayest job of all map making
[Laughter]
[Applause]
news in 1969 police tried to shut down a
New York gay bar called the Stonewall n
heard of it taking off riots that would
unify the LGBT community in New York
City and lead to the formation of gay
rights organizations around the US and
around the world activists like Marsha P
Johnson Mis manger and stormy into
livery I didn't say that right went toe
to toe I clearly need to be educated on
my own goddamn history went toe to toe
with law enforcement as they fought for
a place where they could live their
lives openly and by cocktails that
probably cost like a dime back then I
would throw 1000 bricks through windows
for a deal like that an old fashioned is
like 17 dollars now also what gay guy is
ordering an old fashioned we all
understand that a vodka soda is the
increment of Commerce for gay bars
it's our euro also as I learned from the
film Stonewall the first break was
thrown by white man with abscess it's
true gay news so this is the story of a
gay boy in the 90s with a 28.8 baud
modem first you load pictures slowly but
surely of a naked woman and then you
think let's introduce a man to this
praising and you load a picture of a man
and a woman and it loads time passes you
think this would be better with another
guy and so the photo loads
now there's two guys in a woman and then
there's a fateful moment it's time for
that woman to go 2003 I am sitting at my
telemarketing job at Civic Center in
Oakland and my coworker and Jeanette
walks up and says why you crying and I
said I am reading a Supreme Court
decision right now that Supreme Court
decision ladies and gentlemen was
Lawrence v Texas the best work that
Anthony Kennedy ever did enews 2005
Meryl Streep said cerulean
why is no one ready
I remember when Ellen came out of the
closet and I actually watched it
completely I watched it I remember when
it was coming I read all the news
stories about it I watched the episode
but it wasn't for another decade more
that I realized that I had watched Ellen
come out of the closet without saying a
word out loud I was closeted myself at
the time and I just experienced it it
was incredibly important to me and I
never told a soul because by the time
I'd come out so many years later I
wasn't thinking about that moment that
incredibly poignant moment between me
and this TV star and I realized that so
many other people had had this personal
secret moment moment with Ellen
DeGeneres and so I found myself watching
Ellen accept the Presidential Medal of
Freedom From President Barack Obama and
I found myself cheering up because I
realized that I had never spoken aloud
about this incredibly important
experience in my life
because I realized at that moment when I
saw Ellen come out of the closet that I
too could be a gay comedian who has a
reputation for being much meaner than
you'd expect behind the scenes also not
pleasant when his hair isn't cooperating
in 2015 the Supreme Court decided
obergefell V Hodges making it illegal
for states to pen you should have
clapped like that for Lawrence v Texas
respect Lawrence v Texas is a
beautifully written opinion it's an
effective jurisprudence across a country
go read Lawrence v Texas real
oratory Texas the ending is magnificent
my honor state by obergefell V Hodges
Kennedy was like trying too hard you
know no he it had gone to his head it
was getting very overwritten it was like
Matrix Revolutions a mega Unilever
states to ban to ban same-sex marriages
thanks to the signing vote from gay icon
and drag queen moderate Anthony Kennedy
then that night the white house was lit
in rainbow colors by John's friends
Barack Obama that was that was like it
was weird cuz my that point in time I
had been out of the closet for like I
mean almost 20 years and they old and
like I just never thought that I would
get to be a part of my country that much
if that makes any sense
don't pity me be excited also you should
have clapped more for cerulean and I
thought at that moment that my mother
would wait 15 minutes before texting me
about when I get married and that's gay
news
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
