on Wednesday night ten more candidates
hit the stage for night number two of
CNN's debate extravaganza
once again we're only allowed to use
three minutes of the three hours of
debate footage so this will be short and
sweet
thanks CNN so going into the debate Joe
Biden was leading the polls and most
candidates came pretty ready to pile on
him some of their attacks landed most of
them didn't but Cory Booker who most
people agree had a pretty good night hit
the former VP hard on his criminal
justice reform record it's no secret
that I inherited a criminal a police
department with massive problems and
decades-long challenges but the head of
the ACLU has already said I'm the head
of New Jersey ACLU that I put forth
national standards setting
accountability mr. vice president mr.
vice president I didn't interrupt you
please show me that respect sir we have
a system right now that's broken and if
you want to compare records and frankly
I'm shocked that you do I am happy to do
that because all the problems that he is
talking about that he created I actually
led the bill that got passed into law
that reverses the damage that your bills
that you were frankly to correct you mr.
vice president you are bragging calling
it the Biden crime bill up to 2000 Thank
You senator Connell Harris had a pretty
strong attack on Joe Biden in the last
debate but tonight she found herself
playing a little more defense
congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard one after
Harris's controversial record from when
she was the Attorney General of
California senator Harris says she's
proud of her record as a prosecutor and
that she'll be a prosecutor president
but I'm deeply concerned about this
record there are too many examples to
cite but she put over 1,500 people in
jail for marijuana violations and then
laughed about it when she was asked if
she ever smoked marijuana she blocked
evidence
that would have freed an innocent man
from death row until the courts forced
her to do so
she kept people in prison beyond their
sentences to use them as cheap labor for
the state of California and she fought
to keep system in place that impacts
poor people in the worst kind of way
Thank You congresswoman the malla report
was conspicuously absent from the first
night of CNN's debate but tonight who
Leon Castro made a strong case for
impeachment after Michael Bennett
questioned its political ramifications I
think that too many folks in the Senate
and in the Congress have been spooked by
1998 I believe that the times are
different and in fact I think that folks
are making a mistake by not pursuing
impeachment the Moller report clearly
details that he deserves it and what's
going to happen in the fall of next year
of 2020 if they don't impeach him it's
easy to say you see you see the
Democrats didn't go after me on
impeachment and you know why because I
didn't do anything wrong these folks
that always investigate me they're
always trying to go after me when it
came down to it they didn't go after me
there because I didn't do anything wrong
conversely if Mitch McConnell is the one
that lets him off the hook we're going
to be able to say well sure they'd
impeach cetera but his friend Mitch
McConnell mas gotta get him off the hook
senator Bennet please respond bite the
attacks Joe Biden came out okay in the
end except for when he ate at the
finish line we've acted together we have
never never never but not able to
overcome whatever the problem was if you
agree with me go to Joe 303 three Oh
this fight that's all for tonight but
you if you want more from our recaps you
can visit us at crooked comm slash 20/20
and sign up for our what a debate recap
newsletters at votes a america.com slash
subscribe we'll be back in your inboxes
in September for the next round of
democratic debates when ABC is hosting
that's all from us
you
