welcome to putt welcome to pod save
America I'm John Fabri I'm Tommy did you
just call I'm just kidding I'm Tommy
tour we'll get to that later
John Lovett is on vacation well deserved
well-deserved vacation for John loved it
later in the pod
we'll have my conversation with former
Senator Harry Reid joins us for the
first time I miss him
me too me too we're also gonna share at
the end of that interview the game we
played with congresswoman Ilhan Omar in
Minneapolis about student debt it was a
very funny game sadly we didn't have
time for it on Thursdays marathon pod so
you'll be hearing that today but first
we got a lot of news to talk about we've
got some war mongering with Iran we've
got cyber attacks on Russia we've got
more from Trump's batshit interview with
George Stephanopoulos it just keeps
going we got the democratic debate
lineups and Elizabeth Warren's climbed
to the top of the Democratic field also
we got a brand new episode of this land
out today Monday have you listened yet
I'm halfway through and then I get to
work so I'd stop it's excellent it's
about the opposition it just keeps
getting better and more interesting it
is it's such a great pod I'm so happy
with it
download mash that subscribe button this
land podcast com is that right mm-hm
that's right sure
and go buy some tickets to our la show
at the Greek Theatre on August 17th will
be joined by Emmy award-winning
journalist Jamel Hill there'll be
special performances by Amanda seals
best coast and Jim James and proceeds
from the show will go to four
organizations that are protecting your
right to vote vote org election
protection the national redistricting
foundation and think social impact great
cause great show
what do you infer go get your tickets
crooked comm slash the Greek okay Tommy
I wanted to start by getting your
thoughts on what's going on with Iran
right now on Sunday morning Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo said quote there's no
doubt that Iran was responsible for the
attacks on to commercial tankers in the
Strait of Hormuz last week but in
addition to Iran denying this which
you'd expect them to do some of our
allies have said they're not sure Iran
was responsible either and Pompeyo has
not offered any additional evidence
beyond sort of the grainy video that's
out there last week
the New York Times also reported that on
Friday there was a meeting in the White
House over a proposal to send as many as
6,000 additional troops to the Gulf
region including warships and fighter
jets what do you think about all this
send them all John I mean you know I'm
the credibility point I mean look we
don't have a great track record when it
comes to intelligence assessments that
lead to war to the country that start
with IR IRA I guess that was when you
said we don't have good credibility I
was thinking because the president lies
about everything big and small all the
time but you're right we're never
critically from the from two
administration's ago that took us to war
the Iraq war was bad you know also but I
mean look there's the broader problem
that Trump lies all the time about
everything but Pompey's case was strange
like I will admit that the video of what
clearly looks like an Iranian fast boat
they these little fast boats a tool
around the Strait of Hormuz and cause
problems it looks like they are
unattached a limpet mine which is like a
magnet mind to the side of that same
ship with the same markings in a similar
area it looked bad it looks really bad
but Pompeo then went on this longer
litany of things that he blamed Iran for
including a ided attack in Kabul that
had the Taliban and taking credit for so
they're laying out this confusing case I
think they should find all the evidence
like this is why you collect
intelligence this is the whole point
release everything you have taken to the
UN Security Council get your partner's
Buy in don't leap to saying this was
clearly Iran's fault within 24 hours of
the incident occurring without any sort
of credible amount of time to have an
investigation it's also the fact you
know John Bolton is shouldn't be your
messenger here that's probably why they
have Pompeo out but Bolton was a guy who
was known for manipulating intelligence
it helps get us into war so you know
he's the wrong team liar at the top and
in a you know pretty delicate issue
let's talk about the politics here it
seems like we know why certain members
of the Trump administration want war
with Iran you have sort of a long time
around more mongers like john bolton
they're sort of driving the process from
iran's point of view what are the
politics within tehran that
it may leap that may have led them to
attack these boats carry out some of
these attacks in Iraq etc um I don't
know I mean what are the politics in
Iran you like what I guess well I guess
what I'm saying it's like why is around
doing all this what do they want war I
don't think they want war I think that
it's likely they feel like they cut the
jcpoa the Iran nuclear agreement right
which was supposed to provide them
sanctions relief in return for stopping
certain enrichment activities they have
been denied that sanctions relief in
fact the Trump administration has come
down harder on them and not just tried
to cut off all their sales of oil and
gas to the region but also sanctioned
their metal industry with the goal of
crushing their economy and and leading
to regime change in the region's so they
are lashing out in response Trump also
designated the IRGC as a foreign
terrorist organization which his own
chairman of Joint Chiefs anticipated in
opposed because he thought it would lead
them to lashing out in response
particularly in places like the Strait
of Hormuz where they know they can screw
with global oil supplies so I think
they're probably trying to show that
they're not going to just take take it
from the Trump administration and you
know who knows like who knows who's
really calling the shots here it's
probably more hardline faction but we
just don't know I mean it's not best
idea to speculate how worried are you
that this could lead to a wider conflict
I think we should all be pretty worried
we should be pretty worried I mean when
you have the Trump administration
road-testing it's argument that a vote
in 2001 that was taken in response to
the 9/11 attacks justifies them going to
war in Iran it feels like they're really
thinking through this and trying to lay
the groundwork for something bigger and
it would be a huge deal it would you
know I I don't want to say that would be
a Kay let me just say this but it sure
it would be a big deal I don't think
we'd have any international support I
don't think our allies would be with us
it would potentially be disastrous yeah
I mean what worries me about the whole
thing is I was looking at polling
this and I think the last time it was
pulled was basically a year ago this
month they said that only 23% of the
public said they'd support the u.s.
deciding to declare war on Iran I'm
wondering if you know if your Bolton or
your Pompeo and you want to set a Djinn
up public support for um if not war at
least sort of further escalation of this
conflict do you constantly have these
episodes where you're saying look at
Iran's a bad actor they're attacking
ships that could attack our troops like
do you think they're trying to build
support for this they're definitely
going to build support I mean I think
Pompeo told a bunch of members of
Congress in a closed-door briefing that
he thought the American people would
support war with Iran that leaked out in
one of the many stories about the
conversation of them trying to use the
AUMF as the legal justification but
certainly they are trying to make a
bigger case that goes well beyond these
tankers in the Gulf they're pointing to
this incident in Kabul they're you know
they're pointing to every bad action
that they could possibly credibly tie to
Iran including things that are happening
in Yemen so yeah they're definitely
trying to make the case and it seems
really like the only war-weary or war
skeptical person they need to convince
his donald trump its obscurity that they
where are we counting on donald trump
here to reign and john bolt that's what
freaks me out I mean he's said it on the
record he's like I actually moderate
John that shouldn't make anyone feel
good and you know I think Dunford and
you know the the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs and and that team hopefully
they're providing him appropriate
military advice and and you know
counseling caution about what this could
lead to how it could escalate because
the Iranians it wouldn't just be a fight
against the Iranian military they have
proxy forces and terrorist groups like
Hezbollah that they can direct that
could launch huge rocket attacks against
the Israelis or go after our guys in
Iraq or Afghanistan or various places so
this could escalate incredibly quickly
it is not well thought through and it's
also just a question stepping back like
what is the goal was that's what I was
trying to ask what outcome do we want
out of this because sanctions in and of
themselves are not a strategy crushing
in other countries economy is not a
strategy if your goal is to prevent them
from getting a nuclear weapon well we
kind of had that one yeah we had a whole
deal under control
now we're I feel like I'm in a
time machine because we're having the
same conversation about Iran doing the
same things it's not allowed to do like
now they're going to enrich up to 20% in
Richmond which makes it easier for them
to get to a bomb quickly and they'll say
it's for medical research and we'll say
you're a liar it's like I did this we
did this in 2011 and 12 and 13 we had
this conversation we had managed it in
the Trump administration against all the
the advice from their top national
security team at the time maddis HR
McMaster Rex Tillerson they all told him
to stay in the deal and he pulled out
and now we're relitigated the same
and we're no safer in fact we're clearly
less safe yeah because the Iranians
possibly are going are targeting
commercial vessels in the Strait of
Hormuz which was always the the one of
the nightmare scenarios in terms of
preventing or allowing the free
transport of oil in the region like that
was what always freaked people up yeah I
saw in the New York Times story whose
analysis piece about this I think David
Sanger wrote that within Iran sort of
the so-called moderates and Iran are
basically trying to argue to the
hardliners well maybe we can just wait
out the United States and bet on change
in 2020 and if there's another
administration it comes in then they'll
maybe take us back into the deal the
Iran deal and lift the sanctions and
stuff like that which is it's a good
political calculation from them
hopefully people in our country the same
thing what a depressing conversation oh
yeah you step conversations in the US
said well maybe if we can get past aqua
did a job right Supreme Leader we might
have a different set of actors I mean
look they're the the Iran deal was made
because Iran potentially having a
nuclear weapon was seen as as an
existential threat to the US to Israel
and it would create an arms race in the
issue in the region which is why we
carved it out and Obama negotiated on
its own but certainly there was a hope
that if you if you cut one deal then you
can think about some of the other things
we need to talk about with them and
increase diplomatic engagement and maybe
that work and the sanctions relief that
would come from the Iran deal would
empower the more moderate forces in Iran
like rouhani who is not a moderate in in
a term we would use here in the United
States but compared to like Qasem
Soleimani and the IRGC cuts for Scott
who literally sponsor terror that we
would want the more moderate factions to
win out we don't know exactly how things
are gonna play out in Iran right now but
they have real politics and I imagine
that the team of moderates who cut the
deal with the u.s. who said this would
benefit the people are facing a raft of
 because it it has not and that is
likely to empower the people who said we
need to fight the Americans everywhere
we can because they will always try to
take us down and Trump is making their
case for them Trump is making their case
in Bolton's making their case in payos
making their case and Tom cotton u.s.
senator from Arkansas what went on one
of the shows this weekend instead that
we should we should blow up Iranian
ships in response which is setting a
precedent that the US military will
respond to an attack on a foreign
commercial vessel by blowing up another
ship which is a troubling precedent
great the cotton Doctrine the cotton
Doctrine okay there's one more crazy
national security story I wanted to ask
you about before we move on David Sanger
wrote a New York Times piece this
weekend about how the United States is
escalating digital attacks on Russia's
power grid the most striking part of the
story however was that officials said
that Trump hasn't been briefed in detail
about the attacks because of quote
concern over his reaction and the
possibility that he might and sorry and
the possibility that he might counter
manda toward Ascona fischels as he did
in 2017 when he mentioned a sensitive
operation in Syria to the Russian
Foreign Minister always forget about
that one the president tweeted that The
Times piece wasn't true and was a quote
virtual act of treason
The Times responded that trumps National
Security Council when shown the article
said they had no national security
kerens sorry that they had no national
security concerns about the reporting
what do you think about this story and
how unusual is it for DoD or whoever's
doing these cyber attacks to not loop in
the president United States so yeah
three things jumped out at me in the
piece it sounds like Trump has deferred
a lot of Authority for what to do and
how to do it when it comes to cyber
warfare to the Cyber Command which is
surprising and interesting to me because
it this is kind of the wild wild west
it's relatively new but it's made
incredibly significant and you'd think
that white ice would want to tightly
control it to the fact that the NSC
didn't express any concern about the
leak when the New York Times approached
them says to me maybe they wanted this
known maybe this was a shot across the
bow to the Russians Pompeo has been
talking about these things in broad
strokes so I don't know but um the fact
that they're three that the fact that
they won't brief Trump on it was
troubling to me in a couple ways like
one we should be able to trust the
president nighted say it's a sense of
information but - it's not acceptable
for the Pentagon or any agency to just
kind of run on its own and not tell
the democratically elected president of
the United States where we have civilian
control of the military about offensive
cyber capabilities like none of this
should make anybody feel good it's all
weird now I had that same concern it's
like yeah none of us like Trump all of
us think he's crazy shouldn't
have his finger on the nuclear button
but how would we be feeling if there was
a Democratic president in there or even
some more moderate Republican president
and just because the folks in in the
Pentagon or the CIA or whoever it may be
didn't like them they just kind of ran
missions on their own if some four-star
walked into the Oval Office and was like
uh President Obama I forgot to tell you
we planted some malware in the in a
Moscow security grid so we can take them
down if he's your dad my badge is one
his ass would be would be fired right
away I mean this is the future of
warfare this is not an insignificant
thing that the Russians turned the
lights off in western Ukraine back in
2015 for hundreds of thousands of people
before they they took Crimea so we
should care about precedent and rules of
the road and what's happening and then I
would think you would want the White
House to tightly control these things
but it seems like there does not I also
it just seems like we skipped over the
fact that the president accused the New
York Times of treason which is a word he
now uses all the time virtual trees
virtual treason you know we talked about
now former Obama administration
officials committing treason because
they you know staged some tried to stage
some coup against him with the Muller
investigation now he's talking about the
press like this he's because he has to
step up from any enemy of the people to
something
now so now he's smelling trees and the
whole sort of something we all just move
on for him on a Monday here he goes it's
all bad
alright let's talk about Trump's
interview with George Stephanopoulos
which was aired in full for the first
time last night on ABC it was a real
tour de force what a journey of
delusional buffoonery real smorgasbord
yes
according to CNN's Daniel Dale the
president told at least a dozen easily
provable lies the president also said
that quote Abraham Lincoln was treated
supposedly very badly was treated
supposedly very badly
some might argue the triumphant
chemistry badly he said he said but
QuickTime this example he could have
used but nobody nobody has been treated
badly like me ok and then this happened
which you just have to hear for yourself
I think we have the clip here at some
point up they get it because it's a
fantastic financial statement it's a
fantastic financial statement and let's
do that over he's coughing in the middle
of my answer yeah ok I don't like that
you know your chief of staff you gonna
cough please just to change the shine
sorry ok you want to do that a little
differently then it's like it's crazy
for a couple of reasons
yeah first of all he's a weird
germaphobe and I mean whatever people
are like that but second moments like
that shows you that he used the whole
presidency as a performance I know he
meant to me was bigger than just the
like oh he's coughing and he doesn't
like offers like whatever it's weird
he's weird he sounds like a directors ID
do you have coverage on all the angles
like do you want to get another shot of
that in any repeats it in the same in
this shows that he repeats his statement
was stupid in the first place yes right
and it's not like he's losing his train
of thought when he says these sort of
things he's purposely saying things this
 up you know like I had the best
financial statements you way do you see
my financial statements he's talking by
the way about his tax return right which
once again he's saying you know he won't
say whether he'll provide them or not
he's saying that the lawyers are holding
them up that's not true George didn't
really press him on
but he just sort of yada-yada it his way
through the question about his
tax returns yeah I mean George pressed
him on some things pretty hard not
everything clearly he was trying to
preserve all 30 hours of that access
knowing that if you just kind of stick
around the guy's gonna make news on
something bizarre I mean it's also a
reminder that we only see him in his Fox
News safe space or friendly interviews
and even when he does like the the press
conferences or two and twos with foreign
leaders
he starts with fox or oann or some like
right-wing network and he never gets
real follow up questions I mean he kind
of unravels pretty quickly if anyone
asks him deliberate repeated follow-ups
yeah I thought it was an interesting
strategy from George because you could
tell he went into that interview you're
right he's spending however long he was
about three days over 30 hours 330 hours
over the course of a couple days yeah
that's a miserable that's you
know it's probably Melania is not there
that often and so he's spending all this
time with him so he doesn't want to
scare him off right away but it was
interesting comparing that with like
Jonathan swans interview of Jared
Kushner on Axios like Swan decided he
was gonna go at cushion Iran birtherism
and when Kushner dissembled he was just
gonna go back to him five or six times
in this time in this interview when
George wouldn't get an answer from Trump
and Trump started getting angry at
George you know and started getting a
little pissy at you know George Beebe
did one follow-up and then he just sort
of moved on because I feel like he
thought well I have a bunch of other
topics to get to I think he pushed him
pretty hard on obstruction and that was
a win Trump got the most pissed and
accused him of being a wise guy but yeah
I mean I think a lot of these guys view
it as an opportunity to give him enough
rope to hang himself and he certainly
did that many times I mean he had to do
a 55 0 minute interview on Fox & Friends
on Friday to try to clean up his
suggestion that yeah it's totally cool
to take intelligence from a foreign
adversary which it was there's another
thing we're just sort of just I guess
we've just moved on from that last week
yeah and his cleanup was basically he
tried to explain how hearing works he
was like first you hear the words and
then you know if they're bad and then
FBI yeah which is not really really hard
about the Russia being in the email to
his son
pitching the meeting were there any
other notable moments from the
Stephanopoulos interview that stuck out
at you um I think a couple things I mean
it it it looks worse than it reads so if
people have only read the the transcript
give the whole thing a shot it was funny
that that he's so inside his own head
about Muller that Stephanopoulos was
like what's your pitch to a swing voter
he starts with the economy and within
two sentences he's complaining about
Muller I thought that yes he has somehow
his son Baron was doing and within like
two seconds Trump's like no collusion
yeah yeah he is just like it's it's
shocking you flag this on Twitter he's
just serving up health care to the
Democrats for the 2020 elections I
thought this was the most politically
significant comment to come from last
night's interview aside from the
portions that were released last week
about foreign election interference that
the new portions from last night that
were most damning to Trump I think were
his his reiterated promise to repeal the
Affordable Care Act if Republicans win
in November of 2020 and his promise
again to come up with a replacement plan
very soon yeah that's bad two other
quick things one I'm getting really sick
of reporters teeing up Trump to blame
Obama for spying on him yeah if we're
and then not following it's a annoying
headline grab it's like the fourth time
it's happened either get some
evidence or don't ask the question that
way but it you know he's gonna concede
that Obama was part of it because he
can't back down from a claim once he's
made it I will say I mean it was an
interesting interview in that you know
George really wanted to get Trump to lay
out what the reelect strategy is and
it's basically just grievance over the
Moller report yeah the economy's the
best ever the military has been rebuilt
our veterans are doing great and when
pressed on something he might be more
defensive about health care oh don't
worry I have a great replacement which
is basically what he's been saying since
he started running for president in 2015
and there has been no replacement I
think I mean I said this on Twitter like
every Democratic candidate for president
should be out today talking about this
because I can tell you I don't think
many House and Senate Republican
candidates are going to want to be
running
Donald Trump secret plan to repeal
Obamacare no staunch and in fact
magically it showed up afterwards uh
there are some stories and I think I'm
to the Washington Post about how
Congress is eager for him to let the
subject drop what was his exact line
about the vets he said like I solved
vets I solved vets vets have a choice
now I solved that so that's of a choice
he fixed that's he clearly thinks that
the tweaks he made to the way VA health
care is delivered to veterans is one of
his signature accomplishments in the
total lack of fluency with which he
discusses the issue is baffling he's
like I gave that choice
you just can't you can't speak about he
can't know because he doesn't what the
 you talking about alright let's
talk about 2020 the first Democratic
presidential debate will take place in
Miami just nine days from now on on June
26th and 27th the candidates have been
sorted into two groups that were
announced on Friday the group debating
uh jocks and nerds very NCAA Tournament
here the the first group debating on the
opening night includes Elizabeth Warren
better or or Cory Booker Amy Klobuchar
and a bunch of candidates polling at 1%
or lower the second night will feature
Joe Biden Bernie Sanders Pete Buddha
judge Camille Harris and a bunch of
candidates polling at 1% or lower the 20
candidates who qualified were split into
groups of 10 three other declared
candidates Steve Bullock Wayne Messam
and Seth Moulton failed to meet the
criteria and will not be debating first
of all before we get into the lineups
how big of a deal is it for the
candidates who didn't qualify I think
it's a fairly big deal I think it's
gonna be hard to clean it's just me hard
to get the spotlight it's gonna be hard
to show that you're credible or raise
money it's a problem yeah do you think
they should have qualify do you think
that the DNC should have made exceptions
I don't know I think it's hard to say I
mean and I like some of these candidates
I think it's hard to say that we need
more than 20 people on the stage over
those two nights I also think you know
you could look at it and say oh just
three didn't qualify but they had to set
the rules before the race started and
what if it was five or six more seven or
eight more like this is an imperfect
process and I don't think that even Tom
Perez would argue that their rules are
perfect but I think they probably made
the best of a really tough situation you
know there was a lot of predictable
criticism on
Twitter and in news reports after this
happened and you know it when you have
20 different candidates who have a
different self-interest of course people
are gonna take shots of it but I think
the primary is a bit of a mess the
debate process is gonna be a bit of a
mess I don't know how you fix that the
only thing that I thought was weird was
NBC just kind of arbitrarily deciding
the order of the two debates based on
what would get them the most ratings
like how did we not have that process
nailed I'm yeah I'm okay with NBC saying
they're the ones we're gonna decide but
if they were gonna decide they should
have let the campaigns know and the DNC
know that they were gonna be the
designers the DNC process it in the room
apparently yeah I mean you can see now
from the media perspective you can see
why they went with the one the decision
made because the more exciting debate is
probably gonna be the second night
because that's got some more
frontrunners now about that we should
just let everyone know how this was yeah
how these groups were divided up what
the DNC did is they decided that they're
gonna put all the candidates who were
polling above 2% into a hat and then
divide them evenly and then all the
candidates below 2% went into a hat and
were divided evenly so actually they
went into two gold boxes two gold boxes
oh my god so that yeah there was some
complaining to like Oh Elizabeth Warren
got screwed or this person got screwed
or whatever else it's like it just no it
was just people put in a hat and picked
out and I don't know that we know that
right you know what I mean well that was
good gaming out what how this is gonna
go before we know I mean we can
certainly speculate but who who do you
think got lucky and unlucky in these
groupings I don't think we know yet
yeah I think that Biden probably got
unlucky because he's got a lot of people
who are gonna be coming after him in
this debate I think he could I think
that probably would have been in either
I don't know what widens like ideal
stage would have look like honestly
maybe he's lucky that he's not on with
Warren because she has been formulating
probably the best message against him I
mean there's an argument that Warren got
screwed because she's not on the stage
with the other frontrunners I also think
there's an argument that she could just
own the night and and really stand out
and everyone will watch both debates and
decide that well if she had been on the
second stage she'd been on stage the
second night she would have won that
debate anyway so it's impossible to know
yeah I sort of went back and forth on
this to like I I mean my first reaction
was yeah you know she's climbing in the
polls and Elizabeth Warren probably
wants a
at Burnie and Biden or maybe one or both
whether it's whether she takes an
explicit shot at them or whether it's
more of an implicit shock right but then
the more I thought about it Elizabeth
Warren especially in fact actually a lot
of these candidates on that second night
that are above two percent both Warren
beto Booker and Klobuchar they've all
sort of staked their candidacies not
necessarily in opposition to another
candidate like a Biden or a Bernie like
Elizabeth Warren she goes out there she
didn't we talk about Trump that much she
knows what her story is what she's
saying like she doesn't necessarily need
to have one of those other candidates
there to take shots at to do really well
I don't think you want to take big shots
at any of your opponent's this early I
don't think so either
Iowa voters hate that you want to make a
case for yourself now that's it I don't
think you should go up there and be
boring and repeat the same talking
points and attack Trump I think the
press is looking for a good story to
come out of this so say or do something
interesting like don't repeat yourself
to be funny tell the moving story make a
contrast in a deft way show that you
could debate Trump well you know it's
like there's a lot of ways to stand out
on the debate stage you just have to
have a strategy and try that's it I
think I think two candidates were
probably happy with where they ended up
are Bernie Sanders and Pete Buddha judge
Sanders because you know he's slipped in
the polls a little bit because cuz you
know Warren's gaining in the polls and
he has staked a lot of his candidacy on
you know he's been doing this no middle
ground
hashtag no middle ground thing which is
basically about Joe Biden yeah and so I
think Bernie sort of wants the contrast
with Biden and you saw you know his
campaign manager Patrick here said on
the record you know we couldn't be
happier with this debate stage herring
because now we can talk about what's
really at stake in the primary like it
yeah seems like Bernie could be the one
that goes right after by it that's right
and mayor Pete's whole case is is
generational change and that's what a
visual of being with Bernie and Biden
certainly will make that case because
he's longer and the other person who
gets that opportunity I think is Carla
Harris because her case is both
generational change and that she can
build this
multiracial coalition and her being on
stage come you know as sort of one of
the frontrunners one of the top five or
six on stage contrasted with Bernie and
Biden probably helps her yeah the thing
is funny is like yes they've divided the
debate night equally but that doesn't
mean everyone on stage is gonna get
equal time
that's yeah there's a lot of discretion
here that will go to the moderator if a
candidate is attacked he or she will get
to respond in kind so there could be
some candidates who just get lost I do
think this this first debate night is
gonna be fascinating and you don't want
a bet on anything but my hunch is that
there's probably gonna be less conflict
among that crowd because I think the
other candidates who probably did well
here in the drawing were Beto and
Klobuchar and Booker because now those
three who sort of been I don't know
whether you call them second tier or
third tier you know they're all kind of
stuck between two and five percent in
the polls now they get to be on stage
without Biden Bernie who the moderators
might try to make go at each other or
even Budaj edge or people like that
who've been getting a lot more attention
and maybe they have a chance in that
first debate to sort of stand out but it
doesn't seem like any of them are gonna
stand up by going after Warren or each
other no and my guess is the moderators
on the first night still try to bait
those candidates into criticizing Biden
because he's perceived as the
front-runner and in Beddoes been
hammering away at him by name on a whole
bunch issues recently so you see if he
keeps doing that and I can't really
imagine anyone in that first night going
after Warren can you know and on what
grounds that's what I'm saying you know
what no one has sort of like prepped the
territory no for this which I thought is
interesting how do candidates prepare
for a debate like this we talked about
this a little but I mean so the one
argument for saying maybe your time is
better spent not on the debate stage is
it you're not spending two or three days
locked down with your advisors at a
debate camp preparing lines going
through research preparing responses
literally practicing having your
staffers play candidates who you're up
against
I mean I imagine that these guys these
candidates went down for two or three
days and are holed up somewhere in a
conference room just practicing non-stop
yeah and look I've I've been in debates
prep and debate perhaps both for with
Obama when he's
I've been prepping for a general
election debate and a primary debate
general election debates are a
completely different ballgame right you
actually have time to make your case so
you're practicing different lines of
attack and all this
the primary debate preps are just like
okay you're gonna have five six seven
minutes probably with these crowds at
most what do you want to say what's your
story and I thought you know Peter Hamby
wrote a story in Vanity Fair about the
debates and there was advice from David
Kochel who was a Republican who prepped
both Romney and Jeb Bush I thought this
was such a fantastic piece of advice I
just I okay whoever can tell the best
most compelling story in the three
minutes they have will be the one who
helps themselves the most issue laundry
lists are useless
most of these candidates support the
same things with a few distinctions
biography is fine but I think a story
from the trail from their experience
from their public service that puts
their candidacy in context is the best
approach can lines from consultants
sharp attacks on other candidates or
even a clever attack on Trump will get
lost in the shuffle I think yeah that's
couldn't be said any better totally and
look I think you hear that and think
Elizabeth Warren will talk about her
plans a lot and her issues but again she
doesn't just list off her policy
position she talks about them within the
larger context of her story from the
very first event I watched Warren do and
Iowa she was gonna town-hall meeting she
was talking at her policies and her
plans but she was linking it to her
upbringing Oklahoma and I just felt from
the beginning that it was a better way
to deliver a message and it was gonna
play well in Iowa and I think it's
benefited over time but she's also
really interesting because Warren in
particular doesn't go on the campaign
trail to deliver a message she really
does seem to absorb what she gets back
and you hear her repeat a lot of stories
from people she met in Keokuk Iowa or
wherever she might have been better does
that too and I think that if you can
incorporate the things you've learned in
the past six seven months however long
it's been that they've been running
that's a beneficial way to I know just
tell a story yeah it shows that you're
listening it also shows your growth as a
candidate um so speaking of Warren it's
a good segue it appears as though she
has now climbed to the top of the
Democratic field along with Joe Biden
and Bernie Sanders polls are obviously
just a snapshot in time we will say this
a million times between now in the
election but when you look at the
polling averages in the earliest
it's and nationally Warren is now a
solid third and has actually overtaken
Bernie in a few recent polls including a
few state polls she's also caught the
attention of Trump's team whose pollster
told POLITICO quote although our own
early published polls and internal polls
discounted Elizabeth Warren her recent
momentum in May and June and national
and early caucuses in primary states
into a strong second place to a flat Joe
Biden is now a cause for our campaign's
attention uh what do you think is
driving Warren's increased support I
mean I think she's a good campaigner
I think she invested early in in field
staff on the ground in Iowa and that's
one of the places you saw and make a big
bump yeah I think that the narrative
around her went from people aren't
covering Warren's plans to oh she's the
one with all the plans right I mean
that's like a good thing to be known as
you're the person who's who has big
policies and who's rolling out big ideas
and I think that you know there's been
always a discussion about electability
whatever the hell that means but clearly
people are are deciding that they like
the things that she would do and that
she stands for and they want to see her
as president so yeah I've been really
impressed also you know she made a
decision not to do these big fundraising
events so I think she really needed some
momentum early to be able to continue to
raise money through the fall you're
reading reports about the various
candidates that Wall Street is choosing
as their favorite she's not going to
have that cash I would I would not be
happy to be a candidate in that so I
would not either at a deaf campaign or a
campaign ad by Warren or Bernie Sanders
would use that headline against the
candidates who were mopping up Wall
Street money to show why they're
different I wouldn't be surprised if she
talked about that during the debate not
as an attack on people cuz I don't think
she does that but just touting her own
decision not to take that money until
the time when it matters there was
there's a fantastic profile of Elizabeth
Warren in The New Yorker was at The New
Yorker New Yorker yeah in The New Yorker
right now I think the headline is can
Elizabeth Warren went at all and it
really tells you everything you need to
know I think about her rise in the polls
I mean we said this from the day she
announced her candidacy right like the
most important thing when you're running
for president is to have a biography
that links up with your career that
links up with your Paula
choices that looks up with your theory
of the case in your Valley why you
should why you can beat the opposition
whether it's in the primary or the
general election and how you see the
country and where it's going and you
know there is an argument that Elizabeth
Warren's entire life and career led her
to this moment and when you talk to her
all she talks about is inequality and
the and the wealth gap and how you know
corporations have gamed the system like
everyone can tell you Elizabeth Warren's
rationale who pays any attention to
politics and there's not too many
candidates running where you can say
that right off the bat like that yeah
she leaves you with the impression that
she's running against something bigger
than Trump or any of her primary
opponents that she's running against a
broken system against corruption against
money in politics and certainly her
career before she was in politics leads
you to believe that she holds those
views sincerely and actually wants to do
it and and we know this from being in
campaigns and in politics for a long
time
hammering hammering hammering economic
issues and look I think we had at you
know there was a long discussion after
the 2016 race we made a lot of fun of
economic anxiety and stuff like that
because it is very true that a lot of
the vote for Trump was driven by racial
resentment among non college-educated
White's this is a fact this is true and
yet there is this feeling of economic
angst in this country it is a feeling
held by non-college educated white
voters black voters Latino voters young
people all across the spectrum that the
economy is not working for them and
Elizabeth Warren in this profile
actually said cuz there's a Democratic
candidate you just have to make sure
that you are talking to the economic
concerns of Americans all the time she's
like I read a line from Steve Bannon of
all people at 2017 who said if the
Democrats keep talking about the
economic concerns of working people and
actually focused on that I'd be worried
because then they'd with yeah she goes
and I read that line from that
basically thought to myself like yeah
that's the ticket
yeah and I do think for all these gay
like she's hit on that message now the
question that raises is so Bernie
Sanders would say yeah I also have that
message
why do we think she's eating away at
support from from Bernie Sanders well
look it mean it's hard when you are
Bernie and you come in with a with a
floor at sort of thirty percent right
when you start stronger it is much
easier for it to look like you are
losing support when you start low like
you looks like you're gaining momentum
so I think there was always let me say
that Bernie was always gonna lose some
votes you know it's just it's it's not
possible to jump in a race with 20
some-odd other people and not have
supporters come and go you know I think
he's fighting against his own
expectations I mean the same
expectations game that benefited him
2016 right yeah I mean and and we said
this at the beginning of the primary to
how much of the Bernie vote in 2016 was
a vote for Bernie and how much of it was
a vote against Hillary Clinton in the
Democratic primary and I think we're
finding out that a good chunk of that
vote was against Hillary Clinton I also
think Bernie is a victim of his own
success he has moved the debate in in
the Democratic field to the left to a
more progressive direction he has won
that debate yeah but he is not the new
shiny object and the way that the media
is right now the media focuses on a new
story and it's it's been you know
Elizabeth Warren has been putting out
these plans left and right Bernie
Sanders is probably sitting there like
yeah I've had a lot of these plans for
my whole life but it doesn't feel as new
to people I do remember thinking that
Bernie was pretty good in the debates in
2016 you know he's someone to watch it
yeah he's worth listening on message and
he you know the I don't care about your
Damn emails moment yeah maybe it wasn't
the smartest strategy when you're trying
to attack an opponent but it made him
seem like genteel and it made me like
him that is a that is an excellent point
because that's something I was just
about to say I remember watching those
debates and I didn't know much about
Bernie Sanders the time or think about
what Bernie Sanders and when he said
that I was like oh I like this guy he
was talking about the issues that matter
to me and I like him and from that
moment on even when it got you know even
though I was for Hillary Clinton I never
got the Bernie hate I never really hated
Bernie but I think what I wonder about
in this campaign and I wonder how he'll
deal with us on stage is sometimes it
seems like Bernie's campaign his
supporters enjoy being at war
the Democratic establishment they feel
like that's a useful villain and Bernie
himself doesn't do that too much but
sometimes he does Elizabeth Warren has
all the progressive positions that
Bernie Sanders has and she'll attack the
Democratic establishment on specific
issues right she gave the Obama
administration some tough time on things
right when it seemed like they were you
know picking some corporate stooge for
this or that but she doesn't run her
campaign against the Democratic
establishment sometimes Bernie
supporters they seem like they don't
want you on their team yeah it's a it's
an argument against a broken system it's
not a grievance based argument right you
know it like I think that Bernie's done
a lot of really smart things I was a
little confused by the speech ostensibly
defending democratic socialism that was
really more about FDR and udl I mean it
was sort of like a forgettable not it
wasn't like a really compelling speech
so I don't think the language all that
interesting or yeah kind of long and but
it wasn't it also didn't really live up
to what I thought it was framed to be
right which was a robust defense of
socialism but it's likely to tee up that
question from the moderator to Bernie
and then to all these other candidates
which will highlight a distinction that
I'm not sure is necessarily beneficial
or at least is a little more esoteric
than the actual concerns of working
people and I think he's incredibly good
at speaking to those concerns right if
you're Bernie Sanders would you rather
hang a lantern on the fact that your
label is a Democratic Socialist and get
into a debate over democratic socialism
or would you rather want to talk about
the economic issues they're sort of
driving the debate within the Democratic
Party of which you've been at the
forefront on for a long time I mean some
of Bernie's videos when they come out
and they had that they have someone you
know in the middle of the country who's
going through a job loss something like
that they're fantastic videos they
almost make you want to cry you know why
have a debate about democratic socialism
I don't know and I feel like a oh C's
approaches for like I don't really give
a about the labels I just want to
get things done with like that very
smart pause utilitarian perspective on
politics and he's also done a lot of
smart things on foreign policy so
there's a lot of ways Bernie can go I
mean this 'iron news could tee up and
an anti-war message for him that becomes
incredibly helpful who knows yeah but um
yeah that speech was ashes weird yeah
okay when we come back we will have my
interview with Senator Harry Reid
you
