I see you yeah what up how's work we
just sit down we just sit okay I bet can
we curse you can do whatever you looking
lit I like this crowd this
look like a little concert oh yeah let's
go
 yeah here's how okay stop works
we'll roll a clip and you guys can say
okay stop at any point to comment gotcha
sure good Pringles man he loves love and
he loves chips and he wants to spread
those chips to everyone yeah but what if
the Pringles man became enamored of an
ideology that believed you could spread
chips and democracy through war National
Security Advisor John Bolton was fired
this week and Fox and Friends had a lot
to say about it
let's watch what the president has just
fired his National Security Advisor I
disagreed strongly with many of his
suggestions so there's that list Brian
we don't know what's on it but it's it's
you know
is this how you fire me now he loves to
fire people via Twitter like well you
can't but yeah we got to go to the
tweets but yeah he got little hands with
big Twitter fingers from far away he
could not fire Rex Tillerson himself and
so John Kelly the White House chief of
staff had to do it and Rex Tillerson
found out on the toilet yeah yeah and
then John Kelly told everybody that
 toilet like that will help
you pinch it off you know like oh all
right we're done here
Oh fine let's I'm flushing I'm
gonna wash my hands pull that do we get
that all the way out like it was nice
work
ya-ya-ya-ya-ya every other people button
yeah we heard from the gist fire john
bolton saying that no it didn't actually
play out that way John resigned last
night and President Trump said let's
talk about it tomorrow I love that John
Bolton doesn't give a he was gross
before Trump was ever a realistic
possibility truck john bolton has been
disgusting back when Donald Trump was
pitching The Apprentice for the very
first way back in the day he has been
he's an early adopter of discussion
right here he clearly is trying to break
up with Donald shop without so it was
like nah no I'm not finding a new
apartment what's dance again I'm top of
you this is my decision we've grown
apart I dumped you if I dumped
you
who dumped you Trump dumped Bolton
chunks the head he was like wait I gotta
get a whole new Netflix we had a
beautiful algorithm come on there's a
ramen spot right and he throw apartment
why are you being hysterical and please
texted me oh just now he's watching yeah
he said let's be clear I resigned okay
this with the show in at 9:00 a.m. just
so we understand the world we live in
this is Fox News the worst thing on
television and at the moment John Bolton
the former national security adviser and
Donald Trump the president of United
States are watching it and texting the
hosts to get their burns out there oh
stop or as we like to say they're
dragging each other come on they are
they are dragging each other this is
like Love & hip-hop White House style so
think I have the director camera John
Bolton like Don Lucho tried to play me
at Mama's sushi but I was not having
that that's right
so I called my friends these guys in the
Camaro and we had to talk about it okay
just come up like girl how you doing
she's trying to play you
mo mimosas please for the table thank
you
do you mind if I say that while you were
talking and he wrote yes so John Bolton
has just told me texted me to said I
resigned okay okay stop so I just want
to be clear that was the making of the
reading of the tweet yes that was him
explaining that John Bolton did give him
permission to tell everybody but he
didn't get fired because wit this season
of America's trash which is why it
really is like doesn't know the season
I'm like I don't know let the junior
writers write it okay like am I crazy
but didn't they do this exact story like
three years ago I've seen this before
this is what they do a scary movie in
season two I was like one week one week
was and by the way it's like you know
that John Bolton's not gonna last too
much in the season he's too big of a
name okay that guy for two years no
words they got the budget too late for
John Bowen to go on Dancing with the
Stars
we don't deserve anything but we do
deserve John Bolton and Sean Spicer
dancing with one another so Michael
Bolton - Michael Michael Bolton so John
Boehner's just answer the president's
tweet by saying why are we doing this
like why are we sick I know why we're
doing it it's a talk show yeah okay I
just want to point out that that woman
came within one neuron firing of a total
breakdown yeah she was so close to the
truth she was like why are we doing this
why am I doing this yes what choices did
I made that led me here how did I get to
this place in my life was it worth it am
I happy and I am NOT I don't belong here
and this guy's gonna follow who should I
have not listened to the voice in the
back of our head and said girl you have
a mortgage you want to buy more yellow
dresses you better call your mouth why
are they doing it what why are we seeing
this play one against the other almost
in terms of you know what the narrative
is is it important or is it just that
the president has moved on and he's
gonna hire a new national security well
I mean that's the news right put it this
way if anyone leaves a position and you
think okay you
the CEO and say thanks for my time here
and they came out and said I fired him
or I let him I said I want your
resignation you'd want to correct the
record I don't think there's any anxious
let me just correct the record I
resigned that's that's like if you work
at the cap though that's not my goodness
 why I was folding those jeans
correctly I would just like to clear my
hand I'm just thinking I know I used the
born and all that okay John Bolton is
walking out of the gap just with his arm
and you clean this up my
last day keep it do you want the
performance please yeah yeah you want to
watch that you want some performance
please watch it perform cleaning up the
ground just tear open a puffer vest and
 man down everywhere everybody's in
his anarchy
[Music]
