now it's time for okay stop okay stop at
any point to comment Nancy Pelosi is the
highest-ranking woman ever elected to
office in the history of the United
States and second in line to the
presidency
Kellyanne Conway is a former pollster
who spends all day bullshitting for
racist con men she hoped would lose to
Ted Cruz so of course
Kellyanne expects Nancy Pelosi to treat
her like an equal but it didn't play out
that way
after Conway's boss Donald something
abruptly stormed out of a meeting with
the speaker let's take a listen as
Kellyanne conway tells foxnews her side
of the story what happened in the White
House yesterday you were there and
actually had an exchange of words with
the speaker yourself I did and all these
ridiculous stories the president was in
a rage he's fuming he stormed out temper
tantrum there was none of that he
actually never raised his voice he came
in stood at the end of the table in the
Cabinet Room outside the Oval and said
look folks I want to do infrastructure
okay stop that's exactly I'm sure how it
sounded look I want to do infrastructure
first of all I do feel like she has
turned her look up and I am a little
excited about that I'm glad you said I
wouldn't wear but like my aunt might
t.j.maxx real mad she's a maxxinista
Pelosi went on and launched into some
odd self curated history of
infrastructure in our country shocked
about Thomas Jefferson then she got to
Teddy Roosevelt okay for those listening
at home she was performing what it was
like when she was bored in the meeting
by showing us a watch check during this
interview and I bought it I believed I
believed every moment every time someone
brings up Teddy I'm like Oh are we done
you know
so when she was finished I said
respectfully madam Speaker would you
like to address some of the specifics
the president talked about and she said
I don't I talk to the president I don't
talk to staff you can take this in her
own transcript of the conversation she
said nothing before he left also not a
good impersonation of Nancy hi Joan no
yeah yeah it's like we all know how
Nancy sounds and it's rich and shaky
she don't let's face it she's a six most
rich member of Congress she treats
everybody like they're her staff she
treats me like I'm either her maid or
her driver or her pilot or her makeup
artist okay Leon Conway really is such a
villain you know who agrees he doesn't
really agree we don't know what he
thinks but he's definitely closer to
agreement than she would like her
husband and I don't want to judge a
marriage we don't know what goes on when
those doors are closed but we do know
that when she thinks she's off the
record she insults her own husband and
he takes to Twitter every single day to
say that Donald Trump should it be
President and that has got to be lonely
so I get why she's lashing out but it
doesn't change the fact that Nancy
Pelosi doesn't have to talk to you if
she doesn't want to talk to you
and when she says I don't talk to you I
talked to the president that's because
she's the Speaker of the
House and I said to her how very Pro
woman of you per usual because she's not
very Pro woman she's Pro some woman a
few woman I'm actually out of all people
in all administration's who are trying
to roll back everything that has to do
there are people walking around with
real-life Handmaid's Tale robes every
day and so she said no we're Pro women
I'm just confused before we go you see
someone raised kellyanne's little
diatribe in a press conference with
speaker Pelosi and she did respond
and I thought it would be a nice palate
cleanser let's take a look I was founded
as the Speaker of the House to the
President of the United States other
conversations people weren't to have
among themselves is up to them
I love I love her hand motion in
the video which I would encourage anyone
listening to look up because she
basically her arm goes so high both to
like put Kelley and Conway in a grave
but it's also like here's where I'm at
speaker the house this is the president
and then her hand goes down and out to
just be like whatever other
conversations people want to have they
can have but I'm Nancy Pelosi I don't
give a
[Music]
[Music]
