welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm dan Piper later in the pod my
interview with Federal Election
Commission chairwoman Ellen Weintraub
about the crime of soliciting foreign
interference in our election topical
topical but first we'll be talking about
all the latest developments and
responses from Republicans and Democrats
to what very well could be the biggest
and the dumbest political scandal in
American history a few housekeeping
notes we got a new episode of love it or
leave it that dropped over the weekend
and includes Adam Scott Nicole Byer and
a very Ken Burns's take on the great
civil war that some Trump supporters
have been warning us about and it sounds
fun there's also a brand-new episode out
today of America dissected with Abdul
Elsayed it's all about the insane cost
of prescription drugs in this country
and why the pharmaceutical companies get
away with this go listen it is a
fantastic episode please check out this
podcast if you haven't already and
finally we talked a lot about 2020 here
but there are also very important
elections in 2019 particularly in
Virginia where Democrats have a very
good chance of flipping the legislature
which would mean progress on issues like
gun control and the ability to draw to
redraw gerrymandered congressional maps
in 2021
so if you haven't please make a donation
to vote save America's
gerrymandering fund at vote save
america.com slash Jerry GE era GE rry we
only need to flip two seats in each
chamber in Virginia to put Democrats in
charge so this is one of those funds
where a little money is going to go a
long way because these are state
legislature races we have a few to flip
elections in November
very very big deal so check it out all
right Dan it's all happening since we
last spoke on Thursday even more
evidence has emerged that the president
directed a scheme involving multiple
government officials who attempted to
trade America's financial and diplomatic
support for a promise from the Ukrainian
government that they would launch
politically motivated investigations
into American citizens with the purpose
of helping Trump get reelected the
president and his personal lawyer have
basically admitted that they
it's been confirmed by the White House
summary of the call between Trump and
the president of Ukraine and now we have
incriminating text messages between
various Trump appointed diplomats as
well as the emergence of at least one
more whistleblower who claims to have
first-hand information about the arms
for investigations scandal meanwhile The
Associated Press reported on Sunday
night that a couple of Rudys clients
were bragging about their connections to
Rudi and Trump while quote trying to
install new management at the top of
Ukraine's massive state gas company
their plan was to then steer lucrative
contracts to companies controlled by
Trump allies Dan I can only imagine how
hard this news hit the president who as
you know has been a passionate foe of
corruption his entire life but let's
start with the news that attorney Mark
Zaid confirmed on Sunday that he's now
representing multiple whistleblowers and
that the second whistleblower who has
not yet filed a formal complaint has
first-hand knowledge of some of the
allegations how big of a deal is this
when so much of the original whistle I'm
sorry how big of a deal is this when so
much of what the original whistleblower
told us has already been confirmed I
think the significance of a second or
maybe third fourth fifth whistleblower
has more to do with I'm sorry guys I
think the significance of these
additional whistleblowers has less to do
with the specific information we may or
may not get about this Ukraine scandal
but it does say that Trump's strategy to
intimidate whistleblowers writ large is
failing because ultimately all of this
yeah the question in our head about how
like Trump keeps attacking this
whistleblower even though the
whistleblowers what the whistleblower
said it now basically overtaken my
events right well yeah we already have
this call transcript we have Trump's
repeated confessions to said crimes on
camera on national television and so why
do we care but the main thing that Trump
affiliates he is trying to intimidate
additional whistleblowers saying if you
come out I will come after you and at
least for this group that we're hearing
about now that has not worked and I
think that is the more alarming
concerned if you're trouble yeah it also
undermines the completely absurd defense
and attack by Trump about how you know
the whistleblowers are you know partisan
deep state plants who don't have
first-hand information and you know atom
shifts they're in cahoots with Adam
Schiff and you know all the rest of the
deep state gang to try to take down
Trump like the more that come forward
and the more that have first-hand
information and you know and and the
more that this information is all
corroborated by all of the other
evidence we have it does feel like that
lessens the effectiveness of the already
ridiculous attack but I don't know what
do you think I'm sure he's going to be a
deep state yelling about the deep state
till the very end he will the question
is is that gonna matter for anyone other
than his supporters who want from some
sort of permission structure to back
crime they need a pro crime permission
structure just they're just waiting for
word and the the deep states their best
target ya know I mean I'm sure we're
gonna have you know more Glenn Beck
chalkboards and all the rest of
the conspiracies on the right about all
of this and whatever there was you know
if whoever the whistleblowers are we're
sorry let me try it again depending on
who the whistleblowers are or where they
work but it doesn't seem like that's
gonna really hold water with almost
anyone else well it's a test for
democracy it's a test for voters it's
also the test for media by the way
because you know reporters in the past
have had a tendency to jump on some any
any kind of whiff of partisanship on
behalf of some of these whistleblowers
right like if if they if it turns out
that this one of the whistleblowers were
somehow in the Obama administration or
even in the Bush administration now
right like everything seems now to be
fodder for Trump saying these people are
just out to get me it's not on the level
which is itself a bit ironic
I mean speak to a little bit of the
Watergate fetishization of a certain
generation reporters which is like
there's all like secret sources are
supposed to be the way in which
presidents come down but we don't need a
secret source here because we have the
White House releasing The Smoking Gun
we have the knuckleheads texting about
it and we have the president admitting
to crimes on television so like I'm for
everyone going to with them all with all
blowers with or something it doesn't
really it's like the obsession with the
secret source is less relevant when the
president admits to the crime publicly
yeah and you know Lovett said this
during one of our live shows before but
you know Donald Trump is deep throat
here so it's a don't have to worry about
that all right Dan so early last week
you tweeted the perfect call is actually
a text turns out you were even more
right than you thought at the time on
Thursday evening the House Intelligence
Committee released a series of texts
provided during 10 hours of testimony by
Kurt Volker Trump's former special envoy
to Ukraine the messages between volker
US ambassador to the EU to the European
Union Gordon Sunland an interim US
ambassador to Ukraine bill Taylor are
fairly cut and dry
here's Volcker texting president
solinsky's top aide quote heard from
White House assuming president Z
convinced Trump he will investigate
slash in quotations get to the bottom of
what happened in 2016 we will nail down
date for a visit to Washington here's
Sandlin to Volcker quote I think POTUS
really wants the deliverable and here's
where it gets good here's Bill Taylor to
Sandlin quote are we now saying that
security assistance and White House
meeting are conditioned on
investigations and then sunland's
response call me Taylor the next day
after that call quote as I said on the
phone I think it's crazy to withhold
security assistance for help with a
political campaign and here Sandland
quote the president has been clear no
quid pro quos of any kind and then I
suggest we stop the back-and-forth by
text and then he suggests another phone
call dan I don't have a legal or law
enforcement background but smells a
little fishy to me what do what do you
think I mean to quote the great American
television character stringer vowel
don't take notes on a
criminal conspiracy
what is happening we are dealing with
the dumbest criminals and Bill Taylor is
not dumb because he knows exactly what
he was doing was he was basically luring
them into admitting to the crimes and
writing just so everyone that's clear is
there sort of like yes let me put the
drugs in this baggies if anyone is
listening to the wire and then I'm gonna
hand you this bag with drugs you're
gonna hand me an envelope with money
yeah
can you confirm can you confirm just a
little hour that little louder that the
drugs in this bag it's it's heroin in
the bag can you just repeat that for me
just say it closer to my chest on
Twitter into us which is you don't have
to text call me you can just call I know
it's pretty it's pretty bad
so I mean what possible reason does
ambassador Sunland have to be involved
as such a passionate loyalist to Donald
Trump who is this guy what's his deal
why does he seem to be the one who's
trying to protect Donald Trump here he
is a rich guy who was originally for
Tron and then he walked away from Trump
over one of the many horrible things
Trump did but then when Trump won he
bought his way back in with about a
million dollars in donations and he got
the job of ambassador to the European
Union which is very strange to give that
very important position to a donor right
like American ambassador chefs are not
great but they're just usually generally
a set that go to donors and then there's
a set that go to career foreign policy
professionals and the EU is usually
handled by a career foreign policy
professional and it's also notable that
Trump sent this guy with no relevant
experience given that he isn't screaming
about his support for brexit for several
years now so it's the holding is very
awkward it's also noting that Ukraine is
not a member you and therefore Trump I'm
sorry and therefore someone should
really have no authority over this but
he appointed himself to this position
and when anyone of the State Department
asked why he said talk to the president
right so he is a Trump henchman that's
eventually and it's important to know
who these people are because of you know
sorry it's just it's important to know
who these people are to give the text
some context right so Shawne sunland is
a Republican mega donor owned a hotel
chain donate a couple million to the
inaugural to Trump's inaugural through a
shell company and then was rewarded to
be a EU ambassador which as you pointed
out Ukraine's not knee you like probably
shouldn't be handling the Ukraine
portfolio here bill Taylor was a former
ambassador to Ukraine he was he worked
as a more of a career diplomat in the
bush administration the Obama
administration and now for Trump sort of
reluctantly took this job after Trump
and Rudy had the current you Ukraine
ambassador US ambassador to Ukraine
fired before she was supposed to come
home so bill Taylor gets there he's sort
of like a longtime diplomat in in both
kinds of Republican and Democratic
administrations and is now like pretty
horrified that they're all trying to
commit these crimes and tries to say so
and text and it's pretty clear that
Sunland is trying to protect Trump from
all this by saying oh mr. Trump said no
quid pro quos I'm supposed to say that
right here in the text I mean how do you
how do you think this ads these texts
add to the already pretty airtight case
for impeachment here
well like the why or the line keeps
moving on the Republicans they're right
so first when we heard reports of the
call the idea was well as long as he
didn't explicitly be asked for a favor
then it's fine and then table ask for a
favor and then the next one is well he
is tempted not explicitly tae-hee our
Ukraine military aid to these
investigations and so that was the new
line in which Republicans are like Trump
cannot cross that line or he's in
trouble and then they text come out and
make it in crack just vividly clear that
the exact play here was if the if
Ukraine wanted US military aid which it
needs then it was going to have to do
the things that Trump wanted and so we
not like it every time the Republican
say yeah it's fine accepted
this happened so this happens and the
texts are rock-solid proof that this was
a quid pro quo for US military aid yeah
how much does it matter that Salman
claimed in the text that there was no
quid pro quo and now Republicans on the
Intel committee no surprise are saying
that Volker claimed the same thing
during his testimony that there was no I
was not aware of any quid pro quo at all
how much how much do you think this
matters well it's gonna matter in the
same way the deep state conspiracy
matters for some which is it's just
you're looking for if you were looking
for a way to stick with Trump then this
gives you at least evidence even if all
of the other evidence completely runs
counter to it they're just gonna hang
their hat on this very thin read at this
specific wise in this text but
everything else the whole pattern
behavior is very clear that there is an
explicit quid pro quo here involving US
military aid in a meeting with President
Trump in exchange for Trump's doing
Trump's political bidding regards to the
2016 election in the 2020 election and
there is also one more piece of evidence
that emerged over the last several days
from new dumbest senator alive Ron
Johnson who we're going to talk about
later but Johnson basically says that
Salman came to him said that there was
some kind of a quid pro quo around
military insistence for investigations
Johnson then goes to Trump and is like
what is this about a quid pro quo and
Trump's like no I would never do that
what are you are you serious are we
kidding absolutely not so it goes to
show that sunland who was saying there
was no quid pro quo in the text messages
to Volker really believed that there was
but was trying to cover it up and so was
Trump which goes to show that like there
wasn't there was a moment at the
beginning of this scandal where I was
like I wonder if these people are so
brazen and so like an ethically morally
bankrupt that they just don't know what
that what they're doing is a crime or
that it is a severe abuse of power at
the very least but it's clear that they
did it's clear from these texts and from
reporting about Trump that they
absolutely didn't know that this was
wrong and that they were actively trying
to cover it up right right
very clear what was happening here is
not a mystery anyone and all the other
depositions and the subpoena documents
everything are gonna fill out the
picture but we know what happened it is
very clear and the question is what what
is Congress gonna do about it and I say
that Congress is simply not just
Democrats but will there be any
accountability for a very clear scheme
to leverage US foreign policy to help
the political campaign of the incumbent
presidents - Dan finally one more
question before we move on to the
Republican response do you believe like
Donald Trump reportedly does that former
Dancing with the Stars contestant /
current energy secretary Rick Perry is
in fact the mastermind behind this whole
sordid scheme the greatest trick the
credit trick the devil ever pulled was
Rick Perry convincing us that he is a
 when he was pulling all the
strings the whole time the whole time
like it's it's like it's basically Rick
Perry is Keyser söze it's not a story
that people are gonna believe well so
and what we're referring to in case
you've missed this is actually was
reported that on a call with House
Republicans Trump said something along
the lines of quote not a lot of people
know this but I didn't even want to make
the call the only reason I made the call
was because Rick asked me to something
about an LNG liquefied natural gas plant
so I mean it's sort of funny that he's
blaming rick perry but there is also
another way that perry is involved here
you know i mentioned at the top of the
show the AP story that a couple of Rudys
clients were trying to use their
connections to trump and rudy to push
for favorable treatment from the
state-run natural gas company in ukraine
it turns out that rick perry was also
trying to fire the whole board of this
natural gas company that is again run by
the state of ukraine and replace it with
at least two republican donors from
texas now perry claims this was because
you know this natural gas company wasn't
as open to western business
interests as it should be and yet
usually when you try to push for the
removal of a whole bunch of people on a
state-run natural gas board in Ukraine
you need the approval of I don't know
the IMF the World Bank the international
community it's not just the u.s. coming
in like a bunch of gangsters and
saying hey please replace these people
on the board with a couple of our
 donors I guess we should've seen
this part of it coming that's a Rick
Perry mastermind part but ultimately at
the heart of every Trump scandal that we
deal with yes a grip one trying to get
rich right yep it is it is never about
politics or policy it's always about
profit and so in the core of this
there's the DC conspiracy there's the
trying to take down Joe Biden but
ultimately it's about a bunch of people
close to Trump trying to get rich off
what's happening in America yeah and the
in these two rudi clients they've met
with Trump before they've been at
mar-a-lago they actually helped they
were in conversation with the Ukrainians
about investigating Joe Biden and then
these same people go back to the
Ukrainians about the the board of the
natural gas company and they say you
know look we're close with Trump and
Rudy and obviously you know Ukraine
wants a better relationship with the
United States and the board is run by
the government of Ukraine so look you
know it's pretty beneficial for everyone
to do business with us I mean that is
how they are using their connections and
Trump and Giuliani like all of this is
so corrupt in the audacity of
them to be doing this side hustle while
their whole point supposedly is to clean
up corruption in Ukraine and to
accuse the Biden's of corruption while
Rudy and his clients and his Trump
buddies are running a side hustle the
whole time it's uh it's not great this
element of the scandal I think speaks to
the need for a broad impeachment inquiry
because if we
think this is the only time yes that a
bunch of Trump cronies are prostituting
the American policy process in order to
make money that's insane right like that
is obviously we just stumbled on this
correct through some other corruption
scandals yeah and so there is grift
happening everywhere and we should be
looking for it and I don't think we
should short-circuit this before we at
least do some due diligence to see where
else this is happening because use their
the intersection of lobbyists running
federal agencies you have donors with
full access you have Trump green linings
and corruption and so I think an
important part if we're gonna use the
impeachment process to tell a story
about Trump this is an important part of
the story and it's bigger than Ukraine
also if the argument for impeachment is
that this is a serious abuse of power
and then there's not the first time he
has abused his power it's not someone
off incident that was an accident or
whatever else I think it is important to
build a case the Trump has been abusing
the power of the presidency over and
over for personal political and
financial gain that's it that's the
story of Donald Trump's presidency
that's the story of his campaign it's
the story of his whole life but
I think that's gonna be the ultimate
frame for Democrats and you know we have
all this evidence this is all the
Ukraine scandal like you said there's
probably a ton of other scandals under
every single government agency there is
so let's talk about the Republican
response to the scandal which has been
decidedly mixed here's an outstanding
lead from the Washington Post quote a
torrent of impeachment developments has
triggered a reckoning in the Republican
Party paralyzing many of its office
holders as they weigh their political
futures legacies and ultimately their
allegiance to a president who has held
them captive across the country most
Republican lawmakers have responded to
questions about Trump's conduct with
varying degrees of silence shrug
shoulders or pain defenses so I'd say
one of the most pain defenses came from
Iowa Senator Joni Ernst who's up in 2020
when one of her constituents confronted
her during a town hall and I think we
have a clip here of the question and
then we'll get to senator Ernst answer
we have going after Ukraine oh well if
you
want weapons to protect from my buddy in
Russia then you're gonna have to do what
I wanted to do and investigate Joe Biden
now this morning we have him going oh
well we should you know he's gonna be in
the White House here in the next couple
weeks and yet you know we're gonna have
you know he shouldn't investigate Joe
Biden too because I'm sure there was
some other stuff over there and then we
get conspiracy theories and we get lies
and then we get everything else except
for what we really need to know and what
we really need him to do and it just
where is the line when are you guys
going to say enough and stand up and say
you know what I'm not back in any of
this and then we have Joni Ernst trying
to answer this okay so President Trump
if I can say yay nay whatever bill is
going to say what the president is going
to do it's up to us as members of
Congress to continue working with our
allies making sure that we remain strong
in the face of adversity and that's what
we have to do is continue to encourage
those other countries so that's what we
will continue to do nailed it nailed it
Joni Ernst what was that I was awful now
I do I mean I have to give such credit
to that questioner who is a constituent
of Joni Ernst she's an Iowan and you
know I think she put people's
frustrations and also why Donald Trump's
actions are so deeply disturbing and
rise to the level of impeachment and you
know she articulated it probably better
than anyone I've heard and just asking
the question where is the line where is
the line and you know Joni Ernst could
not answer do you think Dan this is why
no one from the White House or the
Republican leadership was willing to go
on any of the sunday shows this weekend
why are why are so many of them afraid
to say anything about this it is
actually notable that no one did it
because really the fastest way to
Trump's heart is to be willing to
absolutely embarrassed
on TV in his defense and it says a lot
that no one was willing to step up to
that task and so there is nothing to say
it is like the president committed a
crime he confessed to the crime he is
threatening whistleblowers he's doubling
down on the crimes oh you want to
impeach me for pressuring Ukraine to
investigate your bride as well in for a
penny in for a pound I'm gonna ask China
to do it too
it's a way I don't know what like there
is nothing to say you know in one of
these stories it says no one wants to be
Kevin McCarthy which is basically
everyone's pin tweet there's no there is
not there is no answer you can say that
is not embarrassing because at position
of defending and enabling this crime and
corruption is embarrassing and he in
most Republicans know that did you see
this morning Dan that Kevin McCarthy
Kevin McCarthy himself again he was on
Fox & Friends and they asked him about
the president calling on China to
investigate Joe Biden and and he was
like he didn't say that
just like I like that Kevin McCarthy has
just gone to a place where like he's
basically telling us things we see with
our eyes and hear with our ears just are
not true Kevin McCarthy's gonna pretend
that none of the is happening it is
like I stepped beyond the usual
oh I haven't Paul Ryan his predecessor
used to do the old
oh I haven't read the tweets this
morning I haven't read the transcript I
didn't see the president's answer to
that I don't pay attention all the stuff
which of course was a lie but at least
it was a comforting lie we knew that
Paul Ryan was lying and we all moved on
Kevin McCarthy's he's going an extra
step Kevin McCarthy's like you know what
that's just not true and they were like
well here's the transcript sir it says
it right here he said the word though
do us a favor though nope nope I didn't
see that I didn't see that I mean this
what I think that's gonna work is I
think he missed I'm I'm sure when Paul
Ryan left the Republican leadership he
left a note for Kevin McCarthy in the
desk and one of those things probably
was the best way to deal with Trump is
to tell the press you don't read the
news but as you point out Paul Ryan read
the news instead that I think Kevin
McCarthy took Paul Ryan too literally
and just it does not read the news he is
no someone get Kevin McCarthy a
newspaper so so speaking of Paul Ryan
his former communications aide Brendon
buck had an interesting quote in one of
these stories where he said they are
working with her president with no
tolerance for anyone to criticize him
they being the Republicans they're
getting stuck wrapped around the axle of
whether what the President did was wrong
or whether he even did it in the first
place so you know I wanted to ask you
about this do we think that I mean I
think that Brendon has a point right
that some of these Republicans are just
terrified of speaking out because and
we'll talk about Mitt Romney in a second
that the president will just unload on
them right he'll tweet about them he'll
attack them all the right-wing radio
host will attack them everyone on Fox
will attack them they'll get a primary
challenge so so fear drives a lot of
this but then you know this morning you
know we haven't talked about this but
late last night the president basically
decided that US troops are going to
immediately pull out of northern Syria
and that Annie's going to basically
allow the Turks to invade northern Syria
and the Turks want to sort of go after
the Kurds who have been our allies in
this fight and so basically all these
Kurdish fighters who have been our
allies are going to be just left to the
mercy of you know the invading Turkish
army here and you know Trump said
you I don't care I'm just going to
abandon our allies here and this morning
all of these a ton of Republicans have
spoken out against Trump's move here why
is he abandoning our allies this is part
of our national security this is
horrible for him to do he has to
reassess so none of these Republicans
were too scared of speaking out against
Trump this morning when it came to Syria
and Turkey
so why what do we think is driving their
reluctance on on this scandal in the
Ukraine scandal I do before we get to
that you mentioned Paul Ryan's aide
Breitenbach he's included in
all of these stories about Republicans I
just think it's so funny that Paul
Ryan's top advisors become the
spokesperson for Republican Carrodus
yeah it's uh thanks thanks for smell
yeah thanks for speaking up now at least
I mean this is like the one way in which
Republican like pre Trump orthodoxy has
remained is on foreign policy right this
was the first thing the Republicans did
King gender when Trump was elected was
working with Democrats to pass Russian
sanctions because they were afraid the
Trump would unilaterally get rid of them
they have pushed back on other things
Trump is done and so this is like as the
party gets splintered into never Trump
hers
mega folks supply siders anti train
populist the one thing that still tides
most of them together at least in the
confines of Washington is
neoconservative foreign policy and so
it's sort of like they get to all go
back to the same cocktail party that
they used to so they go back with in
cocktail parties needs to go to the core
Trump was elected I mean I guess but the
Ukraine scandal is also a scandal about
foreign policy like I find it completely
insane that the Republican Party right
which is the party that has told you
know is feared Russian aggression for so
long and it's supposed to be the tough
party right and and now under Donald
Trump is supposed to be the Nationalist
Party right the people are sovereign and
we're all about nationalism and and US
borders are a super-important blah blah
blah this is the party that now says
it's okay for the president United say
this is also by the way the party of
civil libertarians right would protect
you from federal government overreach
that's the Republican party for a long
long time but when the President of the
United States decides to go to a foreign
government foreign governments including
authoritarian foreign governments in
China and says hey why don't you go
investigate American citizens to help me
out and to basically then jeopardize our
national security and our foreign policy
to say okay
we'll only provide US military financial
and diplomatic support to your country
that is facing Russian aggression if if
you give me the investigations I need to
get myself reelected somehow
the nationalist party the tough party
the Republican Party is totally fine
with this no big deal whatsoever federal
government the the federal government
asking foreign governments to
investigate the lives of American
citizens no problem
super conservative it's like it is
unbelievable
one prominent Republican who did speak
out against Trump's abuse of power is
the party's 2012 presidential nominee
Utah senator Mitt Romney who said that
quote the president's brazen an
unprecedented appeal to China into
Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden is
wrong and appalling for that Trump
called him a pompous ass who deserves to
be impeached which senators cannot be
Dan aside from Romney Susan Collins said
Trump's call was inappropriate in a big
mistake Ben Sasse criticized Trump
asking China's authoritarian government
to investigate an American citizen so I
guess that's nice how much do these
statements matter how positive of a sign
should we take them to be I don't want
to give people credit for doing the bare
 minimum I mean like the amount
of mm but people were on Twitter or were
carving Mitt Romney into Mount Rushmore
or sending one tweet if he votes the
convict on then he gets full credit if
he used his power in any way to push for
accountability on Trump then I would
give him credit if he were to partner
with a Democrat on legislation that
would you know curb some of trumps
powers or you know cosign of subpoena in
the Senate to ensure that we have some
oversight then give him some credit but
it just is not true that the only power
the founders granted to a co-equal
branch of government is sad tweets like
it's just like I'm glad he did it like
he should like we should is better than
not doing it but let's actually do
something you you should not get
a huge amount of credit for saying the
obvious truth yeah I mean I guess my
view on this is it is not super useful
to sit around and debating whether we
give someone credit or not or whether
you know their statement about Trump is
a sign that they're going to convict or
not like we can sit around all day
debating this and predicting to me Mitt
Romney's statement forget about how we
think about Mitt Romney it is a
politically useful statement because as
we are trying to build a case against
Donald Trump not just for a potential
Senate trial but for the most important
trial which is the 2020 election we are
trying to show that not only has what he
done pissed off Democrats because we're
just partisans but that there are enough
Republicans conservatives never Trump
Republicans wherever they may be out
there who find this behavior appalling
because there gonna be some voters who
think to themselves okay well it's not
just the Democrats criticizing Donald
Trump
I am also noticing some of these
Republican senators that I know or
Republican pundits that I had to see on
TV also criticizing Donald Trump so
maybe this one's worse than the other
ones right like I find the statement
useful and I find it like we should take
Mitt Romney's statement right now put it
in a bunch of ads run them in Maine and
Colorado and Arizona and all the places
where Republican senators are vulnerable
and up in 2020 and say the party's 2012
nominee thinks that what Donald Trump
did is appalling
what is your senator have to say about
it where is your senator stand instead
of just hiding and so I think Mitt
Romney's statement is useful and that we
can use it to pressure some of the other
vulnerable Senate Republicans where it
might lead what Mitt Romney might do we
have no idea but I think you
know what we should do is welcome it and
then use it to pressure these other
Republicans okay you've convinced me I
allowed never-ending hatred Mitt Romney
to cloud my judgment here yeah you know
me I mean during the 2012 campaign I was
is the big romney defender love the guy
this Bane stuff seems off-limits look I
put Leo look we strapped Leo on the roof
of the car all the time you know that's
a throwback wondering who forgets that
to your point in addition to using a to
pressure Senate candidates we should
also use it and the impeachment ads that
exist only in our brain to target Romney
Clinton voters in core battleground
states because that is a group that's
gonna be very hard to hold on to and
where Trump has a chance to making
inroads to nullify the game Democrats
may make with some other groups and so
like having Mitt Romney say that what
Trump did is terrible and showing us
people who pulled the lever for Mitt
Romney about too many years ago could
seem like a good use of money we don't
have and can't seem to find it yeah and
I will say that after complaining about
this for like the last several days I
noticed that you know bill Crystal's
group is running some ads right now
these are a bunch of never Trump
Republicans who are running a few ads
about impeachment and then I saw a
report that Tom stires group is going to
put a couple million dollars into ads in
battleground states about impeachment as
well which is a positive sign there
could be a lot more of that we could be
doing all this a lot faster we should be
coming up with people should be
producing like digital ads even if they
don't even if there's not a huge Buy
behind them just so you know the media
covers it but like there should be a lot
more creativity around the ads here and
they should be a lot faster than they
are but it's good to at least see a
couple groups are starting to play here
crystal was the one coming to our rescue
yeah great
so another defensive trump is that he
was just joking about asking Ukraine and
China to investigate American citizens
this was the brainchild of Marco Rubio
who before losing to Donald Trump
suggested that he has a small penis and
shouldn't be trusted with the nuclear
codes Dan what do you think is the
Donald Trump's just joking excuse that
was the brainchild of Ruby
but also repeated by Jim Jordan I think
senator roy blunt from his or a couple
other republicans just joking just
trolling us is that is that going to
work I mean that had like a two percent
chance of working if it had not been
reported near hours after Trump said
this the by CNN that Trump did actually
do it and that there was a call
transcript on the secret White House
server that contain the information so
no I did not think that's going to watch
yeah the best part is so Rubio says this
about China that was just a joke and
then the very next day which always
happens
Trump tweets look I do think that China
should engage in investigations uh you
know I don't think it's politics it's
just corruption so he wasn't joking he
 told us he wasn't joking you
 god I hate Marco Rubio I am
Jesse he sucks he sucks finally we have
the Ron Johnson defense which is to go
on television and repeat all the memes
that your crazy uncle posts on Facebook
here is the exchange between the
Wisconsin Republican and Meet the Press
host Chuck Todd that is why Trump the so
upset he had this false narrative that
resulted in him being set up by James
Comey and on January 16th then he has a
senator counsel appointed that is
hampered his entire investment senator
Pryor his entire his entire
administration and now once he's been
that was proven false he would like to
know and I would like to know and I know
his supporters would like to know where
did this all come from who planted that
false story senator detail I I have I
have a third letter into the Inspector
General of intelligence entity asking to
just confirm just confirm are you
investigating those leaks that Peter
struck talked about night senator I
ain't no idea again no that's a dancer
set up what doesn't work on to this
point why a Fox News conspiracy
propaganda stuff is popping up on here I
have no idea better
I've never go that is senators this is
the applying exactly why President Trump
is upset and why his supporters are
upset
well news media ok the media center
Johnson Cyrus Johnson
please can we please answer the question
that I asked you instead of trying to
make Donald Trump feel better here that
you're not criticizing wow I've never
heard I've never heard Chuck in all the
years we've known him that angry about
anything that was that was something I
mean Dan did Ron Johnson did he have to
do that like like what does it say about
being a Republican in today's Republican
Party that that is your performance on
Meet the Press when you when you're
asked about a current scandal involving
the president's abuse of power and you
go back to the you know Peter
struck texts and the idea that James
Comey set up Donald Trump in the
Russia investigation which was conducted
by Republican Bob Muller and a bunch of
FBI agents and the intelligence
community in the FBI is somehow a
 conspiracy because you see that
on a bunch of right-wing websites I
think it speaks to two elements of
modern Republican republicanism the
first is the audience of one right yeah
it's a cult one is relic document knows
that trunk it's gonna watch what they're
saying and very well may tweak them out
of existence and so they're all
performing for him now for the voters
back home not for swing voters who may
be watching not for the moderate of the
performing for Trump and that that
matters that if that affects how they
think and we know Trump's gonna watch
because she actually DVRs all these
shows and watches them later he tweeted
about the nation's like nine hours after
it was on so got back from the golf
course whatever he did on Sunday sat
down on this couch
fired up fascination and watched it
afterwards which that's the first person
to ever do that in American history and
so but the second phenomenon is it's the
Fox News effect which is we think all
the time about how Fox News effects with
voters but we'd also not talking about
how Fox News
affects Republican politicians yeah and
they have moved into the Fox bubble Ron
Johnson believes these things because he
gets all of his information from a
right-wing propaganda bubble and so he
you know I think probably a moment like
Kevin McCarthy as we read about earlier
is like Fox News if I use fox news sort
of as a catch-all for all of the
terrible Republican propaganda but Fox
News is pickling the Republican brain
and it's happening at the highest levels
of American government and that is that
shouldn't scare people because our
government decisions are being made our
policy outcomes are being dramatically
impacted not just in the house but in
Congress by the think that Sean Hannity
and Tucker crossing tomorrow Ingraham
say on a nightly basis that's scary yeah
I mean and there's no better example of
this forget about Ron Johnson then the
abuse of power that the president may be
impeached over right like one one of the
investigations he asked for was into the
Biden's which is also part of a
conspiracy theory that you know if I can
Peter Schweitzer put in a book somewhere
the other investigation is uh into you
know the idea that Ukraine
framed Russia this this menacing country
next door that has invaded it and
Ukraine has somehow had it together to
frame Russia for interference in the
2016 election not this idea that you
know I know they're a lot of them are
pointing to some Politico story the Ken
 Vogel wrote last year or
whatever that you know perhaps there was
people in the Ukraine who like exposed
Paul man affords crimes because they
 hate Paul Manafort because he
worked for a Russian puppet in Ukraine
so they say you know that they were
helping the Clinton campaign by exposing
Paul manna for its crimes not not that
Donald Trump believes that there's a
server that Hillary Clinton's server is
hidden somewhere in the Ukraine and that
if we find the server and and look into
it and we are gonna we're gonna discover
that it wasn't Russia all along that our
FBI and our intelligence agencies and
members of both administrations the
Obama administration and the Trump
administration all of these people in
the federal government even people that
donald trump appointed this whole time
were part of a conspiracy to just frame
russia
and Donald Trump for election
interference in 2016 that's what he
believes he believes that Rudy Giuliani
believes that and no small amount of the
Republican Party believes that
that's what we're dealing with here
great it is not great
what what do you think Republicans could
be doing right now look what is that
what would the best strategy here be
from Republican politicians who are
trying to get through this aside from
what we would like them to do which is
show some courage and say that
it's wrong and that you're gonna hold
the president accountable well I think
you could say it's wrong but say it
doesn't reach small little impeachment
which I'm surprised that more of them
haven't done go ahead no I was gonna say
which I'm which I'm surprised that more
of them haven't done it's so obvious to
do because it allows you to state the
obvious
Trump's conduct is indefensible it is
obvious and indefensible and so don't
defend it don't like wrap yourself into
it switches on the door pretzel or
whatever trying to explain why it's okay
for presidents to pressure foreign
government to interfere in recollections
it is not that is like on the list of
hypothetical impeachable offenses that
the founders probably do ah right yes
obviously what it is but you can say if
you're Republican it was wrong the
president should not have done it but it
doesn't reach a level of impeachable
offense particularly this close to an
election we show what the voters have
their say and then it's pivot in fact
the Democrats for focusing on this
person obsession instead of doing XYZ
improve it like raising wages or
building in structure or whatever it is
but they can't do that because Trump
will brook no dissent
yeah and so they're stuck in this you
know on this very sad short menu of
options that we outline but marco rubio
joke the hide from the press the you
know ron johnson conspiracy theory well
there's the obvious answer is not
available then because Trump won't let
it be available to them and it's because
they don't belong to a political party
anymore they belong to an authoritarian
cult that's the truth that's that's why
they can't that
why they're not allowed to criticize
Dear Leader even to say that something
he did was wrong but it doesn't deserve
impeachment they can't do that I also
think once once you say that it's wrong
for the president knighted States to ask
a foreign country to interfere in our
elections to investigate American
citizens to do this as a quid pro quo
for getting the United States is
military financial and diplomatic
support you do then have to answer it
well if it's so wrong like why are we
just gonna let him do it and yes we have
an election in 2020 where we can decide
this but we don't have any confidence
that it's going to be a free and fair
election because the president is
actively trying to rig it that's that's
what he needs to be a beach for I think
that strategy only works if you can hang
your hat on the non quid it's not a quid
pro quo text yes I think you cannot say
you cannot admit to all of the facts
there are at play here and then not in
whole Trump accountable through removing
from office like yeah what if you say it
was inappropriate to talk to them about
it but not impeaching all that it's
still wrong but it is a slightly more
defensible position that yes the
president used the threat denying they
let me try the fight you can't really
say the president blackmailed Ukraine in
order to get a political investigate
beneficial investigation right is he did
that but I'm not home accountable but
you can sort of you have to admit to
some set of facts and to do it otherwise
it's impossible but people either are
willfully there making these members
look like Emma correctly making
willfully here in the fact or they're
just like I said truth himself in a
pretzel yeah all right let's talk about
our impeachment is affecting the
Democratic primary especially Joe Biden
this is from the New York Times over the
weekend in a piece about how his
campaign has struggled over how to
respond quote mr. Biden himself was
equivocating he wanted to defend and
protect his son but he also believed the
president was baiting him into a dirty
fight and as a lifelong adherent to
congressional tradition mr. Biden was
weary of acting hastily as an
impeachment inquiry was getting underway
the Biden campaigns tense deliberations
reached a climax last weekend when mr.
Biden agreed to give a scorching
rebuttal to mr. Trump in a speech on
Wednesday in Reno Nevada but he
delivered it well into the evening on
the East Coast and it was mostly lost
amid another long day of Trumpy
interruptions to some Biden allies it
seemed a little it seemed too little too
late a case study in political and
decision so Dan on one hand you read
this and you see Biden equivocating on
whether Trump should be impeached and
the Biden folks writing Saturday night
op eds in the Washington Post and
responding to Trump tweets that are like
two days old and you think maybe not the
most nimble response on the other there
were two Fox News polls out this week in
the Joe Biden winning Wisconsin and
beating Trump by more than any other
Democrat there and holding a huge lead
in South Carolina so what do you think
is he handling this well are we all in
the in the media and on Twitter
overreacting what do you think I had
like that you considered it two groups
of people the media in Twitter yeah I
was gonna say I don't want to lump us
right in with the media you know I want
to just provide a little context first
that certainly underlies that near time
story which is any time I've ever been
working in a campaign and a candidate
family became part of the campaign
conversation that's when things got
really messy it just gets very hard for
campaigns to make clearly thought-out
nimble decisions when the impact of
those decisions it's not about what
happens in polls or what happens in the
voting booth what happens on the kitchen
table on their family and enjoy Biden is
incredibly close to his son Hunter
obviously they together they have been
through an unimaginable amount of
tragedy in their lives and so like I
just think we have to recognize that the
fact that this is about Joe Biden's son
make this a much more complicated thing
so when we sit here and say you should
be doing excellent visions it was this
fast
understand the decision-making process
is more complicated than would be if
this was just about you know some other
false attack right and so you know we've
just anytime candid families involved
things can very complicated very quickly
but no but having said that the response
is lacking on every level
and it like they are playing by an old
set of rules by responding with speeches
in Washington Post op eds
and their even by the old set of rules
they are performing poorly right giving
your speech your big response on the
west coast at night makes zero sense and
there's a reason no one noticed it when
you texted me on Sunday morning to say
that Biden had written a Washington Post
op-ed I was was forced to remember that
the Washington Post had it not that page
it's so in like I happen to catch it
Saturday night and I was just because
I'm a loser and was going to bed and was
reading the news on Saturday night and
and I just see him like wait Joe Biden
has an op-ed that he wrote in The
Washington Post what is this and you
know I read it before I went to bed it's
a fine op-ed it doesn't break any new
ground doesn't say anything interesting
but it's fine whatever and then I wake
up the next day and of course all the
sunday shows have happened all this
other news and you can't find a single
comment about that up ed anywhere no one
is talking about it
few people have read it it has made no
news and it just to me I don't mean to
harp on an op-ed because it's just a
 op-ed who cares but to me it is
indicative of a problem at their
campaign has had beyond just the scandal
which is they are not very nimble they
do not move quickly they do not like you
said they do not play by the rules of
today's media age now part of this is
because they believe that the the gang
of people who are on Twitter and part of
the media whether it's reporters or
progressive activists are always overly
hysterical about everything that we're
all in a bubble and that all their
voters who are you know non-college
educated white Americans black Americans
Latino Americans right like their older
voters their Coalition is not always on
Twitter freaking out about every
development in the news cycle and I get
that I understand that and I understand
that that is their coalition but what
they don't realize is that what has
happening on Twitter and on the news
is is driving the media that eventually
reaches all voters in this country it is
shaping the narrative and they seem to
be very reluctant to be quick enough and
bold enough to shape that narrative as
events are happening there always seemed
to be a bit behind the eight ball and
I'm trying to figure out why that is I
think there is a happy medium somewhere
between a campaign that's basically arty
if you agree and the campaign is right
now yes and yes I know I stole your your
Josie making me separately I can do that
and I think this is like I think Biden
is an extreme example of this so I think
this speaks to democratic political
communications more broadly there's
something that very worries me which is
in 2019 political communication is not
public relations its modern information
warfare and where the press is only a
small part of a strategy to persuade
people so Biden is in this mix the trunk
is spending millions of dollars in
digital ads which are he's protecting
himself by attacking by in convincing
targeted sets of voters in battle grid
states all across this country that Joe
Biden is corrupt and he is doing it
unimpeded unresponded too and he just
the Democrat too for too many Democratic
campaigns their strategy is talk to the
press and the Republican strategy and
truck charities to talk to people and
equip money behind it and if when you
play by the old set of rules you were
going to lose and like I said they are
not even playing by that particularly
well and to the point I made earlier
about that why this is complicated is
Joe Wright has very smart advisors they
people we've worked with yeah we
campaigns with and so sometimes it's not
in a campaign the sum is less than the
total of the parts and so which often
speaks to organization right and I am
you talking about nimbleness and I am
not particularly good at nautical
metaphors but they are in aircraft
carrier right it takes a long time to
turn they have a lot of people you might
have people around over a very long time
and you want to be something I don't
know what it would he would call up that
something was more nimble than an
aircraft carrier that turns more quickly
to react more cookie and that is
particularly true in this media age
against someone like Trump who was
firing me a new version of the new
attack at you every five seconds there's
also a strategic issue here which you
know Biden sort of gave voice to during
one of his fundraisers that was quoted
in one of these pieces where he said you
know he basically his lesson from 2016
is you know Trump pulled Hillary into
the mud with him and so every time Trump
said something crazy she had to respond
which is something that we've talked
about a lot which was a problem right is
that like Trump says something racist
Hillary gives a speech about Trump's
racism and the headline is Trump says
something offensive and here's Hillary
Clinton's response and it's not really
helpful to her campaign because it's
always just her responding to every
crazy thing that Donald Trump tweets and
so what Biden takes from that is I don't
want to get down into the mud with
Donald Trump I don't want to respond to
every thing he does and I
understand that and I understand that
and I it to a point I agree that you
don't want to go tit for tat with Donald
Trump and you don't want to respond to
every tweet that Donald Trump
sends out every day because if the
campaign is about small things he wins
if it's about big things we win I keep
saying this right but this is different
this is not a small thing this is not
Donald Trump saying something offensive
this is Donald Trump interfering to make
sure that we don't have free and fair
elections in 2020 because he wants to
rig it and he wants whatever help he can
get to rig it whether it is the Attorney
General of the United States or the
government of Ukraine or the government
of China whoever can help him he is
going to use the power of the presidency
to make sure that we don't have a free
and fair election in 2020 but that he
has every advantage that the presidency
gives him and doesn't give him according
to the law but he's gonna take anyway to
try to win this election and
there is nothing bigger than that and
it's part of Joe Biden's message if he
wants it to be right Joe Biden is the
one who's saying this is a fight for the
soul of the country and it is Donald
Trump who is uniquely bad even more so
than your typical Republican Donald
Trump is unique
he is a threat to our democracy he is a
threat to the world so what better
example of Donald Trump being a threat
to our democracy in the world than what
he has done in Ukraine Joe Biden should
be all over this talking about it every
single day he should have a new
topper to his stump speech every single
morning they should be pumping out
videos from the campaign over and over
again new creative videos they should be
he should be doing interviews all the
time right like a nimble campaign would
see what Donald Trump has done as right
in their wheelhouse this isn't Joe
Biden's message wheelhouse right now and
he doesn't happen
he does have to make it about him and
his family either that's the other thing
right like I've been saying this whole
pot it's not just about Donald Trump
asking for an investigation into his
political opponent Donald Trump is
asking foreign governments to
investigate American citizens yes it
happened to Joe Biden this time but next
time it could happen to Elizabeth Warren
people to judge Kamala Harris or any
American who disagrees with Donald Trump
that is what is at stake here the other
elements of this for the Biden campaign
is Biden's campaign is very supposedly
hooked his candidacy to collectability
yes and here you have there's probably
no better validation in Joe Biden's
electability argument at least in terms
of public perception than the fact that
Donald Trump is so scared of running
against to a Biden that he engaged in a
multi-faceted ham-handed international
criminal conspiracy to try to sink Biden
candidacy right like yeah it seems
pretty obvious and so like you point
about some other things they should be
doing is I do think they need like
there's an offense element of this where
they're making this about their message
they're using it to raise money online
so they very much need to do this is the
biggest story in America and spending
money digitally too even if you're not
doing it to defend yourself but to raise
money and build up your supporter base
is good being that's why they do the
second thing is I think one lesson Choi
16 you don't have to follow Trump down
into every rabbit hole
no but you better be sure to arm your
supporters with the facts they need to
defend you when these conspiracy
theories start spreading on social media
yes and so explainer videos
graphics things that Biden supporters
could share on Facebook Twitter
Instagram wherever else or even
interesting conversations the
watercooler that would explain why Biden
call to fire the prosecutor had nothing
to do with his son's business in fact
probably put his the company the histone
sergeant Bourdon and greater legal risk
yeah like the facts are all on his side
that they are not being marshaled as far
as I can tell by the campaign in a way
in a digitally friendly way to combat
what is truly a wildfire of conspiracy
theory that's spreading on social media
and look you know I started this by
talking about the polls and it is true
that these two polls that released over
the weekend do not show any real damage
to Joe Biden's candidacy he's far out in
the lead in South Carolina he's on top
in Wisconsin still beating Trump by a
few more points than Sanders are worn in
that poll but I also think a it's still
early be there's other polls that when
they ask you know investor's business
daily did a poll that said you know do
you think the Department of Justice
should investigate Biden and his son
yes 57 no 37 Monmouth a plurality of
Americans say it is quote probably true
that Biden quote put pressure on
Ukrainian officials to get them to not
to investigate his son's business
dealings their 42 to 37 so there's a lot
of people who don't know yet but that's
still a plurality who think that he the
Biden put pressure on the Ukrainian
government and so these these this might
not be making a dent in the horse race
or Biden standings right now immediately
but this is gonna where over time this
is exactly what happened to Hillary
Clinton with the email scandal and
that's the real danger here and we talk
about electability in the general like
to me one element of electability is is
your campaign going to be nimble enough
to respond to the dirtiest campaign in
history from Donald Trump are you going
to be ready to respond are you going to
be fast and nimble and understand as you
said Dan that this is modern warfare
around information this is sorry this is
information warfare that's what this is
about
and you need every cam
pain that wants to be the Democratic
nominee needs to understand that effect
I think by that test we would both agree
this children's campaign is not met it
yet no we also haven't seen any of the
other campaigns tested in this moment
yet that is also true
right like and so we just don't know
like we I think rightfully have praised
Elizabeth Warren for running the best
campaign in the race today well we also
haven't seen her tested like this and
yep so it just before we make
conclusions that Biden is definitely not
the best candidate or shouldn't be the
nominee or whatever else we he is
basically fast no one else has he needs
to do better but he's the only one who
was doing this tradition today yeah we
should presume as you point out that
everyone is gonna whoever our nominee is
is going to face a coordinated election
interference they will evolve the
American government foreign government
and everything else yeah it's it is very
high likelihood that whoever the
Democratic nominee is Donald Trump will
somehow order an investigation into that
campaign whether it's with the help of
his foreign autocrat pals or his his
buddy the Attorney General some you know
whether it's like Kazakhstan
you know investigating Elizabeth Warren
or bill Barr investigating mayor Pete
like it's gonna happen it's gonna happen
or at least at the very least if it
doesn't happen we should be prepared for
it to happen and all those campaigns
should figure out what their plan is and
how they would respond and hopefully it
is better than how Abidin is responded
so far but of course it also still is
early and you know Biden still has time
to mount a better response
so go ahead that's our hope that's our
hope all right when we come back we will
have my interview with FEC chairwoman
Ellen Weintraub
