oh it's time for a game called okay stop
it roll a clip and the panel can say
okay stop at any point to comment since
the bar memo Fox News has been sobbing
about just how much damage the
investigation has done to our country
and our people no one is sadder than
Tucker Carlson if you don't okay and
he's not the only person in this clip
let's roll it we have lived through
three separate investigations into
Russia collusion not just Muller but a
committee in the house and a committee
in the Senate okay stop I just would
just remind everybody that there were so
many investigations into Benghazi right
which was a tragic event but ultimately
something blown out of proportion by
Republicans trying to attack Hillary
Clinton this is an investigation into a
foreign governments of attempt to
undermine our democracy at every level
and to work with a campaign a
presidential campaign against a
Democratic opponent all right an
unpatriotic and potentially criminal act
that may have changed the course of our
country and I'd be like three
investigations it's like a pretty low
 number right especially
considering when nothing was done by
this administration to stop them from
doing it again I mean we need to
understand this as voter suppression we
need to understand this foreign unit
foreign interference not simply as
foreign interference but as voter
suppression they're trying to suppress
votes and if they want to let them do it
again
then that's how a he might win the next
election well Republicans like really
hate voter suppression here's looking in
this and in the end they found nothing
but during that time this country the
country they're supposed okay so there
are people going to jail right now from
these investigations there are multiple
ongoing criminal proceedings from these
investigations taking place right now
it's Paul Matta board in jail right now
s'matter Board is in a prison cell all
right no her maids ties the Paul
Manafort right now it's comparable to
saying like going to a fireworks show
and there being a bunch of fireworks and
then the whole time you're waiting for
the big finale and then the big finale
doesn't have
and then FoxNews is like there were no
fireworks that's exactly right
has become obviously and measurably
worse suicide drug ADIZ are up life
expectancy is all the borders are a mess
we have no clue who lives in this
country okay y'all heard what he's doing
her right you heard it right okay so we
have no clue who's living in this
country after all the problems suicide
drug abuse we have no clue who's living
in this country whose fault is that
whose fault is it I mean the fact that
he managed to work in some like
xenophobia into Bob Muller stuff is
amazing and we're not even through the
lead yet millions of people maybe tens
of lanes we have no idea the schools are
a joke you wouldn't send your kids to if
you had a choice the infrastructure is
crumbling hundreds of thousands of
Americans sleep outside it okay stop
who's president okay subway barely works
the largest city in the United States
smells like garbage okay stop Jerry
Seinfeld's up in here with the
observations airplane food was next if
we kept going I just love the idea that
like while there were three ongoing
investigations one of the Department of
Justice one of the Intelligence
Committee one in the Senate one in the
house America had problems the city
smells like garbage my bathroom smells
like it's very stupid to say that
New York smells like something New York
has eight million people in it it
contains vast vast smells of every type
that's what makes it in New York live
there I mean he lives in a version of
New York that none of us have been to
this has been a disaster how can we let
the people who are responsible for it
continue as if it never happened
how can Eric's whoa whoa and Adam Schiff
keep their seats in the House of
Representatives they should resign okay
stop
[Applause]
okay everybody just for the record for
listeners the picture on the screen is a
picture of Donald Trump jr. with a
terrible beard I just want to say
because we are currently sitting in Adam
shifts district right now he is my
congressman soon and I just say I don't
want to speak for all of us but this
guy's not going anywhere and
it's true
the next person we're about to hear from
this time junior leader of the tinfoil
hat brigade Adam Schiff out there every
day talking about the evidence of
collusion that he's seen he's flagrantly
lying to the American people he's doing
it every day on national television he's
gotten more airtime amazingly enough
than Michael avenatti okay okay good
burn good burn good burn good burn
different but they're about of the same
level of credibility and there's no
accountability for that Tucker because
when you're on that side and you have
the media carrying your water for you
you can say whatever you want when
you're on our side okay I feel like he
just sort of showed us his hand a little
bit yes he projected I would say when
you have the media on your side and your
dad is the president you can say
whatever you want and you're right even
when you're proven so there's a level of
culpability there are repercussions for
being a conservative that you don't face
if you're on the other side
Meteor what do you think I feel that
what you think Barney
[Music]
