welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the
pod
Dan's interview with Stacey Abrams who
just launched a new effort to protect
voting rights in the 2020 election
before that we will try to assess the
damage from the president's latest
meltdown which even by Donald Trump's
standards was one for the ages this week
I also check out pod save the world
where Tommy and Ben talked about how
Trump bullied Netanyahu into blocking
Ilhan Omar and receded to leap from
visiting Israel they speak with a China
expert from Human Rights Watch about the
massive protests in Hong Kong issue a
call to action in defense of California
wine that's a very Tomi topic and
explain why Al Qaeda released a blooper
reel Wow check it out finally in the
latest episode of uh Tommy's uh Tommy's
promos for positive of the world or just
fire I have to say finally in the latest
episode of our crooked miniseries
rigging North Carolina our political
director Shaniqua McClendon examines the
bunkers hearing the North Carolina State
Board of Elections held earlier this
year to get to the bottom of what
happened in the congressional race for
the 9th district alright let's get to
the news so one point yesterday these
are the four headlines that ran on the
front page of the New York Times new
rule would let us hold Mike Trump yeah
right not that one not that one they've
moved past that here they are new rule
would let us hold migrant families
indefinitely NRA gets results in one
phone call with the president Trump
accuses Jewish Democrats of disloyalty
and Trump canceled a meeting with
Denmark over its refusal to sell
Greenland Michelle Goldberg a columnist
at The Times posted a photo of the front
page and tweeted that it looked like one
of those pre-election parodies about
what a trump administration would be
like in the worst part is those
headlines just scratched the surface of
all the unhinged nasty destructive
the president said and did last week dan
we're gonna dig into these headlines one
by one but I want to start by asking you
about a theory that I've been hearing
from our old pal David Axelrod which is
that voters that sorry which is that the
vote
that Trump needs to win are getting
exhausted by waking up to this constant
chaos and craziness day after day and it
is sort of damaging his political
standing with probably some of the
voters he would need to win in 2020 what
do you think of that theory I mean
there's definitely some merit to it I'd
like to see you know research that
suggests it I know I saw it you me chose
in the New York Times tweet this morning
when is the Democrats gonna run on the
platform of make America boring again
yeah and I guess I get that idea like
you like I think Michael Bennett also
said this which is you know wouldn't it
be great if you had a president you have
to think about 24/7 I do think that
Trump I was I would actually take
Axelrod's theory and taken in a less
optimistic direction which is what Trump
the results of Trump exhausting the
American electorate is not that people
will vote against them it is that some
people won't tuck right is it it it's so
loud so annoying so terrible so
miserable that they would rather check
out than tune it and if that happens
that it's going to hurt Democrats
because we depend on folks who have
never go to before or less frequent
voters to get the majorities we need to
win the electoral college or while
Republicans have a smaller but more
smaller but more reliable voting base I
think you have to connect the argument
to what really matters in people's lives
because if the argument is just we have
a crazy president every time you turn
the news he's done something else you
know batshit crazy you know then a lot
of people could either like you said say
well then I don't want to vote either
way or just turn off the news but I
think if you frame it as this country
has enormous problems climate change
your health care costs are going up your
wages have been stagnant you having a
tough time sending your kids to college
and we have all these problems and what
is the president doing the whole time
he's just like spouting off every other
day pissing some people off pissing off
foreign leaders inciting hate and
violence he's just making the country
more divided he's profit
off the White House he's doing all this
 while all of these problems
that we have as a country are growing
and no one is actually fighting for you
so I think you have to I think if you
connect it it can be powerful but I
think it can't just be Donald Trump's
you know annoying on Twitter and that's
why we should have a new president yeah
I think that there you make a very
important point which is you have to
connect it to us
there are taught to be consequences for
his behavior in your life like either
things that are gone wrong or missed
opportunities to make the country better
I do think that there's an opportunity
for a Democrat not to run on being
boring but to take to the basically
connect the dots on everything that
Trump is doing at saying is that it's
about Trump yeah right these are his
grievances his fights his temper
tantrums his bottom line when it comes
to his economic policies in his
corruption and to say have a message is
something like wouldn't it be nice if we
had a president who woke up every day
thinking about you not thinking about
themselves who was fighting for you not
fighting everyone for themselves right -
yeah - dude if you I think there's room
for candidate to do that and I think
that is the key to tie this all together
and I don't think act of suggesting this
but boring is not a way to win an
election when your party depends on
inspiring non-voters development yeah I
agree with that so let's start with
Greenland a Danish island that was
minding its own business until Donald
Trump offered to buy it for at least 600
million of our tax dollars per year when
the prime minister of Denmark called the
president's offer absurd Trump called
her nasty and canceled his upcoming
visit to Denmark and attacked the
country's NATO contributions on Twitter
successfully pissing off yet another
close ally of the United States dan I
never thought I'd be asking this
question but why did President Donald
Trump get in a fight with the Danish
Prime Minister over his offer to buy
Greenland yes we have come to expect the
unexpected the Trump era but I have to
admit this one threw me for a loop
didn't see this one coming Spain I mean
it's so crazy it's just what you just
hear it you're like what the how
did we get here it's not even like
things are going superb all around the
country right now we're just like
looking for new Seng
to do the term has just checked
everything off of his list and the
economy's humming Congress is passing
things people are can be killed in mass
shootings and if I guys need to do
projects I'm going to take on the
Greenland thing and so it's either it's
absurd in the best of times it is
incredibly absurd in the middle of this
week which is felt just from just on the
events right they this is this summer
which itself particularly chaotic in
traumatic and scary even by the scale of
that in the Trump era and so it's just
like I don't really know what to say
other than we Trump is an amazing
ability to take the political
conversation and focus it on the
stupidest part humanly possible and I
mean we should talk for a second about
why he wanted to buy Greenland he's not
the first president believe it or not to
inquire about purchasing Greenland I
think Harry Truman did a couple other
presidents did in the past
you know his the a legitimate reason
could be you know there's a geostrategic
sort of sorry there's a geostrategic
region for a reason for this you know
that Greenland is by Russia and you
could have military bases there which by
the way you could have military presence
there through NATO without actually
buying the island but for Trump
we we know why Trump wants to buy
Greenland right he considers himself
like a real estate guy and a builder and
if he could be the president that like
you know added another added an entire
island to America and say that he like
increase the size of the United States
by 20% you can see him like being
excited to brag about that because it's
exactly the type of thing that
Donald Trump gets excited about did you
have Spencer's yes stores growing up it
did yes if you love Spencer's gifts yeah
so for folks who may not have been
around and those days Spencer's gifts is
like this classic 80s store and malls
and so my posters and gag gifts and like
t-shirts from badge and I remember if he
Spencer's gifts in the Cochran law only
to Delaware
they caught they always had this poster
up that was like this dude I think he
was like in tennis shorts around about
like a Ferrari and all this other stuff
and it said at the bottom
in those like notes quintessentially
eighties thing which is he who dies with
the most toys wins and I've always
thought that that is like Trump
yeah with himself a man trapped in the
eighties like that is his ethos that is
his reason for being and so like adding
buying stuff or getting and more land
united states is like direct is to him
equal success that any thought of
anything others like the purchase or at
the acquisition or possession of
something it's in and of itself a win
regardless of what you're using it for
what purpose it would serve yeah he's
also one of these guys who's clearly
only looked at Mercator maps that make
green line Greenland look like five
times bigger than it actually is you
know and so he sees it on that
map and he's thinking of himself holy
 that's big I want to buy that
Island now the of the bad reasons for
this for trying to buy Greenland which
there are many but one of the worst is
he basically just wants to drill
there's like plenty of oil and natural
resources there and you know it's
inhabited by about fifty thousand people
a lot of them are you know they're
indigenous people in Greenland and he
basically wants to go into their home
and drill for a bunch of oil and
realize that you know with climate
change happening Greenland is also like
the ice on Greenland is melting so it's
a perfect opportunity not to solve
climate change but to drill for more
 oil there now the most ridiculous
thing of this whole offer is that he
can't buy Greenland even if the danes
said yes because they are not able to
sell Greenland there is something in the
Constitution that says that if Greenland
wants to separate from Denmark or go
somewhere else or be on its own it's the
people of Greenland that decide in a
referendum they vote so it is also so
Trump to think that he can it's so
 colonial of him to think he can
just pay some money for a territory that
is able to that if it ever wanted to
leave Denmark in the Constitution says
that it can vote for it you know they
can sorry it can decide that on its own
what was it that
dinesh d'souza Newt Gingrich or some
other right-wing nut job said about
Obama that he had the colonial a
neo-colonial attitude yeah I think it
always comes full circle in the Trump
world where it's basically Trump becomes
the absurd thing that conservatives
accused Obama of being then they embrace
it yeah and let's also not let slide
here that the consequence of what
happened this week is that we just
pissed off another NATO ally which Trump
has been doing left and right sucks up
to every dictator all over the world and
just pisses off our allies you know
Denmark small little country in Europe
also you know sent troops to Afghanistan
after 9/11 to support us because you
know we we invoked Article five and NATO
lost 43 soldiers in Afghanistan which is
the highest per capita death rate of any
member of the coalition fighting in
Afghanistan Denmark and Donald Trump
said you because you wouldn't
accept my offer to buy an island that I
actually can't buy anyway that's where
we're at
would you support the acquisition of
Greenland if it became a state well
their politics are pretty left-wing so
maybe we'd get another say Elijah likes
that life is looking at me this is this
is where I was where he's been going all
week
ya know two senators from Greenland two
Democrats
absolutely again if the people of
Greenland want to decide that for
themselves then it's up to that okay
next up on the crazy train
multiple times this week the president
accused American Jews who support
Democrats of being disloyal to Israel
Trump first made the anti-semitic
accusation as he was attacking
congresswoman Rasheeda Talib and Ilhan
Omar who the president successfully
lobbied Bibi Netanyahu to ban from
Israel of being anti-semites on top of
that Trump tweeted the following quote
from right-wing conspiracy theorist
Wayne Allen who believes the mass
shooting in Las Vegas was a Muslim plot
quote the Jewish people in Israel loved
Trump like he's the king of Israel they
love him like he is the second coming of
God but American Jews don't know him or
like him they don't even know what
they're doing or saying anymore this was
a tweet thread from the President of the
United States Dan should we go through
all the ways these comments aren't just
stupid and offensive and anti-semitic
but actually dangerous well
it Trump using in an anti-semitic trope
to call Democrats anti-semitic is Bumpus
on the peaks Roger yeah
it it is it speaks to his stupidity it
also speaks with the willful stupid a of
the Republican Party who had a
hissy fit attacking Johann Omar for
safer suggesting that her comments were
more about loyalty and she was using
this exact same anti-semitic trope that
trumps issues and then all of the people
who attacked the ohan Omar all defended
Trump for it is if it's like you the
price of being in the Republican Party
in the Trump era is that you have to
make yourself look ridiculous three
times a week it's also it's also very
Trump in that the typical dual loyalty
trope is that somehow American Jews
aren't really loyal to America they're
loyal to Israel in Donald Trump's mind
American Jews should be loyal to Israel
which means he doesn't really see
American Jews as Americans write it like
it's such an it's it fits with his like
ethno nationalist worldview where he
doesn't he sees so many people in this
country is not really truly being
American but if you're ethnic or you're
Muslim or you're Latino you know you
have a you know judge Curiel the Jeff
the judge that he said couldn't be fair
because he he was Mexican even though it
was just like he was born in the United
States and he had Mexican heritage right
like Trump doesn't see people he only
sees like white Christians as
fundamentally American everyone else you
know maybe you're okay if you like
Donald Trump if you're not you're
disloyal not only to Trump but to
America that's sort of that's how he
thinks and it's an extremely dangerous
worldview at a time where white
nationalist domestic terrorism is on the
rise and just happened a couple weeks
ago in its decision in 2016
seventy one core negative all 71% of
American Jews vote for Hillary Clinton
the number was 79 percent in the 2018
midterms it's been around that 70%
number for a long time so he's
essentially saying that 7 in 10 American
Jews are disloyal and dumb because the
original comment was that they support
that they are either disloyal or
ignorant to my plan they're supportive
Democrats
yeah and we're just like we're just
moving on it's like we're like this
happened it happened like 36 hours ago
we're on to the Greenland thing and
everything else and we're just gonna
move right past the president attacking
with anti-semitic troq the Jewish MIDI
in America yeah and look a bunch of
people noted if Elizabeth Warren or Joe
Biden had send this this would be the
end of their campaigns the media would
never let it go it would be will be
covered as the biggest thing that ever
happened it would not last a day or two
it would go on and on and on but because
Donald Trump does five of these things
per day it was one of many headlines on
the New York Times yesterday that was
completely bonkers but it doesn't become
it does from benefit from in the month
sorry Trump benefits in the minds of the
press from the fact that they think
accurately that he's done right so he
like this is treated as a misstatement
of someone who talks a lot and generally
doesn't know what they're saying as
opposed to an actual window into
anti-semitism into whistle and when you
connect all the dots around this right
you connect is very fine people comment
about them are the neo-nazi martyrs at
Charlottesville
the amount of times that he retweeted
anti-semitic means during and after the
campaign any semi and then you would
test that to all the others examples of
bigotry in his life in his presidency it
paints a very clear picture but they we
treat this as just yet another thing
Donald Trump said because he talks a lot
it's also illuminates a fundamental
misunderstanding of his sorry it also
shows like his political strategy here
is
based on a fundamental misunderstanding
right which he thinks and to be fair a
bunch of Republicans around him think
that if they somehow cozy up to BB
Netanyahu's government in Israel then
American Jews will say oh well I don't
want to vote for Democrats anymore
because all I care about is what happens
in Israel which is anti-semitic all on
its own
as if they wouldn't as if as if Jews in
this country wouldn't care about the
fact that Donald Trump after a rally or
a bunch of people were marching with
signs that said Jews will not replace us
said there are very fine people on both
sides and all the other instances of
anti-semitism is life but like they
wouldn't care about that they would care
by the way about him being nice to Bibi
Netanyahu I mean it's just it's so
 it's crazy man not not to
mention caring about providing health
care to people or saving the planet or
protecting people from Ryan violent
right all the other issues that matter
to people but I think so I think in
Trump's mind he thinks this way because
he is such a one-dimensional
thinker and the collection of numbskulls
he has surround myself are the same way
which is to win election must win
Florida must to win Florida must win
Jews yep there are lots of Jews in
Florida therefore I will do this I think
that's all Trump thinks because well
then he's basically Homer Simpson is
president like it's not the complicated
thoughts do not work through that brain
the but I think the smarter Republicans
out there and there are some and think
it don't think about it they think about
the strategy in the highways yes I do
think that part of this if you come
there a strategy behind these ramps the
painting Democrats is anti-semitic is
part of the same strategy as painting
Democrats as per socials it is about
Florida it is the fact that there are
older Jews in Florida and the voting
rates among older Jews are different the
Voting Rights my young the parts are the
shot again Republicans do much better
among older Jewish voters the younger
Jewish service they do better among
older voters than younger voters and
there is a concentrated disproportionate
concentration of that electorate in
Florida
and so if you can either hold on to
repeal off some of those voters you're
gonna be better on Florida that's part
one part two is most of the Israel the
pain Democrats anti is really putting up
the Bibi Netanyahu is about the
evangelical vote the rest of the country
more so than it is about the Jewish vote
yeah right and then the third part about
this is it is just yet another way to
try to scare white people by trying to
make the Democratic by trying to take
two Muslim women and make them the face
of the Democratic Party
right this is a besson it's about
Florida not the holding of evangelical
vote who have many reasons to have
questions about Trump's own personal
morality and then it is about this idea
that you he thinks if he makes a
democratic party seem less white he will
win the election yeah and just like
everything else he does it's not about
them thinking they can win the Jewish
vote in 2020 just like they don't think
they can win the african-american vote
or win the Latino vote they just want to
shave off some margins here for
Democrats and they would and they don't
care if you vote for Donald Trump or you
stay home either one works for them all
they want to make sure is that the
Democrat doesn't reach 50% and the
Democrat not reaching 50% or 50% plus
one is because they didn't get high
enough turnout among African American
voters or Latino voters or Jewish voters
right like they're just they're trying
to sort of peel off their constituencies
just a little bit here so the Donald
Trump can again you know probably lose
the popular vote but win the electoral
college and you have just enough people
staying home or voting for third parties
that that's the whole strategy here
right yeah all right let's talk about
the end of Donald Trump's latest
flirtation with gun control not even a
month after two of the worst mass
shootings in recent history all it took
was one 30-minute phone call from the
NRA to scare the president away from
supporting legislation to expand
background checks Trump gave the
following reasoning to reporters on
Wednesday quote I have to tell you that
it's a mental problem and quote you know
they call it the slippery slope and all
of a sudden everything gets taken away
which of course is a longtime NRA
talking point dan are you even a bit
surprised here
janna I think it's unlikely been Dean
Beck is gonna let me write New York
Times headlines but you want my headline
for this would have been was that no
 Sherlock
we've seen this this has this is now the
third time this has happened in the less
than three years the Trump's in
president we have a tragic mass shooting
first in Las Vegas then at Parkland
parkland and then this this month
earlier this month in El Paso mandate
and every time Trump says the right
thing or considers the right thing early
the NRA gets involved in nothing happens
this is the cycle we are in it is
because we are a country with a politics
that was broken by a Republican Party
who is cares more about winning
elections that's laughing people come
getting killed what do you think this
says about the NRA is influence you know
even as they're engulfed in multiple
scandals you know we talked couple pods
ago about how they were outraged and out
organized in 2018 by gun safety groups
for the first time so you know it seemed
like maybe the NRA s influence was
waning and then something like this
happens and with one 30-minute phone
call they get you know an entire gun
safety agenda killed you know every time
one of these shootings happens a bunch
of people on Twitter will tweet every
Republican member of Congress who blocks
gun control which is every member of
Republican member of Congress will tweet
it them the amount of money they took
from the NRA yeah like I think it's an
important point to make and wish you can
to make it but I also think it it has
the danger of oversimplifying the
politics of this that because the NRA
what they have brought to the table is
less about the money that they give
candidates and more about the money they
spend to win elections and the and I
think that the politics of this are of
being for in which I'm in this race to
trump in a minute but at the politics of
it our print is pretty easy you could be
for issues that have 60-some percent
support among Republicans and ninety
percent supporter on the country like
that's easy but what prevents it from
happening
is fear fear of a primary challenge
right is fear of getting attacked from
the right because even though they were
a minority the pro-gun voters the NRA
voters essentially are very well
organized and they turn out to vote and
so these Republicans fear that if they
do the right thing they will get
primaried international next election
and lose because even if it's the right
move for the general election even if
the right moves for their third party
writ large can a more narrow primary
universe they can get killed for it yeah
if you're Donald Trump you also want the
NRA to be spending as much money as
possible on 20/20 whether it's
organizing whether it's ads and by the
way you know some of these ads at the
NRA runs they're not about guns you know
you know that's not as popular they'll
run ads about immigration they'll run
ads about you know attacking the
Democratic can't afford of stuff they
don't give a they're just another
interest group that's going to spend a
fuckload of money on the election and
Trump doesn't want to piss them off
you're absolutely right like it it it is
dangerously oversimplifying the politics
to just say so-and-so got a couple
thousand dollars for the NRA and that's
why they vote the way they do because
that's not necessarily the case you're
right it is fear they have built a they
have built an organization that has
scared a bunch of politicians because
they have a lot of money to run ads to
organize on the ground to disseminate
propaganda which they do very well like
it's it's just another big expensive
right-wing organization and we should
just point out exactly what the NRA it
is because they brand themselves as this
group of citizens yeah right the hunters
and sportsmen and hobby Act that's not
that they are no they are a lobbying
group for gun manufacturers the reason
their ads are about immigration is they
it is in their it is in their interest
to scare people into thinking this
country is dangerous and they need to
protect themselves with a gun even
though all studies say that makes you
less safe and then if you were to not
have a gun and so that that is what this
is about
everything that they do is about selling
more guns so that they can get more
money from the gun manufacturers and the
Republicans want the money from the gun
manufacturers laundered to the NRA
this is about electoral preservation
more than anything else I will say you
know looking at 2020 this may not have
been the politically smartest move by
Donald Trump there was a new AP poll out
this morning that says only seven in ten
Republicans approve of how he's handling
gun policy which is the lowest rating
from his own party on any issue
obviously in Democrats and independents
by large majorities think he's not
handling gun policy well we've talked a
million times about you know the
overwhelming majorities of people who
are for background checks assault
weapons bans all the rest of it Trump
who is having particular trouble with
women suburban women even by the way
non-college educated women white women
which is new this time around having
trouble with all these groups and you
know I actually what if he had if he had
passed background checks I'd be a little
you know I think that would have helped
him politically a little bit yeah it
would have been a home run for him and
on the following vectors as you point
out suburban voters are his biggest
problem that's where the biggest
drop-off has been since the Republican
Party in 2012 this is an issue that
matters a ton in the suburbs the second
issue is he's basically seen as
ineffective you know so he's too busy
engaging in Twitter wars to get things
done and the third problem is that he
ran as someone who was going to be an
independent voice it was not capped into
special interests and he has been just
with it he's in the king of swamp you
know the last three years and so this
would have dealt with all three things
don't was something that matters the
voters would have been able to say I a
comp I grow up Democrats Republicans to
pass background checks something that
Barack Obama could not do right that is
a powerful message to a target group
aversion in the third he would get to
say that he bucked the mr.eddy he stood
up against strong voices in his own
party like that is political gold and he
was just too dumb and or too scared to
take it on because if he were to do with
it would have helped him with voters but
hurt him with his key advisors MIT
advisors I mean the people who are on
Fox from 8 to 11 so what did Democrats
do now you know on Wednesday March 4 our
lives released probably the most
ambitious comprehensive gun safety
proposal
we've seen in this race yet you know how
do we get it past Quinn
women I think right now so you're angry
right now what you do you can give money
to March for our lives moms demand give
mom so much ugh again you're angry right
now you can give money or volunteer for
March for our lives moms demand gabby
giffords group do all of that to help
them because that's also going to help
organize voters for 2020 but also help
pass these walls at the state level
which is incredibly important we have to
win in 2020 and then you know we've said
this before but if we take the
presidency we take the Senate the only
way we're gonna get common-sense
gun-safety laws in this country is to
eliminate the filibuster which Mitch
McConnell knows which is why he wrote an
op-ed in today's New York Times about
why the Democrats should be very careful
about wanting to get rid of the
filibuster because you know Mitch
McConnell thinks the filibuster is very
important and he would never he would
never shake up the Senate or violate any
norms and institutions and rules because
Mitch McConnell he's a defender of the
Senate and I mean really the person most
responsible for the completely up
situations country's in right now is
bench right now it's also important to
know that like Mitch McConnell has
basically gotten what he needs out of
the Senate in that he has eliminated the
filibuster or the filibuster no longer
exists for judicial nominations at all
and what the Republican what the
Republicans care about is cuts to
benefits tax cuts and putting right wing
judges on the bench and you now don't
need the filibuster for any of those
things so there's there's very few
there's some things there's definitely
some things that if there were no
filibuster Republicans would be able to
do if they had control of government for
sure but the most important things to
them the things that get them up in the
morning cutting taxes cutting benefits
and putting conservative judges on the
bench they can do that without the
filibuster they if anyone thinks that if
there are Trump wins the White House the
Republicans keep the Senate that Mitch
McConnell is going to
keep the filibuster they are
clueless Mitch McConnell held up Merrick
garland because of his long-held
principles about allowing voters to pick
Supreme Court justices then basically
was asked whether he would do the same
thing with Trump as president he said no
he is not a man of his word
and I do not give up what all the
Capitol Hill reporters who love Mitch
McConnell and believe in the legend of
Mitch McConnell think he is a cynical
dishonest anti-democratic force in this
country and there are lots of things
they can and would do the pressure even
if Mitch McConnell didn't wanna limit
Phil buck you think a newly reelected
Trump the Mitchell House wanted to stand
up to him and hold them back or
something they want to do they yeah get
done no way and they'll all feel
embolden the Republicans win again Trump
wins again they're not gonna be scared
all these senators that are what come on
they're also maybe not gonna need it for
a while either all is so absurd so Mitch
McConnell's piece today said well Harry
Reid did this so I was forced to just
take it to its natural conclusion and
eliminate the filibuster for the Supreme
Court just let's just imagine for a
second Mitchell McConnell has stolen the
seat from Barack Obama Trump wins the
filibuster is still in place for
judicial nominations Democrats
filibuster Neil Gorsuch because mr.
McConnell stole of Supreme Court seat
from the American people who selected
Barack Obama and you think Mitch
McConnell is to be like you know Norm's
is gonna go with apes and former Supreme
Court justices for now or you know what
I feel like it's so important to have
nine let's just put Merrick garland on
the court no he would have eliminated a
filibuster in two seconds and put
on Cavanaugh Gorsuch anyone else yeah
Michael Bennett disagrees with us but I
I just I think Mitch McConnell would
have would have blown that thing up in a
second he doesn't even disagree with
that he's sort of acknowledging
McConnell would do that when I talked
about oh yeah that's right yeah he did
he did he just I bullied him in a better
word but we love Michael Bennett all
right so after Trump said no to gun
safety
he said yes to indefinite detentions for
families and children who were fleeing
sorry
for families and children who are
fleeing violence and seeking asylum the
administration unveiled a rule this week
that if it survives court challenges
would supersede an old court settlement
known as the Flores agreement that
limits the detention of children to 20
days this announcement came after
Customs and Border Patrol said that
families currently in detention centers
will not be given the flu shot despite
the fact that three children have died
of the flu already and on Wednesday the
president also told reporters that he's
seriously considering a limiting
birthright citizenship through an
executive order even though it's a right
that's explicitly spelled out in the US
Constitution he first floated that in
the toward the end of the 2018 midterms
now it's back dan let's start with the
Flores agreement why does Trump want to
get rid of this court settlement and
what's the administration's argument
here whatever there's a question about
Trump's immigration policy it's always
important to hearken back to the
comments from Atlantic columnist Adam
Sura which is the cruelty as the point
yeah right that's what I want to do this
because it it's cool they argue with
about the tension it's re they argue
it's about deterrence but it's not they
argue that the the Trump administration
argues for their immigration policy as
deterrence the same way the death
penalty advocates argue for the death
penalty is in turn it's not the point is
punishment right yeah because look you
could you could try other ways to deter
immigration that do not involve keeping
people locked up indefinitely children
indefinitely cutting legal immigration
as they're doing the public charge rule
that we spoke about now you know not
allowing anyone to seek asylum who
hasn't already who's traveled through a
third country from their home country
that rule went into effect this week
they let's remember just a few
weeks ago they held an 18 year old
American citizen for weeks because they
suspected that he was undocumented in
horrible horrible conditions they held
an American citizen and it was not the
first time that they did that either so
yeah
I don't think you're telling us this is
about deterrence and just a side
note it's not just cool their policies
are also stupid they are not giving flu
shots to the people in these detention
centers as if there was no history of
large groups of people in temporary
facilities infecting each other with
diseases and then spreading out across
country that's exactly how the
1918 influenza epidemic happened it is
just so stupid because that is somehow
they see giving people flu shot as
weaknesses if people are going to flee
Central America go on a dangerous march
across Mexico come to the US border to
get a flu shot yeah it's I mean
I do it does seem like this is you know
the cruelty is the point but also this
is a this is a political strategy right
like they they want these announcements
they have it's clear they have a long
list of things and you could tell when
the president was asked about birthright
citizenship and he said oh how do you
know we were considering that that's
very good yeah we've been seriously
looking at that we're looking at all
kinds of things like you just know that
Stephen Miller has a long list right now
of anti-immigrant xenophobic policies
and rules they can take through
executive action that they want to roll
out from now until November of 2020 and
I'm sure a bunch of them will happen in
the fall of 2020 when everyone's paying
attention to the election because again
Trump's whole bet here is that he can
make this election about an invasion
about an immigrant invasion and he wants
to scare people and he wants to say that
Democrats care about undocumented
immigrants and I care about hardworking
Americans right who by the way had to be
wrong Tommy made this point on Twitter
but I think it really explains
everything about the mentality of the
Trump administration and the message of
the Republican Party in 2020 which is
the reason the term indefinite detention
sounds so familiar to people is because
that is the policy that the Bush
administration put in place to deal with
members of al Qaeda in the Taliban yeah
and which is in the reason why that
matters is because it speaks to the fact
that they believe the invasion rhetoric
they include the infestation product but
this is ultimately a war for America's
white soul and they want people to think
that and the more they can do things
like use indefinite detentions and the
military to the border talk about walls
that's all about in creating this idea
that it is a war for American culture in
is an important point that that is
basically ripped from the manifesto of
the El Paso shooter it is the rhetoric
that permeates each han and the other
white supremacists besides it is you
know the like it is it is what it is
which is the Republican Party it's in a
white nationalist party it is in degrees
from Trump and Stephen Miller down
others but ultimately when your own
electoral strategy is you need to fire
up as many white voters as possible and
via laws and disinformation campaigns
and other strategies disincentivizes
many voters of color to participate and
you are a white nationalist party
yeah because again there's a way to talk
about the influx of asylum seekers at
the border in a way that doesn't sort of
evoke this idea of an invasion right
like you could imagine another
administration probably a Democratic
administration but even a Republican
administration talking about and saying
look we have this influx of asylum
seekers at the border we are a nation of
immigrants we do respect the asylum laws
internationally in this country right
now our system is overwhelmed we need
more resources at the bar border so that
we can deal with these claims we want to
make you know we want to make sure the
people belong here that are granted
asylum get asylum people who don't
deserve asylum don't get it
we're gonna do this we're gonna secure
our border in the meantime like there's
a whole bunch of ways to talk about this
as a problem that we have to deal with
that doesn't use the invasion rhetoric
they're using the invasion rhetoric
because they for political reasons
that's why it's in all their ads that's
why it's in all the Facebook ads that's
why it's in all their campaign ads this
is this is a political strategy right
now so finally let's talk about what may
be the real cause of trump's meltdown
this week which is his intense anxiety
over mounting signs that the economy may
be headed towards a recession anxiety
that has led him to blame the Federal
Reserve blaming media blame the
Democrats acknowledge that he's
postponing more Chinese terrorists
because they'll hurt American consumers
and float that he's considering more tax
cuts at the same time
Trump is also telling us that the
economy is the strongest it's ever been
that we don't really need any economic
stimulus after all and that he's winning
his trade war which he had to wage
because in the president's words quote I
am the chosen one I mean this is audio
medium so you can't really get the in PD
event that he also pointed at the sky
when he said that he did he did clearly
a joke but also maybe not a joke in his
mind so what's with the mixed messages
on the economy here what's what's going
on with that John are you saying that a
you know you you yourself her and for as
many economic speeches speech and you're
an expert in messaging are you saying
that a message that is the economy is
working the Fed is broken the economy
the economy is great the media is
destroying the economy we're winning the
China trade war but we have to eliminate
the terrorists so it doesn't hurt people
it's not a coherent message it would be
it would be tough to write a speech with
all those messages I will I really like
that I don't know that if I did get that
all in one message box I mean what there
is this sort of window into Trump's
brain always because like the distance
between his brain and his mouth is so
short which is we're watching him in
real time wrestle with us with a serious
political problem which is he ran around
touting his economic success as the
reason why voters should support him
even if they are uncomfortable with his
rhetoric or his other policies right
which is the economy is going great I
didn't it up stick with me and so
it's like he he sort of hung his head on
that and now we're seeing that collapse
around him and he is right he sort of
trying to find the right way to explain
it deal with it
etc and he doesn't have a strategy he
doesn't have a plan he doesn't have a
team of smart people around to help him
come up with one so it's just sort of
vomit things until he gets the right
amount of applause and sort of things
he's hit on something I do think that
what he ultimately where there can be
success in that completely convoluted
inconsistent messages he he doesn't need
to convince everyone about the state of
the economy what he needs to do is
create permission structure for some
group of voters to stick with him
because he has successfully convinced
them that so it's someone else's fault
right like most people are not going to
go there who then share it on them to
fear Church at sin chair does don't care
most people think it's absurd that the
New York Times or mainstream media in
general a business whose economics are
shaky to say the least have the power to
control the economy if they did they
would be doing much better we have I
don't know local newspapers but he just
needs to convince some people a small
group of people that it's someone else's
fault and that is a sense where Trump
really does have some natural political
ability than if you did where he
understands identity politics square
there are people who want to be with
Trump if he can just give them enough of
a reason to hang on to that to stick
with their political tribe that they
will do that and I think that's what
this is about
yeah and I think you know he'll have
some success convincing a small group of
people that are his biggest supporters
and fans and his base that that's the
case he could have a little more trouble
with most other voters I do think the
added problem he has is you know we said
this before presidents tend to get
credit for the economy when the economy
is doing well get blamed for the economy
when the economy is doing poorly and
some of that credit and blame are both
not really deserved because the
president doesn't have a ton of control
over the economy and economic cycles but
for this specific case it does seem like
it is Trump's trade war that he started
on his own that is contributing at least
contributing to a potential economic
downturn
and Trump has also passed a giant tax
cut most of which went to the wealthiest
corporations and Americans very
unpopular and that at the very least
hasn't done anything to help the economy
long term like they promised it would so
his only two economic policies his tax
cut and his trade war have failed and
now we're in a recession so I think
that's sort of that's an added challenge
for him or there would be an added
challenge for any president in his in
his position and it makes it I will say
it makes it harder to blame other people
when you designate yourself the chosen
one or you said on the convention say
that I alone can fix yes right he he
pitches himself as some sort of
political Messiah or Savior and
therefore he's going to he potentially
we hope will be held to account for that
in a way that other people who make more
nuanced arguments about the economy and
politics would be so he you know he
floated well the White House also
floated a payroll tax cut I think on
Wednesday he said no we're not
considering that anymore
what's a payroll tax cut and you know
why do you think he proposed it
well payroll tax cut is a cut in the in
your poll taxes which go to Social
Security Medicare in 2010 we were trying
to help a struggling economy we will who
actually ended up working with
Republicans to put in place that payroll
a two percent payroll tax cut which puts
more your paycheck expect right two
percent over essentially and it is a a
well known way stimulating the economy
which is but people put money in
people's pockets put money more money
economy economy should grow telling me
grow as more people hire you know so the
problem with it for Trump is Republicans
after initially agreeing to Obama's
payroll tax cut as part of a deal tried
to take it because they thought it would
help this reelection and every
Republican is or most probably throw on
record complaining about the damage it
does the social security because that 2%
comes out of the your contributions in
Social Security and Medicare as I
understand it yes so Republicans are on
record as opposing this in the past
of course that won't stop them from
switching if Trump decides to go forward
I'm sure but it does seem like there's
no universe where Donald Trump and the
Republican Party just put up a payroll
tax cut on its own with nothing else and
already it seems like they have other
tax cuts in mind as well one of them a
tax cut idea is basically an executive
order to cut capital gains taxes so
which would basically cut capital gains
taxes by a hundred and two billion
dollars over the next decade and it's a
tax cut that would give the top 1% of
Americans 86% of that benefit another
what's good yeah as you say because as
we know the people who are truly
suffering this economy are the
wealthiest and so there's we need a a
potentially unconstitutional bailout of
rich people seems like a winning message
if you ask me honestly I'm like please
let them do this go for it
please try to unilaterally unilaterally
without an act of Congress cut taxes for
the wealthiest Americans as we're
heading into a recession go for it it is
I cannot imagine you've seen polling
your whole life I have we just did a
poll in Wisconsin I cannot imagine a
more politically damaging thing for
Donald Trump to do than cut capital
gains taxes as the economy looks like
it's heading into recession
on his own through an executive order
that will probably over be overturned by
the courts do you think he would use the
much derided pen or the phone I mean
it's just like so much for like Trump
the working-class nationalist
hero they have the Trump the economic
populist the country is heading towards
recession what does he do cut some taxes
for the richest investors in the country
unbidden even believe that I was reading
it like you man you gotta know that like
Kellyanne Conway who is awful for a
million reasons but knows how to read a
poll thinks that's a good idea
I don't know I feel like
something in hers but has been broken or
somewhere over the years that's possibly
true but I do think that you know this
whole story about Trump in the economy
is sort of of all the things we've
talked about today maybe the most
fertile ground for Democrats to make an
argument and again the argument is not
just let's watch the stock market and
let's watch the economic indicators and
when they were bad say Trump is bad when
they're good shy away from this make an
argument about Trump's economic policies
and what they have done and don't just
rely on you know the headlines about the
health of the economy rely on the
statistics about how people are
struggling in this economy with stagnant
wages with high health care costs with
high tuition costs and all the rest
because there's a good argument to be
made whether we head into a downturn or
don't head into a downturn the Trump's
economic policies have hurt the vast
vast majority of Americans except for
his rich friends and corporations yeah
like let's just try this one on for size
Democrats corporations have never paid
sorry let me go this guy under Donald
Trump corporation's never made more
money or paid less in taxes but you're
the cost of your health care college
food retirement have all gone up Amazon
you pay more for your Amazon Prime
subscription that Amazon pays in federal
taxes do you think that's a good idea go
for dumb trouble you want something
different
what's a Democrat I realize I realize
this is a you know might be a boring
argument to some people listen to this
but to a lot of people in this country I
think would be very effective very
effective alright let's end with a quick
2020 segment this week Julian Castro
became the tenth Democrat to make the
September debate stage jay Inslee
dropped out of the race on Wednesday
night and John Hickenlooper decided to
enter the Colorado Senate race beyond
those developments it's a pretty stable
primary with about six months to go Joe
Biden has a small but persistent lead in
all of the early state polls Elizabeth
Warren is gaining on him in Iowa and New
Hampshire Bernie Sanders is close behind
her or slightly ahead in some polls and
then Kamala Harris Peapod a judge Cory
Booker and better or work earn
little digits behind them Dan why do you
think the race is so stable you know I
you know we've had this conversation
both on the pod and off the pilot just
it feels like a gazillion things that
happened because everything just sorry
because in the Trump era every day feels
like a week and a week feels like a year
it feels like this recent thing going on
forever but it is still incredibly early
and while I think Joe Biden has
certainly shown strength and the race is
very stable I would like to read to you
the cnn/usa today/gallup poll from
basically exactly 16 years ago today Joe
Lieberman was winning the Democratic
primary with 23% of the vote Dick
Gephardt
was coming in second with 13% Howard
Dean had just searched a third with 12%
in John Kerry had 10% and so my point
here is the fact that the race has not
changed very much between when everyone
got in early this year
and August of the off year is actually
not unusual right and we don't remember
that being a big deal because 2003 was
back before Apple Facebook and Google
broke the American cortex with dopamine
injections being smartphone and so which
it felt like no one paid attention of
the race yet but now we it's like we see
it feel it hear it all the time but most
voters haven't tuned in yet that doesn't
mean the race is going to change I mean
it could stay exactly the same but it's
not unusable 'ti is actually
historically less unusual than I assumed
until I went back and looked at the
numbers so the Biden campaign is it's
been out there this week I mean they've
been making an electability argument the
whole time but they've really been
driving at home this week you know Biden
went up with his first ad and Iowa I
believe maybe it was in some other early
states but I know it was in Iowa and
then dr. Jill Biden was out there and
she said quote your candidate might be
better on I don't know healthcare than
Joe is but you've got to look at who's
going to win this election and maybe you
have to swallow
a little bit and say okay I personally
like so-and-so better but your bottom
line has to be that we have to be Trump
just about as explicit as you can be on
electability what did you think about
about the Biden campaign leaning so
heavily on this well there's no question
that both from polling and just
anecdotally Democrats are obsessed with
beating Trump for good reason very bad
and so we people want the person I think
in best be Trump in polls show for a
variety of unproven reasons right now
that voters think Biden this episode so
that is his strongest argument I do
think the Biden campaign is selling Joe
Biden's short by making that the only
reason here's someone with a long career
a lot of accomplishments within the
Obama in his career before but also
within the Obama administration you can
talk about is a good person
is a good politician and I think like
electability should be subtext and they
have made it the text of the entire
campaign and maybe that could work I
mean there is it some strategists would
say just lean in to your strongest
argument for as long as you possibly can
five I think if the only if the answer
is you may not like Joe Biden but you
should take him because he's the only
wanted to win I think that that is going
to be that's a hard message just sell
overall long sustained period of time
yeah I will say that the the flipside of
the poll that you read from 2000 Oh
summer of 2003 that showed Kerry at the
bottom of the pack there is in the fall
when Kerry was sort of written off or
dead the way that I was on that campaign
the way that we came back and beat
Howard Dean who was leading in the polls
and in the fall of oh three and into the
winter of oh three was with an
electability argument and the reason
that John Kerry's electability argument
was so powerful is that like right now
in 2004 sort of the the emotion that
pervaded the entire electorate was fear
there that George W Bush who people
thought was the worst president in their
lifetime at the time would win again and
and people and voters again we're
thinking like you know
I'm happy to hear all these candidates
Howard Dean seems inspiring but what we
really need to do is beat George W Bush
and John Kerry road that electability
argument all the way to the nomination
now I know then he lost but in
Democratic primaries especially at a
time where there's an incumbent
Republican president who a ton of
Democrats all of all Democrats hate with
a passion and are very afraid to see win
again electability is a really strong
argument and there and the reason I
bring this up is that I do think Joe
Biden's opponents if they want to beat
him eventually have to sort of respect
voters fears and voters desire for
someone who can beat Trump and make
electability arguments of their own I
don't think you should lead with
electability arguments I don't think
they should dominate the debate I don't
even think you need to have them right
now as much but subtly slowly I think
each of these candidates has to tell
voters why they're the most why they're
going to be the most electable Democrat
you know what do you think of that yeah
am I crazy I mean I think no it's not
it's not crazy I I still believe
electability is better show not told
right Youngman totally wettability by by
running a really good campaign by having
a message of people like by turning out
crowds by demonstrating competence yeah
almost nothing in the debate and yes you
were on that campaign I was not carry
voters picked carry for in large part
because of a believes most electable but
Dean also raised questions about his own
electability down the stretch yeah you
did right he he had some even basically
he had sort of existed in a different
media environment without as much
scrutiny and when the scrutiny kicked in
and he was the front-runner he didn't
respond well to that's Kootenay he had
some awkward exchanges and some tense
exchanges of town halls and then to the
extent that he had a chance to bounce
back in a state like new after so to be
clear Kerry won Iowa team did not beam
had been very strong in New Hampshire in
the polling to date because he was from
Vermont and Kerry was also from
from nearby Massachusetts but Dean had
shown strength but Carrie but Dean's had
a meltdown on election caucus night and
that essentially destroyed his campaign
and so the like the lesson from that
like you can take two lessons right one
is Kerry said he is most electable
should use much and therefore one Dean
also gave people a reason to question
electability and so you know for someone
like Warren who tops a lot of polls as
them as people's favorite choices the
highest approval or the seen as the most
qualified or which first choice for
president or whatever yet has been dog
that we shouldn't media by questions of
electability doesn't pull as well on
that measure he she can show she's
electable by running a great campaign
but she has done to date in winning high
right like Hillary Clinton also ran in a
very different environment electability
message and then lost Iowa and the
bottom fell out of her electability
message and so just run a good campaign
is the best way to be seen as electable
and I will say that even in that in that
campaign when she was seen as the
electable one and Obama was the you know
take a chance on what you really believe
candidate
we started making sort of subtle
electability arguments and trying to
show electability one with like you said
showing the enthusiastic crowds right
like if Barack Obama is the nominee
these are the kind of crowds you're
gonna get in the general election and I
think that was powerful to people and
you know he would also I remember in the
Jefferson Jackson dinner he said you
know when I'm the nominee my opponents
not gonna be able to say that I voted
for George Bush's war in Iraq using the
fact that he opposed the war in Iraq and
Hillary Clinton supported it as a reason
that he might be more electable because
he has a contrast right so there's
there's a million different ways to sort
of subtly make electability arguments to
people that aren't just check out the
polls on the one who's who's beating
Trump by the most the problem yeah I
wouldn't I would say that change
everyone what do you think could
possibly shake up the race in the coming
months got a couple debates got some
people starting to run ads on
television what do you think you know
the early state polls in Iowa in
particular are leaving in the kiddos of
where the race is going because that's
where the cannon where the voters have
the greatest engage with the candidates
where they see them in person that's
where they're gonna start seeing ads
it's when they consume local media that
is less process oriented that the
national media and so you know when this
if we see a Des Moines Register poll for
instance which is I think the only one
only Iowa poll I think you truly grab
the political media by the throat and
have a change in narrative but if we see
a Des Moines Register poll in September
or October and the next one comes out
and Elizabeth Warren is leading I think
that will you know change how everyone
thinks about the race it'll be more
scrutiny for her right it'll potentially
undermine at least temporarily Joe
Biden's primary argument for himself to
date and it'll change the in the general
dynamics with race because right now we
live in this world where Bernie Sanders
and Kamala Harris is staff like 24/7
about Medicare for all just like in some
sort of Twitter war Joe Biden and Kamala
Harris go after each other on the debate
stage william castro and cory booker go
after other people and no one goes
that's Elizabeth Warren yes I didn't she
has not no one I think it's fear because
both that she is very good and very
popular but the candidate who has risen
the fastest in the polls who is seen
seem most likely to be the nominee
phenomena if natura Biden if a person
that no one wants to engage with and if
she takes a leave that will change that
dynamic and they don't want to see how
that plays itself out yeah I was
thinking the same thing it is
interesting that no one no one has
really engaged Elizabeth Warren on
anything on her policies on anything
else and it seems unlikely that she can
go through the entire primary in that
situation she might be able to handle it
really well you know but then that's the
test right can you handle can you handle
the attacks when they're incoming okay
when we come back we will have Dan's
interview with Stacey Abrams
you
