welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer today on the
pod we're gonna kick it off with friend
of the pod Marcy wheeler who's gonna
talk all about the latest in the Muller
investigation which has roof heated up a
lot this week dan a lot of crimes we're
also gonna be talking about the
Democratic leadership fight in the House
the shutdown negotiations in the Senate
and how the GM layoffs are shaping the
Democrats economic message also check
out the newest episode of POD save the
world Tommy gets a rundown on news from
around the globe with Ben Rhodes they
also talked to former US ambassador to
Russia Mike McFaul about the latest
crisis between Russia and Ukraine you're
also gonna want to check out the new
keep it episode this week it's the IRA
and Lewis variety hour hi who's been in
Europe for a little bit he's been
working on his British accent so it's a
pretty great episode check that out
one more HUS keeping thing a public
service announcement the deadline to
enroll in coverage or change coverage
under the Affordable Care Act is
December 15th fewer people have selected
a plan this year since Trump has done
everything he can to sabotage the
program so please let people know the
market is open you can still get a very
affordable plan with good benefits just
go to healthcare.gov okay big weekend
news about the investigation into Donald
Trump in his dopey gang of criminals
that include but are not limited to
Michael Cohen Paul Manafort Roger stone
in Jerome Corsi we're gonna bring on
Marci to talk about all this now so we
can walk through all of this because
she's smarter on this stuff than most
people on the planet so we're gonna talk
with Marci right after the break and
then and then Dan and I will break down
the rest of the news we were welcoming
back Marcy wheeler independent
journalist knowers of all things Russia
Muller welcome back to the pod Marcy
thanks for having me on redshire I want
to be the knower of all things Russia or
or krump or mother for that matter I
don't think any of us do
alright let's let's start with the news
this morning about the newest
member of the resistance Michael Cohen
what is what is Cohen's guilty plea tell
us about a potential conspiracy between
Trump his associates and the Russian
government and Vladimir Putin personally
yeah we've got Boonton and Trump named
in the same charging document so that's
sort of newsworthy
so Cohen just basically pled guilty to
lying to Congress when he when he told
Congress that these discussions about a
Trump Tower in Moscow in 2015-2016 he
told them they all ended in January in
January before the elections before the
primary started before the Russians
really thought they'd get something off
of Donald Trump and what in fact Muller
laid out it to be the truth today is
that he kept working on that Trump Tower
Moscow deal until basically the day the
DNC hack was revealed in which case he
canceled a trip days before he was about
to leave but up until that point so up
through the time when Trump got the
nomination and actually kind of it
intensified after Trump got the
nomination he was working on going to
Moscow to finalize the Trump Tower deal
and why would he why do you think he
would lie about that why would that be a
big deal as their legal implications
there is it just sort of appearances
sake like what causes you to lie to
Congress about something like this well
he said specifically that he did so to
try and limit the scope of the Russian
investigation and remember that Trump
had had the New York Times very
obediently set a red line for him saying
that if Muller started investigating his
business deal that was going to be
beyond the pale and he raised that again
when s dny when when New York
prosecutors raided Cohen's house
presumably knowing they would find what
we see today which is that at the time
the Russians were dealing dirt to Trump
at the time when Trump campaign was was
very aggressively trying to
set up meetings with Putin we know part
of the reason he wanted that meeting
with Putin was because it was part of
this trumped our deal Trump was going to
profit personally out of it
so there are tons of reasons why Michael
Cohen lied about that but but you know
again starting with the fact that this
puts Vladimir Putin in Trump Trump in a
conspiracy together and oh by the way
Trump at the last minute canceled his
meeting with Putin in Argentina over the
weekend thinking well inventing excuses
but all of a sudden it looks bad when
you're meeting with the guy who was
going to pay you off with it with a
largest hotel in Moscow do I mean to be
fair he said that he canceled the
meeting because of disagreements over
you could the policy around Ukraine so
we got to give truncus but in all
seriousness the what you know we have
read reports that Trump turned in his
answers to the special counsel last week
and is there a connection between Trump
turning those answers in last week and
this filing today involving Cohen yeah
so and the events of Manta fort and
Jerome Corsi but that feels like old
news at this point we know that he would
have been asked questions about whether
Roger stone told him about his outreach
to WikiLeaks we know that he would have
been asked the question about whether he
knew in advance about the June 9th
meeting and we know that he would have
been asked how much he knew about this
Trump Tower deal basically about real
estate deals involving Cohen and Felix
Vader and we presume that he would have
lied because that's what he does but
also because that's what we can
interpret from his impressions over the
last couple of days and and this the the
plea deal that the information in the
plea deal makes it pretty clear that it
says that Cohen kept everyone breathe
okay he kept wrote Trump briefed he
originally Cohen said that he had only
talked to Trump about it three times but
this information reveals that he
continued to keep Trump in the loo
about it presumably right up until the
day on June 14th when when he stopped he
also by the way kept Don
he kept family it's not Don Jr doesn't
get named like Trump does as individual
one but he kept family briefed which we
assume means Don jr. which we assume
means this is another perjury charge
against Don jr. for lying to Congress
because he clearly told Congress there
was no deal that seems like trouble just
to go back to the the now old Paul
Manafort news what do you make of both Y
mana for sort of lied to Muller and what
he was lying to Muller about right so um
you know I said this yesterday it's
really hard to find good legal
commentary on what's going on with
Jerome Corsi and Paul manna for one
because they're both such liars but
that's true of a lot of criminals but
because it's so hard to understand how
lawyers might calculate on a pardon on
an on a presidential pardon oh by the
way one of the things that ABC said
Cohen talked to Miller about his pardons
so right but in any case who knows what
explains Manta Ford's behavior it might
just be that he's a compulsive liar but
he he entered into a plea deal in
September that took his that took the
prospect of a trial dominating the
campaign season off the off the map he
proffered at least enough that Muller
entered into the plea deal with him but
Muller built it to be to protect himself
so for example whereas Ric gates and
Cohen's plea deal say that if they want
to declare them in violation of their
deal they have to show preponderance of
evidence with with metaphors there
they're only gonna have to show good
faith they're only gonna have to show
you know here he lied and and the judge
is going to have to say well you know
good faith that that meets that burden
so they sort of expected he might lie
now Wall Street Journal has said that he
lied about his ties to Russia in his
business deals
and we that that means two things right
off the bat one is remember that as part
of that plea deal manna fort had to
forfeit forty six million dollars which
by the way it means manna fort by
himself has paid for the entire Miller
investigation so far but if manna for is
continuing to hide his business deals
that means he may have money stashed
away that would explain why he entered
into that blatant business deal you know
it's a lot easier to sign up to losing
forty six million dollars if he's got
another hundred million stashed away in
Ukraine or Cyprus or something like that
right yes do you think the other key
deal that he reportedly that that we
know he lied about is is his ongoing
communications with a guy named
Constantine limnic who might be called
his handler he is you know even Rick
Gates has said that he knew he was
former Russian intelligence
the FBI says he's ongoing Russian
intelligence
so columbic would be the GRU handler for
Trump's campaign manager at the time of
the campaign and and and we know that
Muller is looking into whether manna for
left from being fired from the campaign
and went and took a cruise with with
Clinic and with pom Barak who is a big
huge funder for Trump and a big player
in his inauguration can I just ask what
what connections if any do you see
between the sort of hack hacking
conspiracy with WikiLeaks and the emails
and everything else and some of these
potential business deals between Trump
his organization and Russia yeah I get a
piece I want to say was back in May it
was forever ago even more forever ago
than the metaphor the metaphor news but
I did I did I did a six part series on
what the questions that we knew at that
point that Muller wanted supposed to
Trump what they told us about a
potential conspiracy between Trump and
Russia and and it all holds up I have to
say myself caught myself on my back but
but you know I you know I laid out that
there was kind of this there were there
was this laying of a relationship
starting in 2013 with with the
America pageant there were these floated
business deals Trump had always wanted a
business deal and those business deals
were renewed at a time when this
conspiracy was in the works and then
there was the kwid that there was the
offer of dirt in exchange for sanctions
and some other policy considerations and
we've seen evidence to support all of
those since May in this case you know
that one of the things that's really
important about what we would what we
learned in Cohen's plea deal today is
that part of setting up the deal was
setting up a meeting between Putin and
Trump and that that timeline that is
laid out here
utterly parallels the timeline that was
laid out in the Papadopoulos plea deal
about a million years ago which shows
that Papadopoulos came in and he said I
want to set up a meeting with Putin and
the campaign was really receptive to
their purported coffee boy offering to
set up a meeting with with Vladimir
Putin him and now we know why because
part of this Trump Tower deal was the
notion that Trump and Putin were going
to have a meeting and we see the
counterpart of that with Cohen also
trying to set up a boot and eland also
trying to work towards a putin deal at
the same time so when you read this plea
deal in conjunction with the
Papadopoulos plea deal and then the
other thing that it tells us is if you
think back to the language that Rob
Goldstone used to set up that meeting
with Don Jr who of course knew that this
Trump Tower deal was on the table and
probably knew that a Putin meeting was
part of it right and he says this this
meeting is part of the larger Russian
government help for your father so that
meeting was set up in the context of a
larger conversation about Russian
assistance to Trump and so I think part
of the receptivity that Don jr. showed
is explained by the fact that they were
going to get the tallest hotel deal in
Moscow out of it on top of winning the
election I mean remember Trump probably
didn't think he was going to win
was gonna get a Trump Tower deal and
instead he won and now you know now
we're stuck with him but we get to learn
about what if flees he was there you
know how he leveraged this campaign to
only get what he thought which was the
Trump Tower deal and then the Trump
Tower deal I think is what the Russians
used hey because he was never going to
win right back in the golden days of we
didn't think Trump would ever win but it
it's what they used as his payoff one
way or another to be their partner and
in undermining the election so yeah they
were going to entice him to sort of
cooperate with by dangling the Trump
Russia deal and then once they found
sort of willing co-operators they said
oh by the way would you also like some
dirt on Hillary Clinton to help win the
election right and and that time frame
was really was really compressed I mean
you know Cohen was working on this
through May right so after the time when
Papadopoulos told the campaign about the
emails Cohen was working on setting up
the meeting Cohen had a ticket to Russia
all ready to go and then the Washington
Post reports on the DNC has and he calls
up and canceled and I have a very strong
hunch that for example on the
Papadopoulos plea deal where manna port
says we're not going to make any show of
taking these meetings but that's really
putting things on ice but but still
carrying on the conspiracy I think that
yes Trump needed to be brought back on
board after the DNC hack was revealed
but I suspicion is the Russians got him
before the end of the summer and and
that's that shows and things like Trump
you know openly asking the Russians to
hack Hillary Clinton and then Russians
in Moscow doing so immediately
thereafter I mean that is really quite a
story the another thing that's come out
in the reporting over the last few days
which I know it also feels like a
million years ago is this defense
cooperation agreement between man
afforded Trump that has persisted past
Manta for its original plea deal so a
couple questions on this one how unusual
is this
is the could Muller have prevented this
from happening as part of the terms of
the plea deal and you know you've
written that mult dead well that that
I'm sorry you've written that man afford
is pardoned proof in how Muller has
structured this if that's the case what
incentive does man afford have to keep
helping Trump
yeah he's pardon proof I keep trying to
thank for through so it's it's
completely unusual for people in a joint
defense agreement to to continue going
after a after a deal I mean remember
that Mike Flynn very ostentatiously
withdrew from that DPA and that's when
we knew that he was going to flip of
course jerome corsi was trying the same
thing if we ever get around to talking
about that which also was a million
years ago but but with matt afford it's
particularly notable there's been some
some bad response to the new york times
story of this as if to suggest that
Muller had no idea this was still going
on that's wrong the day of the plea deal
Politico said Politico and a couple
other people were like no Rudy knew
about it and he that the cooperation
agreement still went on Politico had
another report maybe a month ago saying
you know Rudy still talks to downing
Kevin downing Manta Ford's lawyer all
the time so Muller knew through this
entire period that that mana for
continued to speak to Trump and
presumably particularly because there
was no no gag on his plea deal unlike
Ricketts he presumably was very careful
about what information he shared with
mana for and how much he showed his
hands to mana for knowing that it was
all going to go right back to Rudy and
so my guess is that Trump couldn't take
anything into account when he filled out
his open book test and turned any
answers in answers to Miller so we
should assume that you know he thought
he could get away with lies on the mana
port related questions and now we know
from Muller that they have evidence that
mana port was lying about some of these
and we know that one of the questions
metaphor it was asked about is whether
Trump knew ahead of time about the about
the June 9th meeting so so so it was
really unusual I'm sure as I said Muller
built that the the man apart plea deal
to be safe and I think to at least bring
advantages to himself one way or another
whether or not man afford actually kept
up his end of the deal
what metaphor it expects to get from it
it's possible because this is one
important reminder for people trying to
understand this larger story
normally in presidential scandals all of
the major players have really superb
lawyers and that's just not the case
here Trump is way under lawyers for the
for his criminal exposure man afford
lawyers you know again we don't know
what it is to be a defense attorney
knowing that you're your best deal for
your client as a presidential pardon
every lawyer I've talked to says Kevin
downing will never ever be able to make
a deal with DOJ again because he's
burned himself in in working this
Manafort plea deal the way he did
if manna port has a hundred million
dollars stashed away in Cyprus and
thinks he can get away if he is pardoned
maybe that explains it
you know he one of the reasons I said it
was it was pardoned proof is that he is
susceptible to charges in Virginia and
New York if he is pardoned and I
wouldn't be surprised to see Barbara
Underwood the New York Attorney General
roll out charges soon just to be safe in
case Trump decides to kind of preemptive
pardon so that so that the metaphor will
never be released and be able to run off
to Cyprus but you know it's also
possible that manna port thanks six
years or two let's hope it's only two
until the end of the Trump term and then
if you commute his sentence he won't be
at the it doesn't make any sense let me
just put it that way if there is no
scenario where manna fortune thinks he
should think he gets off easily even
with the presidential pardon he may not
have thought this through adequately
because again there aren't there's not a
whole branch
of law about how to play for an
expectation of a presidential pardon but
but that 46 million dollars that I'd
love to talk about most of that is
always already in process there's only
been an objection to 13 million dollars
of the 46 month 46 million that are
being objected to and of those 10
million probably is going to lose so 43
million dollars are in the work to going
into the US Treasury to pay Bob Muller
salary and the 17 angry Democrats that
that Muller always likes to squawk about
I mean that that sorry truant boys likes
to talk about very tidy so going back to
the old jerome corsi news what are the
pieces of all the chaos around Corsi and
Roger stone that are most worth paying
attention to
I saw you tweet that you worried that
perhaps course he may have damaged a
done damage to the stone the potential
stone indictment yeah right so the most
visible signs of the Moller prosecution
period for the last most of a year since
February has been his relentless steps
towards what we assume is going to be a
Roger stone indictment for lying to
Congress about his communications to
WikiLeaks possibly some role in a
conspiracy with WikiLeaks or the
Russians and or the larger conspiracy
possibly campaign finance violations you
know with Roger stone sky's the limit
right but but core C's lawyer told core
see now you know here's the problem is
is we're sifting the truth through
people like Roger stone and jerome corsi
who yeah we should assume are always
lying but course he has held out that
his lawyer told him that Muller's
lawyers told them that his was a really
critical part of the prosecution and i
and I really want to caution people
about this missing course he as a whack
job which he is but I mean for one he's
been a tremendously successful whack job
at damaging Democrats going back to John
Kerry right and before but he has very
successfully damaged every major
Democrat along the way one of the
things we learned from his draft plea
deal is that he reported back to stone
on July I'm gonna get the date wrong
July 29th maybe saying you should really
push this Hillary Clinton his stick
angle because there's going to be some
files coming out about that
two days later by his own on August so
that was August 1st August 3rd Roger
stones on the phone with Trump by his
own by his own claims and August 7th
Trump actually starts that attack on
Hillary by saying you know she's got
some screws loose in her head so it that
may be possible that we're seeing how
Jerome Corsi is feeding how he fed that
line that got used against Hillary all
through the campaign that she was having
a stroke that she was too old that she
was feeble that blah blah blah and that
may have been based on a belief about
WikiLeaks that that might have come out
and that didn't come out right so not
all of the files of course he thought
were going to come out did come out but
but the other thing about it is that so
they've been working towards this
indictment of stone forever
horsey is a key player because stone for
a long time has been saying credit go
with his journalist source we now know
that it was coursing and my bet is that
Corsi Corsi is important for two reasons
one is because course he helped stone
invent a cover story starting according
to course II he testified that even in
August 2016 Roger called him up and said
hey I need to cover her story for how I
knew that John Podesta
you know his time on the barrel was
gonna you know it's it'll it'll soon be
his time on the barrel or there he
pretends now it was those Podesta's and
so they wrote up this quick report that
distracted from an attack that they that
I strongly believe they knew at that
point in August 2016 was going to come
out in October 2016 an attack on John
Podesta
so they started the cover story then of
course he wrote that up publicly in
March 2017 when it became clear that
Congress was gonna stone to testify
that's one part of it is that Corsi and
stone created a cover story for stone
and the government knows parts of this
now having gotten courses documents but
what we don't know yet because course
he's not telling is who told him and I
and I'm I strongly believe that there is
solid evidence that Corsi and stone got
not just knew that John Podesta emails
were coming out but these specific
content of them and I think that's
what's so damning is they knew that they
were going to be able to return to this
attack on Podesta so we don't know who
he got it from but my guess is the story
is pretty inflammatory and that's why he
balked at the moment he was going to
tell the grand jury who told him about
the Podesta emails and he claims that he
kind of had a had a sign from God as he
was flying across the Atlantic on a
honeymoon on a anniversary wedding
anniversary trip with his life and
that's now his current explanation but
not getting confirmation from coracii
that is that that you know that he could
be put on the stand to deliver a trial
about who that source is may damage the
possibility of in dining stone it may
damage the degree to which and the the
charges which Muller may be able to
bring against stone and then the other
thing about it is that of course he
started doing this on the wake of the
election and remember that when Trump
appointed Matt Whittaker of his kind of
hatchet man to be Attorney General to
shut down the Miller investigation he
said it had to happen by end of day now
was a period when course he was in
active discussions with Miller's office
and then all of a sudden course he kind
of flips on a diamond says I'm not
cooperating anymore so it's likely that
Whitaker's presence is one of the
reasons that course II did refuse to
cooperate after having dangled it and
then and and then he's now you know
creating an excuse for Whittaker to
investigate Muller by claiming that gene
Erie told him he didn't have to tell
FINRA that he had accepted a plea deal
for
so I you know this Cohen stuff is huge I
don't want to minimize that the man
afford stuff I think when when his
sentencing memo comes out we're going to
learn a ton more about what Miller knows
about about mana for but I do caution
people from from laughing too much about
jerome corsi because it always bites
people in the fanny when they do that
because he's tremendously skilled at
what he does and he's you know he was
working with the white house when he
spotted this and you know we'll see how
badly he damaged that the prosecution of
stone what a last question what are you
most interested in learning over the
next couple weeks what's what's the
biggest question you have about this
investigation i'm self-censoring here um
no I think that we're gonna find some
it--look I think I said this earlier I
think that Trump backed out of an
understanding with the Russians on On
June 14th when it became clear that the
DNC that the Russians attacked DNC I
strongly believe that later in the
summer there was some reengagement from
Trump and I very much looking forward to
see what kind of evidence Muller has of
that if in fact I'm correct because that
would mean that you know that would make
that statement from Trump which by the
way already showed up in the GRU
indictment remember on July 27th was it
2016 Trump said hey Russia if you're
listening
go find Hillary's emails that night gr
use hackers launched another wave of
attacks on Hillary and her staffers and
her personal you know the the the
Clinton personal assistants as well and
so that comment from Trump may come off
very very differently and may expose him
to far different legal repercussions if
he was in an understanding with the
Russians at that point that you know
there was this big quid pro quo and he
would get a term power deal at the end
now we know the term power deal was real
so let's see what else is real
wooof all right can't wait to find out
Marci thank you so much for joining us
we we appreciate you as always thanks so
much
alright and that was that was quite an
interview with marcy wheeler it was so
much easier than reading on the news
this morning is there anything else any
other thoughts you have on all this
Russia stuff molar stuff that we haven't
covered I mean it does seem like we are
does seem like we're headed to I'm sorry
does seem like we're headed towards the
endgame here finally yeah it does I mean
the pace of events is quickening you
know I think there was Muller kept it
quiet during the closing days of the
election so you know something his
friend Jim Comey could have thought
about but said in the week since the
election things are moving very quickly
Marcy sort of explained why that was so
significant I think two takeaways from
this is one I've made this point before
but when you read everything that's
happening here it is clear that we are
dealing with criminals
but not criminal masterminds because the
just the amount of buffoonery from the
president his family Oh Jesse the
president I think I'm an individual win
David Dhawan's hope you could refer to
him
tough day vigil on him going forward I
should tell everyone also that you when
you sent the outline to me you've
changed it officially from no collusion
to yolk illusion I was pretty proud of
that I liked it a lot I thought I should
bring it up on the pot because otherwise
it was just for it was just for me and
Michael okay so yeah yeah so things are
moving things are moving quickly you
wouldn't want to be Trump like per usual
the insanity that was has that has been
Trump's Twitter account for the last few
days we now understand to be related to
what has been happening which is he's
after not tweeting about Muller for a
long time the panic is setting in yeah
and it seems like I mean it's also crazy
that he just cancelled a meeting with
Putin right which is you know obvious he
would cancel a meeting meeting with
Putin after all this news but it also
goes to show that we have a foreign
policy that is now being driven by you
know when
potential criminal charges come out
against Donald Trump and his associates
which is not a great thing for the
country know it we should also know this
is important that on the way to get on
Marine one the presidential helicopter
were to fly to Air Force One to leave on
this trip where he is scheduled meet
with Putin
all the way to the helicopter he told
the press that the meeting was gonna
happen less than an hour later from Air
Force One he starts a Twitter thread
that where he explains that he is no
longer meeting with Putin because of the
situation involving Putin in the
Ukrainian Navy and we know that Trump
did not do this tweet because it
involves a thread because Trump is not
know how to thread his tweets which is
why they're so frustrating to read when
we wake up at 5:30 in the morning
wondering about the fate of our
democracy on West Coast time yeah and it
does just thing like there's a few more
shoes to drop here to say the least so
we're gonna be looking out for the
sentencing memo that Muller provides to
the judge about manna for of course some
of that could be under seal so maybe
it's not all public but you know as
Marcy has been saying and other people
have been saying as well it seems as
though molars report the famous report
about Russia that everyone thinks he's
writing he could have been writing all
along in these sentencing reports in
these other documents public documents
that are coming out about the different
charges he's filing so he could be just
telling us the story of everything that
happened through all of these charging
documents in order to avoid you know
someone like Matthew Whitaker burying
all this stuff and it never becomes
public so this is pretty important which
is Matthew Whitaker is still in charge
of the Russia investigation as far as we
know even though two weeks ago he said
that despite obvious conflicts of
interest he was going to talk to the
Ethics folks in the department just to
determine whether he needed to recuse
himself that meeting would take
approximately 35 minutes and two weeks
later we know nothing and the dress
Department is refusing to comment on
whether the meeting happened what
happened in it or what Whitaker is doing
and it's see the Whitaker's presence you
know or purported
it's in charge of the meeting I'm sorry
I'm surely gonna Whitaker's purported
presence at the helm of the Russian
investigation seems pretty related to
all the events of this week yeah well I
mean fortunately it doesn't seem to be
stopping Muller it's not slowing Muller
down yet
well the question will be whether I mean
I believe if we rehearsal in charge he
would have to sign off on an indictment
of stone and indictment of course he or
the person who I think should be most
nervous after the Cohen plea today is
Don Jr who as Marcy points out almost
certainly lied to Congress about the
very things that Cohen testified to
under oath today right and and the one
other thing we know is that there are
there are also multiple sealed
indictments that have already been filed
that by by Muller so who knows who knows
where they're about okay let's move on
there's also lots going on in Congress
this week let's start in the house where
Nancy Pelosi want a vote among her
fellow Democrats on Wednesday to become
the next Speaker of the House when the
party takes control of the chamber in
January but 32 Democrats voted no on her
nomination which means she only has 200
of the 218 votes
she needs when the full house votes on
January 3rd dan how does Pelosi get
those last 18 votes and what does it
look like if she doesn't I think this
all depends on whether someone else is
gonna run against her right because
right now if you do not give her those
votes then you can you basically could
make a Republican speaker so it is
basically vote for Nancy Pelosi or we're
screwed and that has been ultimately why
she's been so successful in this is
there is no you can't beat something
with nothing and the anti Pelosi people
have been run it have nothing to no
place to direct any opposition to Nancy
Pelosi so you would have to believe
she's going to get this done I think
it's just going to be hard and
unfortunately messy at a time and we
don't really need
see nice on the Democratic side ya know
we should say if this for some reason
the vote fails on the floor it's not
that all the sudden like Kevin McCarthy
becomes Speaker it just seems like
there's not 218 votes for anyone and
it's like really embarrassing and then
they all have to go back and vote again
I guess that's that's what what the
process would be right yes that's that's
my understanding what are you what are
your thoughts because we have you and I
haven't talked about this yet what what
are your thoughts on the state of the
opposition here and what the strategy
was of the anti Pelosi forces I think
it's very generous of you to use the
term strategy to describe what they're
doing so look I think we have not you
know you and I have not talked on Nancy
Pelosi at all this and my take on the
whole thing is that I am very
sympathetic to the idea that we need
leadership in the Democratic Party in
the House and the Senate the DNC the
Democrat governors everywhere else that
highlights the diversity of the party
that how it highlights the the next
generation of the party the next of the
generation who just want us the house
right and having said that Nancy Pelosi
is pretend is probably the one of if not
the greatest legislative leader of
modern American politics and I think it
is believed by Republicans and Democrats
to be incredibly good at her job and we
need someone who's incredibly good at
her job and it is pretty telling there
are two elements that kind of give up
the game here one is the argument
against Nancy Pelosi is that she is
politically toxic that is basically the
subtext everything now that is a
terrible argument to make when Democrats
have just won the house with the largest
popular vote margin in history and two
if the argument is we need newly we know
we need a next generation of leadership
we need to highlight the younger faces
of the party which I don't agree with
why is no one talking about Steny Hoyer
Yeah right like the way in which this
would make the most sense is for you
know Nancy Pelosi to be in some sort of
transition period and you elevate a
younger Democrat a fresher face someone
who is more future oriented in the party
to the number two spot
so that they can get the experience in
the exposure they need for when they
take over and then the third thing is
the argument against Nance
the you know there is a progressive
critique of Nancy Pelosi from outside of
Congress but the opposition within
Congress is coming from her right not
from her left right and their argument
seems mainly to be the Republicans like
to attack Nancy Pelosi therefore we
should have a different leader which is
I think in my view a very a terrible
reason to decide who the leader of the
Democrats would be so one of the ways
that Pelosi won over 8 centrist
Democrats in the bipartisan
problem-solvers caucus was by agreeing
to some of their proposed changes to
house rules
the most notable being that the new
rules will make it easier for any bill
with at least 290 co-sponsors to get a
vote on the floor do you think that any
of these changes will hamstring
Democrats and Pelosi should become
speaker or are they mostly minor changes
designed to sort of just shut up the
problem-solvers caucus I mean this is
mostly optics we are not solving
problems so they should probably change
their name to like the optics solvers
conference or something and it like this
thing pisses me off
a lot because the you have a group of
centrist Democrats who waited until
Democrats were in the majority to take
concrete steps to empower the minority
like what yeah that and the other thing
is another point about this is that
these changes are not binding so if this
group of naive knit I'm sorry if this
group of naive Nimrods thinks that
Speaker Kevin McCarthy two years or four
years down the line is going to keep
their good government process-oriented
changes in place when they're in charge
just to help Democrats bring bills to
the floor they are they've been sleeping
through the last 35 years of American
politics and the problem with this is is
the problem with centrism generally
which is centrism is not an ideology
it's an identity and they're simply
trying to show some group of voters that
they are different than Democrats by
scoring points again
Nancy Pelosi which I think it's pretty
bad form and not productive to the
larger cause of Democrats using this one
lever of power we have to try to advance
progressive goals and put a check on
Trump yeah I mean it annoyed at these
people well yeah because it centers them
based on this notion that there is there
exists a healthy Republican Party that
is sort of the equal and opposite party
of the Democratic Party and that has not
been true for a very very very very long
time they you know they are it's been
very clear even since way before Trump
became president that the Republican
Party has become a cult and sort of gone
off the edge and so you know if you want
to compromise on a specific piece of
legislation where you don't give up your
principles and you just give a little to
the other side like that's one thing
this is like like you said it's all
based on optics it's like you can tell
that it was hatched in some
consultants office so that they can all
run ads markets yeah that was the
consultant right so that they can run
ads in two years being like I'm in the
bipartisan problem-solvers caucus and I
made sure the Congress worked that the
house worked better by forcing new rules
in blah blah blah and it like it doesn't
mean and all it does is try to you
know it like you said it could it's
trying to hamstring Democrats at a time
when the Democrats have the power for
the first time in two years and not
total power either power in one house of
Congress it's pretty crazy
speaking of not learning lessons in
addition to congressional leadership
races Washington is also bracing for a
potential government shutdown which
Trump is saying he'll do if Congress
doesn't fund his wall Senate Minority
Leader Chuck Schumer has countered by
proposing a deal that he negotiated with
Republicans a few months ago for 1.6
billion dollars in fencing for the
border the government could shut down on
December 7th if there's no deal Dan what
do you think about Schumer's opening bid
here what do you think his strategy
you know how I knew things were are not
going not going well for Chuck Shumer is
what I look on Twitter and the word
schumer is trending and it's not Amy
it's like the entire internet just
dunking on Chuck Schumer for making a
pretty significant tactical mistake
which most misread the sincerity of the
Republicans and the political moment we
are currently living in where Democrats
won the House by a huge margin Donald
Trump is at nearing his all-time lows
and approval ratings and even in the
Senate where we lost seats we did much
better than anyone could have expected
given the worst Senate map in modern
political history yeah and so to begin
that this new political era of sorry to
begin this new political era of divided
government to begin and with the deal
that we put on the table in an era when
we had no levers of power is just a real
mistake yeah I mean look I understand
that the original dunking on Schumer on
Twitter was based on a tweet from CNN
reporter that was off wrong because it
said that you know Schumer had proposed
1.6 billion dollars for a wall and in
reality you know it was fencing and it
was an old deal that he negotiated so
fine but even when you correct that my
question is you know why did Schumer
need to why did Schumer feel the need to
point to some bipartisan deal that
offered a billion and a half plus
dollars for fencing which we know we
don't need at the border because the
border is more militarized and has more
fencing and more security than at any
time in history why do you start by
pointing to that deal to show how
reasonable you are visa vie Donald Trump
when you could just sit there and say
here's our position we want to fund the
government with a clean continuing
resolution for the next couple months a
clean CR that's our position fund the
government at current levels and when
the new Congress is seated in January
Donald Trump wants to negotiate about
immigration if he wants to talk about
how to protect all of the dreamers in
this country from deportation
then you know come to my let's talk
let's have a conversation about that but
for right now our position is clean
funding clean CR we want to fund the
government and if the president doesn't
want to fund the government unless we
give him his wall he can very politely
 off that yep that is pretty damn
reasonable yes it is exactly right and
we we know this from being involved in
multiple budget battles with House
Republicans is a a clean CR whereas you
are simply seeing American people we're
gonna keep funding the government at the
same level we were funding it at before
for some period of time is almost an
impossible argument to defeat because it
seems it is it seems it is quite
reasonable and it is even more
reasonable when it happens after an
election and so we can call this to use
a term that Mitch McConnell might like
called the garland standard where they
met we've the American people have
spoken and they have chosen a new
government and so we should allow the
newly elected Democratic House and I'll
throw them this bone the newly expanded
Republican majority in the Senate to sit
down at the table and negotiate a new
deal for a new era right like it seems
that simple
I'm sure Nancy Pelosi was pissed when
she heard this because this is a deal
that struck between Schumer Trump and
Paul Ryan and Nancy Posey wasn't at the
table so our deal there was negotiated
among those three Nancy Pelosi should
have great say on this yeah I just mean
what what do you think happened here
like do you think that because obviously
there's a lot of criticism of Schumer
here like do you think it was just a
slip-up do you think he has
fundamentally misread the political
moment you know out on what scale of how
much we should be you know sorry how
much should we be worried about this
going forward I I don't know I think
let's see what comes next before we yeah
burn him in effigy on the Capitol lawn I
agree with that because this is one
statement in one press conference let's
see where we go from here and if we
revert to a stronger negotiating
position then then we'll see but it was
it was it was alarming but I'm not
to panic about it just yet yeah III feel
things also Schumer is also dealing like
I know this for having worked in Senate
leadership in my life it is this is a
particularly challenging time because
you've he has a lot of members who are
on their way out the door who are or
packing up offices saying goodbye to
staff and are gonna have to cast this
vote and so he is managing a
particularly complex caucus that is
fraught with emotion I don't know that
that is well led to this but that it
this is different than any normal period
of time he has all these senators who
lost who he is going to have to try to
hold to ask him to do difficult things
there even delay vacations or trips home
or job interviews or all the other
things that you want to do after you
know losing elections is traumatic and
so that maybe some of the subtext here
that I think is at least worth
acknowledging yeah and I think I mean
and he responds to outcry pressure so
everyone should just keep you know
holding his feet to the fire on this one
but look I think if Schumer does learn
his lesson he will realize that the
Democrats are in an incredibly strong
negotiating position right now like if
Trump decides to shut down the
government because he didn't get his
wall after losing election as badly as
he did after knowing how popular the
wall is which is not popular at all you
can look up any polling on it from the
last however many months that's it like
32 percent then like obviously Donald
Trump gets blamed for the shutdown this
one isn't even close this is perhaps the
easiest call in shutdown history the
donald trump is responsible for the
government shutdown in a government that
he controls all you know republicans
control all of washington and there's
one party that says we just want to fund
the government as is and there's another
party who says no the only way we're
keeping the government open is if you
build a five billion dollar wall that
nobody wants I mean this is just this is
so easy yeah I think the important point
here and these are lessons we learned
the hard way working for Obama which is
Republicans do not respond to reason
they respond to brute political force
Ryan's shows of strength and so if you
start out by
to show yourself as reasonable
Republicans just take what you put on
the table and move the new baseline for
negotiation ago she ation is that
between zero and five billion it's now
between one point six billion in five
billion right and and so the this is
even about setting ourselves up to cast
blame on someone for a shutdown we would
prefer there not to be a shutdown it is
messy it's going to get in the way the
things we want to do but the best way to
avoid it is to be united and strong and
tough and seem like you're not afraid of
a shutdown at the outset right you get
nothing that is the message now let's
see some godfather
you know it's Don Corleone negotiating
okay I want to talk about Democrats
economic message we had a little preview
this week of how it might sound in 2020
after the announcement that General
Motors will be closing factories and
cutting more than 14,000 jobs in North
America including factories in Ohio and
Michigan Trump responded by lashing out
at the company and threatening to cut
their subsidies all of this comes as
economists are starting to forecast that
the economy may slow down next year and
possibly may fall into a recession in
2020 CNBC says that the economists point
to a number of factors for the slower
growth but topping the list of scare
factors for markets are fed interest
rate hikes as well as the impact of
tariffs and trade wars should they
continue dan let's start with GM here's
Donald Trump in Michigan in October of
2016 quote if I'm elected you won't lose
one plant you'll have plants coming into
this country you won't lose one plant I
promise you I promise you now GM is
saying that Trump's tariffs cost them
hundreds of millions of dollars ford
says the tariffs have cost them a
billion dollars how much of a problem is
this GM news for Trump it's potentially
a giant problem because as senator
sherrod Brown of Ohio pointed out on
Twitter yesterday when the news came
that this is a direct result of a
provision within the tax bill that the
Republicans passed and Trump signed that
I mean this is mind-boggling to believe
but truly did give tax incentives to
companies like GM to ship jobs overseas
and that like you and I laughed
about this when that happened in the
sense that that has been the highest
testing line in every poll we've ever
seen ever in the last 17 years of
democratic politics and every democratic
politician says it ad nauseam
and yet we've only won a small handful
of those elections but the difference
here is you can I think this is so
important to understanding economic the
impact of economic messaging within it
within a political campaign context is
when it is when it is general when it is
naught unquote macro economics it is
often dismissed as two parties going
back and forth it is just ideology when
it can be specific localized to
someone's community or their industry or
their livelihood then it can matter and
so now you have it this this example in
a state Trump 100% needs to win to win
the White House where you have these
plants being shut down very specifically
because of a decision that Donald Trump
and the Republicans in Congress make and
so that that is where that will be the
battleground in 2020 and we know the
impact this because Obama won Ohio in
2012 in large part because he can make
the argument that he saved the auto
industry and saved thousands upon
thousands of jobs not just from the
specific GM plants but also all the auto
the supply the people who make the auto
parts which is are all up and down the
Midwest particularly in Ohio so like
this can be a big deal if it is messaged
correctly yeah and I think that you know
sherrod Brown has been doing a great job
of that I mean he's been talking about
basically that's the trump Republican
tax bill gave a 50 percent coupon to
companies that send jobs overseas so no
one should be surprised that GM is
moving their plane to Mexico he also
said too many companies layoff workers
to impress Wall Street and boost stock
prices and raise CEO pay he's introduced
legislation in August that would give
customers $3500 discount on cars made in
America and also seeks to stop tax cuts
on overseas profits from automakers that
move jobs overseas again a proposal that
you know Obama had a version of this
proposal every Democrat that's run in
the last you know 10 15 20 years
had some kind of version of this
proposal to change tax incentives and
tax structures in this country so that
there is no incentive for outsourcing
and shipping jobs or profit overseas and
that there is all the incentive in and
to keep jobs here in America which by
the way doesn't solve all the problems
of globalization technology and
outsourcing
but we're talking about what the
government can do to try to incent
companies to do the right thing and
create jobs here in America now part of
why I wonder I'm sorry
part of what I wonder about is we we
talk about how we've proposed this
forever and Democrats have talked about
this forever and yet it doesn't seem
like we ever get it passed right some
kind of tax bill or tax reform or tax
structure that actually stopped
companies from shipping jobs overseas or
stop giving stops giving tax breaks to
companies that ship jobs overseas and
starts giving them to companies that's
create jobs in America we almost laugh
about it because we say the line so much
but do you think part of the problem is
Democrats need to come up with policy
and then actually pass policy that has
an effect on outsourcing and factories
leaving yes I mean the hard part yet yes
we need to do that yes we should do it
even if there were no politics no
elections no polls that is the right
thing to do the hard part to be brutally
honest about this is it ends up being a
counterfactual argument even if we have
that success because of what the larger
trends in the economy are around coal
possession and automation which is you
are stemming the tide of something that
is moving in many cases in one direction
and so you will there will always be you
know this is what Trump is suffering
from right now which is no matter what
you say or what you do there will always
be examples of businesses that make
decisions to move jobs overseas right
yeah and we haven't really figured out
the right economic policies to mitigate
the damage that that does to families in
communities but also under screen a new
economic model that creates quality high
paying jobs in a in a world with
globalization automation so did like I
think a big question in the
2020 Democratic primary discussion gonna
be what policy people put forward that
address that it's all theoretical to get
into office then you're gonna have to
actually do things right no yeah I think
I think we need we need policy we need
to have this conversation and we have to
be able to have it in a way that is
feels real and tangible to people and
it's not just seem well either you know
white paper you know complicated white
paper stuff or pabulum
or you know sort of piecemeal
incremental policies than nibble around
the edges of this problem right like I
think one of the reasons we're gonna see
a lot of Democrats who are running in
2020 proposed bolder more progressive
policies economic policies is because
not because everyone wants to just like
move to the left
but because sort of the magnitude of the
moment we're in calls for those kind of
policies and that like you know a few
tax breaks here and there to sort of
incentive companies to do the right
things might work on the margins but
there's something more fundamentally
broken with the economy here that we
need to fix and that's why you see
people talking about a federal jobs
guarantee that's why you see people
talking about a green new deal a $15
minimum wage debt-free college right
like it seems like we have reached the
edge of trying to make you know trying
to work with companies to make sure they
do the right thing and sort of
incentivize them to do the right thing
and we have to go bigger and the only
option there is for government to really
step in and take bold action it's so
interesting good to have this
conversation because if you were to just
separate the words you just said from
what is it just like put it in a time
capsule and someone listen to it they
would come back and think that it would
the account if they were to like look up
what the economic stats were at the time
in which you said that sentence that it
would it be you know like 2009 yeah you
know like shrinking economy you know
high unemployment excited except we're
living in a world of you know near full
employment the economy is growing not as
fast as we would like it to but it is
growing
and you know the stock market is doing
well and there are these basic economic
indicators that seemed fine and that is
actually the part that is so goddamn
alarming which is all these things that
have been happening that you would hope
and believe would affect that they would
affect wages it affect people's quality
of lives affect people's Economic
Security but they're not and if you were
struggling at 5% unemployment what are
you where will be where is you know
where is the American family gonna be in
you know if inevitably the economy is
going to get worse than it currently is
like that is just the right hatcher old
movement of things and so like like it's
just it says a lot that the what people
think we need and I agree with this is a
huge bold solutions because the just
simply fixing what was broken with the
economy doesn't actually fix what's
broken with the economy well and we saw
this and we talked about this all the
time when the financial crisis hit and
you know Obama would say often like
people were struggling before the crisis
right and that families and people in
this country who were right on the edge
and who were you know struggling to like
have a middle-class lifestyle right
before the crisis hit as soon as it hit
a lot of those people fell into poverty
because even at even in an economy now
with almost full of a full unemployment
the real problem is you know if you see
any chart of economic growth you know
going up you see wages just flatlining
and as wages of flatlined or or only
wages have just grown a little bit you
see you know the cost of health care
skyrocketing the cost of college and
education scarier all kinds of gas
prices everywhere so people are having
trouble keeping up even at almost full
employment economy because they're just
not making enough money and and so that
you know Democrats have to address that
because the way the Republican Party has
addressed that is twofold
the Ryan Paul Ryan wing of the party has
said oh well we'll just give more tax
cuts and the tax cuts will make
everything wonderful again which almost
no one in the country believes now it's
like maybe the one thing that most
people in the country are united about
and then now the Trump wing of the party
which is now most of the party is saying
no no the way to fix the economy is to
get rid of all the immigrants who are
taking our jobs and to close all the
borders and to slap tariffs on
everything and that's the way we'll get
back to economic success
so that's Trump's argument and I think
in 2020 we have to take on that argument
directly and say no that's wrong and
that hasn't led to greater economic
success for more people in this country
here's our plan and it's big and it's
bold and it's a lot different I think
you are a hundred percent right that the
that we need a plan needs to be a good
plan and we should debate that plan
within the party than we should debate
that plan across you know in front of
the country in the general election of
2020 but we have a very specific project
that we need to get done which is
related but not entirely to what you
just said which is and you know Ron
Brownstein one of the smartest political
analysts out there who writes for the
Atlantic in CNN he said this on Twitter
the other day that just koala in
response to Senator Brown's tweets about
the tax bill and GM etc is that the holy
grail for Democrats is to disqualify
Trump with were white working-class
voters in the Midwest particularly on
the economy and that is our project that
is what we have to do that is that would
be project a number one for my
well-funded imaginary super PAC which is
we have to convince a certain number of
voters in Rust Belt states that Trump is
full of when he says he's a
populist that will fight we fight for
you and if you do that the next
president will be a Democrat and it is
that simple and I actually don't think
we should wait till you say 2020 that's
my collection as you know but so no fire
now like that's why we started now yeah
this should be started now and remember
the margins by which Trump won those
states it seemed like convincing every
you know white working-class voters of
the Midwest that Trump is full of
it seems very challenging convincing a
few percent of them in those states that
seems very doable with some brains a
little bit of money in plenty of
ammunition from
Trump's corporatist policies look and
and and I can imagine people's eyes are
rolling you know hearing
oh we must must focus on the white
working-class no it's not that it is a
we realized that like 90% of these
voters aren't going to be convinced or
80 percent whatever it may be but we
have already seen between 2016 and 2018
that there were people who voted for
Trump who supporter Trump who switched
over and started voting for Democrats
and a lot of the reason they did is
because they started they realized that
Trump's promises were full of and I
talked to these people in Michigan for
the wilderness like that they exist
they're out there they have fallen out
of love with Donald Trump they don't
think he kept his promises and they are
willing to give Democrats another look
it is real and when elections are this
close and they're on the margin then it
really makes a difference and more
importantly I don't think that promote
you know proposing big bold economic
policies that might help some of these
voters is in conflict with you know
proposing big bold economic policies
that will help the people who vote for
Democrats that'll help working-class
Latinos and working-class
african-americans and young people who
are struggling with college debt right
like there is one message one economic
message in one set of economic policies
that can appeal to a broad range of
voters in this country and that seems to
be the best path that path back towards
power for Democrats yes it is only
reporters who think the term working
sorry I'm trying again it is only
cynical political reporters who think
that the term working-class refers to
white men in Ohio right right the
working class in America is diverse and
that is who our agenda stats speak to I
am specifically speaking about a project
to take votes away from Trump and give
them the Democrats yeah it specifically
means dealing with the set of voters who
are soft on Trump are frustrated by the
economy and or voted for Barack Obama in
2012 no that is your universe of people
that you have to communicate with
rillette let's see over the next two
years and it's about folding Wisconsin
Michigan and Pennsylvania back into the
Democratic column in 2020 which if we do
it makes it on
impossible for Trump to win the election
all right well we cover a lot today
we started talking about crimes we got
into GM and the economy we got a little
Pelosi and Schumer in there you know it
was it was a journey really the thing
that tied it all together was individual
one individual one it's a tough day a
tough day for individual one all right
everyone have a good weekend and we'll
we'll talk to you next week
you
