yes who's ready you ready I'm ready so
so ready welcome to pod save America I'm
John Favreau
I'm John Lovett just vote mady's Tommy
Vito hello uh we are coming to you today
from our brand new studio guys it's very
nice we've we've had a small studio in
the new offices for quite a while and
the new one is now built and it is
incredible you'll you're listening to
this you're gonna but you can see you're
gonna have to look at the live stream
Shane we finished it right before we get
shut down like a Turkish opposition
newspaper later in the pod you'll hear
from Colin Allred a Democratic candidate
running for a congressional seat in
Texas that we hope to flip tomorrow to
miss tomorrow's election day or today if
you're listening to this on Tuesday
that's true too Aaron Ryan subbed for
John Lovett this past week completing
her stint as a guest host on love it or
leave it
three cheers for Erin and guy Branum for
awesome episode joined it was Brandon
random yeah reach three cheers for Erin
and guy Branum guy and Erin did an
awesome job hosting love it or leave it
while I was gone it's a machine it can
run without me that's the dream
so no more mr. nice guy wait what does
that mean I didn't get its legislative
Oh cuz of guy Branum
yeah we'll cut that look at all that
nice guy
didn't think is that complicated I sorry
did you were I didn't get him I thought
was Mensa over here anyway whatever we
kept listen here's the thing Tommy just
made a joke I'm not even sure if it was
bad enough to leave in the key thing to
remember is we had some awesome episodes
and I'm back on Thursday with an after
election special win lose or draw so
check that out another programming note
we will be live-streaming a vote save
America 2018 election special tomorrow
night right here at crooked headquarters
Pfeiffer will be here too the whole crew
everyone in the Greater Los Angeles area
who wants to come for emotional support
don't put that out there we will all be
here it will also be doing a wrap-up pod
all four of us on Wednesday afternoon
that will be out Wednesday night what
will it say who knows if you want to
watch the live stream tomorrow night it
is youtube.com slash crooked media check
it out check it out trying to get those
YouTube subs for Elijah wall-to-wall
coverage coming you live crooked
election HQ we have a countdown clock
it's election night in America I don't
know what the other Network anyway all
right
tomorrow is election day as you all know
we're out of the prediction business we
also try to stay away from too much
horse race coverage but that's left
that's all that's left so we're going to
indulge a little bit of it today I
thought it'd be useful to start by
talking a little bit about the state of
the race in order to people under in
order for people to understand where we
are and how we got here
the final polling averages give the
Democrats a seven to eight point lead on
the generic ballot maybe nine that would
be one of the bigger midterm margins
either party's ever had for example when
the Republicans won by six point eight
percent in 2010 they picked up 63 seats
in 2006 a seven-point win gave the
Democrats 31 seats and yet despite that
in this election Republicans are heavily
favored to keep the Senate and maybe
even gain seats there and while
Democrats are heavily favored to win the
house the low end of the various
projections have us picking up
20-something seats when we need 23 so it
feels really close why is that who wants
to take a stab gerrymandering yeah
they're divided country that's good and
these house map shouldn't be so divided
and difficult but it's been
gerrymandered to hell so we're fighting
an uphill battle yeah that is the truth
now I say that not as an excuse we need
to win 23 or moral victories me nothing
but it's it's important when people are
assessing what this means for trumpism
because there's a concern that if we
pick up the house and Republic
hang onto the Senate or pick up seats in
the Senate it'll be like well mixed bag
on trumpism the reality is the national
polls the majority of the country is not
pleased with the way he's running the
country they don't like a campaign that
is entirely built on racism they want
people to talk about health care and
things they actually care about and so
just some context yeah and it's it was
also more than just gerrymandering it is
something unique to this moment
one of the things that was fascinating
John I saw you tweeting about this
yesterday the the Nate Cohen upshot
completed there many real-time polls
that got got fish like you on the hook
yeah look maybe Tommy and I were texting
back and forth about the leads changing
maybe not but maybe we're reading them
aloud in the car and one thing that is
striking is just how many races are
pulling one or two points yeah like if
there is going to be a wave it is going
to be very very wide and very very
shallow and it will either be high
enough to pick up a huge number of seats
or a tie if it is just little too
shallow
we will come close in a ton of districts
we would have needed to win so on top of
the built-in advantage Republicans have
in because of gerrymandering there's
also just this fact of the electorate
right now I don't know if and you know
we won't know what it looks like till
after it's done but it's almost like
these two things sort of meeting this
sort of changing country of people that
want to reject Trump in the majority
plus this the Trump base coming out and
being energized and kind of meeting in
the middle and creating weather all
across the country in this in this in
this specific kind of transitional
period between Trump's older whiter base
and the coalition we've been waiting to
show up since Barack Obama left us here
alone just to give you an idea of this
house map just like I was listening to
it just to give you an idea of this
house map here you can easily count
about 16 to 17 pickups for Democrats
but then like you were saying love it to
get from 17 to 23 you have a ton of
races in Republican territory there are
almost no races being fought on
Democratic Theriault territory and most
of these races are like one to two point
races a lot of these places some places
voted for Clinton that have Republicans
and then we talked about those districts
but those are probably the some of the
easiest ones to go most of this election
is being fought in Republican districts
that went for Trump now some of them
might have gone for Obama in 2012 but
some of them haven't sent a Democratic
member to Congress for years for a
decade like Alaska like Alaska but like
for example one of the races we've been
looking at is Abigail Spann burger in
the Virginia 7th running against Dave
brat and she's she's a great candidate
it's been very competitive very close I
was looking the other Dixon Michael I
wonder you know I wonder what wouldn't
the last time someone a Democrat went to
Congress here well not for a very long
time but also Ralph Northam when he went
on to a nine-point victory in Virginia
in just 2017 lost that district by four
points mhm and yet span burger is still
competitive in that so just so people
have an idea of what an uphill climb
this is and if Democrats even if
Democrats eke out a majority by 23 24 25
seats it is an enormous accomplishment
because it means that they won seats in
deep red Republican territory yes also a
good reminder by the way that those that
the the Northam polls were off
biola by a few points and because all of
these races are being dissed are showing
up and because all of these races are so
tight the polling error is feels almost
more important as we head into totally
tomorrow than normal yeah and I will say
to it the last time the Democrats had a
wave election in the house was 2006 and
the environment was different then right
it was George Bush's second term his
approval rating was around 37% the Iraq
war had been raging for a couple years
Katrina had just happened there was
every day there were stories about
Republican corruption so even that was a
better environment
it's log it's a slaw it's not it's also
this is to Peter Hamby wrote a piece
about how pundits don't know anything
and it was a good piece
this is a unique election it's the only
time Donald Trump has been president
during a midterm election and there's
all these contradictory indicators
there's an economy that's doing well
there is anything there is a president
who is unpopular but not as unpopular
someone like George W Bush there is a
lot of dissatisfaction with the
direction of the country yet the party
in power is viewed as being better on
the economy than the party trying to
defeat them so there's a lot of
confusing signs out there if if you were
to just come into this race without all
the context of how polarizing and
terrible Donald Trump is you'd be saying
wow it seems impossible for Democrats
right to win this election look at all
the the the basic political science 101
stuff that's going up against I'm not
just gerrymandering but the
concentration of Democrats in the cities
the way the economy is going and so much
else well let's talk about the Senate
map which is even tougher why is the
Senate map so tricky for Democrats I
mean it's just a it's it's just a bad
year yes just the worst year in a
century we are competing Fuzzy's in I
mean we're talking about Montana we're
talking about Missouri we're talking
about North Dakota or talking to West
Virginia we're talking about Texas we
are trying to keep seats in the the
purpley red states like Arizona or the
poor or the purpley blue states like
Nevada so it's just the a combination of
the inherent disadvantages Democrats now
have in the Senate combined with the
fact that these are just the 32 that
happened to be up and they happen to be
in parts of the country where we
struggle it is very important I think
that you know the predictions are all
over the place in the Senate but every
single Senate seat matters and it
matters for the long game to which we
haven't talked about because in 2020
it looks like Colorado is a target for
us with Cory Gardner and Maine as a
target for because of susan collins
those are states that have been trending
Democratic over the last couple years I
in North Carolina Joni Ernst and Tom
Tillis are both also may be competitive
for us and then Doug Jones is gonna be
up again in Alabama mm-hmm so if we end
up with a 50-50 tie in the Senate after
tonight for example and Mike Brent Mike
Pence is the tiebreaker and Republicans
keep it in 2020 because we still got 50
if we pick off Colorado or we pick off
Maine we have a Democratic president
suddenly we have a majority in the
Senate and can confirm Supreme Court
justices so it's actually a huge deal
you know if we lose the Senate by one by
two will provide three it's actually a
big difference right yeah in right in
the next two years it's it's a it's a
digital thing win or lose but in the
next four or six years we are trying to
slowly claw our way back to a majority
so as Tommy mentioned because Dems are
favored to win the house and Republicans
are favored to win the Senate we're
starting to see headlines like this one
from The Wall Street Journal a test of
Trump midterms could result in a mixed
verdict would this scenario be a mixed
verdict on Trump and how much does it
really matter if that is the
post-election analysis no it would not
be a mixed verdict if you lose the house
it's a big defeat of Trump if you lose
the house with a wildly gerrymandered
House map
it's a rebuke of Trump if you lose if we
pick up any governor seats it's a rebuke
of Trump like trumpism has is on the
ballot he declared it to be on the
ballot just because the Senate races are
all bright red states doesn't mean that
somehow he is like he is set up to win
in the Senate they have a huge
structural advantage in the Senate
places like Missouri and Texas of all
the states we've already mentioned are
tough races for Democrats period it's
part of the reason why horse race
coverage is so lacking because the thing
that doesn't get enough tension are
structural differences the map right
like right Missouri Montana Westford
Donald Trump won West Virginia by 42
points the fact that Joe Manchin is
hanging on as a Democrat is crazy this
is what frustrates me about this whole
conversation not our conversation like
the whole conversation about whether
this is a rebuke of trumpism or not in
2010 when Barack Obama we held on to the
Senate and we lost the house it was seen
as a huge rebuke of abuser Bush lacking
and rightly so and rightly so but
but the press covers voter suppression
and gerrymandering which is essentially
voter suppression in some ways as if
it's just sort of a built-in feature of
American democracy and not a long term
effort to completely pervert the way our
democracy works and that drives me a
little bit crazy like voter suppression
tactics in Georgia should be a much
bigger story than a Caravan that
is still 800 miles away and we've been
talking about for weeks but that is not
how these things are covered yeah well
and the Senate has a different problem
which is less about gerrymandering than
just not at all about jamming hardest
Geographic problems to well and the fact
that across the country that in races
that are going to be really close their
efforts to suppress the vote are enough
to swing an election right and and I say
this less for you know influencing the
horse race coverage which they're gonna
do what they do but for all of you
listening right like if we wake up on
Wednesday and we win the house and we
come short in the Senate no one should
feel like you know Democrats and holier
what happened to this blue wave like you
just you gotta know how hard these
states are in the reason these states
are hard is because we are seeing a real
realignment between the two parties
right now that is based on education
among white people and so
college-educated whites are moving in
droves towards Democrats non-college
educated whites we have never been doing
worse from them work with them it is
true it is possible that in this
election we may make up a lot of ground
among non college whites in the Midwest
the very place that lost Hillary the
election we are seeing Democrats do very
well in specially in governor's races in
Ohio in Wisconsin in Michigan and
Whitmer's on her way to a probably a
pretty big win not gonna luck knock on
wood and so you know we could make up a
lot of ground in these Midwestern states
that have traditional in Pennsylvania
that have traditionally gone to
Democrats but the Senate most of the
Senate map is not in this I mean like if
you told us a year ago we'd be sitting
here and sherrod Brown would be on his
way to victory and Tammy Baldwin and
Wisconsin would be on her way to victory
people would say that's crazy Trump won
those for that I would even know who was
running in Texas right yes right Bob
Casey in Pennsylvania Tom wolf the
governor there like they're all doing
yeah fantastic in these states through
us but Missouri tough month
Hanan tough Indiana I mean these are
really tough states North Dakota also
the narrative that the press the
political press used to describe the
outcome of the election doesn't really
matter at all if if there's a bunch of
story
gavel in the hose look here's the thing
if there are a bunch of stories on
Tuesday on Wednesday or Thursday by the
way wanna once again reiterate we make
up may with wake up on Wednesday having
one nothing bet wishing wishing
we could go back in time and and
appreciate how lucky we would have been
to have a narrative like what Michael
Evans the only one going to Congress
Minority Leader Mike Levin joke our
humor go but but what I was gonna say is
the narrative doesn't matter it doesn't
know it does it matters a lot
it matters a lot when Dave brat beat
Eric Cantor the narrative coming out of
that was that it was all about
immigration and that scuttled the the
hopes for immigration reform for a long
time and people that have dug deep into
what actually happened in that race was
the Virginia congressional race primary
had figured out after the fact that it
was really not about immigration but
like these things can set narratives and
if they can they can give Republicans
the courage or not to say trumpism is
 or at least that trumpism won't
work for me I think that's a good boy ah
winning the house means that we have
power for the next two years and there's
nothing that a DC press corps can say
about what the verdict meant to change
the fact that we will have control of
these committees that we will have the
speakership that we will have power and
a seat at the table that's all that I'm
saying and I'm not arguing about that
but I'm saying that the narrative coming
out of these elections really does
matter and I think like this is why you
know pre 2016 when we were wildly wrong
but everyone wanted not just to be Trump
it's a rebuke Trump ISM because you have
the 2012 election and the after-action
report about being more inclusive and
reaching out to Latinos and
african-americans and that was fully
rebuked by the Trump win and we've seen
the Republican Party go full Mogga right
wing crazy well let's let's talk about
that we move on to the closing arguments
both parties have been making so for the
last month or so Trump has been churning
out even
more explicitly racist and xenophobic
lies more than usual
is summarized by the Washington Post in
their piece on Sunday night quote Trump
is claiming that Democrats want to erase
the nation's borders and provide
sanctuary to drug dealers human
traffickers and ms-13 killers unleashing
a wave of violent crime that endangers
family at families everywhere good for
The Washington Post for saying it back
it is and yet there's a politico story
that also went online last night that
says this quote Republicans focus on the
house are profoundly worried that
Trump's obsession with all things
immigration will exacerbate their losses
the story even has Paul Ryan calling up
Donald Trump on Sunday begging him to
talk up the economy instead of
immigration do we believe that Trump is
the only Republican who's wanted to
focus on xenophobia you think that call
happened I don't give a Paul Ryan
giving interviews on Face the Nation
decrying the fact that we can't have a
strategically valuable inclusive
inspirational politics while his super
PAC runs some of the most racist
ads this cycle all across the country
tells you everything you need to know
what is to me Tommy the narrative that
is going to be the most important thing
to focus on after this election is not
what does it mean if Democrats win the
house or don't win the house right now
you have conservative pundits trying to
say that this is an election about
deregulation and lower taxes and that's
what they're campaigning on right if
they lose the house you're gonna see all
of it so if Republicans win the house
they are gonna say they won because of
low taxes and they won because of
deregulation if they lose the house
they're gonna say it's because the the
intellectuals are gonna say it's because
trumpism doesn't work right and if we
and if and and they will do the exact
opposite depending on the outcome and to
me that is the most important thing and
I think we have to all be very clear if
Republicans don't do well we need to we
need to make we need to make it our
story that in an attempt to cover up for
their unpopular policies they tried to
use immigration but they can't deny that
what happened in this campaign was about
both that to me is our big task to make
it both about race baiting and about
their in popular policies yeah I think
that the challenge on the race baiting
piece is that you have so many
media outlets and we've talked about
this before who won't call over at
racism for what it is like for example
the Des Moines Register you know not
like some big mainstream news outlet
referred to Steve King an avowed white
nationalist a white supremacist as
blunt-talking conservative politician
they say firebrand yeah and then was the
other thing they said about him he that
he's a headline of off-color comments
and strong anti-immigration views I mean
that is that is whitewashing nut pun not
intended like a like guy who just went
to Austria to meet with a party started
by a former SS officer like a Nazi right
I mean like this is a bad bad bad human
being but we won't call these people for
what they are saying stringer Bell was a
no-nonsense Bob these are just like
these are the hobby horses that I have
that I all I have left a complaint about
disclosing he has an election it is
important to recognize that it is not
just Trump who has gone full xenophobe
in the Republican Party they have all
gone along with him it's not even like
we always complain about Paul Ryan being
silent about it it's not like they were
silent about it while it happened they
used this in their own campaigns look at
Ronda Sanchez's campaign that he ran in
Florida look at Brian camp in
Georgia who is in the running for the
worst villain of the cycle for sure we
do that turn tough category I realize I
realize that at this point Brian Kemp
has engaged in so much voter suppression
that when you see a story about him and
voter suppression you're like oh
whatever it's like it's Tuesday you know
yeah but what he did over the weekend
nuts that was a new low so in
2016 Kemp was one of the only secretary
of states in the country to refuse help
from the Department of Homeland Security
to shore up their election systems
because they said there are huge
vulnerabilities and Georgia's electric
systems that are vulnerable to cyber
attacks and so a constituent in Georgia
wrote an email to someone at the voter
protection hotline saying there are
vulnerabilities in the Secretary of
State's website that could be exposed by
hackers and then Kemp said that that
person who wrote about the
vulnerabilities was a Democrat trying to
hack the system and said that the
Democrats were under
FBI investigation for trying to hack the
 Georgia election system it is
 morning in case you hear that
and think that's ludicrous that's
laughably stupid I mean Stacey Abrams
was doing around to Sunday shows this
weekend and was asked this question
about this allegation from Brian camp by
very seen serious journalists like Jake
Tapper and that sucks for her that her
closing message is is colored by this
nonsense made-up allegation it is I mean
that that election by the way god I hope
Stacey Abrams wins but he has done
everything possible to steal that
election when I say steal not as an
exaggeration yes it's in and you know it
again comes down to the language we use
Tomsk oka wrote a great piece great
piece you ready write it for someplace
called daily which I it was coming
around last week I don't know it was I
just saw this weekend bubbling up um but
basically about that because a lot of
our political conversation is about how
bad will Trump get we're not doing a
good enough job of accepting and
describing how bad things are right now
and this is a great example you know we
have already seen with the with the
Voting Rights Act being restricted by a
conservative Supreme Court an incredible
amount of voter suppression of
anti-democratic practices what Brian
camp is doing is stealing an election
and if he wins by a tiny majority it
will be an illegitimate election but our
politics so presumes the respectability
of both parties in it is and not just in
you not using the word lie not just in
the kind of surfacy way but deep it is a
deep core philosophy of our political
system that both parties are respectable
and competing on level playing on a
level playing field in a battle of ideas
and when that does not happen which is
what's happening in Georgia if Stacey
Abrams loses by a tiny majare by a tiny
amount or if it goes to a runoff because
you need to get 50 and she almost gets
to 50 and she loses it will not be
legitimate but our politics doesn't have
an ability to allow that information to
inform our politics the political press
will call him the winner and describe
his strategy as having been effective
right as we say as you say our politics
what you really mean is our media army
well yes yes of course yes that's what
it is
but even Democrats don't look yes of
course no Democrats No
we know how to say it we know how to say
it but I don't know that we know how to
truly live in a system in which Georgia
will have an illegitimate governor who
does not belong there and does not
deserve the power that he has it yeah I
don't know how to say that it's true I
know why I don't know what you do beyond
that just just a note shy of that I mean
Brian Kemp again terrible person I'm
tweeting out racist photos the new Black
Panther Party yesterday just to play the
the racist Greatest Hits but that race
someone has to get 50% or also goes to a
runoff so I know we all want to take a
deep breath on Wednesday and like
reassess our lives and call some old
friends and but if that gets to a
runoff we all need to go all in on
making sure stacey abrams has the
resources but it really might you know
instead of asking the question like what
does it mean for our politics if Trump's
strategy and the Republican strategy of
race baiting xenophobia works or if it
doesn't we don't know right but whether
it works or not what remain will remain
true after Tuesday is that there is a
sizeable part of the population a
Republican base that got excited about
it because yeah whether it's enough to
get them over the edge or not there has
clearly been movement consolidating the
Republican base over the last month yeah
and that is partly a result of Donald
Trump race baiting and and being full
xenophobe on immigration and him having
the largest propaganda network in the
world on his side Fox News just turning
that out and all the and perhaps an
unwitting propaganda machine Facebook
that is spreading all of these
conspiracies to I'm sorry there will be
a bunch of wars for this spin out of
this and I know we've sort of debated
irrelevant to them I just want to note
one thing which is the new NBC Marist
Poll of Florida Senate race they asked
voters whether they would prefer a
Canada who opposed Brett Kavanaugh to a
Canada who supported him likely votes
are in the new NBC mayors pull the
Florida Senate the likely voters say
they prefer a candidate who opposed
Brett Kavanaugh to a candidate who
supported him
that is the fifth state where the NBC
poll has shown this including Nevada and
Arizona so this is another example of
where I think the spin coming at this is
very important because you're gonna have
the hugh hewitt's of the world as you
call them the intellectual Zamboni's
that sweep up after trump who says
that Democrats efforts to make sure a
woman making a credible allegation of
sexual assault be heard with somehow bad
politics and thus bad right because
that's the Trump zero-sum view of the
world you win you lose you're right
you're wrong and we need to make sure
that people understand that no and you
know what I mean that had to be heard
that's the Trump view of the world but
that has been the view of the world from
the political media the DC area for as
long as well we've all been in politics
and it's like if we if Democrats win
we're they're the biggest geniuses ever
known to man everything they did was
right they ran a perfect campaign and
that's not gonna be true it's not you
want everyone listening you may not be
able to hear it rice promise I'm
knocking on wood every time anyone says
the words Democrats win Axelrod always
used to say this it's like we are not as
smart as people say we are when we win
and we're not as dumb as people say we
are and we're lose and that and that's
gonna be because that's all they can
handle is winning or losing and
everything else gets blinded and that
goes to this question of the narrative
after because winning the house or
losing the house it's a yes or no
proposition but the actual interplay of
Republicans you know business politics
around tax cuts and regulation and their
racial politics were on immigration
these things are going to be with us
went for a while and regardless of
whether or not we can say after the fact
that immigration worked for Trump or
didn't work for Trump what we know right
now is immigration is working better for
them than their actual agenda that they
that even if this isn't enough to get
them the victories that they need we
know that running away for that they
don't feel like they have a platform
they can run on and you know Paul Ryan
I'm gonna be obsessed with Paul Ryan
saying this to Face the Nation
forever but him saying like how do we
make inclusive inspirational politics
more strategic it's actually a really
good question it's a really really good
question how do we get Republicans to
decide that there's a different kind of
politics whether it's an anti Healthcare
deregulation and Pro tax cut for the
rich or using race baiting to try to win
despite the unpopularity of the agenda I
don't know how you get them to moderate
on policy I don't know how you get them
to derail lies and need to win but let
them I but the only but the only answer
the only answer is to beat them there
will always be a pout is the only the
only thing that can get the reckoning
that we need to get Paul the answer to
Paul Ryan's
is to kick Paul Ryan out of politics
that may not be enough how many times
did we all say because our boss said
Obama said it will break the fever if we
beat them and in 2012 especially he
thought if I win 2012 I win this
reelection it will break the fever in
the Republican Party they will stop some
of the they're doing because then
it was Benghazi right right and it only
got worse but Ghazi there will always be
a Ravana because they had any change I
did just think we have to win and win
and we need we to win and then we need
to change some of the structural things
that have made it impossible to win in
some places in 2010 very trip 2010 was a
a decade long disaster right here's of
the census year and we are hopefully
gonna be able to fix that they could
always point to the fact that yeah yeah
Barack Obama won but Mitt Romney had
flaws Barack Obama's a
once-in-a-generation talent they could
point to the fact that they were doing
well in the House and Senate to avoid
that reckoning if they had lost in 2016
I believe that reckoning would have come
you know they just needed to be lay low
and we have not since Barack Obama won
in 2012 and really since Democrats won
the Congress in 2006 there has not been
a decisive blow to republicanism in
politics that's 12 years ago the only
one was from Donald Trump to the
established it's right and they were
just like this still sit around being
like no no our tax cuts and are very
popular and so is our position on health
care which is why we're lying
about it this whole election can I just
say one thing we're in a slightly dark
place I know I certainly am but I want
to say I'm in a very anxious place I
will never take anything for granted
ever again but I just want to say thank
you to the Pazzi of America listeners
because this the people who listen to
this show did not sit on their ass and
just read tweets with some couple quick
stats you guys raised 1.3 four million
dollars for 20 targeted candidates that
we started talking about you raise
another seven hundred eighty-five
thousand for eleven targeted candidates
back in the day you guys raised like 400
grand for the crooked eight districts
that is on top of two hundred and seven
thousand people pledging pledging to
vote on both save America twenty
thousand volunteer ships were filled
through both save America nearly half a
million people used the vote save
America voter guide so like you guys
will every time I went canvassing there
were five pot saving
t-shirts there were people every
campaign I met with when we went to bed
OHS office half the people there had
gotten staffed up via votes a via
positive America somehow like we're
listeners so you guys yeah we're out in
force
yeah no it's it's been incredibly
inspiring I mean that brings us to
Democrats we should be self-reflective
before we know the verdict it's right
yeah are the Democrats closing well do
we think they made any big mistakes
along the way how did you do before we
know the verdict I you know I would just
say all the judges giving him 10 10 10
10 10 10 landing every triple axel I
will say Democrats have not figured out
how to talk about immigration I'm in a
long-term we are there are some that
have I think that Beddoes Ben
we'll see if he wins or not but I think
like I hear him talk about it and I feel
like he sounds honest and candid and
understands that you know we need to
have a border in this country we need to
have immigration laws and policies but I
think most Democrats have run scared and
when Republicans sense that when the
media senses it becomes a meta issue
which is why we're talking about the
caravan still I agree with that I am
very proud of the party for honing in on
health care and jump in and particularly
pre-existing conditions and especially
look this the media narrative was not
there for them the media narrative kept
pushing and when you're in a race like
that and all you see on the news is
immigration immigration there is a real
fear of like maybe we have the wrong
strategy maybe we shouldn't be talking
about health care than maybe we got to
go talk about this maybe we got to move
this way that way they and and for so
many campaigns all around the country to
think to themselves okay
here's our plan we're gonna talk about
health care we're gonna talk with things
that matter and and there's also a
larger message to that some of the best
candidates I think have hit Gilliam
Abrams beto some of these House members
which is if you don't like this division
in this fear vote for us because the
only way to rebuke this kind of politics
is to vote for balance in Washington
which I also think was a really smart
message besides just a health care yeah
so look I'm sure those Democrats dimmer
has made plenty of mistakes along the
way all over the places but I to be
perfectly honest like if if we if we
come up short on Wednesday I do not
think it will because
you know any Democrat made some the
Democrats as a whole made some big huge
mistake we felt like you said now maybe
not figuring out how to talk about
immigration but I think you know the
health care message was strong powerful
we know it matters to people that's what
voters are telling people in polls
that's what voters are telling people in
person the people we've talked to have
said that yeah so I I was thinking about
that too so what what happens if we wake
up on Wednesday and we haven't won the
house what's the lesson there what can
you take away beyond just the fact that
we have this uphill climb because that
whole climb isn't going anywhere right
and we need to do better and we should
want to do as well as possible even if
we do in the house and to me what I see
around health care is the model for how
we need to widen out our approach to
other policy areas as well that that on
health care what you have seen in the
last two years is the Democratic Party
shift to the left and not haphazardly
but toward a simple idea of universal
coverage through access to something
like Medicare right that is the unit
that is now a pretty well pretty well
established consensus view it runs from
people who have proposed like Chris
Murphy a bill to make sure everyone has
access to something like Medicare all
the way to Bernie Sanders and others who
have been advocating for Medicare for
all I think that's really exciting and
what I want to see after is that kind of
approach to other areas whether it's
taxes or really job green jobs guarantee
energy
simple elegant Universal because a
pro-democracy agenda of like Tommy was
saying that includes you know stop it
redistricting and ending voter
suppression not just ending voter
suppression but automatic registration
and weekend voting and and and the and
the ability for everyone to vote no
matter what that shifting the burden of
proof back onto the government and not
onto people to prove that they have the
right to vote the the the health care
because it what the unity on the policy
of health care is what allowed for the
unity unity on the politics of health
care the fact we were able to keep Joe
Manchin
in line Joe Manchin who voted for
Cavanaugh right we were able to keep
this caucus together because we weren't
just adhering to a white paper around
health care we had established that
Democrats
better on this issue and that gave
Democrats everywhere from the most
liberal places to the most conservative
places the confidence to stand firm on
the issue and I think we need to look at
that health care lesson and apply it
across it and look the party and
everyone the party was very unified
around giving just about every candidate
a lot of Running Room on this issue
there are a lot of candidates who said
we're not for Medicare for all we're
here defending pre-existing conditions
and then there are candidates were for
Medicare for all in blue states and in
red states too I mean you know some of
these people in California that are
running in these Republican Orange
County districts came out for Medicare
for all two right but whatever you
decided there was not a lot of
infighting in the party about oh you're
not with us on this remember this is it
the people who believe in Medicare for
all are pushing hard as they should as
we have been but if the people who
aren't as we're running a race against
Republicans have been okay with saying
okay you go defend pre-existing
conditions in your very tough race and
and so-and-so win lose or draw the
takeaway from that there's gonna be if
if things don't go as well as you want
thing people would say uh Democrats need
to run to the center
Democrats need to run to the middle and
what I see is Democrats need to do more
around other issues to give people the
same level of confidence in this party
that they have the fact that we are
moved to the left while the country has
united behind Democrats on health care
well we might have the ability to win
this election
on health care is gonna tell you
something really really important no
matter what happens yeah small ball
thing I just hope Democrats well you
know I wasn't a contact exciton to give
it at it alright let's let's talk about
let's end with talking about what we are
watching for on Tuesday night what are
the races we are most excited about what
are we gonna be looking for when you
guys were the emotions invested we could
do both yeah emotions are invested in
Texas Georgia
Andrew gillum's race in Florida those
are things I'm very very close even for
amendment for in Florida and that's a
60% threshold that's gonna tell us a lot
amendment 5 is a big deal it's it's a
supermajority for tax increases so that
could in floor level off the next person
photos up whatever that's a bad one
other candidates yeah I mean Gilliam
Abrams and Beto to me are
the top three tell a story that's bigger
than just those candidates in those
states it's about politics in general I
think yes and when you look at those
three candidates who are you know a
diverse three candidates they also have
a lot in common right which they are a
new generation of Democrats who were
just they are talking big right now
their message is big it feels like a
message for the entire country and
that's because they are three
progressive Democrats running in very
red state unabashedly so you know and I
don't and when we don't know if all of
them well you know that was a long shot
though he's closing we love him Stacey
Abrams it's I mean the first black woman
to be governor of Georgia Georgia that
isn't extremely tough he's so close
thing but that's up to and gilliam you
know poll show is slightly ahead right
like I think I'll be I'd probably be
most crushed if Gilliam loses because
he's probably the most likely to win
right that's why I'd be the most crushed
beto and Abrams have a tougher slog
better especially but those those three
candidates whether they win or lose
should point the way to Democrats for
beat you know they should be the model
for other Democrats running for office I
think right and it's it's it's funny too
because of course the margin doesn't
matter as much as the outcome but the
margin will tell you if it was effective
or not right and so you know there's
gonna be whatever happens that the the
the conversation is is based entirely
around this whether or not someone
crossed a 50-50 threshold but what
matters what we can learn the most from
is what's effective in a subtler way by
looking at margins by looking at what
was effective and what wasn't so you
know that's all that's all I have to say
about that races to watch early when the
East Coast closes to give us to give us
hints about whether the Democrats will
have a good night race to the medical
marijuana store no I'm just kidding
Indiana Kentucky Florida will be
perfectly right and so a note on those
like Indiana's a tough State yes so
Indiana comes out you know the polls
close there early if Joe Donald is
having a tough time it is not the end of
the world
I know Amy McGrath in Kentucky
Kentucky's the other one that closed
very tough race that is a very tough
race - she's she's in the hunt it's very
close but it could go either way other
ones to watch early Antonio Delgado in
the New York 19th if he wins that is a
very good sign for Democrats sake that
is a big middle finger to Paul Ryan
right
jarred golden in Maine in the second
District he is in a very tight race if
he does well that's a good sign
Tom Malinowski worked for the Obama
administration in the New Jersey seventh
in Jersey and then span burger in
Virginia 7th I would watch all of those
races early and if Democrats do well and
a bunch of those races it is a very good
sign what are you gonna be doing love it
I'm gonna be in a vampire's coffin
sensory deprivation tank and I would
like every once in a while for you to
lift the lid and hand me little updates
unlike poor I like your tweet about you
wanted to spend the next however many
hours in a room without any news
coverage and someone just hands you an
envelope that's all I want
yeah I want I want I want to be and I
would never have that I would never go
to that discipline I want to be in like
an old boy room the movie old boy where
they locked where they locked somebody
in a room for the 30 years I just want
to do it for two days without the gross
stuff a movie there's a movie about
locking the dude in the room for 30
years there is is it terrible it's
terrible people listening to this hoops
who know about oh boy are like yeah you
don't want that but I just want it for
two days without any of these things
around it there's also some favorites
too that I'll be watching for a B think
an hour in Iowa who we know Christie
Houlihan who was on the show
Pennsylvania Katey Porter he is so good
at the job Katey Porter Katie Hill
JD Scholten Lynn Iowa but you know
getting a close race with Steve King
perhaps Pennsylvania after attribute
Pennsylvania it's gonna be I think
emotionally important just because we
got a got a we gotta remind ourselves
that we know to win in Pennsylvania
right yeah
Aftab her Vil and Ohio learn Underwood
in Illinois Lucy Macbeth and Georgia
Lauren bear in Florida there's a lot of
names that I will not list off yeah but
one of the best parts of this job is
getting to actually speak to these
people face-to-face and realizing how
impressive the slate of Democrats is
well
crazy hope loose there are there enough
because I don't care how bad you are
every Democrat elect it possible right
this is a national emergency when we go
back to having regular Republicans that
beat us we can talk about that true
final question what's making us nervous
and what's making us hopeful in these in
this final day let's start with nervous
and then we'll end on a high note for
everyone
I think genetics everything ah
I am motion I am nervous that the
caravan stuff has gotten the level of
coverage that it's gotten that we have
learned nothing from 2016 that that
Donald Trump has found yet another issue
that he can harp on that he can get the
press coverage he wants around and that
you that that we will look back on it as
having swamped the swamped the political
coverage in a way that pushed out things
like health care and tax cuts and all
the rest that makes me very very nervous
yeah I go back to sort of structural
realities I worry about you know when we
when the when the results are coming in
and 2016 there was a surge of Trump
voters in a lot of exurban far-flung
suburban counties that we hadn't seen
before that no one expected and I wonder
when you look at all the polls now and
it says that you know Trump's
consolidated the base and Republicans
are almost as excited as Democrats to
turnout it's just this is it's not only
an election where no Republicans might
stay home it's an election where
Republicans are going to turnout and the
only question is does our turnout be
there turnout and also if this is a
presidential year we different midterms
traditionally Republicans have better
turnout midterms yeah for us to win this
midterm again we have to change the
electorate by bringing in new voters who
have not voted a long time and and
that's gonna heavily depend on young
people turning out Latinos turning out
and suburban women who've been crushing
it yeah I worry about the the zero-sum
nature of politics we're winning and
losing is everything coupled with the
structural challenges we face going into
this year with how hard it is to win the
house or and do all the things we want
to do plus the fact that a six-point
margin or
seven-point margin is all the difference
in the world and there's all these young
people who are getting involved in
politics for the first time there's all
these new voters were turning out and I
want those people to feel like their
participation really did matter because
it did yeah and just because you know
there was a smaller smaller turnout than
we needed doesn't mean that we were
fully rebuked as a party or ideas we're
youth we have to keep fighting you get
to wake up on Wednesday morning
unfortunately and do it again yeah we
got to run it back what's what's what's
making us hopeful great candidates
fighting their asses off I mean truly
the slate of candidates is unbelievable
I was gonna say the same thing I have
never seen a field of candidates so
inspiring then I have in 2018 and that
goes from the very top races in the
Senate to people running for state
legislature that we've met yeah I mean
and you know kudos to run for something
and to all the groups that have been
helping ya recruit these Canada
indivisible swing left those people did
an amazing work
yeah I mean that I've never seen a slate
of cancer I'm so proud to be a Democrat
because of the candidates we're running
to and and that makes that that's that
makes me hopeful and the energy we were
all canvassing yesterday like a year
with Katie Hill we were with Harley Ruda
and it's just the passion and the energy
and like you know we met someone in who
was canvassing for Harley Rudo who was
like oh yeah I was just canvassing for
Katie Porter and I decided to do that in
the morning and then drive all the way
up to the other County and do this in
the afternoon she did the LA like ski
and surf thing damn right it is you know
it's funny it's like the enthusiasm and
the energy is both what it is what makes
me hopeful it is all nervous and nervous
because because we have done we have
done more in a midterm than we than we
ever have before I think there's a lot
of people participating in a midterm and
paying attention to a midterm in a way
they haven't before and that's really
exciting and and I and I do I see all
that energy and I see that all
enthusiasm and I think god I hope I hope
you know I hope it's enough I hope it's
enough because the the the thing that
makes me most nervous is waking up the
next day and all these people feeling
but we did everything we could
and it wasn't enough and I and I do
think we did everything we could I think
every you know every person who has
participated in this election and many
of them who've never participated in
election before have worked their asses
off and they have believed you know yeah
no no but like it's
I'm glad we're talking about this today
I just what's gonna happen tomorrow is
this has been a really good show it's a
 show and it's been a really really
long two years and we need a win
we need it and we've talked about just
how Herculean the task is we've talked
about just how important it is not just
for not just because winning the house
means we can stop what Trump does but
the power that comes along with it
but but more than that it's a moral
victory and a psychological victory that
I think a lot of people listening to
this feel like they need and I know that
going into Tuesday you feel like you
need it and it's so hard to say this now
before it happens but but because it
really is 50/50 we need to go into this
with eyes open and knowing that we have
done everything we can it truly may not
be enough but if it is it will be
because we all did our part and if it
isn't it will be because it turns out
that things were even worse and even
harder and and further gone than we
realized and it just means we'll have to
do that much more and that's all there
is to it and I also I'm hopeful because
I have sensed a slight shift in the
mindset of democratic activists and
organizers and that is it is not just
about and the media would say otherwise
but this has not just been about we must
stop Trump know this is and because of
candidates like Beto Rourke and Stacey
Abrams and Andrew Gilliam and a lot of
these congressional candidates all over
the country a lot of these gubernatorial
candidates who were talking about a
vision for the country that is bigger
than Donald Trump a type of politics
that is better than what Donald Trump
has given us people are voting for
something they are knocking on doors and
inspired and out there because they
believe in something not because they
just want to stop Trump and I think that
that energy is more powerful than the
negative energy just to stop something
bad from happening and that makes me
hopeful
okay well we will talk to you all
tomorrow evening Tuesday evening here in
the studio need me I'm gonna throw my
laptop into a volcano and hide
from the news I'll be refreshing Twitter
every five seconds from now until the
first results come in I feel like I'm
back on a campaign even though we're
taking a piss all you do is you just
text your are you hearing anything you
hear anything I know what what do you
know what do you know any numbers for me
everyone I've ever worked with in
politics is now in a group type there
really is nothing left to say we also
benefit we have spent two years trying
to convince people to go to the Olive
Garden and set up a restaurant where
they poison you don't pay their staff
and the owner as a racist and you know
the Olive Garden isn't perfect
all right you wish it was more
consistent but you know what when you're
there all right when we come back we
will have our interview with Texas
congressional candidate calling all
right outro outro
you
