be called out who instructed you to do
that I think they probably not like to
be names I don't think it's like the
coolest thing to be associated with all
right we got a lot in this stream today
in our little dock so let's just get
into it shall we
at the beginning Alexander Acosta labor
secretary right now is facing increased
calls for his own resignation over a
plea deal that he made as a US attorney
in Florida in 2008
it allowed Jeffrey Epstein basically -
it brought an end to his sex crimes case
against a hedge fund guy and let him
serve only 13 months in jail was really
lenient and is he's receiving a lot of
criticism for it now because Jeffrey
Epstein is back in the news thanks to a
lot of work by reporters and a new
indictment basically he gave a press
conference today he's trying to defend
himself but all these people are want
him out of his job including as closely
leading Democrats everyone on Twitter is
asking why does he still have a job why
is he still here because Donald Trump is
president yeah that's it and the lesson
Donald Trump has learned over the last
six to eight months is he can do
whatever he wants there's no political
pressure that gets to him on anything
that he doesn't think well unless unless
it's something that he you know worries
about it's his base over or something
like that
I don't know but no Donald Trump Donald
Trump won't fire him if he doesn't want
to fire him because what's gonna happen
to Donald Trump a bunch of people are
gonna yell at him for a couple days in
the media and then move on to whatever
the next controversy is so he doesn't
care you know I noticed people were
upset with Pelosi for saying yeah he
should step down but I'm not going to
impeach him so a couple things on that
one Elijah Cummings who's chair of the
Oversight Committee in the house did say
today that he sent a letter saying you
know he wants Acosta to come before his
and testify answer questions so they are
going to investigate Acosta after
yesterday saying that they might not
investigate him but in terms of
impeachment it's interesting because the
reason the Nancy Pelosi can't say she's
gonna go ahead and impeach Acosta is
because then everyone's gonna say okay
you are going to impeach a guy who
covered up or maybe not covered up but
gave a sweetheart deal to someone who
was running a child sex trafficking ring
and who committed sexual assault but you
don't want to impeach the president it√≠d
states who has been credibly accused of
sexual assault and rape by over 20 women
at this point and who has broken the law
and a whole bunch of other ways so every
all roads lead back to the donald trump
impeachment question and all
frustrations with nancy pelosi lead back
to this question about impeachment of
donald trump and because she is opposed
to impeachment right now are not willing
to move forward with it
she seemed stymied in answering all
these other questions about all these
other controversies scandals and crimes
of the trump administration yeah it's
it's a strange kind of stasis where the
assumptions that went into the political
calculus that she made around
impeachment which you can agree or
disagree with are applied in a really
strange way to other figures like Acosta
at a time in which despite the
propaganda machine Trump has despite the
fact that he's shameless too but despite
the fact that his administration doesn't
care about the truth at times cabinet
officials have faced repercussions Trump
administration cabinet appointments have
had to resign have had to face
accountability so it's a strange
decision to suspend political gravity
for Acosta because you don't believe
political gravity applies to Donald
Trump I also don't understand why you
need to give such a definitive answer on
the question yeah I don't understand it
like we have set ourselves up now where
the first question not the third the
first is will you impeach someone and
even if whether you want to impeach
non-id up to me if I were asked that
question I'd say we need to investigate
this fully what what we are learning is
incredibly awful and if it turns out
that Acosta committed acts that make him
someone unfit to serve we should look at
a serious investigation and ultimately
if necessary impeachment like I don't
understand why you need to close the
door close the door these doors it's
these doors can they can stay open you
know the other sort of thing that
Republicans in Congress are hanging
their hat on here is that the Department
of Justice is conducting a review and
investigation of the plea deal that
Acosta gave Epstein all those years ago
and so a lot of them are just saying
yeah this sounds horrible Epstein's a
monster may be a cost of gave him a bad
deal but I'm just gonna wait for the DOJ
investigation first before I say that he
should step down or be impeached so they
have that to say which the problem there
is who know who knows how long a DOJ
investigation will take you know we have
an attorney general running DOJ who
should be impeached himself yeah so
that's you know the problem with waiting
in DOJ but it is something that
Republicans can say oh well there's an
investigation into that and I'm
supportive of the investigation also I
think I think some of the frustration
that people have right now with Nancy
Pelosi with some of the other Democrats
charged who would be charged with
leading these investigations is people
have a people want to fight they feel
like they've worked really hard to win
the house and to give ourselves this
fight that we knocked on doors and we
did something hard we took the house
because we we said winning the house is
how we can begin to hold Trump
accountable that we needed to get that
gavel we need to subpoena power we need
to control these committees and the
process has felt I think to people not
just slow and unsatisfying but
ultimately being executed by people who
don't seem to be approaching this with
like fire in the belly with like like
this is your historical moment two guys
like and you know
we level a lot of criticism against
people like Paul Ryan correctly for not
understanding their moment and I think
Democrats better understand how serious
a threat Trump makes and I do and I do
believe that they are they're not making
the same kind of moral calculus that we
saw Republicans make but I think that
there's a desire to say hey guys this is
it this is the fight this is the fight
of your life this is the moment you're
in Congress to be tough and engaged and
and and show a sense of emergency in
your approach to these questions show
the people that supported you from
across the country who donated who've
been paying attention in a way they
maybe never have before that you're that
you get it
that you're here that you're that you're
fully engaged in this great
battle we have to hold Trump accountable
to fight corruption that you care really
that you care deeply about it that's
what gets you up in the morning what you
think about when you go to slay sleep
and so all those sound bites and all the
political calculus aside like I do think
that feeling is something that doesn't
seem to be coming across in the way that
these crises have been handled so if you
as like a person at home or watching
this and feel like your lawmaker maybe
it doesn't have that fire doesn't have
that attitude towards it is there
something like should you be calling
them what should I be doing about this
to get people to do what you want them
to do yeah I think you definitely call
your lawmaker because look these these
people make decisions based on the
political pressure and that's being
applied to them and the incentive is the
political incentives that they have to
do one thing or the other
and so if your representative isn't one
of the people in favor of impeachment
like look I think if Nancy Pelosi had
the votes to launch impeachment
proceedings to start with impeachment
readings she would probably be moving
forward with it even if he was somewhat
reluctant she doesn't have the votes
meaning there and she's covering for a
whole lot of Democratic House members
who don't want to move forward with
impeachment but don't want to say it
themselves don't want to make themselves
a target don't want to piss off
activists and constituents who are in
favor of impeachment and so Nancy Pelosi
said well I'll take the I'll take you
know I'll take the for you and so
you should find out where your mem
stands on impeachment you should call
your member and find out whether they're
for impeachment or against impeachment
and if they're I you know if they're
against impeachment then you should call
and should have your friends call too
because clearly what they're hearing
from constituents is they or they
believe they have more constituents who
are against impeachment than for a
teacher and the only way to change that
calculus is to speak up and I do think
it is but like I said I think this is
all about impeachment we keep dancing
around it with an investigation into
Acosta or you know a bad border bill
that we can't you know that we
negotiated or this or that but it all
comes back to the fact that there is
someone in the White House who has
placed himself above the law who thinks
the law does not apply to him
norms don't apply to him institutions
don't apply he can do whatever the hell
he wants and impeachment doesn't
guarantee at all that we removed from
from office in fact it probably won't
result in him leaving office but it's
the one tool we have to focus the
country's attention on how unfit this
man is for office it still it's the one
tool that the House of Representative
have it is the power that they have
being in the house having a majority in
the house they have subpoena power they
have impeachment power they do not have
other power the Republicans control the
Senate the Republican a Republican
controls the White House and I like
Yocum I think I've been more skeptical
of impeachment than John for a long time
but ultimately why I can't have come to
agree is because what I see is this
stasis in our approach to the
administration you know I don't want
impeachment to happen in 2020 I'm gonna
happen my view is we need to do this now
we need to if only to if only to ignite
the machinery of accountability to
remind people how this all works how
it's meant to work how how power
actually can be applied like we need to
there's like there's muscle memory that
people need to remember here and so I
look at what's happening right now like
oh you know should ii mean Peter of
course you know no not yet it it all
feels like let's just run through the
process let's see how it feels
let's get on the bike you know
maybe we won't like it maybe we'll just
use it to cult you know we have a you
know we have a stationary
like in the house you get on it you try
it you don't like it that much it ends
up holding your coats for 10 years but
at least you got on a couple times scale
it a whirl it's not true about Pella
we're not talking about peloton no one
is talking about peloton no one is
talking about it I love that bike just a
couple of so now we're on the topic of
impeachment were jumping a little bit
ahead this person wants to know about
next week
the Muller Muller is testifying publicly
before Congress July 17th you guys have
a show I believe yeah should be fun me
in Denver cool this person wants to know
if you guys could ask Bobby Muller just
exactly what he called him one question
at the hearing what would you ask Wow
great question I would ask him so where
this but I would ask I would get into
the obstruction question and ask him
specifically was his intention to
basically was this was his report an
impeachment referral to Congress I was
thinking about that when I was gaming it
out because there are questions on what
that's one question I want to ask if you
were not if he was not the president
would you charge him with a crime is
another question I would want to ask but
I don't know what I'm trying to get what
the best question you could ask where
you would expect an actual answer yeah I
think yeah I think he's just having him
go through the reasoning again why if he
had he laid out so much evidence of
obstruction did he'd not or you could
out you could also start asking him
basically about the discrepancies
between what he said in what Barr said
that's what I was which is William Bar
has said that you it wasn't because of
Department of Justice guidelines that
you didn't charge Trump he thought he
said it was because you didn't have
enough evidence is that correct and then
I would just keep going through bar
statements and seeing if Muller will
agree with bar or disagree with bar
because we know that bar has basically
lied yeah
like petty questions that you would ask
not just like fun ones come on don't you
want to see this guy in jail did you do
you do listen you slink square-jawed
human briefcase don't you want this guy
in prison look at you look at you you
gallon of whole milk pour it into a
Brooks Brothers suit don't you want to
see this guy I would of course asked him
about the dirty dossier the dirty
dossier I asked him about you know
Hillary Clinton's bleach bit you see
acid wash jeans this is what Jim Jordan
dress they're gonna go bananas
Bob Mahler will just be subjected to
this FoxNews lunacy in the
middle of Italy for at least half the
hearing oh right yeah cuz they're gonna
just ask him they're gonna try to act
you know they're doing their
investigation into the investigation was
this whole thing a witch-hunt was the
president illegally spied on they're
gonna do all that garbage so they're
gonna like switch off back and forth and
you're gonna have like five minutes
Democrats control the committee
obviously so that's that little help
right they will be able to move things
along but they'll still get their
questions and they'll still be absurd
got it good to know what to look for
good times all right so while all of
this has been going on not under the
radar I feel like this is above the
radar but we're not talking about it's
the same degree the Republican attempt
to get rid of the Affordable Care Act it
is continuing in the courts question
number one which has been repeated by
many people in the stream what the
is happening in the courts regarding the
ACA why is it so under the radar this is
probably the flimsiest most ridiculous
legal challenge to the Affordable Care
Act yet - previously legal challenges
have made their way to the Supreme Court
in both cases the Affordable Care Act
has been upheld it's been upheld in part
because John Roberts decided to vote
with the courts liberals the v justice
majority that saved the Affordable Care
Act in 2012 is still on the court today
those five justices are still in the
court today hanging on to those seats
and literally life itself right and and
now they're you know
if if the so I'll tell you what the case
is about the case is about because
Congress eliminated the individual
mandate in 2017 which is the law that
says you have to buy insurance health
insurance you have to have health
insurance and if you don't have health
insurance you have to pay a fine so they
basically took the fine down to zero to
essentially eliminate the individual
mandate and so now if you don't buy
health insurance there is no fine for
not buying health insurance the
plaintiffs in this case and the
plaintiffs are Republican state
officials as well as the Trump
administration has filed a brief on
behalf of the plaintiff so this is a
trump approved supported lawsuit their
argument is well now that there is no
mandate clearly what Congress intended
by trying to get rid of the mandate was
they intended to get rid of the entire
law but they they couldn't do it because
they didn't have the votes but the
intention of Congress was to get rid of
the law and this law by the way can't
survive anymore without a mandate which
is a it's a well you don't take our word
for it like this guy Jonathan Adler
who's a law professor at Case Western
who filed briefs against the Affordable
Care Act and the previous cases that
have made it to the Supreme Court he
calls this absurd and he hates the
Affordable Care Act so it was so a judge
a federal judge in Texas decided that
the lot that you know agree with the
plaintiffs that the ACA was
unconstitutional it then went to a
three-judge panel and the Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals so that's what the case
was yesterday there's three judges on
that panel one is the Democrats
obviously not gonna vote for the
plaintiffs because it's an absurd
lawsuit and that judge seemed to think
there was an absurd lawsuit yesterday
but there's two Republican judges one is
a trump judge one is a bush judge and
some of the things they said were
completely absurd yesterday and it seems
like they are from at least oral
arguments they sort of believe the
plaintiffs may have a real case here but
yes totally
we just don't know I mean I think it's
always there's not a lot of value to
reading into the arguments when you know
john roberts was incredibly critical of
the affordable care act and then ruled
to save the affordable care act the
arguments are placed where sometimes
people reveal their positions other
times judges just test arguments because
they're lawyers and
you know so what happens with the ACA
gets struck down by the appeals court
will people lose their insurance
immediately will they keep protections
for a little while until as this is
appealed just go to us like I was how do
you think this is gonna work if this
yeah so everyone should know nothing
will change until the Supreme Court
ruled on a difficult Supreme Court you
keep your insurance everything but the
Affordable Care Act basically stays and
so yeah if if the Fifth Circuit rules
that the Affordable Care Act is
unconstitutional or they rule for the
plaintiffs and say that it has to go
back to a lower court for some reason
there's a bunch of different things they
can do realize they can make but no
matter what it's it's not the final word
and if it's not the final word then
everything remains in place you know we
should know that if the Supreme Court
for some reason which is very unlikely
but who knows rules against the
Affordable Care Act and ruled it
unconstitutional
20 million people in this country will
lose their health insurance and people
who didn't even buy their insurance
through the Affordable Care Act on the
exchanges will see the premiums go up
costs rise I mean it will be a disaster
for the American health care system and
by the way that's one of the reasons
that John Roberts who is a conservative
upheld the Affordable Care Act is
unconstitutional the first
constitutional yeah it's constitutional
first place because they said you know
what we now have a system where this is
like a fifth of our economy hospitals
doctors businesses
everyone has certainty around this law
and you rip this law part now and you
wreak havoc not just on people's health
care but on the whole economy it's it
would be a disaster so if you're
a person who really doesn't want
something like that to happen is there
anything you can do is there like no
unfortunate yeah unfortunately now we
just have to you know the short term we
have to wait for the legal process to
play out in the long term you know every
single
Republicans in Congress now are saying
oh you know will protect pre-existing
conditions at least if this thing goes
down their lying they've never wanted to
protect the existing conditions they've
ought they've all supported this lawsuit
there was a lot of Republican support
somebody tweeted somebody from I think
McConnell's office tweeted out the very
moment they came up with the phrase
repeal and replace Obamacare it was in a
brainstorm in which they were just
trying to come up with with just with
how to describe getting rid of Obamacare
they didn't have a big replacement they
didn't have a policy and of anything
they just knew replacing it sounded
better than just repealing it because
even though they believe it's terrible
even though they believe it should be
more unpopular than it is they know that
so many people are relying on it they
have to constantly say don't worry don't
worry the parts you like will remain
with no intention of actually saving the
parts that will remain one other thing a
lot of these lawsuits you know one of
the biggest lawsuits against the ACA has
been brought by a bunch of states
attorneys general right those are places
where we should be competing more and
winning locally right look Scott Walker
who we defeated it was one of the
biggest obstacles to the Affordable Care
Act so Steve Bullock in Montana was able
to expand Medicaid because he's the
governor of a red state so you know a
lot of this will play out in the courts
but lot of the reasons we're having
these fights is because we've lost at
the lower level and conservatives were
hell-bent on preventing Obamacare from
working in their states Medicaid from
being extended and from surviving at all
got it okay so that wasn't really under
the radar but this I think is in
Virginia yesterday by 2218 vote the
Senate adjourned until November they
didn't take up any legislation they
basically voted to do nothing for four
months instead of taking any action
especially to reduce gun violence which
was like high profile and a thing that
people hoped that they were gonna do
Anisha wants you guys to talk about what
happened in Virginia yesterday she felt
really angry and hopefully what helpless
watching it happen she'd love
suggestions about what we can actually
do moving forward yeah that was pretty
crazy they basically they had a package
of gun reform proposals and keep in mind
in the Virginia legislature Republicans
have like a very narrow one or two seat
majority right and so even at the outset
you think okay
what chances do we have of something
passing Republicans control both houses
but they thought that it would lease you
know these are some of their proposals
are you know closing gun show loopholes
background checks like very common-sense
sort of minor gun control reforms and
they thought they'd at least get a
hearing ninety minutes in the
Republicans decide to close up shop and
suspend the hearing and say we're gonna
vote for this after after the elections
and so you know there's a lot of
activists that showed up there that were
pretty upset and rightly so and these
Republicans decided to kick the
proposals to a state commission a
bipartisan Commission on crime and you
know hold it until after the election so
they don't have to worry about it
anymore and but fortunately there is
something that people can do about this
you know we can flip the Virginia
legislature in November this November
this is November Virginia does it out in
the odd numbers which is you know one
way to go but you can do it we you we
are we are targeting how many seats in
Virginia ten there's twelve a bunch a
bunch you go to the gerrymandering
funded votes save America he was looking
at the URL the HTTP colon forward slash
forward slash www.savingdinner.com lake
the redirecting is free put every
combination you know that's what I think
hopefully I get that done but if you go
there you can donate to a fund that's
gonna help flip the Virginia legislature
and ultimately help flip state
legislatures across the country John go
on no that's it
that's it that's what you got to do what
you got to do it's our Jerry fund
it's it's the the this gun control
debacle yesterday is the perfect
illustration of how much this matters
right Democrats have one more seat in
one of these chambers two more seats in
the other chamber
and suddenly instead of Republicans
shutting it down we have a bunch of
Democrats in control voting these
proposals into law with a Democratic
governor who's gonna sign them into law
and now we have common-sense gun control
proposals in Virginia that's it and
that's a couple seats and and
gerrymandering and Jerry and
gerrymandering and those are the people
that are gonna draw the districts and
you know Republicans they draw these
districts Austin Texas all right pretty
cool place you know it doesn't have a
member of Congress it doesn't have a
member of Congress Austin with all that
barbecue because they divided it up into
little tiny chunks so 20 percent of
Austin goes into this Republican
district and 20 percent of Austin goes
into that Republican district they all
get divided up so the people of Austin
can't come together and say we want a
member of Congress who's you know weird
like we claim to be even though we're
talking about awesome we have food
trucks the point is the point is back in
Virginia where we started obviously also
a big issue thank you Thank You Austin
thank you anyway you get it so donate to
the Jerry fund because it's also a
lot of bang for your buck because it
doesn't take as much money is that loose
doesn't the presidential level or the
Senate level to work to flip a state
legislature it's slated see yes so and
like your money goes further and I would
also think if you know any billionaires
who were thinking about running for
president and considering blowing a
hundred to two hundred million dollars
just maybe you think about the fact that
they could take that money and flip
literally hundreds of seats for
themselves you know that's how far that
money goes at the local level that's
interesting to me is that it that's it's
very interesting interesting fact about
what money can do I wonder if any of
them are watching stream it's an
interesting fact
all right onto our 2020 questions so we
picked 26 candidates now and dot dot am
I allowed to ask why yet
why steyr why question mark Oh back
there you go we've natural lead-in I
wasn't talking about him specifically
Madison was Madison was we've been
asking Madison's back I don't know if it
is a Madison but yeah whether it's the
same Madison or not a few months ago I
made an a
joke about the name Madison and I'm
sorry
yeah we've been asking that ourselves
why Tom Steyer why I I want to
compliment him I want to start with a
compliment Wow he's spent about 200
million dollars so far on all kinds of
Democratic initiatives helping Democrats
win elections grassroots initiatives a
clean energy climate stuff he's done a
lot of great stuff and I would also yeah
I'm the Giving Pledge he's giving away
half as you know a billionaire and
everything he's giving away half his
fortune you know throughout his lifetime
which is what the given pledge does so
all that in the in the good I'll add to
the good category I have more for the
good John I have more for the Tom start
good category
I thought his announcement video was
actually pretty good I thought the
argument he makes in that video is a
smart one I actually liked the
announcement I liked the message
conveyed in the video it's like what if
what if a billionaire gave Elizabeth
Warren gave Elizabeth Warren speech in a
barn you know dressed like a businessman
and gave Elizabeth Warren speech so
that's that's C so now we're pivoting to
some of the VAD which is you know he
makes this argument in the video which I
actually do find incredibly compelling
but then to John's point it is Elizabeth
Warren's message it's an and forget that
it's warrant it's a message currently
actively represented in the field it is
not a novel or bye bye Lauren bye other
units have made it to yeah so you know
you're getting in this late you can do
that because you have your own wealth to
bring to the table so you don't have to
meet fundraising fundraising deadlines
and you and you don't have to cobble
together resources to build a group
that's an advantage that you have but if
you're gonna get in this late has to be
because you're looking at this field and
saying something is missing what I need
to say is not being said but that's just
not the case
that's all that's my problem with it
yeah I mean there were reports that
obviously he's very passionate about
climate change
good for him so we but he believed that
you know he was out he was disappointed
that jay inslee his campaign hasn't
taken off that much so maybe that's why
he needed to jump in but it's always
like okay so you just wait so why are
you the one why are you you know like
what do you have to offer that the feel
doesn't have to offer besides maybe a
hundred million dollars that you want to
spend on this race to me that's so far
the one thing that sets him apart from
everyone else right look that's cool
having a hundred million dollars is
really cool oh you guys way more than
that but no I know but this like saying
like here's that that's a lot of money a
lot of money a lot of money they can go
really far in politics whether it's her
ads with your name on it or other causes
but you know we'll we're gonna reach out
to Tom just like all the other
candidates and I have them in here we
can ask him all these questions right
here and sincerely like I I really do
mean it like I I you know we were very
critical of Howard Schultz we're
critical because it felt like a vanity
project it felt like someone who didn't
understand that they were putting the
election in jeopardy by making it about
themselves and running as an independent
when all evidence suggests that that's
something that would spoil the election
and help Donald Trump win and what we
said from the very beginning is we
welcome anyone who wants to get inside
of this Democratic primary invite you
know
does it bother me just instinctively
honestly that he can do this so late
because he has independent wealth which
means he doesn't have to kind of win the
argument dollar for dollar the way other
candidates have yes it does so that's
something he has to answer for to me but
he's in he's in and he's doing it and
he's doing it the Honorable way by
fighting as a Democrat even though if he
wanted to he could blow up blow it up
and fight like an independent which
would be wrong so you know make your
case make your case Tom Steyer do it on
PSA and do it right here in this very
chamber chamber it was fun to call it a
chamber echo chamber that way they call
this is that the official name of the
studio I think yeah the studio is the
echo jet this is the echo chamber the
chamber it is and someone get on that it
is it is alright this next questions
about the Senate and Melissa wants to
know does Amy McGrath really stand a
chance in hell against all the money
Mitch McConnell is going to throw at her
I love her and she has a great story but
I don't want
have false oh and for everyone who
doesn't know let's talk about who Amy
McGrath is I also think it's just like
inappropriate and elitist to refer to
Kentucky as help shame on you
Amy McGrath is a former fighter pilot
who ran for Congress not dabbing crap
Travis is dabbing a meograph is a former
fighter pilot who ran for Congress in
2018
she ran in probably well one of the more
what are the swing districts in Kentucky
ran is progressive and lost by four
points and she's now running statewide
in a state that is much much redder than
the district that she ran in for
Congress and and didn't quite win so she
has an incredible we uphill climb Mitch
McConnell I know the question I asked
about Mitch's money it's not just his
money he is a very good politician he
knows how to win elections he's had some
pretty tough challengers in the past and
he plays dirty as we all know and I
think it's be very very tough and I
think it's it's a it's a state that
Trump won by 30 points so it's not you
know people have made some comparisons
to Beto in Texas Texas is more likely to
flip than Kentucky
Georgia is more likely to flip the in
Kentucky you know tester was more likely
to hang on in Montana than Kentucky
because montt the demographics in
Montana I mean so much of this is put
the candidates aside and just look at
the demographics of the state and in
Kentucky the demographics just aren't
great for us and so on the list of
potential Senate flips in 2020 I would
put Kentucky towards the end of that
list all that said you never know what
might happen and it is fantastic that
someone is standing up to run against
Mitch McConnell if she makes him spend
any money if she if she makes him answer
any tough questions if she keeps him on
his toes puts him on the defensive then
it will still have been worth and you
know Paulette
exchanges incredibly fast and you just
never know what might happen so yeah she
might have a chance for sure but it
would not be at the top of my list for
Senate flips I would put Colorado its
number one I would put Arizona and Maine
it's maybe two and three then North
Carolina and Iowa then Texas and Georgia
and then you know then I probably get to
Kentucky but it's on the list what do
you think love it yeah I mean everything
you're saying is right I did I just
think we got it we we've set you know
fighting everywhere means fighting
everywhere that's right it means and it
means like you don't fight everywhere
because everywhere you're gonna win
everywhere and you don't fight
everywhere even because you have a like
you know a solid chance of winning you
fight everywhere because some of them
are gonna be long shots but sometimes
you win so no she's got to fight like
hell and if she runs she would have to
run and has to run one of the great
races of all time right she has to run
one of the great Senate races a person
has ever run she has to work incredibly
hard McConnell has to make mistakes
McConnell has to be mired in a in this
reelection a lot of things have to go
right for her to have a shot but that's
why you put a great person like Amy
McGrath in that spot to take advantage
of the moment and just run like hell
that's all you can do and also in even
if she doesn't win when you run when we
say run everywhere and run in safe that
we probably can't win in it's about also
laying the groundwork for future
victories you know I mean what better
o'rourke did in Texas and what Stacey
Abrams did in Georgia is they built
organizations they helped to revive
state democratic parties and they build
campaign organizations that will help
the the candidates that follow them that
try to run their again or in Stacey
Abrams case you know if she runs again
in Georgia so it really matters it's a
good thing for people to run in very
very right districts and red states yeah
sweet all right
we're onto the fun stuff oh thank god
first up when do we get an interview
with friend of the pod Megan Rapinoe
estate you know I think Rapinoe
you know stay tuned stay tuned stay
tuned it could be soon could be soon
fact there may even be it's Friday
tomorrow we're gonna be here tomorrow
it's gonna be coming out Friday a bonus
in your phones on Friday think it's cool
that we've been preparing with our
soccer pictures with all the candidates
so now we can take a real a real soccer
picture it's great let's get really
excited about that I know I feel like
there gonna be some elbows thrown to get
we haven't run anyone have Rapinoe
jerseys here and we should probably get
some let's get on that that's an easy
thing to fix 40 people out there
somebody go to pick up some jerseys she
will be right here tomorrow right in
this chamber yeah I bet you sits there
does she get her pick virtus it no okay
let's see this actually Madison is in
the stream again a second time Wow Wow
the free madman Wow over there you know
I mean Madison wanted to update you guys
about the paper that she wrote she got
her manatees paper back it is called
John Lovett and the expression of anger
through comedy she got a 93 on it and in
the screenshot that she are in the
picture that she included you can see
like a little note from her teacher it
says I like the variety and punctuation
and sentence structure she's some
comments on the - but like overall this
is looking like a pretty solid paper
Madison I want you to know something I
saw that picture and I read the first
paragraph and I think you did a great
job
Wow Madison and I in your heart - what
would it have taken to get a hundred and
we got to ask what you do wrong had it
what did you not what did you fail to
appreciate Madison Madison listen
there's two ways we can next to handle
us here we can pat ourselves on the back
forgetting 93 or you can work harder to
figure out where those seven
points right took a turn you know what
Madison you're seven points away you're
seven points away from where you should
be that's Collins that's that's called
mentoring mentor inside you totally
great courses
it gets at home from you love it fun
it's doing great
alright and then have the dogs in Dorset
2020 Canada yet what are their ideal
policy platforms throw the ball give a
lot of treats offer tummy rubs who did
they like they've interacted with many
of these scanners a drag with many
Elizabeth Warren you know who hunted
really liked who Corey Barker geez it
worked for the joke Travis's quit this
is just exited the live stream yeah so
Elizabeth Warren did a lot of playing
with the dogs that was that was fun
Beto gave Leo a treat I don't like
Griffin
remember that oh yeah that's right
pundit really rolled over if Elizabeth
Warren pundit also very found Kamala
Harris very appealing
yep that's right Oh Leigh Leigh oh yeah
John Hickenlooper asked to pose for a
picture with common commonly really she
knew how to play the game because she
tweeted she instagrammed a picture of
her and pundits right she did and uh
that worked on me honestly part of her
rise like people you don't necessarily a
poll since people attributed the poll
increase to the debate but of course
like is that it thank you
kirsten gillibrand has a doodle herself
maple and in a recent pod I asked for
more maple pics I thought that was that
that would be her key to surging I think
she listened to you I feel like I hear
more about maple
yes I've ever stats are tweeting some
maple pictures at me Mabel a very cute
dog
very cute doodle bigger than our doodles
any doodles of all sizes but yeah the
dogs are still weighing their options
they think it's very early um they want
to see a couple more debates yeah and
your dogs you got there you know they're
taking naps now
cool alright that's it for the stream
today that's it thanks for your
questions everyone one more wait this
just in butt bump up about gay news huh
big little lies has no business being
this good and you know what I wish you
know I wish for John in politics I wish
Meryl Streep's character could come into
the real world in politics and do what
she does in the show inside of the Trump
White House and go one by one
to each of those people and in monologue
described their deepest fears stir
up
also watch years and years I've been
saying on Twitter it's also on HBO it's
so wait can you give me the pitch for
the show like what is this it is a
near-future dystopia so about so it's
set in the UK no no none of this belongs
in genius this is this is it's it's a
British shows on the BBC now it's on HBO
Emma Thompson stars so amazing I've
already because it's Emma Thompson and
it's basically like what happens a
couple years from now if we continue
like Trump as president and world
politics being as crazy as they are and
everything that happens in it that is
horrifying is entirely plausible it's
not even like black mirror dystopia
where you need a few technological
things to happen for it to work it like
anything could probably happen tomorrow
you watch this for fun it is incredibly
anxiety and I have like left each it's a
six-part series we're on we already have
three I leave each episode feeling like
very anxious but I can't turn away it's
really good I got to keep watching I did
have to turn it off because one
character said a phrase in a monologue
that just made me have to turn the show
off and I'm gonna forgive it and move on
it's no yeah that's just one thing but
the character said this said this four
sentence don't even get me started on
Isis and when I heard that don't even
get me started on Isis I just went okay
I know that it's just one sentence here
it is told from the perspective of a
family so it supposed to be a family
drama at a family dealing with all this
and there
not like an s they're not like an
intensely political family but politics
is affecting their lives which is why
you'd say a line like that don't even
get me started on uh these Isis diving
get me started underpin but it's pretty
good
how dare you hey John what was
the name of the show that you pitched
sold and wrote and aired I'm trying to
pitch years and years which already
exist show the people should watch you
know what you tell you think said okay
every three months I get a check in the
mail for two dollars and fifty cents you
know why because somebody somewhere
rented an episode I want um I want a
camera on you when you go to the mailbox
to pick up that check you know what's
also really more embarrassing than that
so in in that show willie geist from NB
c-- did a cameo as a favor and what's so
 embarrassing now is like every
like every couple of months he gets a
check in the mail for literally two
cents my brother did too for a while
yeah I gave John making fun a 1600 Penn
it was the launching pad
launching pad for Andy Favreau who had
one of the great scenes with Bill
Pullman yep you did unbelievable I was
the Bill Pullman says it's a it's the
episode this dream should end this
episode is about whether or not people
are laughing at the president's jokes
because he's funny or because he's
president and they test it out and Bill
Pullman says to Andy who's playing a
junior staffer Bill Pullman eats a
carrot and he eats the carrot and he
goes to Andy love that crunch and Andy
laughs hysterically goes good one mr.
president it's a good show up up
up up that's gay news Amazon Prime
iTunes Cantwell wherever you watch
that's a good one mr. president by
everybody
