this HOD welcome to pod save
America I'm John Favreau
I'm Tommy Vitor later in the pod you'll
hear Tommy's interview with digital
strategist Tara McGowan who's been
keeping close tabs on how Trump and all
the Democratic candidates are spending
on digital ads and why it's important
but first we're gonna talk about Trump's
long phone call with Vladimir Putin the
recent strong jobs numbers Nancy
Pelosi's 2020 strategy and the debate
over electability in the Democratic
primary and Westeros oh yeah exactly
right should say Lovitz on the road yeah
he'll be joining you and Dan on Thursday
that's right he will look forward to
that and he's just finishing up his
Texas tour you can hear the Houston
episode of love her liebe that features
Emily Heller former NFL great and
current podcast star Arian Foster and
Mercedes Fulbright from the center for
popular democracy I really like Arian
Foster when we talked to him in Houston
he and I spent 20 minutes talking about
like cosmos and shows we liked about
science and astrology on Netflix he's a
great guy he's a great guy he'll be
running back to that's great
alright let's get to the news on Friday
Donald Trump initiated a telephone call
with the man who sabotaged our
presidential election Vladimir Putin but
did not say a word to him about that
attack or any future attempts to
interfere with our elections Trump
tweeted that they quote discuss trade
Venezuela Ukraine North Korea nuclear
arms-control and even the Russia hoax
very productive talk in an interview on
Sunday Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
had an explanation for why election
interference wasn't covered during the
60 plus minute call quote sometimes
conversations just aren't long enough to
include every issue tell me you buy that
one that sounds like a good explanation
to you I do not I mean also the Russian
readout said it was a 90 minute call so
that does seem like some time now a lot
of time on the foot whose talks to
someone for 90 minutes on the phone
calls the Putin or payme s1 he gives
long speeches long diatribes about the
legacy of Western intervention in this
place in that place and then our
president is a bumbling idiot who gives
long speeches about Fox & Friends and
whatever and then it all has to get
translated so they both need translate
back getting yesterday coherency
speak English neither disguise exactly
so that is a mundane reason that could
account for why it would take a long
time but either way like hey you know
the head of the CIA I'm sorry the head
of the FBI is flashing warning lights
saying that these guys are an interfere
in the twenty20 elections Kirsten
Nielsen the former DHS Secretary was
told not to raise it with Donald Trump
but she was so worried about it that she
was pulling together her own cabinet
meetings to talk about the subject so
it's a huge problem sometimes I like to
play let's pretend what it would be like
if we had a normal president okay so if
we had a normal president and Russia has
already sabotaged our election in 2016
but you don't necessarily want to
escalate tensions with Russia at this
point right you want to like start a new
war like we wouldn't want Obama to get
on the phone with Putin and start
screaming at him and making all these
threats but how do you deal with a
ongoing threat like Russia which is
clearly targeting has targeted our
elections in the past is gonna target it
again in the future it's gonna target
not just our elections but our
infrastructure with cyberattacks what do
you say if you're the president well you
know what can you do that short of
escalating tensions but also lets them
know that you mean business well I mean
I think what you say is probably less
important than what you're doing so I do
think you have to let them know that
we're watching what you're doing and we
will take steps to respond as a way to
try to deter them and so back in the day
in 2016
Obama put together a bunch of sanctions
we kicked a bunch of Russian spies out
of a fake consulate in the you know
there were a bunch of steps taking to to
create a cost for this activity in the
interim period from then until now and
Donald Trump has been president what he
should have done was bolster our cyber
infrastructure he should have given the
National Security Agency more
authorities to deter Russian aggression
we know that he didn't because Mike
Rogers admitted during congressional
testimony the Trump hadn't authorized
any new authorities when you send a
strong message that we are watching you
we know you did if you do it again we
will respond in a significant fashion
that might be through sanctions at the
UN Security Council unilateral sanctions
and might
a covert action program cybertek on them
right I'm not saying that that's a good
response because you know there's not
many rules of the road there and things
can get dicey real quick when it comes
to cyber text but you want to let him
know that this is not acceptable and to
accept Putin at his word that they
didn't do this again and again and again
makes him feel like there will be no
cost well I was gonna say what kind of
signal do you think Trump's words and
actions are sending to Putin whether or
not Trump intends to send a signal right
like whether you believe you know that
the Trump feels somehow like Putin has
leverage over me has to do with Putin
say or the Trump's just a bumbling idiot
who you know wants to be friendly to
Putin because he has an affinity for
authoritarians or because he knows that
if he's not friendly to Putin that
somehow it D legitimizes his election
whatever you may think what are the
signals getting sent to Putin by Trump
not really coming down hard on this I
mean I think before this call after this
call Putin probably used the 2016
election interference as the most
successful propaganda info espionage
operation in the history of the russian
government because he got the guy he
wanted elected president yeah he divided
our nation and we remained as divided
over the issue today as we were that
right we're still fighting about the
mauler Report we're talking about
impeaching Trump bottling about tying in
to us so you know it's a I don't know
that Putin is particularly datura below
through words right now it would have to
be pretty strong consequences I mean
what what do you think Democrats should
be saying and doing about the fact that
you know Russia intends to interfere
again or at least according to the FBI
according to see according to all of our
intelligence it seems like Russian
attempts to interfere in our election to
target our infrastructure with
cyberattacks is ongoing like how much of
it do we make this a big deal I think so
I mean I think we should be holding
hearings and they should call Nielsen to
testify and get her to confirm or deny
on the record that she was told by the
White House chief of staff not to raise
these issues with the presidents if
that's true that is
a dereliction of duty by the president
it's a national security crisis and we
need some accounting of what has been
done what steps have been taken to
protect us in the 2020 election before
it's too late right I think we need to
lay the groundwork and maybe understand
this a big ass problem
yeah it seems like we should have a
bunch of hearings I mean Chris Rea the
FBI director said just the other week on
Russian sabotage quote we are very much
viewing 2018 as just kind of a dress
rehearsal for the big show in 2020 yeah
that's scary right I mean look
buried in the Mahler report was the fact
that someone in a county in Florida
clicked on a phishing email that gave
Russian agents access to that counties
election information you know digital
infrastructure lucky for us we've this
stupid antiquated county by county state
by the state's system that's such a mess
that you know you can't penetrate one
computer and get a hold of the whole
thing but that is a warning sign they're
gonna try this again
and we know that they're gonna try this
again or that they're continue to try
this because in 2018 the Treasury
Department levied sanctions on Russia
because they were trying to target not
only our elections infrastructure but
other infrastructure energy nuclear
water aviation manufacturing I mean it's
sometimes I think hard to get people in
this country to understand what a big
deal the social media campaign the
Russians ran was the hacking stuff like
that hacking into election machines and
hacking some of our infrastructure you
know potentially being able to cause a
blackout stuff like that that seems like
people will get that a little bit more
than they get just like oh my mind was
convinced because of a Facebook ad yeah
yeah I mean look I think that they're
likely to probe all kinds of us computer
systems all kinds of infrastructure not
necessarily to do something about it but
World War three he will start with a
massive cyber attack that will take down
the internet that will take down power
structures that will god knows what and
people should just know that because
we've seen it in Ukraine we saw it in
Libya I mean this is the way of the
world now and so that's how I don't and
we don't have a president who has shown
any willingness or ability to protect us
no in looking not to be alarmist right
because you do have a bunch of Hawks
sitting in the White House
you know I don't want our country
attacked you have an entire military and
the Joint Chiefs of Staff and all this
infrastructure designed to protect the
United States but senior level attention
in the present United States focuses the
US government on a problem like nothing
else yeah and when you're not allowed to
raise the issue with him because he's
about allegations that he lost or
allegations the fact that he lost the
popular vote that's a real problem
yeah and I do think this this needs to
be more sorry this needs to be a bigger
part of the Democrats message and
especially I think the Democratic
candidates too because you know so
Charlie Pierce wrote in Esquire like why
aren't we seeing this president as a
national security crisis I think the way
he and it is and I think you know
usually Republicans or the party like
sale will protect you and stuff like
that but there's a there's a case to
make I think on national security
particularly around Russian interference
and foreign sabotage the Donald Trump is
not up to the job protecting this
country no look he's not I mean every
foreign policy effort he's undertaken
has failed so far I think you know Seth
Moulton got in the race because he wants
to make a national security argument
against President Trump I think that's
an interesting strategy and it could you
know it could wear well over time but
it's also the place where the president
has the most flexibility and leeway to
do whatever he or she wants you know you
know I don't think voters are ever gonna
vote on national security judgment writ
large per se I think you need an event
like the Iraq war to really focus people
on these issues but it should be part of
our case yeah
so in addition to Russia Trump and Putin
also talked about Venezuela Trump told
us that Putin quote is not looking at
all to get involved in Venezuela other
than he'd like to see something positive
happen
then on Sunday Russians rush then on
Sunday Russia's foreign minister met
with his Venezuelan counterpart Sergei
Lavrov who's scheduled to meet with US
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Monday
has urged the United States to back off
what he described as quote an
irresponsible plan to force out
Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro tell
me what is the extent of Russia's
involvement in Venezuela and why would
Trump just repeat spin from Putin that
contradicts his own secretary of state
and government the latter question I
don't have an answer for and we will
never have an answer why he just
believes Putin
his word on any issue right remember
when Putin told him that the North
Koreans didn't actually have like an
ICBM capability yeah and he's like oh
yeah well I believed him not my CIA
director why I don't get it
um yeah the worst-case scenario is that
somehow Putin's got something on him the
best-case scenario is he just
gullible that's right that's right so
the Russians have extensive economic
interest in Venezuela for the last
decade or so in exchange for loans or
bailouts the Russians have given them a
bunch of cash in exchange for portions
of Venezuelan oil fields or big pieces
of citko their their national oil
company and then the exchange also the
Russians have sold the Venezuelans guns
and tanks and planes I do joint military
exercises so I assume the Russians are
really rightfully worried that a new
regime would default on some of those
loans and that they'd be they'd be left
up shits Creek now I do think that the
you know i breached up to some smarter
people than me before the show to take
their pulse on this and i do think that
the military factor in terms of Russia's
presence in venezuela is exaggerated it
might be a hundred two hundred so-called
security types but i mean we learned in
syria that a a small but dedicated
russian intelligence or military
presence can really change took the
balance yeah of a fight for and against
an insurgency so it's something we
should worry about the other thing they
really do is they help them evade
sanctions and they help maduro fight
diplomatic efforts to isolate or
pressure him so once again trump trump
not really getting it well but also but
like on top of that you know we know
that the russians have this huge
interest but whenever they want to
criticize someone for the role they play
in destabilizing venezuela
they turn and they slap the Cubans
around right and part of that is because
the cuban presidents is larger i mean
there the administration says it's
20,000 intelligence or military
personnel again people i talk to you
think that's probably exaggerated a lot
of them are likely to be doctors or
social service types but there's
certainly a significant cuban presence
that the trump administration is
constantly shadowboxing although once he
gets on the phone with putin someone who
has read
influence and you know you could work
with Putin's say to negotiate maduras
exit or you could work with the Cubans
and negotiate an exit for Maduro they
just won't do that kind of diplomacy
with the people that matter show uh
finally last foreign policy questions
before we move on how big of a deal is
North Korea firing off a test missile on
Saturday and and why did Trump then
tweet about Kim jong-un quote he knows
that I am with him and does not want to
break his promise to me so weird so I I
don't obviously have access to
intelligence anymore so I don't know
exactly what kind of missile it was okay
but I read that some different smart
people and their take was think Al
Capone right like this is a brick coming
through your plate-glass window with a
note that says pay up or next time it's
gonna be a bomb coming through your
window right so Kim promised to I was
like Kim never promised to freeze
short-range missile tests but if this
was a ballistic missile it would still
be outlawed under the UN Security
Council um regardless it does feel like
he is slowly but surely ratcheting up
the pressure on Trump because when they
walked away from the no holding that
when they walked away from the Hanoi
summit Kim didn't get what he wanted
which was sanctions relief which he had
promised to his people so you know he's
gonna lash out I suspect until he gets
some sort of movement there or another
round of talks or whatever it is but the
thing that was remarkable to me is over
the weekend I think it was pump heah was
on one of the sunday shows oh yeah and
he was asked about the the test and he
basically said you know it was a
short-range weapon so it's not not a
huge deal well it's a huge deal if you
live in Seoul or if you live in Japan or
you're one of the 20,500 us
servicemembers in the region or in South
Korea proper so you know there they
clearly don't want to deal with the fact
that diplomacy so far has failed and
they don't seem to have any plan for how
to deal with it right and look we've
said this before North Korea is an
extremely tough challenge for any
president whether it was you know a
dumbass Republican president like Donald
Trump or a smarter Democratic president
but it is clear that Kim believes what
Putin believes which is that Trump is
someone who you can push around
and he's gullible and he will believe
anything you say because he is horny for
a deal all the time right and we're and
we're a god-awful a lie if the Secretary
of State goes on TV and says well the
only thing we really care about is ICBMs
launched in North Korea they can hit the
US we should care about our allies in
the region who we have security deals
with the other thing I just want to say
about Venezuela before we move on is
three and a half million people is
estimated to have left Venezuela
truck sorry let me just are there were
three and F people three and a half
million Venezuelans are estimated to
have left the country now Marco Rubio
lieutenant Marco Rubio private private
Marco Rubio floated the idea of giving
those Venezuelans TPS for temporary
protected status that is a very good
idea that would allow them to come to
the United States to seek asylum have
certain protections when john bolton was
asked about that proposal about TPS on
another sunday show he basically ducked
the question so to me that gives up the
game they don't give a about the
venezuelan Pecola this whole thing is
about jockeying with the Russians and
jockeying with ignore that jockeying
with the Cubans for you know moving
political pawns around the like global
board they're talking about the Monroe
Doctrine and all these like stupid
neo-colonial sounding theories of the
case I mean there are people suffering
there are people starving there's people
in no medical care in this
administration won't do anything to help
them yeah they want to break in
other countries but because they're all
xenophobes they want to close our
borders to the refugees that their
foreign policy create they want it's
pretty clear that that seems yeah they
want to float the idea of a military
intervention they want to go out big
meetings in the tank which is where the
Joint Chiefs of Staff meet and have the
most sensitive conversation they have
but you know no one in Venezuela
actually wants a military intervention
at least not the majority of the people
that oppose Maduro who okay good times
all right on Friday the Labor Department
reported that the unemployment rate has
fallen to three point six percent the
lowest level we've seen in half a
century this comes after the comma stir
this comes after the Commerce
Department's April report that the
economy beat expectations by growing
more than three percent in the first
quarter of the year White House economic
adviser layer
Kudlow recently celebrated the news by
recording a video where he twice said
that the Trump administration is quote
killing it on the economy something that
he finds quote totally awesome
tell me how well is the economy doing
and does Trump deserve any credit just
first of all I know we have a lot of
technologically savvy smart listeners
out there could someone please just
remix it with something yeah it wasn't
enough remixes of that I don't care what
the beat is may be used tik tok like
whatever it takes just he also sounded
like a QVC spokesman so i think you
could have like a number on the bottom
of the screen like act now call now
we're killing it he's such a goober and
he can't shake the like 1980 style blue
shirt with the white collar who thinks
that looks cool
I can boiler-room get a reservation at
Dorsia buddy I think that Democrats need
to focus more on anecdotal stories we
hear from factory workers and waiters
and farmers who feel like they are
working harder and longer than ever
before but they're not making more money
so when unemployment is this low wages
are supposed to go up but that's not
happening nearly fast enough and you
know again anecdotally last year a
record number of US workers went on
strike the BLS said four hundred and
eighty five thousand workers were
involved and work stoppages in 2018 that
is not because unions are particularly
strong these days either right it's
because people are deeply frustrated
about how this economy is working for
them so I just think like we probably
should look past what the Wall Street
Journal is writing about and just talk
to people in Lordstown Ohio where the GM
plants are closing and people don't know
what the hell they're gonna do those are
the people the Democratic Party was was
designed to help those are the policies
we care about and let's figure out what
they need and work backwards I think the
best most charitable thing you can say
about Donald Trump in the economy is
that he has not so far up the
recovery and then expansion that began
under Barack Obama yeah and then you
could say if you really wanted to give
them credit that the tax cuts that they
passed may have temporarily boosted GDP
because of you know gay businesses more
cash intemperate that that's a temporary
boost but you can also say that
at a time where the economy's roaring
where unemployment is low where GDP is
going well there's 40 percent of
Americans who couldn't pay for a four
hundred dollar emergency expense as
komal Harris always says or you know as
Bernie Sanders was saying about this the
other day he was like think of the
people making nine ten dollars an hour
and they're barely putting food on the
table or the people who are working two
or three jobs right like as you said
wages have inched up wages have not kept
up with productivity which means that
people are actually working a lot harder
and they're not making more money for it
and so they're working their asses off
and they can barely afford to live and I
think like Trump has a good approval
rating on the economy right like people
are you know sixty percent of people say
oh yeah the economy is good and he
Trump's good on this issue whatever it
is but in a recent poll only about 40
percent people I'm sorry in a recent
poll only about 40 percent of Americans
believed that Trump is fighting for
people like that there's on his side
yeah and the on your side fighting for
people like you rating is tracking
almost exactly with his approval rate
that's interesting and then the other
thing I thought was interesting isn't
that same poll 60% of Americans think
the way that broad economic statistics
get reported on the news are not
reflective of the economic reality to
the average American faces which is
exactly what you were just saying about
the headlines like I think Democrats
when it comes to the economy should be
running against Trump the Republican
Party and the happy headlines in the
financial press every time there's
something yeah the stock market's doing
well rich people have never been doing
better right like all these businesses
took the tax cut and they stashed it
away they they did buybacks they gave
CEOs more money but you're not doing any
better at the time what the economy is
doing better than it's ever been
if you're still struggling to make ends
meet what the is wrong with the
economy I think you should be central to
the democratic way I agree I mean every
predatory prey ador blamed for the
things that happened on his or her watch
so it just it's how it goes fairly or
unfairly I agree with you though that I
do not believe that the Trump tax cut is
somehow the reason that the economy has
been improving for the past decade it as
everyone predicted almost all of that
tax cut went to companies to buy back
their own stock which means
there are fewer shares outstanding so
the price of the stock goes up that is
fantastic if you own a million shares of
said company it means nothing to you if
you don't own any shares or if you only
own a few or if they're in your 401k
right right so this was a tax cut by
business and for business and I'm like I
would love to see Democrats like sherrod
Brown has this pitch perfect no surprise
yeah he's talking about factory workers
in Ohio who are losing their jobs who
don't give a damn about you know what
the feds projections look like or what
GDP is and I think you know I talked to
Terry about this later we need to
develop and and deliver that message
today to those individuals on Facebook
on Instagram on banner ads on website we
can we can start talking to these people
right now about our Trump has let them
down and I think Elizabeth Warren has
mailed this message Bernie Sanders gets
this message right absolutely I
sometimes worry a little bit that when
we talk about how Democrats should be
focusing on an economic message in an
equality and talking about factory
workers you know there's some people who
think well this is about trying to get
those you know white non college
educated workers back it partly is but
it's also about like look at
african-american unemployment look at
wages for Latinos for young people
unemployment for young people the long
term appoint rate like there are there
are a lot of constituencies that vote
for the for Democrats who were not doing
well under this economy
yeah only Democratic constituency is
doing well is like they college-educated
post grads that you know are in the
media and that you see as Planet stuff
like that like but most people in the
party most people did vote for Democrats
or have voted for Democrats in the past
are still struggling that's right I mean
lucky if you there's been a bunch of big
pieces on this load sound GM plant which
was closed because they stopped making a
specific car and now people are trying
to get relocated or figure out what to
do with their lives I mean that is not a
whole bunch of white Trump voters did
yeah they're white they're black they're
Latino and fundamentally at its core the
Democratic Party has to believe in
helping those people and then do
everything in your power to deliver on
that promise so yeah of course we have
double yeah one way the Trump could
still screw up this economic recovery is
there's trade wars over the weekend he
threatened China with more tariffs as
negotiators prepared for high-stakes
talks taking place this week
Trump's
Harris have already hit the agriculture
industry cause the price of certain
consumer goods to rise Tommy should this
be a part of the message as well yeah I
mean look he is making an argument that
we need to put a 25% tariff on cars or
auto parts for national security reasons
you can't tell me you can't convince me
that that's not disrupting the
manufacturing or the way these plants
are run yeah absolutely should be it's a
ridiculous ridiculous it's hurting
farmers is hurting regular people no one
knows why he's doing it no stock markets
down today because he's like tweeting
random at China like this this is
the way he could up this recovery
or at the very least it up in
places like you know where there's a
heavy agricultural industry where
there's people who are trying to buy
consumer goods where the prices are up
and stuff like that so like it's it's
not as spread out evenly throughout the
country some of the pain of these trade
wars but it is certainly hitting certain
parts of this country very hard that's
absolutely right
okay let's turn to 2020 in an interview
with The New York Times House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi said that she's worried
president Trump will refused to accept
the results of the next election if it's
too close here's a nugget from the piece
which was reported by Glen thrush quote
we have to inoculate against that we
have to be prepared for that Ms Pelosi
said during an interview at the Capitol
on Wednesday as she discussed her
concern that mr. Trump would not give up
power voluntarily if he lost reelection
by a slim margin next year Ms Pelosi the
de facto head of the Democratic Party
until a presidential nominee is selected
in 2020 offered Democrats her quote
cold-blooded plan for decisively ridding
themselves of mr. Trump do not get
dragged into her protracted impeachment
bid that will ultimately get crushed in
the republican-controlled Senate and do
not risk alienating the moderate voters
who flocked to the party in 2018 by
drifting too far to the left
quote owned the center left owned the
mainstream miss Pelosi said quote our
passions were for health care bigger
paychecks cleaner government a simple
message she said so let's take these two
things separately because the will Trump
give up power voluntarily and how
Democrats should beat him have sort of
been conflated in this story and they
shouldn't be yeah I feel like will he
give up power if we beat him is kind of
like maximum securities owner saying
about how I'm gonna say this again yeah
yeah I feel like worrying about whether
or not Trump will give up power if we
beat him is like a maximum securities
ownership group worrying about how he
will look in the winner's circle at the
Kentucky Derby
before the race has been run right like
let's just beat the and then work
on the rest later
I was gonna say I think it's it's scary
as hell that this that we're in a
situation where the Speaker of the House
is talking about the margin of victory
we need to have over the president in
order for him to peacefully give up
power I know that's scary and and and
there's you know a lot to actually be
sorry that's very scary in itself but I
think all Democrats would agree like do
you think we should beat Trump by a slim
margin or a big margin we want to beat
him by as much as possible everyone
agrees on we worked herself into a
lather about this in 2016 that he
wouldn't concede when he lost and then
he won and then he complains about not
winning the popular vote pretends that
millions of immigrants voted illegally
right I mean so like who cares what he's
gonna say well and he's gonna make those
complaints if the Democratic nominee
beats him by 1% in a couple electoral
votes or 10% and a hundred electoral
votes like he's good of course he's
gonna do this either way that's way
right so then the question is what do
you think of her cold-blooded her
quote-unquote cold-blooded plan which is
don't get dragged into impeachment on
the center-left
on the mainstream you know look I think
that might be a great plan to protect
the new majority that she's got in the
house I'm not sure that it's gonna
exactly track with whatever
presidential candidates strategy that
emerges from this primary yeah I also
don't she I think is conflating that
suddenly going through impeachment would
be somehow ideologically like lurching
to the left which I don't necessarily
think it is like this goes back to my I
mean we've talked about this a million
times already but I do think the
Democrats can walk and chew gum at the
same time I do think that Democrats in
the house can go through an impeachment
proceeding can focus the country's
attention on Trump's crimes and misdeeds
which may help them in beating him in
2020 while the Democratic presidential
candidates are
they're talking about exactly what you
and I just talked about which is the
fact that this economy is only working
for the Trump's rich and powerful
friends and not a lot of other people I
don't see those as mutually exclusive so
right now the hill is trying to get
former Trump officials like Don McGann
to testify they're trying to get Bob
Muller to come in and testify in the
Trump administration is throwing down
and saying we will block either of those
men from testifying at all costs which I
assume means that will extend out to any
other administration officials that we
try to subpoena or call I do think
Trump's obstinance there could help
Pelosi lay the groundwork for an
impeachment proceeding down the road
because if you're not gonna allow for
basic oversight to dig into what a lot
of people view as an impeachment roadmap
that is obviously totally unacceptable
now I'm still very much of the belief
that we should begin Watergate committee
style hearings and not call them
impeachment in an effort to bring to
life and bring on TV all the things that
were in that 448 page report that no
one's read and and just continue to
hammer this on Trump I'd love to see Dom
again testify I'd love to see his chief
of staff I'd love to see Bob Muller you
know that said I don't think that none
of these individuals is likely to give
us a silver bullet testimony Bob Muller
in particular we've been talking about
this with some friends over the weekend
he is like the most buttoned up
by-the-book person on the planet
he sent a mildly sternly worded letter
and and Muller watchers called it the
second harshest thing he's ever written
in public life which would be like the
nicest tweet you and I have said six
months so you know like I'd love to see
how this happened but I just want us to
you know stretch this out phase it
collect more information and and do
damage to Trump politically by bringing
these stories to TV yeah and just just
to test this out imagine if you are a
Conor lamb or an Antonio Delgado
or Lauren Underwood right you're in one
of these districts the only one by a
slim margin it's a district that
Republicans have won forever some of
them are Obama Trump districts and we're
in the middle of impeachment proceedings
and it's getting close to 2020 and
you're running again reporter asks you
in event what are you going to do about
the fact that Democrats are just out
there trying to impeach Trump and and
and that could be politically damaging
you fear that can't you say I've been to
a hundred town halls all I've been
talking about is health care at the same
time I support holding the president
accountable because no person is above
the law and the independent special
counsel said that he obstructed justice
so I'm glad the House Democrats are
doing what I'm doing is going around
this district and making sure that
everyone has health care that we don't
elect Republicans again because they're
gonna take away the ACA like is that
hard no that's not hard here's my fear
my fear is you know impeachment
proceedings start there's a vote in the
house we probably lose some Democrats I
would vote against impeachment then it
goes to the Senate we lose there who
lose overwhelmingly Joe mansion
probably doesn't vote to impeach and
then Trump runs around the country and
says Bob Miller Bob mother says no
collusion no obstruction and the
Democrats and Republicans both agreed
that what I did was not an impeachable
offense this is a witch on blah blah
blah in the interim they are doing all
the investigating of the investigation
itself how did it start which they'll do
a night in Ukraine right but I'm just
saying like I don't I still don't see an
endgame for this that is particularly
positive so that's why I'm very much in
the don't call it impeachment do
Watergate hearings Watergate style
hearings and try to get all the
information in make news yeah I think
he's gonna say all of those things you
just said no matter what whether there's
some Pietschmann or not yeah but I just
want to avoid the Democrats voting not
to impeach I think that would be
incredibly damaging I just voting not Oh
some Democrats voting not to impede yeah
I don't know I don't know either way
like I think again and this is this goes
to your Watergate style hearings thing I
think Trump is gonna say what Trump is
gonna say he's going to investigate the
investigators he's gonna say that he's
investigating the investigators he's
gonna say he's been exonerated no matter
what if the eyes of the nation are
trained on impeachment hearings or
Watergate style hearings or whatever
they may be then it's up to people to
make up their own minds yeah Donald
Trump or do you believe what robert
muller and a whole bunch of other
witnesses testified in front of the
country just the Watergate committee
over several months brought forward 37
witnesses the 3,000 pages of testimony
they did what in my view would
essentially be what we'd expect to see
out of an impeachment hearing without a
vote at the end that is almost
undoubtedly going to go against us but
they went to Abbey
right because they had the smoking gun
of the tapes that they were able to get
right well our problem is we have the
smoking gun of the mullah the tweets
well and I mean look 400 400 prosecutors
Democrats and Republicans signed a
letter today saying that this president
would be indicted on obstruction of
justice or not for the DOJ I know all
the arguments for why it's factually and
morally the right thing to do what I'm
looking for is what political I think
it's the politically right thing that's
my argument there was a poll out of
early States today that even early state
voters aren't necessarily sold on
impeachment oh they're not there yet of
course not because we haven't at the
hearings once you have the hearings and
it's an impeachment proceeding it's
gonna work I just think we banked so
much on the Moller report moving people
and then we'd be banking a lot on the
hearings and I'm wondering it like
Pelosi seems to be if there's a middle
ground that would baby step us up to
that line I think and I think there is I
think the problem is the Trump
administration is not going to play
along with the middle ground yeah and
look at that's a big problem and that's
where you know you need to use the
threat of subpoenas you need to use the
threat of you know maybe impeach bill
Barr I mean there's a whole bunch of
steps that I'd be in favor of yeah I
think they're going to force them into
impeachment yes I think that might
happen and I think that's actually an
advantageous place to be as a Democrat
yeah all right let's talk about the
candidates now that Joe Biden has
entered the race as the front-runner we
are once again embroiled in a great
debate about electability and here's why
a recent Quinnipiac poll gives Biden a
twenty six point lead over his nearest
rival thirty eight percent for him to 12
percent for Elizabeth Warren what is
driving this lead well only twenty three
percent of Democrats in that poll say
that Biden has the best policy ideas but
56 percent say he is the best chance of
winning a new CNN poll also shows Biden
and Bernie Sanders with six point leads
against Donald Trump better o'rourke
with a 10-point lead against Donald
Trump
Carla Harris and mayor Pete with smaller
leads the candidates themselves are
starting to talk about electability with
Harris telling the n-double-a-cp in
Detroit on Sunday that quote
conversations by pundits about
electability that suggest certain voters
will only vote for certain candidates
are quote short-sighted wrong and meant
to put Americans in quote simplistic
boxes
Tommy is she right there's some truth to
that argument
I do think you know the best way to make
an electability case is to show not tell
the
into to win support to do well in key
early states win a primary win a caucus
whatever obviously we're a long way from
here to there and these all these
candidates are gonna need to make a case
for why they're the most electable I
have to imagine that a lot of the Biden
appeal and electability is just the
sense of familiarity you know like the
guy's been around for 30 years he's been
the vice president to one of the most
popular presidents in Democratic history
right I mean it they will take shots at
him and it that may diminish over time
but I do think that familiarity is gonna
be really powerful yeah look we've
talked about electability before and
we've said that you know don't focus so
much on a bit flexibility because you
know Donald Trump was elected president
and Barack Obama was elected president
and no people thought that they were
electable right I think it's important
to say it's not that electability
doesn't matter it does matter in a way
and I understand why it matters to a lot
of voters because we just elected
 Donald Trump presidents and it
feels like a national emergency and as
people are looking to 2020 most voters
most democratic voters are thinking to
themselves
I just want someone who can win
all right we can't blame them for
thinking that that's how I feel right
the problem with electability is it's
nearly impossible to measure anyone and
it's not just impossible to measure it
changes so frequently and it changes
over the course of the race right so you
know Hillary Clinton and then we have
the history the track record Hillary
Clinton was seen as the most electable
candidate in 2016 in 2008 didn't win
either time Romney was most electable in
2012 McCain was most electable in 2008
John Kerry was most electable in 2004
they all US yeah I say so far every
Democratic candidate for the last decade
or so who people have said I think
that's the most electable candidate has
gone on to lose when the candidates that
they didn't think were is electable
Barack Obama and Donald Trump end up
winning yeah we should just be clear
that the word electability is is
ill-defined if not meaningless yeah you
know and because what will elect a
candidate changes over time from year to
year if this were 2004 I guarantee you
that the the Democratic Party darling
would be Seth molt
an Iraq war veteran young dynamic who
could go against bush and in fight on
national security grounds the the the
landscape has changed dramatically since
then we're not talking about Iraq every
single day we're barely talking about it
so you know that I think I think in a
vacuum when voters don't have a lot of
information about a candidate
electability is often linked to race
it's linked to gender absolutely it's
linked to ideology right so a white
moderate man has traditionally been seen
as elect is electable and it's also in
Biden's case who has you know all three
of those other things it's linked to
familiarity so right now people see you
know Joe Biden and he supposedly is able
to get back some of these white
working-class voters that we lost in
2016 and everyone knows him and look and
it's not just like he has high approval
ratings and people are backing him who
were white but he's also got incredibly
high ratings in the african-american
community as well but again all of this
I think is linked to familiarity the
question is if you're another candidate
and you know that people care about
electability how do you show
electability how do you make that case
because I I do think it's a mistake if
other candidates just complain about
electability and complain about pundits
talking about electability I don't think
that's gonna really move the needle yeah
look I think you actually have to sort
of redefine what electability is to be
favorable towards your own qualities in
your own traits yeah let's be court
electability is not it's not decided on
the set of morning Joe Wright is a term
that's not just ill-defined so I decided
on positive America that's fine
damn right it isn't could we that
up royally in 2016 it's also you know it
is in addition to being ill-defined it's
a loaded term that you as you said is
part racism is part sexism but the irony
of that is that Barack Obama in part
because he was African American could
get historic levels of african-american
turnout which made him more electable so
I think like I I don't know what to tell
people listening besides just try your
best not to think about the way that
candidates can show that they're
electable is build a big grassroots base
in the early States right when Barack
Obama walked into the Harkin steak fry
in September of whenever that was
2007 with hundreds if not thousands of
people behind him and we had a literal
drum line with the ISIS or ATS like
people looked up and said holy this
guy is building a grassroots army he can
organize there's a huge infrastructure
behind him he's gonna win well and
that's what it takes and that's where it
started right in it when that happened
polls showed that Clinton people
believed that Hillary Clinton was the
more electable candidate than Barack
Obama right and then he starts doing
that at a steak fry and then he keeps
and then when we won the Iowa caucus and
how did we win the Iowa caucus right by
bringing in young people non voters more
Apple Americans that had ever caucused
before in history
some independents and Republicans it
didn't fall neatly along these
ideological demographic lines that we
all talked about he won by brilliant
some Republicans and young people and
african-americans and expanded the
electorate once he won that Iowa caucus
suddently poll showed that people
believe that Barack Obama was the more
electable candidate than Hillary in
particular african-american voters in
South Carolina who were worried that it
was just too soon that white people
wouldn't vote for Barack Obama I think a
lot of South Carolina voters saw white
voters caucus for Obama in Iowa and
thought holy this guy could do it
now a hundred percent in the middle we
got our asses handed to us by Hillary
Clinton in New Hampshire but
blackboard's data point black voters
gave the clinton hillary clinton a huge
margin in south carolina before the
actual primary because they just didn't
think that Barack Obama was elected I
mean look and they or they didn't know
and had enormous critical endorsements
from people like John Lewis that's right
that's right
know so I do and I think when we talk
about electability the other thing to
think about is you know one it a lot of
this flows from what happened in 2016
and so if you believe that the only
reason that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016
is because she lost some of these non
college white voters in Michigan
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin then you
think to yourself okay the way we win in
2020 is to win those voters back but and
you know we dug into this in the
wilderness a lot that isn't the only
reason that she lost there were cities
where African American turnout wasn't
quite as high there were there were as
Cornell Belcher said in last pod there
were four million Obama voters
four million plus Obama voters who voted
for Obama and eight
who didn't invoke for Donald Trump who
stayed home in 2016 so those those
voters seem very gettable by a Democrat
if they stay at home and so the other
thing to think the other factor on
electability is who can actually excite
and inspire people to come out to vote
who might otherwise stay home who didn't
stay home in 2016 and I do think
ultimately it's a mix in 2018 look at
Gretchen Whitmer in in Michigan right
she wins Michigan back after Hillary
Clinton loses it in 2016
how does she win well turnout in the
cities among african-americans went up
but also she won back some of the you
non-college educated white voters it is
both yeah and I think you need to figure
out which these candidates is going to
be able to yes went over some
independents yes maybe even went over
some disaffected Republicans but also at
the same time excite the base of the
Democratic Party get young people out to
vote get people of color out to vote and
get new voters out to vote if you can
find a Kate that can do both of those
things then I think you're in a strong
position that's absolutely right look
you should do whatever you need to do to
vet and learn about and pick your
candidate and watch him or her and see
how well they're doing but then turn off
the podcasts whether it's us or 538 and
realized that states like Florida we we
hemorrhaged votes
this past cycle Andrew Gilliam should be
the governor and why was that because we
didn't do what we needed to do in Miami
for example so we need to start
organizing now to make sure we're
prepared to turn people out in those
states now that's why we're working with
this amazing group organizing core to
raise money to train a whole bunch of
kids who are between their junior and
senior year in college get them a bunch
of reps knocking on doors signing up
voters so that when there's a general
election candidate and they have to
scale from 300 field organizers to 3,800
they're doing it with well-organized
well-trained ready to go people that's
the we can do today to win this
election stressing about the crosstabs
will we're gonna do it here because we
love doing we're gonna do it here well I
look and I we can do both mainly I want
to talk about it because now the
candidates are dealing with themselves
so unlike in common look giving a speech
about that you know Bernie Sanders
Bernie Sanders has been making an
electability argument in this race which
is interesting too he's been showing
polls like in those three states and in
the states of the blue wall you know
Sanders was outperforming Trump so he's
talked about that Elizabeth Warren was
asked the other day about electability
and she said what we've been saying
which is no one thought that Donald
Trump was electable or Barack Obama was
a Louisville and it's very early right
now now you know so all of them are
gonna make their case on electability
but I do think you're right that's
showing showing electability is better
than just talking about it yeah
absolutely look it's an important
conversation we should debate it we
should vet these candidates because god
help us we need to we need to win this
election but also if you wake up in
you're anxious and you're sweating this
know that there are things you can do
today to make whoever the candidate is
more electable by helping them build
infrastructure and organizing key swing
dates easier to knock on a door and ask
someone for their vote than to predict
what other voters might do yeah I moved
to Canada if Trump gets real like thanks
right all right when we come back we
will have Tommy's interview with Tara
McGowan
you
thanks to terrible guy one for joining
us today
and speaking of electability arguments
how about Game of Thrones last now
spoiler spoiler alert here we are going
to talk very slowly for you people out
there to turn off the pot if you're
driving in your out paying attention
because it's just us droning on pay
attention and turn off the
podcaster now the podcast could anyone
talk about Thrones
I don't want your tweets Thrones Thrones
okay last night so there were clear
there's less violence there was less
fighting but I thought it was great glug
I liked the interpersonal stuff I liked
the rivalries developing very soapy it's
very soapy it is I feel like I know
where this might be headed and I think
people are going to be pissed off
interesting interesting are you are you
backing off your democracy is go that's
when that's why I think that I still
think it's headed there and I think
that's not gonna be satisfying to other
people I don't so I don't know if our
friend Daenerys is uh is gonna come out
on top here that's I think that's an
easy one but I think that's not she
needs like a hand that's gonna play
dirty you know if she needs a Jacob wall
you know she she needs a post lobotomy
lee atwater like that kid there really
helped her I mean I hear this I think
back to my favorite line of Game of
Thrones and one that they promoted a lot
so it's clearly important to the
showrunners in the show when she talks
about breaking the wheel and I do think
that Game of Thrones at the end of this
show is going to break the wheel but I
no longer think that Danny's gonna be
the one to break the wheel because her
her belief in this it's a very political
show right and they're getting back to
politics which is the the best part of
Game of Thrones
her belief is and she said this in last
night's episode she's like you know I'm
here to get rid of tyrants and I think
getting rid of tyrants is a good thing
but in the process of getting rid of
tyrants like what makes her the
benevolent ruler as she's
roasting people with her dragons she's
kind of tyrant light can we just
couldn't just be clear about one thing
bran sucks I'm so sick of that
just staring at people and randomly
chirping everyone with annoying
know-it-all II like insights like hey
man you clearly know what
and in all of history and what's going
to happen in the future can you fill
your friends in can you fill your
relatives in well so apparently this is
looked this up because I am a dork he
can see the past and the present
he has vague visions of the future but
he doesn't know the future as well I
mean that's still pretty damn good we
could probably be harnessing that
ability also can you guys how hard is it
for a dragon to duck a arrow
I mean pay attention like you don't see
the 14 boats whipping arrows at you
can't you take a right or a left they
know they're not cruise missiles the
Dragons have not had the best navigation
I'd rate it clearly they have been
setting up that one or more of these
dragons is killed with the crossbow
first couple seasons ago
yeah when when Qyburn was down in the in
King's Landing and showed the crossbow
to C or C like you knew that was gonna
come up but my bigger problem was when
they when they go to plead with Searcy
at the end there and the Dragons just
sitting back showing on the ground
 10 cross but pick your dragon up
pick up your dragon and fly away fly
away we don't use a whole lineup we
don't need this dramatic shot and also
why did seriously not just waste those
 I don't know
so that was that was diabolical she is
dialed by like I love watching her face
you just see the evil coursing through
it but here's what i'm here's what i
think people I I think that somehow and
I don't know how like we're gonna return
to brand being integral to the end of
the show at some I hope so I kind of
hope so I want to know where Zoe sucks
because history was if there is if
there's no other brand then I'm
going to join the critics and saying
this is bad but I feel like we're gonna
get some more brain it's a lot more
explanations I'm just happy that I could
could actually see the screen this time
I was not one of those people
complaining I still think watching the
torches go out one by one was one of the
cool shots I've ever seen in any TV show
but it was great to be able to see their
faces when various started talking
making an argument for Jon's
electability over Daenerys as DT rien we
were both watching together and we're
both like oh that's gonna be a thing
that's gonna be a lot of political takes
yeah look I get that the views are
offensive and misogynistic but it's it's
a terrible humanistic show he literally
even said I think I could get it could
all the lords together of Westeros I
think she could basically I think she
could that John could get the the white
white working class was yeah the white
Walker class vote yeah it was a lot but
I thought it was it was a good a great
episode what else happened that was fun
um poor Arya can't we just let her find
love
uh no and re I thought you're gonna say
poor ghost
oh yeah just you just abandon your dog
what's wrong with you dude held leo
closed after that way yeah okay was John
no that was tough to handle real cool I
feel like we have to see ghosts again to
RL so mitosis is gonna be like it's
gonna come in at the end and just Maul
Cersei
that'd be a great end a great ending
alright that's our Game of Thrones we're
do just doing Game of Thrones recaps now
yeah you know look we know where the
cultures heading and we're gonna we're
gonna ride that dragon like Jon Snow
alright everyone will see Thursday we
goin
you
