let's save America I'm John Favreau I'm
Dan Pfeiffer later in the pod my
interview with Alexandria Ocasio cortez
who joined me at crooked hate hmm who
joined me at crooked HQ for a very fun
and lengthy chat yesterday but first we
have the results of our latest 20/20
polar coaster series with change
research we're also going to talk about
the rising risk of a recession and the
Trump administration's latest attempt to
limit legal immigration in America you
won't want to miss this week's episode
of POD save the world Tommy and Ben talk
about everything from the escalating
situation in Hong Kong to the really
scary story in The New York Times about
how right-wing extremism is spreading
around the world Boston Celtics Center
and his Cantor also joined been in the
studio for an interview about human
rights and why Turkey's president banned
him from returning to his home country
and if you want to see the height
difference between anise and Ben watch
the interview on youtube.com slash
cricket media you can also see my full
interview with AOC there as well so
check out our YouTube channel and
subscribe
a reminder that Saturday is our show at
the Greek we'll be joined by Jamel he'll
maggie rogers amanda seals best coast
jim james and we'll be donating the
proceeds to organizations at the
forefront of the fight to protect voting
rights so grab your tickets the crooked
comm slash the greek and also check out
our new merch at craig accom slash the
store sorry our new merch at crooked
comm slash store we got brand new friend
of the pod tees which are very cool got
to get one of those for yourself in and
my friend of the pod
yeah just host of the pods we could post
to the pundits we should not finally if
the pod shirts we should end the pod and
just we can delete our account if you
are cons delete ourselves finally if you
know anyone in North Carolina who isn't
registered to vote or isn't sure please
remind them that this Friday August 16th
is the deadline there is a special
election for a House seat there on
September 10th and if you want to know
why listen to rigging North Carolina on
crooked minis with our political
director Shaniqua McClendon
okay let's kick things off with the
results of our latest sorry I can't talk
this morning
okay let's kick things off with the
results of the latest in our 2020 polar
coaster series with change research
this time we pulled nearly 2,000 general
election voters in a state of Wisconsin
and we asked them all kinds of questions
including whether certain messages made
them more or less likely to vote for
Donald Trump or the Democratic candidate
in 2020 now before we get to the results
Dan this particular poll was your idea
and a fantastic idea it was why did you
want to poll Wisconsin and why did you
want this to be a general election poll
instead of another primary poll well I
mean a couple different reasons one
there is a primary poll coming out every
three seconds and Democrat like the
media pod sprint of the pod the
Democratic leaders are not lacking for
polls about who's winning the race and
they or she hadn't moved that watch in a
long time so there's it sort of we're
constantly getting the stream of content
so my thought was where is an area there
would be a great interest that it's not
it's not being polled and Wisconsin is
the probably the most important state as
the map currently stands for what's
going to decide 2020 is what we call the
tipping point state it's why chomp
became president it's the clearest path
for Democrats to get the White House
back is to flip which kind of Wisconsin
Michigan Pennsylvania the three states
of Trump flip and I also wanted to do
this poll differently to do it in a way
that made it look more likely campaign
polls that we've been working on our
whole life as opposed to the media polls
which are totally fine even but I felt
like this was the right thing to do in
part because we wanted to give people to
provide some guidance and advice to the
larger progressive universe about what
the poll says may may work in Wisconsin
yeah and so just go back to what you
were saying about the tipping point
state the reason we call Wisconsin the
tipping points today is if Democrats win
Wisconsin it is almost a sure thing that
we have also won Pennsylvania and
Michigan because the demographics and
Wisconsin are tougher for us than
Wisconsin in Pennsylvania it's still
possible that we could lose Wisconsin
Michigan and Pennsylvania all three of
them again but the reason we say
Wisconsin is tipping point is it is the
toughest of the three
and the reason it's so important is
because if we do lose Wisconsin as you
say Dan the path to 270 narrows we could
replace Wisconsin with Arizona which is
another very important state but of
course Democrats haven't won Arizona in
a presidential contest in quite some
time even though we did win it in 2018
so Arizona's a possibility but yeah
that's that's why we call it a tipping
point state and yes on campaigns in the
Obama campaign in eight and 12 on other
campaigns we've been on frequently when
we put a poll in the field in a swing
state like Wisconsin we would test
various messages about our candidate and
about the opposing candidates about the
Democrats and about the Republicans and
from those messages we would get a good
sense of where voters are what issues
are important to them and which
contrasts with the other party and the
other candidate are most effective at
actually moving voters and persuading
them yeah that's the difference right a
media poll is designed to give readers
of said media outlet a window into what
is happening in that state at that
moment right there is a snapshot in time
in a campaign poll you it's interesting
to know what is happening right now it's
only to serve as a baseline but the
whole point of the campaign polls do
figure out not what is happening right
now is how to change the outcome on
Election Day and so we tried to design
this poll in a way that more resembled
that then a typical media poll okay
without further ado let's talk about
some of the results and and we'll start
with the standard horse race stuff
before moving on to the more interesting
message testing in Wisconsin the
president's job approval rating is 48
percent approved 51 percent disapprove
much higher than it is nationally his
approval rating on the economy is even
higher 50 percent to 48 percent overall
46 percent of all voters say they will
definitely or probably vote for whoever
the Democratic candidate is 45 percent
of voters say they will definitely or
probably vote for Trump 3 percent say
they'll vote for a third-party candidate
and 6 percent are undecided dan what do
you think of those numbers surprising to
you concerning but not surprised I mean
we would love to get up hold
said that Trump's national approval
rating which is 4243 depending on what
measure you use was that would be as
approval rating in the swing states but
he is polling at what is a very viable
win number for him and what comes it and
just give you some perspective from was
at forty eight here when Brock Obama won
Wisconsin by nearly seven points on
Election Day of 2012 his approval rating
in exit polls was forty eight percent
who that is concerning um and just to
dig into these numbers a little bit you
know the there are certain groups of
voters who will probably decide the
election you know one thing we saw with
the electorate in Wisconsin it is
extremely polarized so you know Trump is
only getting three percent of Democrats
the Democratic candidate is only getting
two percent of Republicans right so both
parties very polarized independents who
were thirty five percent of the
electorate in Wisconsin in this poll
leaned Trump forty-three to forty one so
he's got a slight lead with independents
in this poll and then there are a couple
others sort of swing groups here the
people who voted for a third party in
2016 who are currently make up about a
quarter of the undecided vote in
Wisconsin they lean towards the Democrat
by thirty to twenty two percent and then
the twenty sixteen non-voters people who
did not vote in 2016 but who say they
are going to vote in 2020 they make up
about 16% of undecided voters they lean
towards the Democrat by forty five to
thirty percent so there is some
opportunity for the Democratic candidate
with 2016 13 Party voters and non voters
but you know still a lot of work to do
in that category as well dan what do you
think about the above sort of the swing
groups here I mean that's exactly right
and it speaks to like what we've tried
to talk about in politics or generally
as early as 2020 which is you're gonna
have to you can't find it particularly
in these Midwestern swing states you're
gonna have to do both and by that I mean
we're gonna have to persuade some people
who voted for a third party candidate or
voted for Trump last time and find some
people who didn't vote in 2016 and turn
the
like they're just very little margin for
error in these states like some other
states like Texas and Florida and North
Carolina have these very large pockets
of unregistered likely Democratic voters
all been butters then you can go out and
organize and get to vote and that alone
if you could you know pull off that be
could tip those states these Midwestern
states have been incredibly have been
registered you know the sort of the
low-hanging fruit has been taken from
recent elections they have shrinking
populations in a lot of cases and so
there's just the the Nexus of the
formula for victory requires new voters
turning out the base and persuading some
folks in the middle and and I don't even
mean the middle ideologically I just
need people who either identify as
independents or voted for Trump in the
past look so you're gonna like this poll
reinforces the idea that the path to
victory in Wisconsin in and to get to
270 is sort of an ant
is not an hand or shredded cheese and an
Bullock strategy yeah so we're not going
to talk too much about the Democratic
candidates because for all the reasons
we mentioned at the top also you know
non early state polls don't tell you too
much about the race this isn't an Iowa
poll or New Hampshire poll the
candidates aren't campaigning here so
you shouldn't take it too seriously but
I will say that Elizabeth Warren has the
highest favorability among Democratic
voters at 83% favorable and is currently
leading the horse race in Wisconsin at
29 percent followed by Bernie Sanders at
24 percent Joe Biden at 20 percent and
everyone else in single digits Dan
anything to say about the Democratic
race before we move on to the to the
good stuff no I think it's interesting
that Warren is wedding it tells us it
probably tells us more about her surge
nationally and in the early states then
it tells you about who's gonna win
Wisconsin because they're gonna be
several cataclysmic political events
that happen that shake up the race and
winnow the field between they'll then
before early States obviously no sorry
the four before really think contest
must change the race but it's
interesting but it's not why we're doing
this yeah and I should say for people
who look into the crosstabs if you look
the favorability ratings for all of our
Democratic candidates in the field among
all voters they don't look great right
now they're all underwater but people
should know that one reason for that is
because a lot of these Emmer credit
candidates are not getting you know high
percentages among Democrats right now
because they're all fighting it out in
the primary so if you have a candidate
that you really like you're also likely
to say that you don't like as much the
other Democratic candidate where there's
a nominee usually those numbers will
change but I should say even among a
general electorate right now Warren has
the highest favorability ratings that is
driven by the fact that she has the
highest favorability ratings among
Democrats themselves okay so we talked
about Trump's strengths in Wisconsin his
overall job approval and the current
advantage that he has on the economy
let's talk about his potential
weaknesses we tested a series of
positive and negative messages about
Donald Trump overall the anti-trump
messages were more persuasive to voters
than the proton Pro
overall the anti-trump messages were
more persuasive than the pro Trump
messages in the most persuasive anti
trunk messages the messages that made
voters say they were much less likely to
vote for him largely had to do with
Trump being a phony populist who
governed as a plutocrat the most
persuasive message was about Trump
proposing nearly a trillion dollars and
Medicare cuts to pay for his tax cut for
the rich
it made voters say they were less likely
to support Trump by a margin of 38
points several messages were close
behind that one Trump using his office
to enrich himself in his family business
Trump's failed trade war with China and
Trump's record on outsourcing there was
also one non-economic message that was
very effective
a reminder that Trump has been credibly
accused of sexual assault by more than a
dozen women dan you came out of campaign
retirement you wrote an entire strategy
memo for Democrats about these findings
what are your takeaways and what's your
advice sure so the takeaway the first
takeaway as we've pointed out at the top
is that Trump is very strong his company
is much stronger than Wisconsin then you
is nationally and that's because the
demographics but for two other reasons
one he has strengthen the economy his
economic approval rating is a few coins
higher than his actual job approval is
I'm sorry Trump's economic approval
rating Wisconsin it's a few points
higher than his actual approval rating
and higher than his vote share in the
poll we conducted so that means that he
that's at a disadvantage to him the
second advantage he has is that he has
managed to weaponize immigration in the
state and he had immigration is by far
the number one issue picked by Trump
voters Republican voters needed
independence and so that is to Trump's
great advantage but what I was really
blown away by a new poll is that for all
of trumps dominance of the media the
fact that Trump has talked about covered
24/7 and the bulk of that coverage is
negative voters are unaware of very
important parts of his record and
because Trump has a history of being a
liar as a checkered past and has erratic
behavior voters are willing to believe
these attacks against Trump they're
persuasive to that and so I think it
identified both a reality in the media
environment that you know they're always
that thing about Hillary Clinton she's
the most covered at least well known for
those famous unknown person in America
and there's a lot of truth to that when
I came to who the real Hillary Clinton
is the person she was
but what Trump is people know a lot
about a few things about Trump do they
happen to be the things they're
according to our poll are not
particularly persuasive to voters but
have no idea that he proposed cutting
Medicare to paper stocks that they have
no idea what the actual impact of this
trade policies are they have no idea
that he supports a new NAFTA plan that
is supported by the big drug companies
on Wall Street in the big corporation
and I thought this was really
interesting and this isn't included in
my memo except I had haven't yet figured
out the right way in which I can take
and use this but the fact that they
don't know about the accusation of
sexual assault against the president
show that there's this giant gap between
what is the
talked about in what is breaking through
the voters and so there was a real
opportunity to move the race against
Trump by exposing voters to the piece of
information that mattered to them that
would not get to them otherwise they're
never going to be cover they're never
going to break through all of the noise
the frankly legitimate stories of the
media discovery and so there is
opportunity here and what is interesting
about it is one of the hardest things in
a campaign when you're running against
an incumbent is to introduce new
information about it do they generally
have you don't pay attention to what the
government does they have sense of who
they are terms of what they've done but
whenever it comes to Trump they're a
huge parts of its record that are
entirely unknown to the public and
therefore they are surprised by it and
it makes them question they're supported
numbers that I have rarely seen in a
presidential race for an incumbent
running for reelection yeah I was also
surprised too and look when when we
asked people okay here's here's some
information about Donald Trump does this
the way that we'd say that the question
is we'd read them the information about
Donald Trump and then say does this make
you more likely to support Donald Trump
less likely to support Donald Trump no
difference and the fact that a lot of
these messages are the ones that I just
talked about moved not only Democrats
that's obvious but moved independents
who Trump is leading among by two points
currently in Wisconsin you know moved
independence by 10 20 points on some of
these issues said that they were much
less likely to vote for Trump and even
some of them moved some Republicans you
know two more points I want to make one
it's not just negative information about
Trump himself his behavior his offensive
statements that is persuasive to voters
here it is negative information about
Trump's policies and the impact they're
having on people and I think that's a
key point it's about you know with the
tax law and the Medicare stuff it's
about now I'm gonna see potential cuts
to Medicare with the trade war it's
Wisconsin farmers are hurting from this
and Trump's bailing out you know big
agribusiness and China right with the
Trump and reaching himself it's he's
he's enriching himself and his
businesses at the taxpayer
expense right so every one of these
messages that talks about how these
policies or his actions or his behaviors
actually affected people are big more
persuasive to voters which I thought was
interesting because I don't think we'd
connect those dots enough yeah so I
looking at this poll well identified
three areas and aircraft to focus the
messaging on the bomb Trump's an
advantage economy and when you tell
people about what his actual policies
are and the actual impact of them what
it does is it undermines his strength on
the account visit it hits him on the
fact that he is full of that he ran
as a populist but as governed as a
plutocrat to hit him on Medicare cuts
the media narrative is Democrats are
committing political suicide we're
talking about Medicare for all
but in our poll Trump's Medicare cuts
there are much bigger vulnerability for
him than any Democratic position on
Medicare for all or some form of that
plan this and third is hitting him on a
cellular to drain the swamp in the fact
that he not only failed to Train it
he's profiting off that corruption and
if you you can do those three things and
the way to do that is it is not going to
be holding press conferences and getting
stories in the New York Times it is
going to be through a sustained targeted
digital advertising campaign this is
this part is a hypothesis on my part
based on this poll and you would be more
polling to sample what I think makes
these attacks effective is one it's new
information that's most important second
part is it is specific back based
information it's not overheated
political rhetoric it is not doesn't
sound like political ad it is
introducing voters to information they
did not otherwise know in a factual way
in the same way that in a previous non
 up media environment people just
get up from watching the news or reading
newspaper and then doing it over
sustained period of time because one
important point in this polls we show
people all this information in it it did
not move for horse race dramatically
which tells me they're telling people
these things once is not enough to fully
move them away from supporting Trump or
out of the third party undecided
category but it starts the process so
you're going to have to do this over
sustained period of time also we get
people who have not made up their mind
about Donald Trump with people who where
politics is
not the most central part of their life
they don't follow it 24/7 and sadly they
may not even listen to the podcast but -
over time you can move people there and
there there's a roadmap here that I
think works in Wisconsin and probably
works in a lot of other places but if it
can work in Wisconsin they can work in
all the other states that are slightly
easier to win in Wisconsin because this
Wisconsin is of the core states as we
pointed out probably the hardest one
that Obama won in 12 - for Democrats of
1 in 20 I think your last point about
people who aren't paying super close
attention to politics is so important -
because you know we live in the world
and and a bubble of people who pay super
close attention to politics
that's the Twitter bubble that's the
cable bubble that's everyone we sort of
talk to and so you get a lot of people
when you say oh well you know Trump's
gonna propose this cut to Medicare or
this thing whatever and they'll say oh
that doesn't matter his people don't
matter Democrats already know that
bubble you know it's like no there's a
ton of people out there most people who
were not paying attention to every up
and down of the news cycle and every new
piece of information about Donald Trump
they are living their lives they are
busy they are doing other things right
like they may catch a Chiron on cable
news or they might look on Facebook
every once a day to check out the
headlines but they are not following
every contour of this race right now and
the only way to break through to those
people is through a sustained
advertising campaign that is not magic
that is nothing new that is how
campaigns have been run for many many
many years but it just seems now like
because so many people people a lot of
people listen to this podcast us
everyone else because we're so tuned
into the news every single day we assume
that everyone else is thinking the same
thing well I think there is I think two
other points one what I think proves
that Trump is getting a lot of coverage
but the issues that matters most of
voters or the things that could move
change their position on Trump and they
have not seen as relevant this poll in
the sense it's for the least effective
attacks that we tested will one about
the Russia investigation and the other
moments interested in
about the ACA yeah and Trump's plan to
repeal it and when that that tells me
that voters don't say they voters don't
care about those things not far from it
but that people know them right which
one of them is the Russia part is
obviously due to the massive amount of
coverage it is Scott rightfully so but
the second one is actually a credit to
the Democratic Party wait look at
Wisconsin which had a governor's race
where the ACA and and Scott Walker
support for getting rid of it was at the
centerpiece year's congressional races
you read Kennedy Baldwin running a
Senate race and so in Wisconsin
Democrats have done a great job of
making sure voters know that Trump wants
to repeal the ascendant electing
republicans will lead to the repeal the
ACA and so that moved people it's
working but Charlie why Democrat is
winning by one right now but to finish
the job we're gonna have to ship tell
them new things doesn't mean don't talk
about those things but of course we're
talking about but there's new
information but what is different in the
media environment and previous campaigns
this people would think you were
bananas in a previous cycle if you told
them that you should start advertising
the general election in the summer of
the year before right traditionally
people might think you were crazy
some people sheep will be wrong some
people would think you were crazy for
doing it in the summer of the year
before of the eat sorry you're doing the
summer of the year of the election that
you should wait till the part when
people pay attention the problem we have
now on our incredibly crowded media
environment is it takes time and you
also have the capacity to target your
ads through digital platforms that
didn't exist anymore so there is an
imperative to do this now I will say
there's a lot more work that needs to be
done there is some good news I am
Priorities USA the leading Democratic
super PAC is has made plans to go into
Wisconsin I think sooner rather than
later it's the state they're going to
start I think there'll be other efforts
it's also not just advertising these
messages are also that can be used at
the door they can be used on the phones
and they can be used in people doing
digital organizing themselves as they
are communicating with their undecided
voters swing voters etc in their lives
you know either an actual human
conversations of those two like this but
on Facebook or wherever else like this
is a roadmap for how you persuade people
the other thing that popped into my mind
as I was reading
some of these messages and which ones
were most effective is isn't the best
way to run against Donald Trump to turn
him into Mitt Romney I mean like all of
this reminded me of the attacks we ran
against Mitt Romney in 2012 when we made
sure that voters understood he had
plutocratic policies whether it was the
when he picked Paul Ryan as VP and we
talked a lot about Paul Ryan's budget to
cut entitlements to cut Medicare Social
Security Medicaid to pay for a tax cut
whether it was Romney's record and
business of outsourcing I mean all of
this stuff started reminding me of the
ads and the contrast that we made with
Mitt Romney in 2012 yeah I think it was
pushing on an open door with Romney
because it was a multi-millionaire of
private equity executives who literally
built a car for his elevators and then
won constantly say think like he doesn't
care about the very poor and of course
10% of people aren't real Americans and
all of that and so that was a so it's a
little bit pushing on open door with
Rahm it's a little harder with Trump cuz
he's branded himself as this blue-collar
billionaire working populist but the
advantage with Trump is the voters did
not like Romney's policies they taught
him to be wasn't something I really want
to hang out with but they thought he was
a good person right where Trump has an
advantage on some populist credentials
they can be eroded enough to move us
against them but is he is someone that
you can you can connect his plutocracy
with his corruption and that these
policies that he does are benefiting him
and he is benefiting from a corrupt
system that he has maintaining and so
there is this other area that comes
because even voters who like Trump have
real questions about his character so
the other interesting thing we did
across a range of issues we also tested
the Trump Republican message against the
progressive Democratic message and then
the less progressive Democratic message
so the way we did this like say on
health care we basically said the
Republican message is what Trump and
Republicans have been saying on health
care right we want to repeal the
Affordable Care Act but we want to
protect pre-existing conditions
it's obviously but that's their
mess
that's getting to voters so we tested
that and then on the Democratic message
we tested one Democratic message that
was a form of the public option and one
that was about Medicare for all and I
will say that we tested Medicare for all
in the most favorable way possible we
said that under Medicare for all you
would have to leave your private
insurance for a government plan but you
would be able to keep your doctor the
Medicare for all message did a bit
better with Democrats than the public
option message but while independents
were evenly split on the public option
they were negative towards Medicare for
all by a 13-point margin so that's
something to keep in mind for Democrats
racial inequality we had one message
that from Democrats that mentioned
reparations and one message that
mentioned investing in communities of
color and doing whatever we can to end
discrimination the message that
mentioned reparations was by far the
most negatively viewed of any message
that we tested with low marks among
independents and even relatively low
marks among Democrats the other message
however which talked about alleviating
racial inequality by ending
discrimination and investing in
communities of color was one of the most
successful messages that we tested so
language matters the way we talk about
things matters there were no context and
context matters to me like in the
Medicare discussion nothing that I've
seen it he says the Democrats can't
either win or fight to resolve these
issues but the one of reparations for
instance is I'm sure that came as a
surprise to a lot of Wes you have to be
pretty deep into politics you know that
that has been a topic of discussion in
the context whatever kind of primary and
so I'm sure that the shock get much like
the negative information again shock
against Trump the hearing that probably
has there's a shock value to it than
those numbers yeah and it so the other
thing and this sort of surprised me
there were no clear winners on
immigration climate and guns so on these
three issues the difference in support
between the more progressive positions
on immigration that was decriminalizing
border crossings and health care for
undocumented immigrants on climate it
was the green New Deal and on guns it
was gun licensing there was not that big
of a difference between support for
those positions then the support for the
more moderate positions which were
pathway to citizenship for immigration
invest
clean energy for climate and background
checks for guns they were all sort of
within the margin of error so I thought
that was that's maybe an indication that
we should be a little less concerned
about the the heated debate in the
Democratic primary over you know which
position is more politically palatable
than we currently yeah yeah I would say
a lot less concern a few other takeaways
I find interesting and then you can say
anymore that you found interesting we
did test a series of positive and
negative descriptions of Donald Trump
and between 47 and 53 percent of voters
agreed with every description except one
Trump drain the swamp which only 33
percent of people agreed with while 66
percent of independents and even 27
percent of Republicans disagreed the
Trump drained the swamp so no one
believes that that happened or
at least not a lot of people and then
the descriptions again the descriptions
of Trump that where most voters
including most independents agreed trump
is corrupt Trump is focused on himself
not you
Trump fights for the wealthy and
corporations not working people and
Trump is an ineffective leader those
were the most most popular descriptions
of Trump one of them was is Trump Trump
as a racist
voters are split here 49% agree and 50%
disagree so that was much closer in
Wisconsin and I think the only other
thing I want to mention is that
Republican views on race and immigration
as you might expect are not great by 56
to 15% Republicans think immigration
does more harm than good 24 percent of
Republicans don't have a problem with
separating children from their parents
34 percent of Republicans think that
when non-whites are a majority sorry 34
percent of Republicans think that when
non-whites are a majority it will be
mostly a negative thing and 84 percent
of Republicans think that discrimination
against whites has become as big of a
problem as discrimination against people
of color ooh what you think about that
dance not great was there anything else
that stuck out at you before we before
we move on
no I think you know we've sort of hit
all the key points Wisconsin's close but
it is winnable you know all of these
things you know all the ideas here the
message is where the race band
leave this to the fact that Wisconsin's
gonna be incredibly close but when we
find it when the votes from Wisconsin
commend and they often come in late that
is we'll know who's gonna be present
this is my guess and the other thing I'd
say is that I'm really glad that I know
this is my idea so I'm biased so I'm
really glad that Creek media and change
research did basically I think it is at
least serves to start the conversation
about what Democrats need to do and lose
the conversation just beyond simply the
state of the Democratic primary which is
very important but we should be walking
and chewing gum and it was become
between watching Tommy's Instagram
stories about Iowa and writing an
old-school campaign strategy memo
there have been waves of nostalgia this
week for that previous part of our lives
I will also say too that our friend Ben
wiggler is the new chairman of the
Wisconsin Democratic Party and I sent
him these results before we announced
them just to see what he thought and you
know Ben's reply was well this tells me
what I knew which is that Wisconsin is
going to be close and also there's no
one single magic message or silver
bullet you know there's a lot of good
messages here that we can work with but
what this really means is we need to
organize organize organize in Wisconsin
as much as possible we need to mobilize
and persuade as many motors as possible
this is going to be one on the ground
and if you want to help if this poll has
worried you are concerned you or you
care about Wisconsin which you should
you can go to Wis Dems org slash
volunteer to sign up to volunteer if
you're near Wisconsin or you're in
Wisconsin you live there or if you're
not with stems org slash pod that is a
special link where you can go and donate
to the Wisconsin Democratic Party they
could use your help they could use your
funding as we know this whole 2020
election could come down to the state
and Ben is putting a fantastic
organization on the ground there they're
registering voters as much as they can
they're knocking on doors and persuading
people they're finding every last
persuadable voter in Wisconsin so go
pout do what you can we need Wisconsin
okay so we just talked about Trump's
strength on the economy in our Wisconsin
poll until now that strength has been
based on a steady stream of good
headlines about a growing economy and
low unemployment but on Wednesday the
Dow fell 800 points
amid several signs that indicate the
American and global economies may be
headed towards a recession including a
shrinking German economy slowing
manufacturing in China and what Trump
called in all capital letters a crazy
inverted yield curve here in the United
States dan what the hell was he talking
about and how concerned should we be
about these warning signs well we should
be concerned for sure and the I am NOT
an economist which I know will come as a
shock know what all the time I know why
is that none with the the crazy inverted
yield curve is a point at which people
are is a sign that has been used to
indicate a coming recession in previous
times it involves the difference in
price between two year to year term
bonds at ten years on bonds I think
that's right don't have me if I got that
wrong and so yes there are there are
very real warning signs in the economy
some of them are global and beyond the
scope of what Trump is doing crisis is
reminder of the president's only have a
limited impact on the economy one way or
the other because there's because we
live in a global economy for better for
worse but the second part of this is
that Trump has is playing a role in this
with his trade war in generally erratic
leadership and bad relations with all
the key players who would help us solve
this problem yeah I think that's a I
think that's an important point I mean
look like you said we tweet traffic in
political nerd Twitter if you look on
econ nerd Twitter you'll find a whole
bunch of arguments that say you know an
inverted yield curve has preceded every
recession in the past 50 years and so we
should all you know freak out and
recessions coming there's also plenty of
analysis that says no it's
this time we're gonna be okay maybe
there are signs of slowing but our
recessions not imminent so you can you
can find either kind of analysis but I
think the important what's what's scary
to me is thinking about going into a
recession or god forbid going into an
economic crisis with Donald Trump as
president because you and I lived
through both a presidential campaign
that then turned into it an
administration that started with an
incredibly horrible economic crisis the
worst since the Great Depression and it
ain't easy to govern through that and
the way that the world got through that
is you know a Barack Obama Angela Merkel
a lot of other world leaders worked
together they were incredibly close they
pulled the global economy together back
from the brink by all working together
we do not have that situation right now
Trump has pissed off most of our allies
we have sort of right-wing authoritarian
governments rising around the world so
it to me thinking about what would and
our political situation at home in our
political situation in the political
situation in many other countries around
the world is horrible
I mean people the political systems and
democracies are in crisis all over the
world and trying to imagine Donald Trump
and the Republican Party that controls
most of Washington right now using the
tools necessary to pull us out of a
recession or pull us back from the brink
of crisis you know I simply don't have a
lot of confidence in that to say the
least
yeah I mean we dealt with this both in
2009 when there was actual Senate races
but for much of Obama's first term
Europe United States strengthened as
slow as it was but it strengthened
faster and more solidly than Europe in
debate in part because Europe is so
interconnected and we sent most of the
first term spending Obama spending hours
and hours at days and weeks and months
working with Europe to help prevent
Europe from stumbling into another
financial crisis either spurred by debt
in Greece or a whole host of other
issues and it was incredibly complicated
and we were able to navigate it for a
couple of reasons one the government was
stocked with people who were experts in
financial crises because that's what
that's who we hired because that's what
we were in we were elected and its
people and he's incredibly smart tech
you know technocratic elite brilliant
folks in the Nash Security Council that
national calamity Council Treasury State
Department etc who had worked on these
issues before and had relationships with
all the players right they knew they
knew how to work with the EU or the
European Central Bank or the IMF or and
they knew people and in all the key
countries in Europe and so there was
like a group of really smart people u.s.
and foreign working to solve this
problem and the other part was really
important was President Obama had very
very strong relationships with on will
Merkel David Cameron who while a member
of Conservative Party who had a terrible
austerity agenda was a smart guy in he
and Obama trusted each other and öland
in France to us in charge that and they
like every like summit there were they
would get together they'd work on these
issues too late in the night and none of
that exists now you don't have many of
the jobs in which you need people to
work on this stuff are empty or they're
filled with some you know Republican
pundit who had a good Fox appearance at
the right time right and people in chart
in the people in charge of it the
National the director of the National
Economic Council is a TV pundit the
director of the National Security
Council is a TV pundit with a that no
one likes and most people are scared of
a hand the head of the Treasury
Department is the guy he was the
producer of Suicide Squad so we are not
sending our best to deal with what is an
incredibly complicated problem and if
you want a preview of how Trump might
handle a recession or an economic
downturn you just you know look at his
 Twitter feed for the for the
last yesterday he's going to attack the
Fed attacking the Federal Reserve is
like his number one strategy here
because he's gonna want the me you know
he wants them to cut interest rates even
more he's going to blame China or and
that and then
he's just gonna lie and tell everyone
that everything is wonderful even though
it's not and I don't think he has a lot
of two other tools in the toolbox to
deal with whatever might happen yeah I
would just I'd ask you one question
John who appointed the current Fed chair
believed was Donald Trump Dan it was
attacking the guy he picked for the job
wouldn't be the first it there's an
article in the post I think yesterday or
today I read yesterday I don't know I
know what they sharpen the paper anymore
but it basically says that and you talk
to people administration there is no
plan no one is talking anyone the the
only strategy is to try to cyberbully
the Fed into additional rate cuts and
there is a problem here which is in a
normal world at the US were to hit
recession there is a strategy for
getting you out of recession which is
you stimulate the economy with a
combination of government spending and
putting money in people's pockets
through tax cuts or other ways a payroll
tax or something like that and the
problem we have is Trump just took Trump
Republicans took 1.5 trillion dollars
out of the rainy day fund and use it to
buy yachts for rich people so the
cupboard is empty we don't have smart
people dealing with it the we have
already injected you know clinical
stimulus in the economy we didn't such
an ass backwards way that it did nothing
for the economy and we're staring down
the barrel something very scary it's not
great let's talk about the political
significance of an economic slowdown
you know Nate Silver tweeted the other
day that he guesses that lowering the
GDP by 1% would reduce Trump's
reelection chances by 10 to 15 percent
I'm sure that was just sort of back of
the envelope math from Nate I'm sure but
what do you think of sort of the
political significance of an economic
slowdown I don't know NASA's right Who
am I to question Nate Silver's math but
I certainly grew at this point which is
the stronger the economy the better
chance Trump has to win even in their
stronger economy as we talked about in
the section on those cuts and poll there
are ways to undermine that economic
strength and still win the election but
this is bad news if there's a lot of
smart phone
alysus that shows that trumped Trump's
strengths is help propped up by the fact
that the economy is going well or seems
to be have been going well and that
people that it that it creates a
permission structures a lot of people
who who don't like Trump's tweets and
like this racism they'll they have other
concerns about them but they kind of is
going well why change horses Midway's
and so they shift in that dynamic would
chase the election fundamentally now how
do you think Democrats can handle this
because you know I remember when
Democrats were in power you know we
would frequently point out that it
seemed like Republicans were rooting
against the economy rooting for her
session being against America obviously
Democrats don't want to seem like that
how did Democrats sort of talk about
Trump's economic record or how he's
handling the economy without sort of
seeming like we're rooting for a session
which I'm certainly I'm certainly not I
don't think anyone has a second decision
I think it's sort of its a two-fold
strategy one is don't accept the premise
that the economy is good right now
yeah parts of the economy are good the
stock market is high or at least it was
until this week the the unemployment
rate is low those are good wages has
still barely budged the costs of health
care college housing have all gone up
the prices of the pretty house of dreams
have gone up under Trump what it means
to be a middle class what was the middle
of the American dream the middle class
bargain are purported to be to suffered
under this president and so I think one
don't just don't accept the premise of
the argument to say it's great now but
boy it's gonna get bad and then we'll
show Trump yeah and the other part of
that is the Democrats should have
policies that I don't think need to come
out with an economic stimulus package or
something like that right now but they
do have to acknowledge that there are
storm clouds on the horizon and their
policies and the rhetoric should reflect
that and then I think the third and
final point not for the Democratic Party
but for our voters is if a recession is
coming this is the worst news of all is
it may start towards the end of Trump's
presidency but it may not be felt to
have a massive political impact and
until Tareq gets an office so of course
if the idea like we can't swap out
Muller for the recession in our view
that someone is going to save us from
Trump we still have to do all the same
work or something like all the same
arguments and the and there is this
always sometimes a sense that like just
the scales of jerkle justice will
balance and something well some
exogenous event will come in here and
not trump out over the White House and
nothing that's happening here suggests
that that's going to happen this is
still all going to happen on the margins
and Trump will be running for even
absent a serious immediate financial
crisis trumple probably running for
re-election in a much and better
environment than Barack Obama was in
2012 when Obama won by a pretty large
marshal so one of the economic headwinds
the Trump is directly responsible for is
the trade war he started with China that
he is now losing and so according to
Business Insider quote on Wednesday
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross won on
CNBC to explain the administration's
decision to delay a portion of the plan
tariffs until December 15th which would
have affected the rest of Chinese
imports into the United States he cited
a desire to protect shoppers from any
adverse effects during the holiday
season given the goods effect that it
included laptops cell phones toys and
video game consoles among others asked
by reporters about the delay on
implementing tariffs on Monday Trump
said quote we're doing this for the
Christmas season just in case some of
the tariffs would have an impact on
consumers dan what's going on here I
could have sworn our president has told
us over and over again the China pays
for the tariffs just like Mexico pays
for the wall what's what's all this
about the consumer what seems like
perhaps Trump may not have diverted from
his traditional role as fact-based
straight-shooter and it may have been
mind jokes about these tariffs yeah it's
a great cell phone there by Donald Trump
just admitting that he's been
bullshitting us for a long time on this
how should Democrats talk about Trump's
trade war I mean we you know we tested a
pretty good tested a pretty great
message in our Wisconsin poll great
because it was one of the most
persuasive messages we tested it
basically read like this Donald Trump
started a trade war with China that is
hurting Wisconsin farmers and he's now
borrowing
more money from China to bail out huge
corporate farms including some based in
foreign countries again this is all true
go google it it's all true yeah I mean I
think trade is a even before these
economic headlines trade was a massive
pull of opportunity for Democrats
because it's a huge part of Trump
strength it is what I think helped him
appeal to a lot of the Obama Trump
voters when these Midwestern
battleground states it was different
than the message that Romney's was
giving or McCain was giving and ho8 or
in traditional Republican right yeah but
he what he campaigned on and what he's
done in office are two very different
things and you can hit him both because
it is an incompetent execution of the
streets for energy and just and you know
I mentioned this in the Wisconsin to do
the fact that he is pursuing a second
NAFTA that is good for corporations and
bad for workers is a is another fusional
ability so I would run very hard at
Trump strength and sort of ignore the
traditional political advice where you
go at their weakness I would go at Trump
strength on this and I do think that
there is an interesting you can the
politics of this are really interesting
and you can connect a lot of Trump's of
recent tweets with his decision to
engage to enter a trade war with no exit
strategy which is a very Republican way
of entering Wars had he has been unable
and unwilling to to side with the
protesters in Hong Kong or criticized
the Chinese directly because he is in a
place now where the Chinese can help
control his ability to get reelected cuz
he needs them to blink in some way shape
or form to give him a to let him back
out of the corner on the trailer to give
Trump some sort of win that helped him
and so because of that he's forced to
side with the autocrat over the
Democratic protesters in China and the
second thing I think you were just
connecting Trump's crazy Twitter feed to
what's happy in the world is he what is
the bad news about China of the badges
that the economy the drop in the stock
market yesterday of 800 points is
directly related to Trump's incredibly
offensive incredibly disgusting
tweet today about Ilhan Omar in Rashid
tallit Rashid has a lead you know
because he's trying to change he knows
he needs to change the conversation away
from the economy and his own actions on
the economy and so you like he
definitely is you sense a vulnerability
in what he's doing by ridding us which I
think it's important you mentioned that
last part about the tweet today because
you the other thing that happened this
week that sort of illuminates Trump
strategy which is to make the race all
about race and immigration and white
identity politics is that the Trump
administration announced it was moving
forward with a plan designed by c+ Santa
Monica fascist even Miller to deny green
cards to legal immigrants who currently
use or are likely to use public benefits
like Medicaid housing assistance and
Nutrition Assistance the rule expands
the so-called public charge language
that's been on the books for more than a
century during the press tour for the
announcement acting director of
Citizenship and Immigration Services Ken
Cuccinelli offered his own Emma Lazarus
remix when he said that the words on the
Statue of Liberty read as follows and I
think we have a clip would you also
agree that Emma Lazarus has words etched
on the Statue of Liberty give me your
tired your poor are also part of the
American ethos they certainly are give
me your tired and your poor who can
stand on their own two feet and who will
not become a public charge that that
plaque was put on the Statue of Liberty
at almost the same time as the first
public charge law was passed very
interesting timing your very interesting
very what a historical fun fact and I
did not know that that was the end of
that poem did you most people don't know
about the Statue of Liberty b-side I
mean it's like what the so I mean
we've taken Ken Cuccinelli is one of the
dummer men in all of politics
I mean his obviously his views are
atrocious and offensive but it's also
just fun of what a knucklehead
he is that he would think would stare in
the mirror give that answer and then
think it was a good idea it would be
believable I'm not laughable yeah and I
think look it's important to understand
here in context of the whole
conversation we've been having on
Trump in the economy and his potential
weaknesses on the economy with the
messages that can test against him this
is a rule that will that could hurt up
to 26 million legal immigrants in in the
United States people who are here
legally and the attempt is to try to get
them to leave or to try to deter people
from coming to this comments who are
people of color who are poorer from
coming to this country in the first
place and what Trump wants from this
rule with Miller wants from this rule is
to face for people to think okay they're
protecting working class and poor white
people and they are punishing working
class and poor immigrants who don't
belong here right this is the message
that they want to get out what they
don't want people to know is their
policies are hurting working class and
poor white people as well
they're cutting Medicaid for everybody
they're cutting food stamps for
everybody they're over everybody
with their tax cut that is going to the
wealthiest people into no one else with
their trade war that's hurting farmers
in the Midwest with all of the other
 they're doing they are Donald
Trump is enriching himself and his
family and he is over everyone
else in this country but what they want
you to think what their message is is
that they only want you to believe that
they're over immigrants and I
think that's an important point of it
yeah and just a couple of points of this
truly an American in offensive policy
proposal from the Republicans control
one is that it is cool it is not going
to save this one it's going to cost this
money because people are now
yeah not going to get on public people
are not going to get to see a doctor
when they're six we're going to go to
emergency rooms people are not going to
have access to food and other welfare
services so they're going to get sick
faster and it's going to cost a public
more money it is short-sighted and
disgusting and it is it is the proof in
the pudding to your point that this is
not about building walls protecting us
from fake running fever dreams of ms-13
or anything else it is about making
America white
this is about getting people of color to
not come here and the people of color
the immigrants of color who are here to
leave yep that is what this is it is the
it is saying the quiet part out loud
people can have all kinds of positions
on immigration in this country but that
what this is is about it is it is white
nationalism that is exactly what this is
and the third point I would make is it
is disgusting to do this gaze
after a white nationalist inspired by
the rhetoric of this president and the
Republican Party went to a Walmart now
pass out and shot people because they
weren't white yeah like what I do it is
it is it is a specific policy delivered
in the White House briefing room that
speaks to the fears and the that speaks
to the fears of white supremacists and
and tries to paint this inaccurate
picture of who immigrants are and what
they bring to this country and it is
disgusting and he should be called out
on that and you know before the
conservative intellectual Zamboni
machine comes and tries to say oh this
is about saving money and this is a
problem this is about saving
money because if the Trump
administration wanted to save money they
wouldn't have spent billions of dollars
to bail out foreign farms because of
their trade war that's hurting farmers
in the United States they wouldn't have
spent trillion dollars on a tax cut that
went to mostly wealthy people they
wouldn't have spent billions and
billions of dollars on you know bailing
sorry they wouldn't have spent a
trillion dollars in a tax cut that also
encouraged companies to outsource jobs
from this country they spend all kinds
of money on things that help rich people
and don't help most people in this
country at all so it's not about
saving money either it's not about
saving money it's not about illegal
immigration it's about making sure that
this country is whiter that is it that's
the reason for it we should have some
sort of public charged rule for
corporations and billionaires Yeah right
where if you did if you must depend on
some sort of government subsidy or if
you declared bankruptcy in one of your
businesses yes forfeit your tax cut
Donald Trump is the biggest
public charge in this country all right
when we come back we will have my
interview with Alexandria Ocasio Cortez
you
