welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm dan Piper later in the pod
our interview with Katie Hill a
congressional candidate running for a
flippable seat right here in California
she joined Dan and Elissa on stage at
our HBO dress rehearsal in Glendale last
week we're also going to talk about how
Donald Trump mocked dr. Christine Blasi
Ford and apparently got rich by
committing tax fraud cool president Wow
what's going on with him
vote save America register register to
vote vote save America calm just go get
some friends ask them to get their
friends check of your registered
convince people who you think might vote
but our you know sort of lazy or maybe
forgetful to go register just go do it
it's really important
one more housekeeping thing there's
going to be a schedule change for pod
save America because of the HBO specials
that start next week
oh my god we're now gonna applaud save
America on Monday and Wednesday just in
time for your commute so we will record
them in the morning and they'll be out
by late afternoon and we will be
splitting up the pods it'll be depending
on which of us is around since we're all
going to be traveling all over the place
but so it'll be some combination of the
four of us will do pods two and two so
Dan you and I will start on Monday we
will record this morning and then you'll
have a pod Monday night and then next
week love it and Tommy will do Wednesday
morning and that pod will be out
Wednesday evening and then on Friday you
can watch this on HBO 11:00 p.m. we will
be in Miami for the first of our four
midterm specials
it'll be the four of us and Erin Ryan in
Miami very exciting yeah guys like we're
not gonna have Game of Thrones in 2018
so let's get those positive American
people to do it well that you know you
just raise the bar we're not gonna have
any dragon action no one took that
seriously that a single human being we
tried to get dragons and they
they said now okay let's get to the news
on Tuesday evening as the FBI was in the
middle of investigating allegations that
Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh
sexually assaulted multiple women Donald
Trump held a political rally where he
openly mocked dr. Christine Blasi Ford
and lied about the testimony she
delivered to the Senate Trump also said
this week that it's a quote scary time
for young men in America where you can
be guilty of something you may not be
guilty of this is a very very difficult
time what's happening here has much more
to do than even the appointment of a
Supreme Court justice okay before we get
into all of this first let's just play
the clip of Trump from the rally last
night cuz you really got to hear it to
believe it 36 years ago this happened I
had one beer right I had one beer well
you think I was rooting up there was one
beer oh good
how did you get home I don't remember
how'd you get there don't remember where
is the place I don't remember how many
years ago was it I don't know
I don't know I don't know what
neighborhood was it and I don't know
where's the house I don't know upstairs
downstairs where was I don't know but I
had one beer that's the only thing I
remember and a man's life is in tatters
a man's life is shattered his wife has
shattered his daughters who are
beautiful incredible young kids they
destroy people they want to destroy
people these are really evil people dan
a few weeks ago the White House got a
bunch of stories placed about how Trump
was handling these allegations with
remarkable restraint what do you think
changed his mind and what was your
reaction in general to that awful clip
every part of that was awful so my
non-serious reaction is that was the
worst one-act play in American history
we're trying to get the hosts the words
one band play in American district
second this is yet another reminder that
Trump is a troglodyte with the empathy
of a surgical sponge I mean he is just a
horrible human being and to the point
how we've been doing this for four years
basically since Trump started running
for president god help us and every time
someone goes out and praises Trump's
restraint they end up with egg on their
face this was bound to happen it was
just a matter of time and he managed to
do it at in the really even for him an
absolutely disgusting way to do it like
my you know as I sort of watched the
reaction to this today and some of the
news reports I sort of had flashbacks to
2016 because usually the pattern was
Trump would say something horribly
offensive and then the most most of the
reaction would be about how offensive it
was now this of course was one of the
more offensive things he's ever said but
it was also a lie and a lot of people
have just skipped over the fact that
he's he's just lying up there too and
you know I saw
see Graham I saw some other Republicans
say well the president Sarah Huckabee
Sanders well the president was just
stating the facts well no he wasn't he
claimed that she didn't know how many
years ago it was didn't know what
neighborhood it was didn't know whether
it happened upstairs or downstairs and
he said the only thing she remembers is
having a beer none of that is true none
of that is true
she remembered all of those things the
only thing she said she didn't remember
is how she got to and from the party in
the exact address everything else she
said she remembered and when she was
asked to what degree of certainty do you
believe that Brett Kavanaugh was the one
who attempted to sexually assault you
she said 100% 100%
I also by the way thought it was
ridiculous that what just a few weeks
ago where Trump said oh I found her not
last week I guess Trump said oh I found
her very credible so I guess I guess he
doesn't find her credible anymore I
guess that just got thrown out the
window it was just it was gross man it's
gross he I mean he's a terrible human
being I mean we know that and we gloss
over it
and it's also yes like Lindsey Graham
and others today try to if they didn't
really try to find it most have said
that he shouldn't have said it but just
the we've just come to accept as a
political culture a such a lovable level
of terribleness and the president days
that he was attacking a a victim of
sexual assault that he found credible
seven days ago and today he stands up in
front of a crowd an angry partisan crowd
frothing at the mouth and attack sir in
just the most violent way possible and
when we talk about you know one day
Trump won't be President
hopefully we're all still living we
haven't died in some sort of nuclear
attack and maybe Kevin all the other
quarter maybe you won't but the the
damage that is being done to the sort of
the moral fabric of this country from
the fact that people see this in a good
portion of the country find it
acceptable because Trump is doing it
that damage is going to be really hard
to do
I mean this is a woman who has been
getting death threats her family's been
getting death threats she had to move
out of her home her she's been doxed her
email was hacked I mean this is someone
who's had to go through quite a bit over
the last couple weeks in addition to
sitting in front of the Senate and
recounting to the world the worst
experience of her life and the president
ID States is leading a crowd full of
people who were just laughing laughing
about this it is it is pretty gross we
should talk about the response from the
Senate swing vote Susan Collins said the
president's remarks were quote just
plain wrong Jeff Flake sat on The Today
Show that they were quote kind of
appalling and that there's no time in
place for remarks like this Lisa
Murkowski said Trump's comments were
quote inappropriate and unacceptable dan
do you think this will affect their
votes or is it just in their minds a
very unhelpful thing that they have to
sort of deal with I think it's not
helpful I think they think is about
helpful thing yeah they have to deal
with now I'm not even sure it should
affect their votes yeah it's unpopular
take I mean I look I want them all to
vote no no one doesn't know for a
multitude of reasons but yeah it doesn't
seem like trumps comments at a Preta at
a rally is the thing that should put
them over the edge they should either
yeah it should already be there does we
mentioned at the top Trump's comments on
Tuesday night weren't some random
outburst this is from Bloomberg News on
Wednesday quote Trump's attack on Ford
was deliberate White House officials
said they believe they can harness the
controversy to energize the president's
core supporters who regard the
allegations against Cavanaugh is a
democratic plot and part of a broader
cultural war against white males in
effect the inverse of the me2 movement
to hold powerful men accountable for
sexual abuses Dan what do you think
about this there's definitely a bit of a
split trend in recent polling on one
hand a number of polls that have come
out since the testimony last week showed
overall support for cab
is plummeting it has declined among
Democrats it has declined among
independents but on the other hand
Republican support for Cavanaugh is
rising I just saw a poll today that
Republican support for Cavanaugh is now
greater than Republican support for Neal
Gorsuch was so apparently if you are
accused of sexual assault and you even
if you believe a person is falsely
accused of sexual assault I don't quite
understand why that would make you more
supportive of that nominee than the
nominee that was already confirmed who
was not accused of sexual assault but so
be it
and the other thing we're seeing in
polling is the percentage of Republicans
who say they're excited to vote in the
midterms is rising and we've seen a few
polls where the overall generic ballot
is tightening though that could be some
noise because you know polls are polls
so what do you think about all this so I
think there's a couple of things we
ought to separate so first is I've been
waiting for this moment since the launch
of the v-2 both met last year and I'm
surprised it's taken this long for
Republicans to be this overt about it
because it really is a natural extension
of modern republicanism which is they
believe politics is a zero-sum equation
and if society identifies a group of
people who have been treated unjustly
helping them in the Republican mindset
means that there must be some group
who's victimized and Republicans look at
that and have looked at that as
political opportunity so you look you
know the best example is when the
passage of the Voting Rights Act and
civil rights act where Republicans took
they saw an opportunity in the passage
of civil rights legislation to go get
Southern Southern whites datoria their
party and build until the majority and
you know we've seen this with
immigration using sort of a growing you
know elite consensus around immigration
to gin up white people and this is it
made its backlash politics pure and
simple it is what Republicans do and the
question is is this a good short-term
strategy is it a good medium term long
gamora tragedy so I look at media short
term is 18 medium term is 20 and long
term is the is a longer arc of the next
generation to a politics I think there
is some evidence that it is a good short
term strategy I think there is it is a
no idea whether it's gonna be the term
strategy and it is definitely a bad long
term strategy because if you were
staking your ground on white men you
have decided that you are going to put
all of your horses in depend and defend
the smallest most rapidly eroding hill
in American politics yeah and it is
white men it's also there's a big
education split here too it may be even
bigger than gender they you know in the
Quinnipiac poll the college versus non
college number was pretty intense 60% of
college educated white women oppose
Cavanaugh a majority of non-college
educated white women support him and of
course the numbers on men are even
sharper with the non-college numbers way
way up but it is I mean is it's it's
similar to what we the sort of the same
divides that we saw in the 2016 election
as well it's the same sort of divides
you see on issues like immigration on
issues like terrorism that the the only
demographic groups that vote heavily
Republican now like you said our men and
non-college educated white men and women
and those are their groups and so you're
right they're staking and the funny
thing is they're not the Republican plan
the Republican strategy is to not
propose policies that might help those
demographic groups they've long stopped
doing that they don't have an economic
plan for non-college educated white men
who are struggling or white women who
are struggling they don't have any of
that all they have is immigrants are
gonna come take your jobs and immigrants
are gonna commit crime and terrorists
are gonna commit a crime that don't look
like you because they're immigrants too
or they're you know they're people for
foreign sorry let me try that again and
you know and terrorists are gonna come
and attack you and I and so only
Republicans can keep you safe and now
you're gonna be falsely accused of
sexual assault that's the other thing
that's the new thing you have to worry
about so everything they do is around
this there is a there's a threat there
is an existential threat to white men
and especially non-college educated
white men and women from liberals
Democrats immigrants feminists this is
it this it's just it's a culture war and
they're the ones starting the culture
war and it's in to mean this has also
been the the flames of this have been
fanned like this just doesn't happen out
of the blue during this cavanaugh
navigation you have no nomination this
happened because like all these
right-wing radio hosts and everyone on
Fox decided to end Trump decided to go
all in and tell people that you know our
entire society now is beset by false
accusations of sexual assault which
again is not true that it's really
dangerous it is a dangerous moment in
the country where you can because we
have become such a partisan polarized
country and particularly on the right
where the idea really is here that what
America is changing faster than you
wanted to change and all these liberals
and the leaks and immigrants and black
presidents of the middle name Hussein
and women presidents are all trying to
try to ruin what America used to be and
if a bunch of a bunch of captains of the
football team
like Brett like Brett Bart Cavanaugh and
we and Mark judge can't get together and
have a few beers and not be risk calling
being accused of sexual assault then
what is America right and it's just it
it is it isn't a stout it is it is
victim it is victimization wrapped in
the soundtrack and that is sort of the
core of trumpism right and well that and
that's why they and in Trump said this
in his own remarks he said oh it's
bigger than the Supreme Court their
strategy is to make this about more than
bread Cavanaugh they don't want to focus
on just bread Cavanaugh's this case they
want to say this is an attack on all
white men right
and Democrats what we're all saying is
like no no we are just trying to find
the truth in this one case that's before
us right now and even though we may
never know exactly what happened and
even though we may not have evidence to
charge back Brett Kavanaugh with the
crime what we're saying is this is a job
interview for the highest court on the
land and should this person have a
lifetime appointment and have incredible
power over the interpretation of the
laws in this country over millions of
people's lives does this person have the
character and temperament to do that and
all we're saying is you should weigh the
evidence in favor of voting for more
opposing him and then make a decision
like we're trying to make this narrow
they're trying to make this a gigantic
culture war and that should tell you
something about what their true goals
are here if they don't care about it
they don't care about Brett Kavanaugh
himself
they're like brick having us like a
 Bush administration person who
you know Donald Trump was afraid of that
at the beginning when he picked him and
now know he loves him because he's this
like martyr stand in for like everything
that's gone wrong with white got white
guys apparently there is nothing that
will get you faster into Donald Trump's
good graces there'd be incredibly
accused of sexual assault
who says Ron Porter whatever oh he's
icky he seems like he might have abused
some women Ron can't lose Ron for trying
to give another job the administration
Brett Kavanaugh random Federalist
Society robot who will vote the way we
want Oh Brett Kavanaugh accuse credibly
accused of sexual assault that our fight
for Brett Kavanaugh gets her feet like
it's everything to trump as a mirror and
so he sees in himself this if he can win
this for Brett Kavanaugh it will somehow
prove his innocence
yeah and even within the Republican
Party this isn't as clear cut as as it
is within the Democratic Party there's a
poll out on Wednesday that had an
interesting question that made it not
about Brett Kavanaugh specifically the
question was if a political candidate
has been accused of sexual assault by
multiple
people would you still consider voting
for them if you agreed with them on the
issues or would you definitely not vote
for them 56% of Republicans said they
would consider voting for a candidate
who've been accused by multiple people
only 34 percent said they were not by
contrast 81% of Democrats said they
would not vote for such a candidate and
only 16% said that they'd consider it so
like so much else in our politics
this is asymmetric between the two
parties it is not that you know Moe all
Democrats are you know would vote
against such a person all probably as
well for it is most you know all
Democrats are mostly on the same page
most Democrats are on the same page and
even within the Republican Party their
display partly because those numbers
among Republican women are not that high
more Republican women would think about
what think twice about voting for a
candidate who's been accused of sexual
assault so really it's it's a Republican
men that are that are holding it up here
that whole you know why because I have
news for all of those Republicans who
told the pollster they would not vote
for a candidate they did president 810
of you voted for him he is on tape
bragging about sexual assault what are
you people talking about that is a good
point that is a good well I mean the
other thing that I've been thinking
about this last week is how just like
everything else this whole episode like
everything goes down the memory hole and
we all forget about it five to five days
later like I'm trying to think back to
the moment where dr. Christine Blasi
Ford finished her testimony and you turn
to Fox News and Chris Wallace is there
saying her testimony is a disaster for
Republicans she was absolutely
believable and Republican strategists
are texting reporters left and right and
White House officials texting reporters
left and right and saying oh man we're
screwed now I don't think he's gonna
survive this nomination that was it that
was so credible from from dr. Ford and
then here we are a week later and it
suddenly Donald Trump's mocking her at a
rally like how do we get this far this
fast it is just unbelievable where
people forget these days it was six days
ago that you and I were sitting in your
office watching this on watching this on
TV with errand and I mean if
like a hundred years ago yeah what what
if anything can Democrats do about this
or should Democrats do about this you
know is it is it possible to support
survivors and women in the me2 movement
without alienating you know male voters
it's I mean it's certainly possible in
the Democratic Party when you look at
the numbers the the gender split with
men and women because men and women and
the Democrats are basically on the same
page when all these polls but I don't
when you start talking about an
independence or Republicans I don't know
I don't know what you think I'm not sure
that any of the voters who were not
going to turn out because they had other
things to do on election day in the fall
of 2018 but are now going to turnout in
solidarity with Brett Kavanaugh because
he had to fight back against a fusillade
of false accusations against men in this
country our voters who are ever
attainable for Democrats in any race in
any state and I think we just have to
work spend more time thinking about the
things that excite our voters and less
time worrying about the things that
excite their voters because we really
have no control over the latter yeah I
was I was gonna say the same thing we we
cannot bet on depressed turnout from the
Republican side we can't bet on it we
can't do anything about it we can't
worry about it and look I you know I
think we saw in polls over the last few
months that there's certain periods
where you get polls that where they say
a lot of Republicans aren't as excited
to vote in this election and you know
it's great when you see those polls but
there's nothing we can do about that
that number changing all we can do is
worry about getting our voters to the
polls and getting new voters to the
polls those are the two things that we
can worry about and that we should worry
about because I know you know we've
already got this narrative now and
there's gonna be all these thing
pieces and the next week it's like did
Democrats May
mistake and and fighting so hard to
oppose the nomination of kavanah it's
like no like you we're trying to mean
you've got to do what you believe is
right and then let the chips fall where
they may when it comes to the politics
you know like there is no universe where
we could not have been where we should
not have been as supportive of dr. Blasi
forward and these women have come
forward or we should not have been as
intense about calling for an FBI
investigation which not only Democrats
did but Jeff Flake and Susan Collins and
Lisa Murkowski did Republicans did too
so I do think like yes we might see some
more energy among the Republican base
but I don't know that there's anything
we could have done about that do you
know we did we had to do the right thing
and I and I just think from a purely
political point of view and I don't
believe this is why Democrats did this
but not fighting would have been worse
because we're fighting excited excited
their base not fighting depresses ours
and like I said we should be much more
concerned about our base in their base
yeah the other explanation possible
explanation for some of the polls
recently at least that this is one of my
theories we have seen you know since
Trump took office
every time he recedes from the headlines
and there's a fight that's not
specifically about Donald Trump or
something that Donald Trump did the
generic ballot does get a little bit
tighter and he certainly inserted
himself back into the headlines last
night at that rally when he started
mocking dr. Ford but before that this
really was a fight about you know the
way this was framed in the media it was
a fight of Democrats versus Republicans
women versus men you know because it was
all about Kavanagh and I think sometimes
when we fade when Trump sort of fades
from the headlines you know more
Republicans come home and you sort of
get that tightening in the generic
ballot I don't know maybe that's crazy
but what do you think about that I think
that's very possible and the generic
ballot also gets when the focus is on
either
education I'm sorry Jessica when the
focus is on healthcare taxes yeah or the
news is quiet enough in Trump adjusted
terms that Democratic candidates can go
out and make the case on this issue the
generic ballot generally ones yeah and
when it is around something like
Cavanaugh which does unite the
Republican Party right they never like
this is the time when we lose when we
lose touch with Oliver never Trump or
friends because they they hung out with
Brett Kavanaugh at federalist society
gathering say they they want some of my
cabinet on the court he is one of theirs
and so they're impure this has had some
rallying effect with Republican we just
don't know one way or the other whether
that the Cavanaugh effect if you will
will still be present in a monk with it
when the election comes around I'm not
telling you I'm not saying don't been
way because it's a month I'm just saying
no one has any clue if we were
at the point where seven days before
this podcast posts people were preparing
Cavanaugh to withdraw because his
nomination was doomed to now Cavanaugh's
nomination is so not doomed that it is
fueling Republican enthusiasm across the
country who knows what people will be
saying a month from now right yes we
just really have no idea and when we
talked about this last week the idea
that there was sort of a cabin or
rallying affectless based mostly on
tweets and people calling it a talk
radio now we have some data that
suggested may have an impact right now
and so what can we do about that we
could throw up fall into the fetal
position get under our desk and grab a
bottle of whiskey or we can go knock
doors make phone calls
find your dumbest laziest friend in your
in your crew cuz everyone has one and
make sure that person is registered to
vote like there are things we can do
here other than just panic yeah just go
into November expecting that the
Republican base is going to be as
energized as ever and that makes sure
that our base is energized even more and
that we're pulling non voters and
dependents voters who don't go to the
polls all the time
bringing those bringing those people to
the polls as well that's all we can do
just focus on our stuff focus on our
work and just assume that their sides
gonna be very energized and if they are
that's great but we should assume that
they will be and that's gonna make our
job tougher but we got to do the work
let's talk about the latest in the FBI
investigation which is apparently done
by the time you listen to this the
report probably will have leaked in some
way they're gonna send it first to the
White House and then to the Senate
McConnell has rejected Schumer's request
to hold a briefing for the full Senate
though apparently every senator will get
to see a copy of the report at some
point which you know I assume means it
will leak because everything on Capitol
Hill leaks all the time
the FBI has not interviewed Cavanaugh
Ford or many other potential witnesses
as part of the investigation but they
have spoken to Marc judge Leland Keyser
PJ Smith Timothy Gaudet and Chris
Garrett all of whom were at the July
first gathering that was on Cavanaugh's
calendar and some of whom Ford
identified from the gathering where she
says she was assaulted dan what do you
think about how extensive this
investigation has been it seems odd in
the least and I will stipulate that what
I know Criminal Investigations is
entirely trivial to the television shows
I've watched but it seems odd that you
can do this investigation without
talking to either Cavanaugh or Ford yeah
you know I like it
bizarre I think it's more about
Cavanaugh than it is about Ford because
I think if they if they interviewed Ford
they know they have to interview
Cavanaugh they don't want to interview
Cavanaugh because or leased the White
House doesn't want Cavanaugh to be
interviewed by the FBI because if we
remember from last week Ford had to go
through questioning from Rachel Mitchell
that prosecutor who asked you know a
number of tough questions of her
throughout the at the hearing and
Cavanaugh he got to get questions from
the Republican senators who just yelled
and screamed a lot and you know a couple
questions from Democrats
so Cavanaugh has not had to sit and
really go through a an FBI investigation
that happens with all the knowledge and
infirm
that we've had you know over the past
month obviously he went through a
background check initially but he did
not he has not had to face tough FBI
questions since all of this came out and
I think they're probably worried about
that they are but if you are just like
Lisa Murkowski Susan Collins and you
believed in FBI investigate needs to be
done how could you possibly right leave
that this was a thorough investigation
like he's like maybe you can convince
yourself if they didn't talk to squeeze
or some other member of the Georgetown
Prep Ralphs club or whatever it was you
know all the attendings of each week but
they but when you being as they well
this is it you know that's it that would
be crazy
but to not talk to Cavanaugh to not get
Cavanaugh has to sit before the FBI and
have trained criminal investigators
asking questions about this alleged
crime how could you think that is a
serious enough investigation and that
would take one more day two more hours
three more hours you know is the the
idea that we're on some sort of crazy
clock that if Cavanaugh is not confirmed
by you know midnight Friday night he's
gonna turn into a pumpkin is just
completely illogical and so you would
hope although I don't have hyo's but you
would hope that the Republican senators
would leverage here would use it to
ensure this was a real investigation how
do you think Democrats have handled this
our pal Matt Miller who was a longtime
longtime spokesperson at Department of
Justice tweeted the Democrats were
making a mistake by not pushing the FBI
hard enough on this point he said that
for example the chair of the House
Judiciary Committee could make it clear
that he'll subpoena I'm sorry he said
that the ranking member of the House
Judiciary Committee the Democrat Jerry
Nadler could make it clear that he'll
subpoena every document from this
investigation and hold hearings if
Democrats win the house to put pressure
on the FBI to sort of be more thorough
Matt also said that we could push for
full transparency make the report public
make all the 302s public all that kind
of stuff do you think Democrats should
have gone
little harder here on this I'm torn
about this because I Republicans have
definitely set this up that it's heads
they win tails we lose yeah and where if
the FBI doesn't find anything than the
true tried and true law enforcement
professionals the FBI discovered nothing
and then if they do find something it's
the you know it's Peter you know it's
the co-workers of Peter struck and Lisa
page you know and Jim Comey protégées he
did this so they definitely set it up in
a way that is problematic regret that
they can they can do they can do
whatever they want do whatever the
results are and I agree that if we have
the house that and this turns out to be
ashame investigation we should
investigate the investigation I think
that is the right thing to do and then
it's like are we gonna start berating
the FBI publicly while we are berating
Trump for breeding the FBI publicly I'm
real I'm torn about it and the fact that
Matt who had worked in the Justice
Department knows these people said that
in stir is you know made me really think
about it yeah I mean I my view is I
think we're gonna hear more from if it
turns out that like has been reported
that the investigation was you know
severely curtailed by the Trump
administration then I think you'll hear
FBI officials probably leaked that that
was the case I mean already current and
former FBI officials confirm to NBC that
dozens of witnesses have come forward to
FBI field offices who say they have
information on Kavanaugh but the agents
haven't been permitted to talk to them
dozens of witnesses think about that I
I'm serious
I just don't know enough about sort of
the hierarchical structure here yeah but
what is preventing the FBI from just
investigating like why do they have to
listen and on began here right I don't
know I mean I like I guess one thing
that they that one constraint
have is the time limit right like they
have to be have this done by Friday so
there are you know plenty of FBI agents
running around the country but you know
there's only so many days to interview
this many people and you've got to
follow leads and you got to see if the
leads are credible and all that kind of
stuff so I think that the only thing
that's really preventing them from not
really listening to done began is is
time it's also you know that the time
thing is too because it's
having higher yeah I mean it's
 that way it's a Bowl
step I set up by McConnell what else but
it's also that the FBI have to
abide by that timeline I know this oh oh
yeah I worked on many nominations and
the FBI would give us the return they
were doing as fast as they could and we
would certainly push them to get that
background check in time so the
president can make a decision or an
announcement about someone but if it
wasn't done it wasn't done right like
they they're much more concerned about
doing it right than meeting some
deadlines if I'm the White House
communications director I'll tell you
that
so I there's no reason the Christopher
Rea other than fear of being fired or
tweeted about couldn't just call them
again and say we're gonna get a couple
more days to do this right yeah it's um
it doesn't seem like it's on the
up-and-up no say the like in that point
everything about this is so
short-sighted I think they could have
done this to begin with they could have
just agreed to this three weeks ago when
these allegations came out had it done
and in it and if the allegations if the
report were to find nothing conclusive
that they probably could have just had
this vote it's just jammed it threw on
party lines last week and so now they've
done this investigation they've made it
the point of sort of leverage for
everyone and then they try to jam it
through and do a half-assed version and
maybe I mean McConnell's view of
politics it's like the opposite of
Barack Obama's if Barack Obama's was yes
we can McConnell's is because we can and
so maybe it's just like we're just gonna
confirm them because we can right just
because I have the votes well make
people do it and like in just wake and
tell people you got an FBI investigation
but we don't we don't give a about
Jeff white yeah and look I mean they're
good because they're also doing this
knowing that
this isn't the end of the story even if
he gets confirmed like those dozens of
witnesses are gonna find their way to
reporters and you know where we have
some really great reporters in this
country and they're going to find the
truth hope like we are we might not know
exactly with a hundred percent certainty
what happened in that summer of 1982 but
if people have things to say about Brett
Kavanaugh if there's other allegations
to be made if they're credible if
reporters can chase down leads on this
they're gonna do it and we're gonna find
out and if he's on the court and more of
this comes out look it is going to be
very hard to impeach him from the court
because it's this for the same reason
that it's hard to impeach Donald Trump
you need two thirds in the Senate and we
can barely get fifty one Republicans to
oppose Breck haven't on the first place
so I think impeachments gonna be hard
but I don't know there could be
investigations and the truth about burr
at Chiron are Breck havena will
ultimately come out so I mean the New
York Times was able to get its hands on
the letter Brett Kazon all wrote yeah
who his fellow attendees of eternity
cast about their their forthcoming
drunken behavior so there will be more
information out there I think we have to
all recognize that even if this is a
real FBI investigation a sham FBI
investigation if all the best reporters
work on this we will never know yeah
exactly what happened there will never
be proof there will never be a smoking
gun a piece of DNA evidence that will
say this is what happened there won't
even be in a credible account Obion
account from one woman ended now from a
man and then it is incumbent upon but
this is not a court of law where the the
standard is we must prove beyond a
reasonable doubt that Brett Kavanaugh
sexually assaulted Christine Ford or he
automatically gets elevated to the court
that's that's not what this is right as
you point out this is a job interview
and so senators have to make a decision
about who is more believable right it is
it is their responsibility to know
beyond a shadow of a doubt that they are
not putting someone guilty of sexual
on the court and so you have two choices
you can believe Christine Court as we
all did including Donald Trump
supposedly right White House the
personalities at Fox News this is not
you know just us in our liberal bubble
we we in our liberal bubble we turned on
Fox and we watched it and they all said
that or Brett Kavanaugh who as we know
that not tell the truth when confronted
with uncomfortable facts now whether I
am NOT saying he is these are lies that
would be measure up to perjury and that
you know there's now this debate on my
like did he purged himself and there are
all these like doesn't matter people
because conservative legal scholars like
looking down their nose at us like no
one would ever bring a perjurer capable
that's fine
we're not looking for perjury charge
we're just looking for a Supreme Court
justice who doesn't feel the need to lie
about whether he threw up a beach week
is that so much to ask give us someone
who tells us the truth about Beach week
please yeah you know yeah God each week
was probably not as exciting we had one
at Holy Cross too we had a beach we can
Cape Cod I want to talk about that um
until I'm until I'm up for a nomination
at the Supreme Court is ever before the
Supreme Court before the Senate and a
confirmation Supreme Court I will answer
most Beach week questions all right
let's uh let's switch to the rampant
criminality of our president the New
York Times published a massive
investigative story on Tuesday that
Donald Trump became rich through his
inheritance and various types of fraud
it's a very long story but fortunately
all the good stuff is right in the lead
here's the quote President Trump
participated in dubious tax schemes
during the 1990s including instances of
outright fraud that greatly increased
the fortune he received from his parents
apparently reporters dug through over a
hundred thousand pages of documents to
report the story outstanding reporting
by the New York Times dan what were your
takeaways here from the store
well John the president is a criminal
he's already implicated in a felony
which we've all seemed to have forgotten
that I guess that happened four years
ago he's implicated in a felony by
Michael Cohen by his own lawyer
implicating a felony and now we have
this he is a criminal guilty of fraud
but he has also a fraud himself because
the other part of this story which goes
into great detail about the completely
and patently obviously illegal schemes
that Trump went through in order to
reduce his tax burden it also shows that
the story he has been telling for
decades about how he lifted himself up
from his bootstraps of his $1,000,000
and gifts from his dad who turned self
into a billionaire is complete and total
 and that he received nearly
half a billion dollars over the years
from his parents in one way or another
and maybe we the thing that is
fascinating about this story in addition
to all the truth in it is does anyone
care like well look I think I mean you
know when it's when it's a lot of words
in the New York Times it's really tough
for all of us because it's not something
we can see on the TV our faces you know
but it is it is worth talking about like
the different parts of this story I mean
the first thing is you alluded to is
that his entire story about himself and
how he made it has been proven to be a
complete lie in a complete sham as you
said the story is I only received a
million dollar loan from my father and I
did the rest thanks to the story we know
definitively that this is not true by
age three he was earning $200,000 a year
in today's dollars from his father's
Empire two hundred thousand dollars a
year for at age three he was a
millionaire by age eight age eight he
was a millionaire and then in his 40s
and 50s as a grown man whose working age
he was receiving more than five million
dollars
year from his father Fred Trump also
lent his son at least sixty point seven
million dollars 60 million dollars much
of it was never repaid every time Trump
began a new project
his father lent him the money to start
the new project need a new hotel dad's
got the money for you and every time one
of his projects failed
oh you're Atlantic you're Atlantic City
casinos failing Fred Trump also stepped
in to bail him out just safety net from
beginning to end here's some money don't
worry if you things up there's more
where that came from
that's the Donald Trump story yet no one
cares I don't even mean no voters care
right because there is this always that
yelling you can avoid from liberals like
ourselves as I'm literally yelling into
avoid right now that you know it's like
all this information voters don't care
nothing matters Teflon Don blah blah
blah blah blah but also like whether
that's true or not we don't know the
story came out 24 hours ago but this is
a massively consequential piece of
reporting that when the New York Times
who has been known to I don't know sand
themselves around the edges for fear of
being accused by conservatives bias yeah
accuses the president of outright
criminal fraud in the lead at the story
and you did you would have to dig deep
into Twitter to see people talking about
this other than people like us yelling
about why no one's talking about yeah
it's not mean it's not leading the news
that it's not leading about the topic of
cable news on topic of network news it's
nothing it's not trending on Facebook it
is just it is like just a giant paper
airplane being thrown out the window
well it's look it it's one thing if you
you know what I just said about all the
money he inherited yeah you could look
then say okay well I guess he's not a
self-made man but you know how can you
blame him for his father being
incredibly wealthy and passing on that
wealth okay fine but the heart of the
story and where the fraud comes from is
that
Trump used all kinds of tricks to avoid
paying taxes on the money that his
father was giving him some of the tricks
were legal and just sketchy and laws and
loopholes that we should change but some
of them
the New York Times believes and all the
tax experts they talked to believe was
fraud so Donald Trump and his siblings
set up a sham corporation to disguise
millions of dollars in gifts from their
parents records indicate that mr. Trump
helped his father take improper tax
deductions worth millions more he also
helped formulate a strategy to
undervalue his parents real estate
holdings by hundreds of millions of
dollars on his tax returns
sharply reducing the tax bill when those
properties were transferred to him in
his siblings and the Tax Oxford said
that many of these strategies were
illegal basically the Trump's paid an
estimated five percent tax rate on an
inheritance that they should have paid a
fifty five percent tax rate on that's
how much money they saved saved stole
whatever you want to say cut John did
Marco Rubio have reaction you know what
Dan it's right here I have it just just
for this just in case you asked Marco
Rubio said quote it's obviously I think
it's a testament to how crazy and
complicated the tax code is in general
oh my god the tax code is so crazy you
can just like walk away with four
hundred million dollars and pay five
percent taxes on it how nuts is that oh
the laws are so confusing how did this
person people can just wander into a
bank with a gun and take all the money
like what are we talking about their
laws he broke them he set up shell
corporations to break the law people
don't generally set up shell
corporations to do legal things here
here's here's the part of the story that
is really offensive and I think that
this is this is one thing the Democrats
should hit on too not only did he just
create this shell company this sham
company to act sort of as a as a
pass-through so he could avoid all kinds
of taxes the company was then used to
justify rent hikes in Fred Trump's
rent-regulated building so here's how
this works in New York and a lot of
other
places if you have a rent stabilized
building if you own one you can spend a
few thousand dollars on renovations and
then you can report it as much more
expensive renovation so you can put like
twenty thousand dollars in for
innovations and say oh it made the it
made the apartment you know fifty
thousand or a hundred thousand dollars
more valuable and then that new value
can push the apartment above the rent
stabilization cutoff so then you can
start jacking up the rent so they
created a sham company to avoid
inheritance taxes and then used it to
justify rent hikes on their tenants
these people are awful they're
so bad I mean the fact that the
populists forty class champion president
states has made himself rich through
illegal means used to scrimp every penny
from working-class people is something
that just seems like it is very obvious
that we should be able to convince
orders of with you we have yet been able
to do that or at least have enough
voters I mean what do you think
Democrats should do about this story I
you know I saw one of the first
reactions which Fitz wells from
Elizabeth Warren and she said look I you
know I have a bill where that it would
work force every presidential candidate
to release their tax return so we could
see stuff like this and also you know we
should close all these tax loopholes do
you think that's the route here like
what else do you think Democrats should
do well I think we have to understand
that the public in Trump supporters in
particular view Trump differently then
they would other people they have very
low expectations of him he is more like
they sort of know they elected Trump the
host of Celebrity Apprentice yeah a
basically fictional television character
as opposed to a real human being with
real morals real values real experience
etc and so there are certain things that
are not going to matter to supporters
and it's sort of priced into the
baseline that he's a crook and they seem
time with that weird but they do I think
we should do
things wanted to democratic the house
that they should immediately when Nancy
Pelosi gets that gavel she should in one
hand so one and she has the gavel and
the right hand she should be signing the
order for the subpoenas for Trump's tax
returns because that is what's gonna
happen and that's very important second
I agree with Warren's bill we should do
that forget Donald Trump president
should release their tax returns for all
the obvious reasons and it's the reason
the president's have released their tax
returns voluntarily for years until we
ended up with an obstinate crook as the
president who has not done it and but we
also know that novel Trump's I can
assign that bill between now and 2020
right what I would encourage hopefully
God willing
starting in January of 2019 there are
going to be states that now have
Democratic governors and Democratic
legislators and those states should pass
laws that require the release of tax
returns for access to the ballot oh
interesting so so you want to be on the
Colorado ballot Trump to pick a state
where we might have both of those things
every person who wants to be on that
ballot Democratic presidential on Venus
I would say anyone for federal office
plus release tax returns statewide in
federal offices and do that and if you
can do that a couple states that Trump
needs to get to 270 that becomes very
consequential like Pennsylvania for
instance and even if you can't pass it
because you only have one of the two
houses get every Republican in the state
legislature or the Republican governor
on record opposing such a bill I think
that's like we should and it's not clear
to me why this has not happened be put
previous way and not include with me why
this has not yet happened in our home
state of California I never say I'm like
Trump will just not be on the ballot
here and that would be does that wall
matter to him you get a 270 but Trump
napping on the ballot would be very
problematic for Republicans in swing
districts and Republicans running for
other offices if the presidential
candidates on the ballot so you can you
can do a lot that would be very
interesting and even
it states Trump doesn't care about look
I think the reason it's important to do
that and to get these tax returns it's
not just to say oh yeah look Trump made
a lot of money or didn't make a lot of
money or had all these you know schemes
and and cheated and committed fraud
let's kinda stuff you sort of want to
paint a picture of Trump and all of his
rich friends as people who get to play
by their own set of rules because that
pisses people off that pisses off again
like you said it's never gonna piss off
the Trump voters and the
Republican base voters and all the you
know the Trump fans but the Obama Trump
voters working-class Democrats most of
the Democrat Party a lot of independents
those people are gonna be really pissed
off by the idea that Donald Trump his
billionaire cabinet and all the other
rich people in this country they get to
hire fancy accountants to make sure that
they don't have to pay a lot of taxes
and most people in this country they
can't afford the fancy accountant who's
gonna tell them how to you know do all
these tax schemes and take advantage of
all these loopholes and all the
that Donald Trump and Fred Trump did
they can't afford that and they're
paying a lot in taxes and they're barely
getting by and meanwhile Donald Trump
and all his friends get to hire a fancy
accountant and commit fraud and take
advantage of the tax code and do
whatever the hell they want because
they're rich and that's how rich people
get richer in this country they get to
play by their own set of rules and that
I think is a very powerful message for
Democrats not just in 2018 but in 2020
yeah
the other takeaway from this is there is
an element where Trump is sort of won
the media war which is the fact that
this is the New York Times which is
America's leading newspaper the most
serious paper we have with the you know
with those best funded most serious
journalists and this is I mean this is a
massive story they have required they
have received this is this listen to
through public documents they received a
giant tranche of private tax records
some from some week in the in the Trump
family somewhere accountants lawyers
whatever it is and
this can be dismissed to a significant
portion of the country as the liberal
dear times and that that that is a world
in which Trump in the right has
succeeded in nullifying the power of
some of our most important referees and
American American life yes that's a
bummer but anyway I think look I think
you know it Democrats running in 2018
and certainly as we looked at 2020
should make this a bigger issue because
this is the kind of stuff that pisses
people off and pisses people off who
were you know maybe like you said maybe
not Trump's most loyal supporters were
watching Fox News all the time but most
people in this country would look at
that and say yeah that doesn't seem that
doesn't seem right
cry cry all right let's talk about
candidate of the day today we're talking
about Lauren Underwood who was the
Democratic candidate for illinois' 14th
congressional district which covers the
outer suburbs of Chicago Underwood is a
thirty one-year-old registered nurse and
health policy expert she was appointed
by Barack Obama to serve as a senior
adviser at the US Department of Health
and Human Services she's running against
four-time incumbent Republican Randy
Holt Crenn Illinois's 14th district is
considered by the cook Political Report
as leaning Republican however in 2016
Trump only won the district by 4
percentage points Dan what do you think
of this race what do you think of Lauren
I appointed by Barack Obama nurse I'm
sold she would be the first
african-american and the first woman to
represent the district Hultgren also
hasn't had a challenger since 2010 so
it's this is this is a classic case of
every what's happening all over the
country in 2018 is that you know in in
these districts where Republicans have
run unopposed the Democrats have not
fielded a really strong candidate before
you have someone who is not your typical
candidate in this district you know
first woman first african-american and
she decided she was gonna run for this
race after Hultgren held a town hall
meeting where he said he would vote
protect healthcare coverage for people
with pre-existing conditions and then
turned around and supported the full
repeal of the Affordable Care Act which
would gut pre-existing conditions and
because she has she's someone who's
she's a nurse she has also someone with
the manageable heart condition she said
that she saw that town hall meeting and
said you know what it's on I'm running
which is a really cool story and that
has happened to so many people all over
the country who were running for office
for the very first time so it's it's
inspiring that is that is all great
another thing that I really love about
Lauren Underwood so she's an
african-american candidate and she's
running to represent an overwhelmingly
white district and in some interview
somewhere she was asked well you're an
African can it was a white district are
you a good fit for the district are you
good fit for this race and she said this
is my home the idea that I might not be
a good fit it's an idea I never even I
never gave a lot of consideration to
yeah which which is the right way to
think about this it's right it's the
right waking up with you it is your home
and it is only and that is how normal
people think of things and instead of
you know trying to slice and dice this
is some sort of amateur and political
consultant she is a constituent who
wants to become a congress person so
that she can make life better for the
people of her home and that is what this
is supposed to be all about yeah and it
can be about and can be about and if you
live in the Illinois 14th you should
know that your current congressman Randy
Hellgren votes with Trump ninety six
point eight percent of the time I mean
most of these folks have been in the 90s
ninety six point eight is that's that's
one of the highest ones we have supports
the wall on the us-mexico border because
of course that should protect the 14th
district of Illinois voted for the ACA
repeal bill that would have taken health
insurance away from 33,000 people in the
Illinois 14th voted for the tax bill
rated F by the National Education
Association and supports concealed carry
reciprocity but let people carry guns
over state lines even in states where
they have tough gun control laws so that
is her opponent so if so anyway I guess
we should we should make our endorsement
what do you think Dan uh I think I'm
gonna vote yes
okay yeah I know me too me too this was
a tough one but I come down on the side
of Lauren Underwood also it's her
birthday today
if today is Thursday and you're
listening to it so happy birthday Lauren
Underwood isn't that exciting and you
know for a birthday present maybe go to
her website and and donate to her
campaign because it is a trump district
it is one he won by a couple points so
it's an uphill climb but it is
absolutely one that Democrats can win
absolutely we can win this race so help
Lauren out she's also if you go to vote
save America calm she's also one of the
candidates who sent in a video about why
she's running so check that out and yeah
Lauren Underwood for the Illinois 14th
okay when we come back we'll have the
interview that Dan and Elissa did with
Katie Hill who's running in the 25th
california's 25th
you
