for the next two years I'm gonna pin
presidential candidates down on the
issues that matter to me most in a
segment we call queen for a day on day
one do you pledge to eliminate daylight
savings and never let the American
people see dark before 5:00 p.m. as in
land on daylight savings time
permanently and never fall back not only
do I so pledge but if you go to yang
2020 calm you will see it is policy
number 86 listen there are three leaders
on this issue me Marco Rubio Andrew you
hang what a group shut up all right
should the FCC legally require Apple to
put the headphone jack back on the
iPhone yes
and there should be a rule that you're
not allowed to do anything that's going
to intentionally shorten battery life on
those phones and what are we gonna do
about this whole USB see we got I got
too many cable ends can you fix that got
a policy on that yet I got I got USB
into USB C into lightning into Thunder
the steve job died the plays exploded
with dongles is not even a question
you met Elizabeth Holmes at the White
House was I dumb to have found her
charming so I've been reflecting on my
meeting with Elizabeth over the last
number of days she charmed you too
didn't she just admit it on this stage
and I will resist admitting that she
charmed me I I remember thinking like
hah
she's not quite what I expected and then
I thought well Who am I to question you
know like the like the youngest
self-made female billionaire like in in
our nation and so I struct and said like
you know like it like it must be that
I'm not understanding something standard
mall food court where are you eating
tomorrow Taco Bell or Panda Express
Panda Express
obviously the smart answer you can get a
vegetable follow-up there's a 20-minute
there's a 20-minute wait for a table at
the California Pizza Kitchen you're
seeing a movie you're seeing a movie the
timing is doable do you wait or do you
go to the food court CPK is delicious I
definitely wait good answer good answer
do we need a national moratorium on
companies that do April Fool's Day
pranks aka non-consensual comedy
I am as someone who had my own April
Fool's policy which was the canine
dividend that every American would get a
thousand dogs per month I am against
said moratorium let's let the PR people
run wild for a day so it's like a they
get it all out of their system after a
period one space or two I I am a
classically trained typist and I say to
correct
who you illiterate Bostonians the man is
correct it's two spaces
what are you newspaper men trying to
save space in a column Amy Klobuchar
raised $17,000 from her ex boyfriends
you have 20 seconds to picture to pitch
your exes to vote for you what do you
say
[Applause]
let's just say I would raise much much
less than $17,000 in my experiment if
you arrive at a restaurant before
they're done serving breakfast but by
the time your or you order they've
stopped serving breakfast should burning
down the restaurant be against the law
that's a thought are they flexible in
their willingness to serve breakfast a
little bit of time then arson should be
allowed yes yes is Superman too powerful
a character oh yeah clearly Superman is
not relatable at all that's why I was
always a spider-man fan myself quick
test of the audience
you got a vote I'm gonna say three
superheroes Superman Batman or
spider-man Superman spider-man Batman
[Applause]
that's correct
final question final question should it
be illegal to call the new Lion King
King movie live-action yeah very much so
that's hot live-action how can it be
like it's a there are as far as I can
tell it's a bunch of CG like fake
science like running around the computer
lines as a parent I refuse to let my
children watch that sort of me he got in
one as a parent guys give it up for
Andrew yang
you
