welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm Jon Lovitz ami Vitor Dan's
on vacation this week so we got the
Monday crew here today and later in the
pod you'll hear Lovitz conversation with
the New Yorkers Isaac Choate nur who's
recently conducted some of the best
interviews with Trump staffers that I've
read we've also got a lot of news to
talk about today from Trump's attack on
America's intelligence officials to the
twenty20 debate over issues like
Medicare for all and the wealth tax
before that for that quick reminder
we're headed out on tour next week it is
next week guys I got a pack laundry
there's still a few tickets left if you
want to come to our shows in Charleston
New Orleans in Durham next week they're
going fast but you can snap up a few you
can get those tickets get those tickets
you're also gonna want to get your
tickets now for our April show in Boston
and our May shows in New York and DC
because those are going fast
don't wait April's gonna be here before
you know it and then you know we're
gonna be in Boston the whole stage will
be covered in Dunkin Donuts there'll be
no Starbucks people like Howie Schultz I
don't think the Starbucks Starbucks
boycotts are gonna do much ok let's get
to the news America's highest-ranking
intelligence officials released an
annual worldwide threat assessment this
week that basically called on
Donald Trump's entire foreign policy
including his claims that the United
States has defeated Isis that climate
change isn't real that there's no longer
at nuclear threat from North Korea that
Iran is violating the terms of the
nuclear agreement and that Russia isn't
meddling in our elections the president
took this in stride responding on
Twitter quote the intelligence people
seem to be extremely passive and naive
when it comes to the dangers of Iran
perhaps intelligence should go back to
school oh man did he bite like a
comeback book or get that the jerk store
called
go back to school unbelievable what a
 so let's let's just a point out
the last time he was in school he was uh
waiting to take his father's loans while
hitting on Candice Bergen that's how he
went to school very specific Tommy yeah
what is the worldwide threat assessment
and how an
usual is it for the Intel community to
completely contradict the president
states like that it is rather unusual I
mean so every once a year the head of
the intelligence the heads of the
intelligence community issue an
unclassified report to Congress that
basically ranks like all the major
threats United States faces around the
world and it's really the only chance
the public gets to hear from them about
these issues in an unclassified setting
there's a classified annex to it that
goes around to select individuals and
they get classified briefings in
addition to this but you know it's a
real chance of like level-set
administration statements first the
intelligence community assessment so
when I was in the White House Rhodes and
I talked about this yesterday on pod
save-the-world a great show you should
check out check it out we we talked
about the fact that this these hearings
used to make like my life in
particularly living hell because I would
worry that statements that have been
made by Obama or spokes beet Minh people
would be contradicted by updated
intelligence community assessments so we
took it very seriously and if they said
something differently the Intel guys
than we did the White House we would
correct what we were saying to match
what they thought now every president
has the right to disagree with the
intelligence community assessment that
is fine but Trump there's no rhyme or
reason to it you know he's not saying
like you're you're too cautious or
you're too hawkish he's saying you
agree with me so we're like a feature
than a bug yeah I mean imagine you're a
CIA analyst or a case officer and you
dedicate your life to some very specific
issue like Iran's centrifuges program
and you wake up one morning and the
president knighted States called you an
idiot because you don't he doesn't agree
with what you said and he sides with
like Fox and Friends or Jesse
Watters yeah it's interesting I mean one
of the biggest scandals in the last say
I don't know hundred years is the
efforts of Dick Cheney in the Bush
administration to manipulate
intelligence justify case for Iraq but
it was it's worth remembering that they
felt it necessary to do that under the
assumption that it must come through the
intelligence community they have to go
to the Defense Department and get into
the actual information right so that the
information could be cooked before it
becomes public because the assumption
was it was
unacceptable for the administration to
just disregard the intelligence me truck
like what are you doing all that extra
work for ya no one cares what those
goobers are saying in front of Congress
that's a story in your time may I have
my Twitter feed yeah I will tell you
what it's true don't need information
you do work hard fall inside you need to
find acolytes inside the direct
Intelligence Agency don't you any of
that don't say they're wrong based on
 not love it you're right I mean
the Bush administration set up specific
intelligence components in the Defense
Department and working groups in the
White House to cherry-pick and
manipulate and then release to the press
this kind of intelligence Trump just
like nap North Korea you're wrong it's
like oh you have a fancy report and
testimony to Congress you know what I
have Sean Hannity it's just I
got this noggin got me this for your
feed and I got a whole network that's
gonna back up whatever I say I'm the
smartest person I've talked to you today
just it's I can't imagine how
demoralizing this is to work in these
agencies I mean I guess like he did
start in 2017 by comparing them all the
Nazis so you know get off on the right
foot but so tell me what did you find
notable in the assessment because
reading through that New York Times
story I was fairly terrified
partly because if you listen to Donald
Trump or any of the coverage about
Donald Trump and politics and and you're
not a careful listener of POD save the
world I mean anything above 1.7 speed
and you are not a kid yeah walk it back
you would think that the only national
security threat to our country is a
couple caravans coming over the southern
border which by the way was completely
absent so what did you find notable so
on North Korea they said they assessed
North Korea will seek to retain its WME
capability and is unlikely to give up
its nuclear weapons and production's
capability
additionally Jena Haspel the CIA
director said North Korea is committed
to developing a long-range nuclear-armed
missile that would pose a direct threat
to the United States so that is not good
that's what the threat has been all
along
remember the Trump tweeted there's no
longer a threat from North Korea so
problem has not solved Iran is
particularly stark they said basically
Iran is still complying with the Iran
deal Trump called them passive not even
wrong when it comes to Iran they
disagree on
they disagree on Isis Trump keeps saying
Isis has defeated dan coates the DNI
said Isis still commands thousands of
fighters in Iraq and Syria one really
interesting one is climate change yeah
they said that climate change is now a
global and u.s. national security risk
because of irreversible damage that's
the intelligence community saying that
Trump thinks climate change is not real
because it's cold in Chicago
so yeah it's like it's his entire
worldview like it's not Trump fighting
the Intel community as much as fighting
reality yeah it's really interesting
this site that Trump has done this thing
almost you know partially by accident
partially on purpose where his positions
that the intelligent community disputing
his positions both makes him both a
normal Republican and abnormal in the
sense that in part he cares what the
intelligence community says about North
Korea and Iran because it avoids psychic
injury in contradicting him publicly
when in actuality we had a Republican
president we'd be seeing the exact same
dispute play out over Iran says yes but
it would just be done in a more
intellectually semi-serious or given the
appearance of seriousness yeah it would
be much harder to continue with this
stupid policy they have I mean look
around not good they are
arming the Houthi rebels in Yemen
they're arming Hezbollah other terrorist
groups they do all kinds of terrible
destabilizing activities but regarding
their nuclear program like the IC
assessment is what it is and that is
like the core existential threat for
Israel for US interests that's the thing
we should be focusing on it's a reason
we had the Iran deal and he just walked
away from it can I make one point just a
little hobbyhorse thing real quick the
same Republicans when Susan Rice
misstated intelligence on Benghazi when
she said actually no Susan Rice didn't
even miss state intelligence on Benghazi
she repeated old intelligence that
hadn't been updated for her about
Benghazi Lindsey Graham Marco Rubio Tom
cotton acted like she should go to jail
those guys are silent silent
biggest fake scandals in the Obama
administration because of a of a
disagreement over the reading of
intelligence they ranked cyberattacks as
the top threat we face particularly
cyberattacks from Russia and China which
it said were now quote more aligned than
at any point since
the mid-1950s talked about Russia having
the capacity to try to bring down our
electric grids during a crisis
that's pretty scary then like we
tend to think of Trump ignoring Russia's
meddling as all about the election and
his victory and all that but
you know Russia's going it seems like
Russia wants the capability to go beyond
just interfering with our elections and
actually launching cyberattacks that
interfere with our infrastructure yeah
they said they're mapping out critical
infrastructure so I mean look I think
most people think the first shot in the
next major war will be some sort of
cyber attack to take down air defenses
that's what the Russians did in Ukraine
it is assumed that that's what we did in
Libya you start with some sort of cyber
capability to take their defenses
offline and then you know the kinetic
fighting comes next
you get scary I mean you can it's funny
it's just I think there's this debate
about you know how to take these things
seriously on the one hand we know we're
underprepared on the other hand there's
you you know people spin out speculative
possibilities right Oh Russia shuts down
the election greater election day what
have you and I I just the thing I always
come back to is you don't need to you
you don't need to discount crazy
scenarios to just recognize that we are
doing not we are we are not doing nearly
enough totally to insulate ourselves
from these kinds of attacks it is not
important to people is not important to
a lot of people in it's not central to
our conversation and it is not central
to the expertise and people in charge of
our security to worry about cyber
security they are all there a lot of
them are older yeah and a lot of them
don't understand these issues and a lot
of them don't know how to make it
central to how we operate not the thing
they think about last but the thing they
think about in the planning and
execution of how we defend ourselves
yeah I mean with where John started this
thing is an important point I mean there
is a real massive growing threat in
terms of our vulnerability to a
cyberattack there is not a real growing
threat from people jumping over a
non-existent fence and running through a
desert
yeah across the border it's just you
know we're focused on the wrong so
where does what's happening in Venezuela
fit into all this because that seems
like it is not quite the non-existent
threat of people jump
over our border but is it the biggest
threat that we face right now and yet it
seems like the Trump administration is
very focused on well I mean find Donald
Trump I look at that as well and I think
that could be the greatest migration
crisis imaginable because well let start
the beginning so Hugo Chavez dies in
2013 nicolas maduro takes over Chavez
had a lot of charisma a lot of oil money
he was beloved Maduro had none of that
he's a idiot he's not good at
managing the country and unfortunately
for him the global oil markets collapsed
in 2013 right so they're basically a
socialist Petro State propped up by oil
money and when that money goes away
they're and so it has gotten dire
like people go to hospitals and there's
not you know there's no cotton balls
there's no saline drip there's nothing
there's no food on shelves I mean people
are like picking through lining up to
pick through trash it is a humanitarian
catastrophe so despite all that Maduro
runs again for president in 2018 and he
gets reelected by basically banning to
opposition most of the popular
opposition figures from running against
him so it's a totally legitimate
election so what happened a week ago is
a guy named Juan Guido who was the
leader of Venezuela as legislators sort
of declares himself the president
because under the Venezuelan
Constitution if the president is
illegitimate the the leader of the
Assembly rises to the presidency so the
US had been talking with him about this
plan and when he announced the White
House immediately recognized him as the
president and to their credit like they
did a great job coordinating regional
allies and they got Europeans and folks
in the region to go along and also
recognized him at the same time so
basically now there's two presidents in
Venezuela and now they fight it out like
now things get dicey because we've we've
we've rolled out this huge measure to
recognize a new president and the
question is will he be able to actually
take power because Maduro still controls
the military and they're pulling a lot
of the strings here so they've taken a
whole bunch of other steps to pressure
Venezuela
they're cutting off there they're
sanctioning their global their state-run
oil company which is like the only way
they get money right because all the oil
they sell the Russians and the Chinese
is basically servicing all debt
40% of oil goes to us that's how they
get dollars so you know the state could
collapse and it's the size of Texas
there's 32 million people who live there
millions are going into neighboring
countries already you know it's like
completely destabilizing the whole
region and so it's right to focus on
this humanitarian situation it's right
to focus on the potential impacts of a
migration of that scale but john bolton
going to a press briefing with 5,000
colombia written on a piece of paper is
a weird way to go about it what does
that mean what what did you like is
there a scenario where we send 5,000
troops to Colombia and then what do they
do what what's that Ben and I were
trying to figure this out yesterday I
have no idea I mean again it's a huge
country I don't know why you would
either you're so stupid that you didn't
know you'd written that on the on the
piece of paper or you did that to send a
message another message they sent was
they named a guy named Elliott Abrams to
be the special envoy to to Venezuela so
the US has if we have a fraught history
in Latin America generally we've
sponsored coos we around in their
politics like all kinds of awful things
Elliott Abrams in addition to being one
of the Iraq war architects he was
charged in iran-contra where we will be
funded right-wing terrorist groups so
you know he's a he's a terrible human
being to put in charge of this effort
given that history great great people
working in the administration right now
so the New York Times were in sort of a
follow-up piece on Wednesday about how
Republicans in Congress are also
disagreeing more and more with Trump's
foreign policy in addition to the Intel
community on trade on NATO on Russia
there was even Mitch McConnell's
decision to introduce a measure
denouncing a precipitous withdrawal of
troops from Syria and Afghanistan is
this a good sign are they right I mean
it's it's certainly interesting I mean
first of all the fact that it comes from
Mitch McConnell you know he introduced a
measure denouncing the precipitous
withdrawal of US troops from Syria and
Afghanistan and that advanced 76 to 22
and I was part of a bigger bill but like
that's a major rebuke of the President
and there been a couple other instances
of Republicans voting to bar him from
pulling out of NATO I mean like you
shouldn't have to introduce that
resolution that should be a no-brainer
but um you know I like do I agree with
them are they right I mean I think on
Afghanistan we should get out of
Afghanistan yesterday and I think that
you know we went there
take out al-qaeda to deny them a safe
haven we've accomplished a lot of that
mission we trained up a pretty big armed
forces there they're not great edits but
they have a pretty big Afghan security
forces it's like it's been 17 years it's
time to go
I think Syria is a little more
complicated you know we've taken all
this territory back from Isis we've been
fighting with the Kurds who if we just
abandon are likely to get attacked by
Isis and by the Turks and just
slaughtered so I don't think we should
just immediately pull out we have to
have a grace period where we figure out
a way to protect them because they've
been fighting alongside us so I these
are very hard questions yeah I would
ultimately like to see us get the troops
the out of both places but it
doesn't have to be instantly in Syria
just one more question before we move on
to 2020 and it's a 2020 question when I
read this sort of the story about the
threat reports and all this you know my
first thought was it's weird that this
has not been an issue none of these
issues
none of these foreign policy issues have
really been central to the Democratic
primary
yeah that's far do you think do you
think that workers are talking enough
about these like how do you think their
pension I know you guys even been talked
about Elizabeth Warren's foreign policy
speech which might be one of the only
big ones that I've heard from a
candidate so far yeah I mean credit to
her for going first because you always
get shot at I mean I think she's been
pretty clear about getting US troops out
of Afghanistan now I think that will be
a consensus position I think going every
single Democrat in the primary her
speech was more about trade and economic
inequality and the economic drivers of
foreign policy problems right which I
think it's smart but it does leave out
some big problems like nukes and
proliferate you know actually nukes was
part of her bill but like Iran Israel I
think where you'll see some debate is
place the issues like us support for
Israel and what that should look like
should that be changed you know because
there's the the folks in in the in the
house now support the BDS movement which
I don't think will gain much traction
but there's space between Trump and VDS
that could be occupied so that could be
the debate I will say from a messaging
standpoint you know one of the lines
from Dan coats our DNI director he said
that China and Russia are more aligned
now and they're trying to quote take
advantage of rising doubts in some
places
what the Liberal Democratic model I do
you think part of as Democratic
candidates talk about Trump and Russia
it's not just it's not just about the
investigation it's not just about the
crimes it's the fact that the whole
Trump presidency and what we're seeing
all over the world with the rise of
right-wing populist or left-wing
populist in the case of Maduro is a
challenge to the Liberal Democratic
order and it's a challenge to the United
States leading the Liberal Democratic
order and it seems like a Democratic
candidate standing up on behalf of the
Liberal Democratic order of ending it
defending the values of that would be
something that you know the American
people would like to hear and there also
be important for them to say yeah I
think it's I think that's right I mean
you guys you and Ben talked about this
as it relates to Venezuela that here
comes as administration trying to claim
that they're defending the the rights of
people when they've been kowtow to Saudi
Arabia Russia the Philippines cetera et
cetera so I think one of the problems in
one of the reasons that this hasn't been
a big part of the democratic debate is
to John's boy I think there really isn't
it really hasn't been a great
articulation of what Democratic
philosophy is on the world stage you can
go issue by issue we should remove
troops from from Afghanistan we should
not be we should have a more nuanced
approach to places like Venezuela but
then you step back and it's it really
does feel like there's this need for a
conversation about what a democratic
foreign policy is once you make it
something other than what it has been
for a very long time been which is
defined against the kind of bellicosity
and war mongering
of Republicans I think Obama faced that
challenge you how do you how do you
unwind those kinds of wars and
articulate a better vision in the face
of so many long-simmering
global problems created by previous
American mistakes and I think the truth
is yeah I think John is just articulated
one way of kind of putting those things
together but so far very few have even
tried yeah I mean there's some basic
low-hanging fruit about standing with
allies and standing up for alliances and
strengthening alliances and not standing
with Russia
to the detriment of NATO and constantly
questioning article 5 which is the the
the provision that says an attack on one
member of a NATO is an Tek on all it's
the core
the Alliance every year we go through
this stupid song and dance where they
refuse to stand up for a specific
country like Montenegro like would you
defend Montenegro and like well we'd
take case by case that's not how the
treaty works so all of that sends a
message to the world that we're walking
away from them and I think Americans
want us to be respected and allied with
with you know friends in Europe for
example and that would be a winning
message against Trump if if people
really want to hear it if they care
there's has been an action-forcing event
in the world that's true many people
care about foreign policy that's right
all right let's talk more about 2020
because this week we saw our first big
policy debate of the presidential
campaign unfold over Medicare for all a
policy embraced by just about every
Democratic presidential candidate who's
announced thus far during a CNN Town
Hall when Jake Tapper asked Kamala
Harris what Medicare for all would mean
for private insurance and how it would
mean potentially getting rid of the
insurance industry she talked about the
bad parts of the insurance industry and
said yes let's eliminate all of that
let's move on for this she was attacked
by Republicans by Mike Bloomberg who
said that Medicare for all would
bankrupt us by Howard Schultz who said
it was on American her campaign then
said that while Bernie Sanders Medicare
for all bill is comella preferred plan
she's also open to other health care
plans that she's signed on to in the
Senate like one where any individual or
business can buy into Medicare and an
affordable rate but where private
insurance still exists for this she got
attacked by a lot of lefties including a
former Bernie Sanders staffer who said
that Camila's openness to a Medicare by
an option means she's okay with people
dying for being too poor that seems
extreme so guys the the 20/20 health
care debate is lit what did you make of
what did you make of these exchanges
over over commas line at the town hall
also love it did Howard Schultz write
you back yet no I have not gotten any
response from Howard Schultz I would
like him to get me in its correspondence
I'm owed a response you know I was
catching up on all of it and it's this
um it's so frustrating it's such a
frustrating debate so first of either
there's because there's so many
different ways people are disagreeing at
once so I think that it you have to
break this down piece by piece so first
of all I
you have to take this the Mike Bloomberg
argument it will bankrupt I sort of
start with that 30,000 foot
medicare-for-all so first I think it's
worth saying that Michael Bloomberg
deserves credit I don't agree with
Michael bloomer I think he's too
conservative on economic issues I don't
think he represents where the country is
or where the Democratic Party is but in
in fairness to him he has been
approaching this in a much more I think
fair and forthright way than Howard
Schultz because he's he's basically
saying this is what I believe if I I'm
deciding whether or not I'm going to go
into a Democratic primary to express to
express it or if I'll stay on the
outside and try to help from the outside
but in the meantime I'm going to get
into this argument and make my case and
I respect that
the thing that's very frustrating when
someone says that Medicare for all will
bankrupt us it is is it a lied something
very important which is at the end of
the day America pays one health care
bill together
we divide it up we do it through private
insurance through taxes through
hospitals eating some costs through
individuals paying a lot of money
through the way bankruptcy ripples
through the economy there's a lot of
ways we pay for health care but at the
end of the day if we were to switch from
a private system to a public system as a
society we'd be paying less for health
care because Medicare costs less than
private insurance and so if you think
about it that way to say that Medicare
for all will bankrupt us is another way
of saying America cannot afford to
insure everybody and that is total
 that's the first thing Paul
just to add to that and I'll shut up
Paul Waldman for the Washington Post
wrote a piece where you keep seeing this
figure of the cost being thirty two
point six trillion dollars over ten
years is the cost for Medicare for all
but the current system were projected to
spend fifty trillion over the next
decade in every country that has
universal health care spends less than
US per capita so that seems like
important context that the media might
want to fold into the coverage so I
think Bloomberg's comment was wrong and
it was careless and it was not well
thought out I mean this is the problem
with debating health care is you do have
to be very exact right there is a
financing issue with Medicare for all
and just about every state that's tried
at other countries that have tried to
move to a single-payer system where they
get caught up is once they try to figure
out okay
whose taxes are we gonna raise and how
by how much to finance this because what
happens is right now everyone's paying
premiums they're paying co-pays they're
paying deductibles they're paying
out-of-pocket they're paying for their
prescription drugs so they're paying all
this money in a single-payer system
you're not paying premiums you know our
paying co-pays you're not paying
deductibles but your taxes are likely
higher right it's raising money on the
rich of these wealth taxes that we're
gonna talk about it's kinda stuff that's
not gonna finance Medicare for all so
there's gonna be some kind of taxes so
what you have to think about is how do
you prepare people especially because
some people by the way right now they're
employers are paying for a lot of their
health care so even though the
individuals are paying for health care
they don't see it because it's the
employer paying it so suddenly when the
employer stops paying for it and it
comes out of your tax bill it's it's
about helping people figure out it's
going to be the same cost because we're
shifting the cost to taxes from premiums
co-pays and deductibles but that's still
a political issue in that average people
have to know what that changes yeah I
think that's right it's also worth
remembering that that right now if you
are an individual who is buying
insurance yourself but make over a
certain amount of money you don't
receive as much of a subsidy to get
health care right as say the biggest
corporations the United States was all
receive a subsidy intact a tax break for
employment insuring their people so that
is the first thing this kind of
conversation about cost there's two
others
the second is smaller but really
important which is if the whole debate
about how we insure everybody turns on
do we do a buy-in do we do Medicare for
all is their private insurance is there
are there private plans are there not
private plans you actually skip a really
important part of the debate which is
it's not just about it's not just about
what you as a health care consumer get
as a benefit it's also what we're gonna
do as a country to lower health care
costs and attack some of the
anti-competitive anti-consumer practices
of pharmaceutical companies of hospitals
that happen in not just in other
countries but in how Medicare manages
cost how the Veterans Affairs
administration manages cost so we miss
this really big piece of this which is
how we make the system work better no
matter where you get your insurance and
then just the third piece of this I
think as Democrats it will be a mistake
if we spend the next year-and-a-half
debating whether or not there will be
private insurance at the end of this
that is an important question but it's
not the only question and I think one
thing and and and and so to me I would
like to start from a place of saying we
want everybody to have health insurance
okay I think that if we're talking about
a system where everyone can get Medicare
and they're still private health care or
there's some kind of transition window
where people in private insurance are
then given the option for Medicare or in
the in the for in the more kind of the
boldest plans where there's a transition
window where private insurances is one
down this is an important debate to have
but it's we shouldn't we shouldn't lose
sight of the fact that the most
important debate is making sure that
everybody in the country has access to
health care and access to a public plan
that is absolutely true I think the the
transition is everything here and I
think it is it is a good public debate
to have and it's a good and people are
not educated about those people do not
know what this means right so like in in
in Bernie's bill which is the bill that
Camilla has signed on to Gillibrand to
signed on to Booker Warren beto endorsed
it during his race in that bill it's a
four year window
so in four years the entire country
transitions from private insurance to
one government-run plan okay and you get
four years to do that but at the end
there is no more private insurance and
that is a thing and we should just be
clear that that is not a popular
position getting rid of inch private
insurance like seventy percent of people
in a Kaiser poll think that their
coverage is good or excellent and when
they they ask people if you support
Medicare for all fifty six percent were
in favor 42 percent opposed when you
told them it would eliminate private
health insurance companies it jumped to
58 percent opposed so there's a lot of
7% approve approved yeah yeah so like
there's a lot of scary polling data
about how Republicans can and will
message this backed by hundreds of
millions of dollars from the insurance
and look and I will say about that too
we have said a million times do not base
your policy on what the Republicans are
gonna say because even if you pray even
if you propose I want ten more people to
have health insurance they will call it
a government takeover and run the same
ad that they're gonna run if you propose
medic for don't worry about the
Republicans do worry about how ordinary
people voters people in the country
are gonna respond to your plans because
look we have all been through this with
if you like your plan you can keep your
plan and let's remember the genesis of
that Barack Obama was gonna set a bunch
of standards that every insurance plan
had to cover a certain amount of
benefits and a certain amount of
services and a lot of insurance plans
didn't do that they were junk insurance
and so the idea was every insurance plan
is gonna get upgraded because now they
have to cover all these good benefits
and services and so then someone said
well what about all the people who like
their insurance plans and we said you
know what
a lot of people do like their insurance
and so we're gonna grandfather in all
the people who like their insurance
plans and let them keep that so then we
said then we pass the bill and then as
it started getting implemented Health
and Human Services said you know what
there's a lot of insurance companies
that aren't gonna sell these junk
insurance plans anymore now that they're
gonna have to sell these these good new
Obama plans that have all these benefits
and even these grandfather than
insurance plans eventually people are
gonna have to let them go so people
start getting notices that say by the
way your insurance is cancelled now the
truth is they're gonna get every single
person who got one of those cancellation
notices got a better insurance plan they
got an insurance plan they had more
benefits and more services but the
freaked out that it caused and not just
from Republicans from real people who
got notices in the mail saying their
insurance canceled was severe yeah and
if you're gonna do that on a national
level we have to be prepared to let
people know what's gonna happen yeah you
know look I have family members who got
those notices and you know I don't think
they would describe their plans they had
at the time as junk
they just didn't include like maternity
care right because they were over an age
where it was necessary anymore so but it
all just speaks to the fact that this is
really personal
fraud politics yeah and it's worth
remembering that so there was a few
things that contribute to those letters
one of which is that the insurance
companies took an opportunity to to
change plans adjust their risk pools and
by the way those insurance companies
this is an excellent existential threat
to them all right and they are going to
respond in kind so the fight is going to
be enormous one thing I'd say just that
runs counter to those polling to that
polling on people's fears of Medicare
for all is one of the realities is
people are afraid of losing their
current insurance because they are well
aware that the current system will rip
you to shreds
yeah if you're not careful because it
will so they're right and so so one of
the arguments said one of the reasons
people might be worried about what
happens in this transition is because
they are terrified of the current system
another argument for medicare-for-all
but I think we sometimes combine the
policy question and the political
question I think the political question
is incredibly hard and actually worth
considering insofar as ultimately this
will be about persuasion and passing
something but it's also worth I think
pausing and saying this is also a policy
question and being in favor of
maintaining private insurance say for
big companies there's a debate as to
whether or not if you work at you know
some small businesses might have in a
Medicare buying system might have access
to Medicare for all whatever the system
it is a genuine policy question as to
whether or not it might be a better
outcome given how complicated this
system already is to say all right if
you haven't sure if you have insurance
through an employer that will remain in
place but if you don't you get access to
Medicare or you can or you to another
system where if you will get insurance
through your employer you can choose do
you want Medicare do you want to stay
with your employer all of these have a
more kind of Medicare access for also
just Medicare for all so that so Kaiser
also pulled this 74% favor creating a
national government administrator to
help ministered health care plan similar
to Medicare that'll also allows people
to keep the coverage they have if they
prefer this is basically the plan that
the Center for American Progress came
out with which basically says okay we're
going to enroll all newborns all people
over 55 or something like that and
anyone who's uninsured in Medicare that
starts so everyone gets Medicare who
doesn't have insurance and all newborns
do and that's so we're moving towards
that system but we're also saying to
companies and individuals if you want to
get into Medicare too you also have the
option to get into Medicare everyone has
the option to get in Medicare but if
you're a company or an individual and
you like your private health insurance
you can keep that for now knowing that
eventually the bargaining power of
Medicare and the fact that Medicare is
going to deliver better services at
lower prices to people is going to
compete with healthcare with private
insurance the private insurance industry
and eventually squeeze the head of the
shirt insurance industry I like to death
may may may be and it's just it now the
downside everything's a trade-off the
downside is it's a longer transition
away from private insurance and so you
know there's some things that will still
fall through the cracks but is it more
politically doable is it make people
feel better about the transition
who knows that's a good debate to have
and I think we should have people on all
sides of that debate yes and I think
it's just to me there are legitimate
policy arguments in favor of a an act of
Medicare acts as approach as opposed to
a medicare-for-all approach that is not
ideological in the sense that it doesn't
make you less liberal and it doesn't MIT
doesn't make you less progressive to
view it as a positive outcome because
again we are all gonna end up paying for
health care the goal the ultimate goal
here is not a process one it does it is
not but you know they're a private
health care plan versus a Medicare plan
if you have good insurance that you can
afford that protects you when you need
it most that gives you the option to get
the preventative care that you need
without bankrupt you and your family
that makes you feel safe and protected
that is the goal as a country our goal
is to pay for everyone's health care in
a way that doesn't eat up a greater and
greater share of our gross domestic
product that is the ultimate goal the
debate about policy the debate about
process is a really really important one
but it should not be always reduced to
this ideological question as to whether
or not you're going along with Bernie or
if you're part of the neoliberals it
just isn't it is more complicated and a
more nuanced than that that's all yeah I
think we all give that I mean I just but
like in the day to day fight or sort of
influencing these voters I think that
we're also gonna be fighting up against
general mistrust of government the
healthcare gov relaid debacle does not
help right we can say like Republicans
have been attacking government for
decades of reducing confidence of
government and that is a huge part of
the problem but they also have a recent
data point that would make you wonder if
you want to fully transition to a
government-run program so it's just I
just don't think the party really has
wrestled with how risky the politics of
Medicare for all will be in a general
life I totally agree and I think I mean
what was interesting to me was not just
commas answer but sort of the response
of her team to this right which which
basically they said no no no no she
definitely is still for eliminating
private insurance and the Bernie plan
and she did sponsor those other plans
and they're fine like it would it's they
seem to be more worried
about the attack from the left on that
than they were about just saying which
Elizabeth Warren was asked this question
yeah and Elizabeth Warren just said
simply I see many paths for achieving
the goal of universal coverage we know
where we're aiming and that is every
American has a health care at a price
they can afford and then she talks about
signing on to multiple bills to me now
she didn't get a text when left on that
because in some ways Elizabeth Warren
has more credibility from for the left
but like that to me is the easiest way
to deal with this for all the candidates
like look we know what the goal is the
goal is guaranteed health care that's
truly affordable for every single person
in this country none of this
with insurance industries know this
 with high deductible plans
none of this we know what the goal is
there are many ways to get there and
once we get once I become president we
will figure out those ways to get that
yeah I think that's right also one thing
just worth remembering there is still
private insurance even for seniors on
Medicare right right now there are
supplemental plans and so so it's all we
learned this and over years of dealing
with this policy it is so complicated it
is so hard and the details really really
matter so that was the debate about
health care there was also debate about
taxes Howard Schultz also saw saw to it
this week that he would attack Elizabeth
Warren's tax plan in an interview with
NPR Steve Inskeep Shultz said that
Warren's plan to increase taxes for the
very wealthiest Americans was ridiculous
that the idea was designed to grab
headlines and that she knows for a fact
it's never going to be passed he said in
another interview that Alexandria Ocasio
Cortes recent comments about raising
marginal tax rates for the wealthiest
Americans were a bit miss or informed
and punitive so like how much we
healthcare is very complicated Medicare
for all is very complicated I would
argue that proposals to raise taxes on
the wealthy are a bit less complicated
certainly from a political angle there
are policy implications they are making
sure you figure out what's legal what's
doable and stuff like that but raising
taxes on the rich seems a little simpler
to me what do you guys think it's not
remotely complicated right like everyone
went crazy when when aoc mentioned a
potential 70% tax rate for people making
over ten billion dollars a year and it
was seen as like 'hey we're gonna enter
political career and
turns out it's pretty popular so a a
with Republicans dude like an
out-of-touch billionaire saying that he
doesn't like a plan that would raise
taxes on him is not a good candidate
that's the funny thing is getting lost
in my poll Howard she'll sing is if he
ran as a Republican if he ran as a
Democrat if he ran as an independent
he's a shitty candidate he is not
delivering a good message he's kind of
embarrassing himself day after day while
savaging democrats as he claims that he
wants to defeat Donald Trump he's doing
real damage to the our chances of
defeating Donald Trump I mean how many
times have we said the person who has no
constituency no real constituency for
their policy platform is Paul Ryan in
his gay marriages because the one thing
that trumps base and Hillary's base
agreed on in 2016 was that they were
pretty sick of rich people getting away
with Trump's base just listen to
lies from Donald Trump's but he was
going to give everyone health care that
he was gonna raise taxes on hedge fund
managers all this
Trump had a economically populist
platform in rhetoric even though it was
complete and he did something
that other Republicans weren't able to
do and then Hillary's base all was
populist as well so the people who are
populist are the Paul Ryan's and the
Howard Schultz's and all those people
they don't have a real constituency in
this Howard Schultz has been running
around saying I'd have to say things in
the Democratic primary I don't believe
like the fact that we need to raise
taxes on the rich because there's and
but don't worry there's this silent
majority of people who agree with me and
and oh these outlandish Democrats
calling for these far-left policies as
it's these higher taxes are not just
popular it's popular in every UW United
people in opposition to your policy one
other thing on our on our on our friend
Howie Schultz what are you for
you you you are you are a billionaire
you can buy any white papers that you
want you're doing a a giant media tour
and so far all I know about you is what
you're against and you're against a few
democratic positions you're against
Medicare for all but what if what do you
want to do on health care no idea you're
against raising taxes on the rich what
are you for I have absolutely no idea
so again and again you have this guy out
there and he's claiming he represents
some positive vision about needing to
bring the country together
he is not for anything know so
far the the guy who wants to bring
everyone together and partisanship and
division is just calling policies and
people that that don't agree with him on
America that's basically he's cut so far
look I don't think high-minded there is
a Howard Howard Schultz's candidacy is a
threat because in a close race even one
to two percent of the vote could tip it
right that's why it's a threat but there
is a version of a third-party candidacy
that is far more threatening to
Democrats then Howard Schultz's
candidacy because like I said the
constituency for someone who's socially
liberal and fiscally conservative is not
a large consulting this comes when you
travel at a hermetically-sealed bubble
from boardroom to private jet to Davos
to the set of Morning Joe to back to a
boardroom you don't hear from real
people who might let you know that oh
actually your policies are not
supported by anybody yeah and look it's
it's it sucks they he could be a third
party candidate but I can tell you
there's probably a lot of Democrats
would be happy to get on stage with
Howard Schultz and Donald Trump and be
like yeah these two billionaires over
here are the most out of ten people who
don't care about you because that by the
way that also makes this a debate about
economics in the economy which is the
debate that Democrats are going to want
to have anyway later in the pot love is
conversation with New Yorkers Isaac
Shatner
you
