senator bernie sanders thank you for
being here my pleasure I want to start
with the version of a question that we
ask all the candidates who come through
you spend a lot of time talking about
how real change doesn't happen because
of any one candidate or leader but
because of a movement which I completely
agree with why are you the candidate
who's best equipped to lead such a
movement at this particular moment in
history because I think John that's what
we've been doing for a number of years
just as an example right now we have two
million people who have two million
individual contributors to our campaign
that's I think an all-time world's
record to be honest with you
and what we have done is establish a
grassroots movement all over this
country now after I ended my campaign
last I mean after the 2016 election I
did something a little bit different
than what other candidates who lose do
what I helped do is start an
organization called our revolution and
that the function of that organization
was precisely to build a strong
grassroots movement of young people
working people in people of color and in
many ways it has succeeded and in terms
of the 2016 election what I am most
proud of is the fact that we saw a
significant increase in young people's
political participation right and that's
something we have I'm not suggesting
that we did that alone a lot of groups
did it but that's something we've been
working on so I believe in grassroots
organizing we are about a political
revolution bringing millions of people
to stand up and fight for justice
I know you first became politically
active as a college student in Chicago
during the 60s when for you did thinking
and learning about politics turn into
activism and and why why did you say I
need to actually do something about but
let me back it up a little bit my
political consciousness was raised as a
kid and it was raised in two fundamental
ways number one I grew up in a
working-class family the son of a Polish
immigrant Polish Jew shame
we lived in a rain control deployment so
what I learned is a young person is what
lack of money does to a family yes I
grew up in a good household we were not
poor but we were struggling lower middle
class and all kinds of fights would take
place in my among my between my parents
because of the lack of money and that I
remember very distinctly and of course
that is a reality that impacts tens of
millions of families today and I've
never forgotten that
unlike Donald Trump I didn't get
$200,000 a year allowance I got 25 cents
a week yeah Oh second of all I'm Jewish
and as a kid I remember very very well
hearing from my parents about the
Holocaust and remember getting a phone
call that came in the middle of the
night which never happened in our
household from some cousin of my
father's I guess it was discovered in in
Europe at a displaced persons camp so if
you lose your your parents your father's
family to the Holocaust to a lunatic
named Hitler you become aware as I think
african-american families understand the
politics it's not something abstract
yeah it impacts where the Olivia died
whether you're treated with dignity or
not those are the two factors that
shaped I think my willingness to engage
in politics um I thought your speech on
democratic socialism made one of the
most compelling economic arguments I've
heard in the race I loved the inclusion
of FDR's second Bill of Rights
my question is FDR is a proud democratic
capitalist you're critiquing your
solutions are in rough agreement with
other progressive Democrats so what is
valuable or important to you about the
label good democratic socialism that
question uh and the answer is and into a
large degree what our campaign is about
it's not just fighting for Medicare for
all it's not just about raising the
minimum wage to a living wage it's not
just about combating climate change it's
not just about making public colleges
and universities tuition-free
what it is about and I think we are
unique and I
that's where the word Democratic
Socialist comes in is understanding that
we do not accomplish any of that
unless we have the courage to do what
has not been done and that is to stand
up to an incredibly powerful and wealthy
ruling class in this country whose greed
has wrecked havoc on the working class
of this country so I can sit here and
tell you John look I want to do this and
I want to do that you'll nod yeah that's
great Bernie but at the end of the day
this is what I will tell you and we have
to we have to we have to deal with this
and if you disagree with me tell me I'm
bettin black here but at the end of the
day why are we the only major country on
earth not to guarantee health care to
all people why do we have three people
in America owning more wealth than the
bottom half of America why are we a
country unlike many others that doesn't
guarantee our kids the ability to get a
higher education why do we allow the
fossil fuel industry to make billions a
year while they destroy the planet and
what's the answer to that the answer to
that is these guys have incredible power
and if you don't recognize the power
structure in America which I do and the
need to take them on frontally then a
lot of the other ideas don't really mean
a whole lot yeah I mean back when you
were mayor of Burlington you called
yourself just a plain old socialist you
argued for nationalizing industries like
you know energy industries and banking
but let me correct you'll know okay
that's not you know that's not when I
was mayor of Burlington I was elected in
81
before that I ran on a third-party
ticket which had some some of those
ideas okay that's not what I advocate
when I was a mayor in fact we got along
I wouldn't say we got along with the
business community but if you check my
record of my eight years of Burlington
the entire city did quite well I guess I
guess what I was asking is have your
views on socialism and your politics in
general changed over time how have they
changed over time or has it been the
same since not the same I think if you
don't change over the years something is
wrong right you're not learning anything
right if I said exactly what I said 40
years ago look this is what I think and
this is not radical and I don't want the
word democratic socialism you know to
get people upset or scared look
have you been to Scandinavia trouble me
okay so what do we have just take a look
at a country like say Norway all right
you have a baby in no way what do you
get you get if my memory is correct do
you either get 12 months off paid leave
or I think you got 1012 months off at 12
months off at 80 percent of you pay or
10 months off at all of your pay okay
you have excellent quality and
affordable child care you have a strong
and very good public college public
education system do you know much
college cost in in Finland or Denmark or
Sweden it's free it's free you've got a
medical school yeah now you could become
a lawyer it's free so is that really so
radical Germany public education is free
so when I talk about these ideas which
get people very nervous guess what they
are existing all over the world that's
not so scary
to say that we should not have three
individuals owning more wealth in the
bottom half of America we should not
have the top 49 the top 1% earning 49
percent of all income maybe just maybe
we want an economy and a government that
works for all and that means we end
I'm just come back to health care I know
what I discussed it in a minute yeah we
are the only major country on Earth that
doesn't guarantee health care to all
people I live 50 miles away from the
Canadian border you go into Canada you
have a heart transplant
do you know what you cost you when you
come out of the hospital nothing all
right
yeah so you and I have the common
experience of being part of campaigns
that took on Hillary Clinton what you
want I was what did that primary teach
you about yourself it's funny like yes
like us we learned obviously an enormous
amount and as you well know being part
of a presidential campaign being staff
for the candidate is an extraordinary
experience I come from a small state and
to be honest with you I mean during the
course of this campaign going all over
the country and meeting all kinds of
people diverse communities that I had
really never spent a whole lot of time
with was an it was a beautiful
experience and seeing so many beautiful
people especially a lot of young people
out there now you know people ask me
they say Bernie you do really well with
young people right that's what we do and
what was your brilliant plan what he
jotted you figure this thing out and the
answers zero plans we just did it and
what end how does the god and it turns
out you know that among the young people
and this is what I learned there is a
sense of idealism and I think it is fair
to say that the younger generation today
is probably the most progressive
generation young generation in the
history of the country anti racist and
homophobic anti-sexist etc and it also
these young people for the first time
may end up having a lowest standard of
living than their parents so what I
learned is there are a lot of beautiful
young people out they want to stand up
and they want to fight for justice there
are a lot of old people out there who
are hurting because they can't afford
their prescription drugs or their
housing or whatever it may be there's a
lot of pain out there and that's what we
recognized in this campaign what what's
between 2016 and 2020 through what was
your plan and what is your plan to grow
the movement that you began in 2016
because obviously you need to add more
people to win yes um well I think it's
it's a multi-pronged approach number one
I think for our campaign and frankly to
defeat Donald Trump what we have got to
do is grow the voter turnout yeah okay
the very good news for us is that two
out of three young people are
progressive the bad news is young people
don't vote at the kind of levels that
they should be voting that they're doing
better in 2018 was good right we got a
long way to go so I would say one of our
focuses is to do everything we can to
register young people and get them
involved in the political process number
two I believe we got to expand our base
a lot of people in african-american
communities did not come out to vote for
Hillary Clinton you know that Milwaukee
Detroit elsewhere and we got a creates
an agenda which speaks to the needs of
working-class people black and white and
Latino asian-american
and a Native American and we got to get
them engaged in the political process
this is my fear anybody who thinks that
Donald Trump you know the polls those a
poll came out I think today had me six
points out of trump yeah I don't think
that all that seriously Trump is a very
formidable opponent he lies all of the
time he will use the power of government
to help his campaign obviously this man
has no scruples at all and the
billionaire class will be behind him in
Atlanta endless amounts of money so what
we need is an energized population of
young people of working-class people of
people of color in order to be them we
need the largest voter turnout by far in
history
I think our campaign can do it the other
thing that we need to do and I think you
know people disagree with me on this but
I think there is a part of the Trump
constituency a part that can be won over
that is not racist or sexist the
homophobic or xenophobic and those are
people you know I mean correct me if I'm
wrong here that you have people out
there who voted for Obama not once but
twice right and then that are voting for
Donald Trump yeah all right because they
felt that the political establishment
had failed them all right they're
working two or three jobs going nowhere
right their kids can't afford to go to
college they can't afford health care
and they're saying hey what did you guys
do for me did you remember me you know I
live in the Midwest I'm not in Los
Angeles and I'm not in New York City
help me out I think we can appeal to
some of those people so this is my next
question I mean there was a study out of
Iowa after 2016 that said the most
significant factor in that state
flipping to Trump was not his economic
promises but his nativist appeals and
there's a bunch of other studies like
that you've probably seen them that
racial resentment was one of the main
factors in switchover do you buy that
and do you think that the Democratic
Party can win those kinds of voters back
with a progressive economic agenda even
if some of those voters have been
motivated in the past by racist or
nativist appeals the answer is yes and I
think they're not I understand what
you're saying and I do agree with that
those studies but they're not unrelated
in this sense okay if you are somebody
in Michigan in I
while Pennsylvania your job went to
China you're making 12 bucks an hour
your standard of living is lower maybe
then it was 20 years ago your kid is the
living in the house because your kid
can't go out and get a decent paying job
kid can't afford to go to college you
can't afford health care you're angry
and you're resentful and what Donald
Trump said and Trump may be crazy
he may be disgraceful and disgusting
she's not stupid and he said to those
people what's happening to you liked her
Democratic establishment has ignored you
I hear your pain and I'm gonna take on
everybody I'm the anti-establishment
candidate and he combined that with
saying let me tell you who you're
probably with the problem really is Riya
and then he goes into his divisiveness
and his racism and his Xenophon view so
I think that they are he's playing on
people's economic resentment and instead
of saying we're gonna take on Wall
Street and we're gonna take on the
insurance companies and the drug
companies who are ripping you off we're
gonna take on the undocumented people
that guy in California makes $10 an hour
picking strawberries that is your enemy
that little girl who goes to high school
who was undocumented we're gonna throw
her out of the country
those are your enemies yeah and that's
where I think the two become related do
you think that we can win those voters
back even with a lot of the positions
that you all in the primary have proudly
taken like can you win those voters back
by talking about decriminalizing border
crossings by talking about reparations
for slavery how do you feel about that
I'm not saying we could win them all
back right all right please let him yeah
all right but you don't need to win them
all back you don't need to the way we
win this election is grow the voter
turnout the basic Democratic base that
is the African American community the
Latino community the trade union
community the working-class community
that is still voting Democrat make sure
we get them out to vote we greatly
expand voter turnout among young people
and we get a part of the Trump base yeah
you do that you wear only win but you
win big and that you know as you know
what we're talking about is 15 or 16
States really you're not talking about
California yeah or New York uh and I
think if you look at states like
Michigan if you look at states like
Pennsylvania Wisconsin other states we
can win those states by doing just that
but here is my point I happen to think
that good policy ie policy that speaks
to the needs of the working class of
this country a working class that has
been decimated for the last 45 years and
they know they have been decimated and
our job is to make them understand that
Donald Trump is a liar and a fraud you
remember you know correct me if Armonia
this is a guy who campaigned upon giving
health care to everybody right well
that's pretty good I support that and
then he tried to throw thirty two
million people off the health care that
they had alright so I think we expose
Trump I'm not gonna tell you that we win
all of his voters I think we can win a
chunk of them expand the voter turnout
we win the election it seems pretty
clear that he's gonna make the general
election about race immigration white
identity politics I think so
and Hillary had this challenge in 2016
where Trump says something you know she
probably wants to talk about her
economic message he says something crazy
racist you've got to respond because
it's wrong not to respond and now the
new cycle is about Trump and without
Trump how do you do you pivot to an
economic message do you take on his
racism and xenophobia directly how do
you handle that I'm gonna hire you to
figure okay great you are dealing with a
guy you know I probably missed the major
news of the day because I haven't seen
his later tweet latest tweet do I have
anything so I don't know what is later
said and you're right and then the media
goes crazy and that's what you're forced
to respond to so look you cannot ignore
Donald Trump and his tweets in his lies
but if you become obsessed with them I
guarantee you will lose the election
yeah I don't intend to do that okay all
right so what we've got to do and here's
what I want to get back to because this
is the key point there are tens of
millions of people who are hurting very
badly as we speak even in a so-called
good economy where unemployment is
relatively low
you got half this country living
paycheck to paycheck and the Democratic
leadership for too damn long has ignored
that reality
okay I believe that in 2016
I've said it before and I'll say it
again it wasn't that Trump won the
election it was the Democrats who lost
the election you cannot turn your back
upon people who are struggling every day
in terms of low wages lack of health
care inability to send their kids to
college people who are in debt because
they come down with cancer you cannot
ignore those people they are America and
there's important as anybody else we got
to talk to their issues do you think it
was the Democratic agenda in 2016 that
ignore those people or is it a message
issue or was that a message issue yeah I
think for too long for too long going
Whaley's agenda was pretty pretty
progressive but it's not just an agenda
uh-huh it is the perception that the
Democratic Party was hanging out with
the rich in the powerful all these
wonderful fundraisers and Hollywood
stars no offense darling in California
you know you know but you know
Southampton and and Los Angeles are not
necessary all that there is to America
maybe we got to get into into Kansas and
into Mississippi and into rural
Wisconsin and to talk to family farmers
who are being driven off of the land to
talk to the kids who are making $11 an
hour and trying to pay off their student
debt mm-hmm all right
so this is what I'm saying we need a
candidate who speaks to what people are
feeling in their guts and they getting
back to the very first question you
asked me they understand that there is
something wrong when over the last 30
years the top 1% have seen a 21 trillion
dollar increase in their wealth while
the bottom half of America have seen a
900 billion dollar decline in their
wealth they know it they may not be have
PhDs in economics they know the system
is thoroughly rigged they want a
presidential candidate who doesn't
hobnob it fancy mansions with the rich
and the powerful
but it's prepared to take them on and I
think I am that candidate by the way
just in passing just a matter just in
case Oh secure send you what how to do
so I think it's a credit to you and to
the movement you helped build that the
health care debate in this primary is
between a public option and single
and quite a few major candidates have
followed your lead on single-payer last
week a new mayor's poll showed that 41
percent of Americans support Medicare
for all defined as a national health
insurance program for all Americans that
replaces private insurance 70 percent
support Medicare for all that want it
defined as allowing all Americans to
choose between a national insurance
program or their own private health
insurance so I'm a voter at a town hall
who's fine with my current health care
plan I don't love it but I'm fine I like
the ability to choose and I'm worried
about my taxes going up why should I
support your Medicare for all plan
versus the Medicare for all whole one
okay and drawed you're right that was
one poll there are other polls which
have different results which show
overwhelmingly Democrats do support
America a Medicare for All single-payer
program and the ending of private
insurance in the surgery so thanks for
the question and here's the answer
number one the goal is to provide health
care to every man woman and child as a
human right not a privilege now well
when we talk about health insurance you
know and I know that they're a whole lot
of people out there who do have health
insurance but they have huge deductibles
and co-payments and they can't afford
their premiums and we are spending about
twice as much per person on health care
through the people of any other country
I mean why they got over eighty million
people uninsured or underinsured and we
pay by far the highest prices in the
world for prescription drugs and a
couple of days sunday actually I'm gonna
be going to Windsor Ontario yeah with a
busload of folks who are dealing with
diabetes we're gonna buy insulin there
for one tenth of the price that is being
charged in in America the current
function of the healthcare system is not
to provide quality care to all people it
is to make billions and profits for the
drug companies and the insurance
companies that is the fact so you can
talk about well I want health care for
all but if I have a large co-payment and
a large deductible and I have to pay out
of my own pocket I may still not be able
to get to a doctor so let me be clear I
don't want to be disingenuous with folks
what our plan says it's kind of similar
to a Canada is about is you walk into
the doctor's of
any doctor you want and by the way
there's some confusion about this and
that is under Medicare for all you have
absolute freedom of choice regarding the
doctor or the hospital that you go to
you walk into that doctor's office you
come out of the hospital after hot
surgery you don't have to take out your
wallet it is covered through public
funding and that is an essential
difference to what we're trying to do
and what others are trying to do and I
talked about healthcare for a while it
means no deductibles no co-payments it
means by the way expanding Medicare for
seniors to cover dental care hearing
aids and eyeglasses and we can do this
because we eliminate all of the waste
and bureaucracy you know this is an
incredibly complicated system hundreds
and hundreds of different insurance
companies doctors are going crazy
hospitals are going crazy we eliminate
all that we have a simple system
expanding Medicare over four year period
to cover everybody can you guarantee
that no middle-class families taxes will
go up by more than they're currently
paying in previous weekend and thank you
for making that distinction what the
Republicans will say Bernie Sanders
wants to raise your taxes right what
they forget to tell you is you're not
gonna do any more out-of-pocket expenses
for health care no more premiums
no more co-payments so at the end of the
day if you waive the - yes the
overwhelming majority of the American
people will be paying less for health
care than they are right now so I guess
it's sort of a larger question on this
is why to you is Medicare for all and
single-payer it's so important to spend
a lot of money on making the transition
right because you could imagine a
situation where you have a very robust
public option where you throw a lot of
money into making the subsidies more
generation - making sure we don't have
these high deductible plans and you know
there's some countries that have
universal health care that I isn't
completely you know government-run
single-payer when you know there's other
problems out there there's wage
stagnation there's food insecurity
there's poverty like this is gonna be a
huge price tag right to move the the
healthcare over I mean in taxes right
and obviously we're gonna have a lot of
savings in health care cost as a nation
but why to use it so important to folk
son sort of redoing the entire system
well first of all I personally don't
think it's quite as difficult and
undertaking as other people do I'll tell
you what was difficult and let's think
about this back in 1965 on LBJ and the
Democratic Congress they passed Medicare
and you think back to 65 they didn't
have the technology that we have today
in their first year they started a brand
new program they said everybody over 65
was gonna have health insurance started
a brand new program they got 19 million
people into the program in one year now
do we really think it is that hard in
the period that we're living in now with
all of the sophisticated technology that
we have to simply expand that program
we're not starting a new program we did
have a tricky time it is a serious point
because look I lived through that and a
lot of people got these cancellation
notices you're you know and we could try
to say look you're having a different
insurance plan but you're still gonna
get more generous benefits right it is I
think people's faith in government is so
shaken that it is you know for reasons
that we could talk about too but I think
it is hard for average people to look at
a change this big and sort of embrace it
yes or no okay how's that for a firm
yeah that's good alright and yes or no
is this for better or worse I'm not
inventing a brand new program mm-hmm we
got a program by the way Medicare today
is the most popular health insurance
program in the country far more popular
than any private health insurance
company program and all we are trying to
do over a four year period and people
say Bernie it shouldn't take four years
here it is okay you got Medicare right
now you're 65 you're getting into
Medicare we're going to expand Medicare
benefits I know you mention that then
the first gear we're going from 65 down
to 55 really is that really so difficult
right and the next year about 245 and
the next 30 it is more gradual and
people criticize me but you know
actually the House bill moves it more
rapidly than I do
so I honestly don't I think we're
starting with a strong program which is
well respected in popular wish
grunting that program and we're
expanding it to everybody and that may
be actually even simpler they're coming
up with even more complexity to the
existing healthcare system you know John
when people get upset about the
healthcare system today and as you know
they are very upset about it it's not
just that they're spending in many cases
far more than they can afford to pay
your working-class people I spent an
unfortunate you know small businesses
have gone crazy trying to figure out how
they can get insurance for their workers
it is the complexity of the system every
human being that I've talked to has had
to sit down and fight with the insurance
companies I thought I just a good friend
of mine was telling me he thought he had
a Cullis colonoscopy covered turns out
he has to come up with 3,000 bucks to
pay for everybody in America has had
that experience this is a simple system
it is a public system you walk into any
doctor you want you don't take out your
wallet it is the right thing to do it'll
ease the pain of millions of people who
are trying to negotiate with the drug
companies and make life easier for
doctors by the way and nurses as well in
hospital administrators what are the top
two or three legislative priorities that
a president Sanders would want to get
done or at least start before the 2022
midterms Medicare rules certainly and
that be number one I don't like this
number one I mean I think you up there
yeah it's up there and how could anyone
run away from climate change I mean
we're talking about scientists telling
us that we have fewer than 12 years to
fundamentally transform our energy
system or us there will be irreparable
damage done to this country and to the
rest of the world so you can't run away
from that and I think the third one if
you want me to limit it to three or four
or five sure what's 16 all right we can
go on you know and the third one is to
deal with an economy today that works
extremely well for private for large
multinationals and for the wealthy but
it's not working well for working-class
people and we got to create an economy
and decent paying jobs for all Americans
and and and that's why we have what we
call guaranteed jobs program if you want
to work you're gonna work in your earn a
and wage and we can expand unions to
make it easier for workers to engage in
collective bargaining and then you got
education I mean that the difficulty
with answering your question all these
issues are so important is you know you
know and I know I mean in in many parts
of this country our educational system
often in minority communities is failing
the kids teachers are leaving the
profession because they're overwhelmed
with the problems and the lack of
resources that they have so it is not a
radical idea to say that we're gonna put
instead of expanding military spending
instead of giving tax breaks to
billionaires we're gonna put money into
public education we're going to attract
and pay the best and the brightest young
people to get involved in education we
make public colleges and universities
tuition-free and by the way we cancel
student debt in this country and we pay
for it with a tax on Wall Street
speculation so you've said in the past
that you would try to get Medicare for
all done through the reconciliation
process and and keep the filibuster in
place could you explain to people what
that means look at the end of the day I
mean I think everybody knows that the
Senate historically functions very
differently than the house yeah the
Senate is a more conservative body moves
slower than the house house you got the
majority by one you move it Senate not
the case you have filibuster and so
forth so this is what I believe do I
believe that the Senate should simply
become a majority based institution like
the house no I don't but on the other
hand I will not allow as president of
the United States one person to block
what in tens of millions of people need
so what we need first thought is Phillip
is filibuster reform okay all right that
means people are gonna have to be on the
floor of the house talking they have a
right to express their opposition but
they're not gonna do it by you know
sending I have a staff member sending a
piece of paper to the leader that's
number one number two I believe that we
can use you know as you well know Bush
used a big budget reconciliation got his
huge tax breaks for the wealthy all
right we can use Budget Reconciliation
and by the way if I'm president my vice
president will be the president of the
Senate who I suspect will be in
agreement with me in interpreting
Senators the vice president the the
president of the Senate sets the rules
right so exactly says oh that shouldn't
be
Budget Reconciliation he that he or she
can say yes it can that's right okay so
that is that is essentially getting rid
of the other completely because I do
believe you know look I do believe you
know sometimes it's easy when you're in
the majority but when you're in the
minority you want the opportunity I was
on the floor a number of years ago for I
know I was eight and a half hours so
longer you know talking about my
concerns about legislation oh it was
Obama's tax bill try me to think of it
just you may remember that just hates
your idea but you know I think people
have the right to be in opposition and
get their voices heard and I don't want
to do away with that but you're not
expecting any you're not expecting any
Republican votes for any of your agenda
in the Senate at least right you know
you look because it does then it does
seem like it's fifty one votes or
nothing no that's right so I mean I
think we use Budget Reconciliation we we
move aggressively to filibuster reform
people have the right to voice their
opposition they have the right to gain
control over this Senate floor and talk
but they don't have the right to stop
progress in this country what would you
do differently from President Obama to
keep the movement alive and active once
you're in the White House this was our
this is our challenge right we butter
you ask that question yeah just that
with the President Obama oh good okay
well what did what did that what did he
what advice did he give he was he was
very kind and you know we were in the
Oval Office on a couple of human you
know on a couple of occasions talking
about many many issues and here's what I
will do with elected president and I say
this not out of generosity of spirit but
because I think it has to be done when
we talk in our campaign and our central
message is a political revolution our
central message is us not me
what do I mean by that what I mean by
that is I happen to believe that they
will never be real change in this
country unless we take on the incredible
power of Wall Street
alright and I know that was an issue I
suspect I was in the White House along
with a number of other senators talking
to the president about that issue you
recall that mm and very well
okay and you got to take on the
insurance companies and the drug
companies and the fossil fuel industry
and the prison industrial complex and
the military industrial complex and you
know what no president not Bernie
Sanders not Barack Obama not anybody
else can do it alone now I know that
during the 2008 campaign which you were
involved in I happen to believe that
Obama ran one of the great campaigns in
American history that's my view but I
think and this is what the president
that I talked about is how do you
continue that grassroots activism how do
you do that and what he said is and I
remember exactly what he said he's a
Bernie it's harder than you think
I will agree with him there because I
saw it too it is harder than you think
but I think that's what has to be done
so when I talk about us not me this is
my understanding I'm not running for
president simply to get elected
president I'm running for president not
only to defeat the most dangerous ugly
president in history this country I am
running for president to help transform
this country and it cannot be done alone
it is absolutely imperative that we
figure out a way to maintain millions of
people in the political process how you
do it I can't give you the script right
now but it has to be done it has to be
done and that's what the political
revolution is about because you asked me
will we have Republican support for this
in that way you know what if we go to
Kentucky and tens of thousands of people
tell Mitch McConnell you know what we're
working for nine bucks an hour we can't
make it you're all gonna vote to raise
that minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour
can we have that impact I think maybe we
can't all right so we need to mobilize
millions of people to stand up for
justice and as president of the United
States I would be part you know you'd be
commander in chief of the military but
your commander in chief of a strong
grassroots movement as well you've said
you want to pass comprehensive
immigration reform dismantle cruel and
inhumane deportation programs and
detention centers you do that how would
enforcement in a Sanders administration
differ from the Obama administration
immigration enforcement or would
um I think the first thing that we do
and I know Obama was sympathetic to this
sorry is the need to go forward with
comprehensive immigration reform and you
know what I think I think that's what
the American people want yeah
very popular you know Trump talks about
throwing millions of people out of this
country
thank God very few Americans think that
that is the right or decent thing to do
so I think you rally the American people
and you sit down with some sane
Republicans not one of the things that
we have to be imagining is that right
now we have a racist president who was
trying to divide the country up and
sadly and tragically I don't know if you
were planning to talk about this we have
seen the essential collapse of the
Republican Party around this guy people
are afraid to stand up to him he can say
you'd do anything and you don't have
more than a went by out of Republicans
but if you have a president who talks
about justice who was rallying the
American people some of these
Republicans who today are too afraid to
stand up may start coming forward can't
guarantee it but they made so I think we
move to a comprehensive immigration
reform
we stop these terrible raids which are
terrorizing communities I was just the
other day here in LA talking to teachers
and as you know the LA School District
is largely people of color kids of color
and you got kids Latino kids scared to
death that they're gonna come home from
school and their parents aren't gonna be
there you know what this means to kids
how do you live under that stress and
anxiety so we stopped these raids we
moved forward with the support of the
American people and I think some
Republicans in passing comprehensive
immigration reform and in terms of
border policy what we need is a rational
Asylum process which understands that if
a mother takes a kid a thousand miles by
foot in order to escape the violence in
Honduras or El Salvador that mother and
child are not criminals they are
desperate desperate people and we have
to figure out how we create a humane
Asylum process we get the judges that we
need to move that process along
in a in a rapid way which we don't have
right now so there's some things I think
we gotta do you know we didn't start off
too well but by the end of the Obama
administration the deportation
priorities were limited to dangerous
criminals right and recent arrivals
that's right would you maintain those
deportation priorities or enforcement
well I think also if I may say no answer
your question is you know what mama did
finally is develop a daca program right
all right which is no small thing and
Trump of course has eliminated that
program and we would re-establish that
and expand that program I I think that I
understand the Trump is gonna be running
his campaign for reelection as they do
in Europe right now significantly on a
racist anti-immigrant a basis I'm not
quite so sure that he succeeds I think
the American people are much more
sympathetic to the plight of immigrants
my own father came to this country from
Poland many other families are in the
same boat so I guess my question
longer-term on immigration is you take
Trump out of the picture we're gonna
have climate refugees they're gonna be
moving up from the south we have you
know we're looking at the problems in
Venezuela right now we're gonna have
other refugees looking for not just
escaping violent situations but looking
for economic opportunity how do we think
about immigration in that context
because you know you talk about the
Scandinavian countries all the time some
of the countries that have you know
generous socialist programs also have
more restrictive immigration policies
having a multiracial democracy that
welcomes immigrants and has very
generous social programs has it really
been tried anywhere or succeeded really
well anyway you know John that is an
excellent question
and it is not an easy question to answer
yeah I mean it's the question we have to
wrestle with it is it my view you know
Trump wants to accuse all Democrats and
Bernie Sanders having open borders right
right open the board everybody in the
world is gonna come any hundreds of
millions are gonna lead people are gonna
plead in the United States obviously
that's nonsense so long as we have
nation states in this world called the
United States of America Canada the
United Kingdom Mexico whatever it is you
know they're going to be limitations and
I think first
you're absolutely right in suggesting
that especially with climate change in
the incredible poverty that exists in so
many countries in the world this is
gonna be a challenge not just for the
United States but countries
industrialize wealthier countries all
over the world and we're gonna have to
figure out UMaine policies to deal with
I would say probably the most effective
way certainly in our hemisphere is to
try to address the reasons why so many
people are fleeing Honduras El Salvador
Guatemala in other poor countries and
the truth is these are small countries
and one of the points that I made is as
president in the first week in office I
will bring together the leaders of
Mexico and Central America or the Latin
American countries and say look we have
a hemispheric problem people are fleeing
drug violence in your country they're
fleeing poverty how do we work together
so that we can improve life in your
countries because everything being equal
I don't think a poor person wants to
travel a thousand miles to come to a
country with I can't speak to language
right so that would be the main goal and
I think that's true all over the world
the industrialized countries of the
world gonna have to sit down and figure
out how we improve lives in the poor
countries so that people do not have to
flee um on that topic you know you've
talked a lot about the rise of
right-wing authoritarianism fueled in
part by tremendous global inequality yes
what tools does the United States have
to stop that and how would you address
that as president it is an incredibly
significant issue I think you've got
twenty five thirty or a hundred people
on more wealth than the bottom half of
the world's population and you know we
have to sit back and say that is really
not acceptable and there are a number of
things that we have to do one of the
scandals we learned this from the Panama
papers you recall Panama papers and
other studies is that large corporations
and the wealthiest people in the world
including people like mr. Putin of
Russia are hiding unbelievable were
talking about trillions and trillions of
dollars in offshore banking systems in
the Cayman Islands Bermuda Luxembourg in
other countries around the world we're
talking about trillions and trillions of
dollars that are escaping taxation while
countries
the world are imposing austerity
programs on working-class people and we
have to deal with that we can't deal
with it you know obviously in the United
States we can do what we can do and I
will do that but it's a global problem
impacting not only our country but the
rest of the world so as a planet as a
globe the countries of the world are
going to have to work together to end
the ability of the very very rich and
the powerful to avoid paying their fair
share of taxes it's one thing that we
have to do even very critical of Bibi
Netanyahu in the Israeli government we
spent a few billion dollars on aid to
Israel would you ever consider using
that aid as leverage to get the Israeli
government to act differently absolutely
absolutely I mean we are giving large
sums of money look I mean let me back it
up before the tweet starts flowing again
I lived in Israel actually I worked in a
kibbutz for a number of months I have
family in Israel I am Jewish I am NOT
anti-israel okay I believe that the
people of Israel have absolutely the
right to live in peace independence and
security and the discussion that is what
I fervently believe but I think what has
happened is in recent years under
Netanyahu you have an extreme right-wing
government with many racist tendencies
the role of the United States and this
is not easy you know I believe me
Clinton tried it mama trying to Jimmy
Carter tried it this is not easy stuff
is to try to finally bring peace to the
Middle East and to treat the Palestinian
people with a kind of respect and
dignity they deserve our policy cannot
just be pro-israel pro-israel pro-israel
it has got to be Pro region working with
all of the people all of the countries
in that area and it's a similar position
and Hillary Clinton and I had a bit of a
disagreement on this in 2016 Saudi
Arabia is a vicious ugly
dictator that's what it is you got to
call it out that's what it is they do
not tolerate the Senate they treat women
like third-class citizens and yet they
have been a wonderful ally we follow
them into this
war in Yemen where I'm probably psyche I
help leave the empty guys out of that
terrible war alright so what we need to
do is not say we're 100% pro-israel 100%
pro Saudi Arabia we hate Iran we hate
the Palestinians that is not the role
that the United States of America should
be playing gotta bring people together
and say you know what we spend a whole
lot of money not only in aid to Israel
to Egypt we have spent trillions of
dollars on the wall on Carol all right
we are gonna sit down and by the way
I've been critical about Trump every
single day of the Census administration
but one area I'm not critical
he went to sit down with kim jonghwan
you know what i think that's okay i
think that's the right thing to do and i
as president the united states wife to
sit down in a room with the leadership
of saudi arabia with the leadership of
Iran with the leadership of the
Palestinians with the leadership of
Israel and hammer out some damn
agreements which will try to end the
conflicts that exist in them forever do
you think today 2019 the distance
between the Democratic establishment and
the grassroots activists progressive
activists is as large as is you might
see on Twitter or in the news do you
think it's that big I don't know if it's
as big as you might see on Twitter it's
pretty big it is pretty
what drives you crazy about the
Democratic Party is that they're not
open to young people and to
working-class people
I'm not just simply the truth it is and
that is that openness would you say
that's a result of what you said earlier
which is too much time raising money
from the wealthy is that your main I
think it's it's it's what the
establishment does the establishment
hangs out with the wealthy and the
comfortable and people in power and the
establishment kind of forgets that as we
speak there are millions of people
living paycheck to paycheck who can't
afford health care who can't are paying
50 percent of their limited incomes in
rent who was scared to death about an
illness in the family that might
bankrupt them I think the Democratic
establishment to a significant degree
there's a lot of rhetoric out there but
has really lucked forgotten about that
and has forgotten about the need to
stand up to power you know
to Martin Luther King jr. talked about
it you got a truth to power there's a
lot of power in there didn't it and
maybe you can tell disagree with me but
I'm not quite sure that the Democratic
leaders were sent to Wall Street you
know what you're not gonna charge 25
percent interest rates on credit cards
after we bailed you out to the
pharmaceutical industry we've dealt with
that for a few years right yeah you
explain to me how the hell they can
charge 10 times more for insulin in this
country than in Canada and it's drug
after drug up the drug has the
Democratic body stood up to these people
yes I guess my view is at least a lot of
the Democratic politicians I've known
and worked with are in it for the right
reasons they want to stand up to these
industries they're stuck in a very
shitty campaign finance system where
sometimes you have to raise money from
wealthier people and they don't like
that but they do it but when it comes
down to taking the votes to stand up to
powerful interests they take the votes
but Republicans have blocked progress
for a long time and I mean well no one
that the insurance industry wasn't
thrilled with the Affordable Care Act
Obama suitable industry was pretty happy
yeah they were happier than they should
have been the answer you country I agree
with what you said look I get tired of
hearing you know politicians including
the people I'm running against by and
large are decent honest people who are
in it for the right reasons and people
don't understand light so I agree with
you but on the other hand I think we
would be hard-pressed to really state
that the Democratic leadership has said
to Wall Street has said to the insurance
companies I said to the drunk of these
fossil fuel industry you know you can't
destroy the planet you can't do it
anymore it's not only a question of
making cause more fuel-efficient we
gotta go further than that so I happen
to think that there is a gap between
grassroots America young people
working-class people who are hurting
very badly who want leadership to create
to take on the big money interests and
create an economy that is fair that is
just that will improve life for ordinary
people
Democrats buy and launch with some
exceptions have not done that and what
do you think the the left could be doing
better to be more politically effective
I think what progressives have got
to do is to spend a great deal of their
time in energy in going out into
distressed communities all over this
community all over this country and
knocking on doors and doing a whole lot
of educating and getting people who have
given up on the political process
there's so many people I'm sure you know
who are so disillusioned you could knock
on the door we need you to buy
I'm not gonna vote it's all
don't bother me all right we have
somehow and it is not easy gonna have to
bring these people into the political
process and I don't know the progresses
you know we're working on this in our
campaign we have got to do better than
we're doing but that's really what the
goal is gotta be get people involved in
the political process and have our
working class and young people stand up
to the 1% who have just unbelievable
power and wealth in the country today
final the most important question will
you have cardi B perform at the
inauguration well putting together a
committee to take a look okay all right
that's good Bernie Sanders thank you so
much for thank you so much for joining
us thanks for having me
you
