we are thrilled to invite to the LA
studio Jason rezaian the global opinions
writer for The Washington Post and the
post former Tehran bureau chief you'll
understand the former part of that soon
I I suspect he is the author of prisoner
which details his 544 days in an Iranian
prison Jason welcome to crooked media
thanks for doing pod save the world it
is great to see you great I just want to
say first
I am 243 pages into a 290 something page
book so you're still in prison in in my
reading do the all-nighter yeah I
haven't gotten to the good part of the
book but I just want to say that this is
it's like a it's a beautiful family
story and love story that's set into
prison and I also learned so much about
Iran the Iranian regime your story what
these bastards put you through so I
highly highly recommend this book to
anyone who just wants to read a really
good story so well thanks for saying so
it you know if I could undo those 544
days I probably would but but now that
they happened and they're part of my
life I figured it was worth telling the
story and doing it in a way that was my
own style yeah well I think it was so it
struck me reading the book how stupid
and self-defeating it was for these
goons in Iran the IRGC members to
capture news because in some ways you
seem like the closest thing they had to
an ally in the Western press like you
loved Iranian food the culture the
people you married an Iranian woman
right you encouraged Anthony Bourdain to
come to Tehran to visit in some ways you
were you were helping them whether or
not they knew it why do you think that
they would take someone like you and
imprison you well I think that we have
to draw the distinction that within the
Iranian regime and power structure and
people want to talk about moderates and
hardliners yeah let's forget about those
two labels let's talk about two
different groups one who wants to
shut Aaron off from the world have it be
a self-contained Islamic Shia Islamic
utopia and and not engage with other
countries economically culturally or
diplomatically and then another group
that realizes that that's not possible
it's 2019 now 2014 at the time that the
world is going in a different direction
those were the people that been and and
and the rest of you folks in the
administration we're talking to and they
understood the way things were going and
needed to go but the IRGC didn't and I
think that it was exactly those things
that you just described that made me
most problematic for them yeah but
ultimately I don't think it had anything
to do with what I was doing that they
took me it was more the fact that okay
here is an Iranian an American dual
national working for you know arguably
if not the most high-profile a news
organization based in Tehran the second
most high-profile one and the one that's
the paper of record of the US Capitol
that this was going to be a astounding
and audacious thing to do that might get
in the way of the negotiations that you
all had underway yeah and I don't think
that that they thought that just the
taking of me would do that would
accomplish the kind of scuttling of the
deal before it happened but it was part
of a larger program to things up
yeah yeah and let me echo Tommy this is
a it's the best kind of book right
because it's a personal story you would
want to read this just to know about you
and Yeji your wife and and what you went
through and how you dealt with that
you know someone trying to envision how
they would go through such an extreme
scenario I think you're a guide through
that but also if you want to know about
the context in Iran and and and some of
the backdrop to it it's great for that
so everybody should check it out to kind
of build on Tommy's question you know I
I've always wondered about what the
level of belief is among people in the
system and the senses like you know I'd
I'd negotiate with Cubans right and they
believed or I couldn't tell whether they
believed the conspiracy theories that
that I might sometimes hear from them
right right and and you know you detail
really horrific tactics solitary
confinement for extraordinary periods of
time they threatened you these
interrogations I mean you really get it
kind of the inhumanity of people who
would hold you in this type of
circumstance
and you managed to kind of laugh at the
stupidity of what they're throwing at
you you know avocados and Kickstarter
campaigns and you're a spy you know and
in addition to I guess just getting at
how you were able to find some kind of
dark humor in the absurdity of what the
charges were that they were lovingly at
you
I was just wondering like whether you
thought about you you know
did they believe this or do they not
care that sir orders are to make you a
spy and so they they find a way for you
dude I remember I went through solace
and yari is a friend of mine and she had
the same situation that you know she was
a spy because she worked at a think-tank
and and and they seemed to believe that
but but what did you evaluate about like
both the absurdity of you might tell the
listener to the absurdity of the picture
they're trying to paint of you as some
kind of spy and whether or not you
actually think that they thought that
was true so I think that you know you
kind of alluded to it I mean they've
made the decision of what you are yeah
and then they have to build the case
with whatever they got yeah and they
didn't have much yeah
so it looked as it was as ridiculous as
it looked
yeah and they would continually say you
know we have all this other evidence but
it's so sensitive that we can't make
public right and I know you know from
conversations with John Kerry that you
know Zarif was even pulling that
 with with Kerry pretty late in
the game that like well you know I
haven't seen it myself but I hear
there's some some really you know
terrible things that Jason has done and
they have evidence of it yeah but it's
so classified that me as the Foreign
Minister I can't even see it yeah so I
think that there is this sort of rabid
desire to protect the existence of the
regime more than anything else yeah that
you're getting further and further away
from the revolutionary moment of now
forty years ago the ideology of the
place has sort of been diluted you know
even the people that were interrogating
me that had me in their possession
watched American movies and you know
consumed Western brands their reason for
being is to just protect this system
keep it intact yeah and root out
anything that could get in the way so I
don't think it matters if they believed
it or not I do think though that you
know these young men who were my
interrogators had to believe on some
level that I was guilty of something
something how they were told that I was
guilty and it's their job to prove that
yeah
and they didn't do a good job yeah they
mentioned Kickstarter and avocados like
that those two things were evidence can
you explain that yes so crazy in in 2010
a friend of mine who actually I was up
in San Francisco giving a talk yesterday
he's now a TED talk fellow and a
National Geographic Explorer at the time
neither one of us had much going on and
he had just started using Kickstarter to
fund little projects he's like you know
let's do something on Iran something a
little esoteric that can get you a
little bit of publicity and and some you
know get people thinking about things
yeah so you know I decided to try and
fund an avocado farm in Iran because
there's no avocados in Iran why aren't
there Alva kados in Iran is it because
of sanctions that the US has placed on
Iran is it because there's some Islamic
prohibition to avocados there's no
mention of avocados in the Koran you
know why aren't they here yeah yeah
knows you know the I didn't know and I
wanted to find out and I was gonna you
know attempt to find out by trying to
bring a few trees over four years later
in that first interrogation it they say
to me that it's it's obvious that this
is code for something why was it obvious
because Allen air yeah American diplomat
who's sort of the the the diplomat with
the highest level of Farsi language in
the US government he was as far as he
spokesperson for a while yeah that he
liked it on Facebook right and and you
know left to comment about you know this
is hilarious or whatever you know what
what this avocado project is we don't
know but it's sinister and they kept
this line of questioning up for months
it wasn't the only thing they questioned
me about but it was always there and as
time went on when they would go down
other ridiculous routes they would
always come back to you know we gave you
a break on that avocado so you were you
were held for five hundred forty four
days and even prison which is
notoriously awful prison in Iran on the
other side of the planet
the United States government was
involved in a near constant effort to
negotiate and get you back this is a
really exciting day I think for me and
for listeners because you know some
people might have heard your story on
you know NPR or whatever but rarely do
they get to hear both sides of this
negotiation so I was hoping to like Ben
you could talk about the things that you
guys were talking about in the Situation
Room when you were talking about how to
get Jason out and then Jason like how it
felt for you after the fact to learn
about all this churn that was happening
in Washington while they were sitting
there in your cell saying everyone
forgot about you no one cares about you
you're gonna die yeah well I yeah I mean
I I guess I just Jason I'll Twp I you
know maybe describing kind of what was
going on on our end and and we can chat
about it I mean you know in the first
point here is it this took place during
your detention and interrogation we're
in the nuclear negotiations right so the
they're kind of two phases of this the
first phase is during the nuclear
negotiation when Jason is still in
prison and
we would always raise these cases and
try different ways to you know compel
the Iranians to release Jason we we had
previous experience with the three
hikers have been detained and tried to
find other people who could intervene in
the Iranian system to try to at least
get somebody out like Jason but the
challenge we face right is it if we
brought you fully into the nuclear
negotiation and said we're not doing
this nuclear deal unless Jason rezaian
and some of the other people who are in
prison are kind of a part of it that
then you're pawns in a much bigger game
right and if we don't get a nuclear deal
we can't get you out or they're
leveraging you to keep you know parts
their nuclear infrastructure so it was a
very complicated time and I'd be curious
I guess before I even get to the actual
negotiation that then lead led to your
release you know how does that make you
feel to hear that I mean were you
resentful that you felt that you might
be you know either separate from the
nuclear issue and your case had to kind
of wait for that or do you think there
would have been a way to introduce you
to that because you obviously must had
some awareness you know you're not
getting a lot of news in there but yeah
that this is happening how do you see
that dilemma for the for a policymakers
so you know I will tell you that one
thing that the four months into my
imprisonment so November of 2014 yeah my
interrogator started telling me that
that there are negotiations going on for
you yeah
which was true yeah was true I didn't
believe them yeah you know I had no
reason to believe them this is one of
the few things that he said to me that
was actually you know honest and I think
that I realized really early on that you
know me getting out would have something
to do with this deal but it wasn't gonna
be an impediment to getting the deal
done I'm one person yeah I'm not an
idiot
you know I know how the world works yeah
but the the hard thing for me especially
after July 2015 when the deal was signed
was the deal is signed it's not going to
be implemented right now it'll happen
between I think it was gonna be between
October and January why don't I get out
right now
Yeah right like what and and if I'm if
I'm not getting out right now does that
mean then you did or is there no action
on this and so then as we start to get
closer to to January of 2016 suddenly in
my mind it's like okay if I'm not
getting out and you know I don't want to
spoil the end of the book but read it
and yeah that's pretty much true yeah
and a credit to you guys and secretary
Kerry and President Obama and especially
brett mcgurk for making sure that didn't
happen and making sure my wife got out
as well but you know I had I would say
probably because of my job and
understanding the the relations between
the u.s. and Iran for all these years
that we were on the cusp of some really
cataclysmic changes yeah and
possibilities and I assumed that it
would be really difficult to sell this
deal as my name got kind of more
prominent in a conversation sell the
deal to a public who was you know
correct me if I'm wrong not a hundred
percent you know yeah so I felt like I
had all those things working in my favor
yeah yeah well so then what you know so
we had been negotiating in the nuclear
and the sidelines the nuclear deal
people like Wendy Sherman and then after
the deals reached in July essentially a
separate entirely separate discussion
channel gets set up dedicated to this
question of your case and variety of
other prisoners and brett mcgurk takes
the lead in those
Russians and what's interesting about
them is that they're worth a different
set of people right right so the nuclear
negotiations as you say are with kind of
the the front-facing rouhani Zarif more
I don't know if we want to use the
moderate label but but people who want
to engage the people that have won
engage and and then the our GCE are
clearly people who were holding you so
we have to get to those people so we
start talking to people who are more the
security realm and Brett is and it
inevitably Morse towards some type of
exchange right and they wanted a really
long list of Iranians out of prison and
there were certain people that we just
weren't going to be able to release
which are people who had some you know
direct connection to say terrorist
activity for instance but they have a
lot of people who were really in for
fairly low hanging kind of sanctions
violations frankly some of these people
who end up getting released like they're
still yeah they walk out of prison in
Texas and they're hanging out there and
you know Brett the problem is that as we
and then as we're obviously reducing the
the the we're not giving them people
they want you know we also introduced
this kind of pending Iranian claim that
they have where we owe the money and any
other they had they had purchased a
significant amount of military equipment
from the United States before the Shah
left and we'd never delivered and they
paid us you know and so they had you
know essentially the the claim at the
international court for this at the
Hague and so we're by the way don't want
to interrupt you but a court that has
has made judgments against Iran in favor
of the United States that Iran is paid
several billion dollars years yeah not
without present without precedent these
claims have been able to be resolved
even given our religions so the idea is
that you know we're going to kind of
concurrently to all this stuff that's
happening the nuclear deal is being
finalized there's going to be some
prisoner exchange we're gonna resolve
this claim and Brett was
it takes I've learned in the US
government a person who's just so dogged
that we're gonna do this that they will
force the meetings that need to happen
and force the conversations and and get
the attention of senior people and a
member Brett coming to me because I'd
done a prisoner exchange in Cuba and
thus kind of comparing notes about how
do you kind of create you know what what
can what what lines can you not cross
referenced as I said look look you can't
get into releasing people who are
terrorists right but you know you can we
can release more rain Ian's if they're
not people who have done those you know
types of of things and and if it's
something that needs to be resolved
anyway like a claim like now it's a good
time to go big and we did the same thing
in Cuba we resolved a whole set of
issues between us and Cuba around
normalization of relations and a
prisoner exchange and so ultimately it
took that creativity led by Brett as
well as just kind of talking and talking
and talking to this other channel to get
to get you out and also importantly
insisting that your wife be permitted to
leave with you on that score I guess you
know did you just presume I mean would
you have left Iran if yogi wasn't on
that plane look I mean I I imagine that
ultimately if they wanted to put me on a
plane yeah they could they could have
done put me on a plan but I was pretty
obstinate about it especially you know
your hands are tied right for a year and
a half and you've got no choice over
anything but I'm constantly saying well
what the you know we're married she
n done anything yeah she's never gonna
get out of here and in the back of our
minds it's just like if she doesn't get
on this plane with me yeah it's about
ten days that they're
priming me for departure and it was you
know at the airport yeah I was asking
about that yeah you know and and it just
kind of all comes full circle when you
know the Swiss ambassador comes and it's
like this you know new wall of lies has
been you know torn down in front of
because I'm in I'm not what tell that
story yeah so uh okay good I'll start on
mine because it's egg
I don't think we've ever I think we
talked about this once but I'm in the
white house and we're waiting for like
the word right and so like bread is on
the ground in in Europe right and
there's a plane on the ground in Iran
and we're sitting in the White House and
we suddenly hear that there's a problem
there's a hitch that they can't find
everybody who can't get on this plane
yes and and they couldn't find you know
yeah ghee they had my mom they couldn't
find Jason's mom right and so we're
sitting here thinking this whole thing
which is already kind of beginning to
leak out might collapse because the
Iranians might not maybe they're not
operating in good faith we didn't know
the reason why these people weren't
showing up at the plane and is it that
just people can find them or the
Iranians lying to us so there's a period
of time from my end and I'm loved to
hear you know again for our listeners
how you describe this like I'm sitting
the White House like literally waiting
for a call you know that this point is
taken off
I mean thing of argot right I like the
dude in the you know sitting in back in
Langley waiting for the call you know
waiting for phone to ring and we didn't
know why it was that not everybody was
on this plane so that was our experience
I'm gonna tell this story I'm looking at
Tommy you haven't gotten to page you
know I'm gonna tell this story on one
condition
yeah we gotta get Obama to tweet about
the book agreed we agree on behalf of
Eric I learned this in Iranian prison
right exactly you want to get something
done you need some leverage yeah so I'm
taken to the airport on January 16th
it's a Saturday that likes Dave five
hundred five hundred forty three g's you
know and a lot of times people you know
talk to me about your five hundred forty
three days I'm like you it's on the
cover of the book for a reason you know
that last day was the hardest one you
know yeah it really was so we um we get
to the airport
you know they've taken me out it's the
first time I'm leaving the prison not
blindfolded in my own clothes and my mom
and Yeji are told to come meet me at the
airport say goodbye
and we get to the airport and there's a
you know a team of state media reporters
you know they need their propaganda
moment and they're filming all this and
this is really disgusting yeah you know
like as if they haven't treated me
enough like a circus animal for the last
year and a half now they want to get
their last kind of bits of film and so
you know we say our goodbyes my mom and
yogi leave about 10 minutes later this
big massive dude I don't know if you
ever met ambassador Hoss yeah yeah you
must have right this big bald guy you
know like shaved head mr. clean
you know walks in a really nice suit
and he introduces himself as the Swiss
ambassador Julie ojas gives me a hug and
he says look you know there supposed to
be three of you here but you're here
alone where's everybody else and I'm
thinking he's talking about Hekmati yeah
yeah and Saeed Abedini who are other
prisoners who other prisoners yeah and I
said well you mean those guys know your
mother and your wife yeah they're
supposed to be here so no you know I've
been told for for so long that whenever
I leave my wife's gonna come separately
and he says Jason I've been in the
middle of these negotiations for 14
months your wife has been part of this
from the beginning and you know my
interrogator who you've gotten to know
in the book is you know on the other
side of the room kind of hovering over
or trying to listen and and I said well
what's gonna happen now he said well the
planes not leaving without your wife and
your mother it might take a few more
minutes yeah but but you know just it's
too full too far along for this deal to
fall apart this is like 9:00 p.m. he
leaves you know I have a fight with my
with my interrogator like you lying
piece of
you know I can't believe all the way
right up until the end and he's you know
saying not that guy's introducing this
for the first time there's never been
any discussion about your wife she has
nothing to do with it you need to get on
this plane and leave I mean he didn't
understand that
the plane wouldn't leave without my wife
I mean they made it very clear that that
wasn't gonna happen but it goes on for
another 16 hours and it turns out that
they had locked my wife and my mom in
another room in the airport taken their
their cell phones from them finally at
7:00 o'clock in the morning I'm still
you know I've been taken to another part
of the airport waiting with Saeed
Abedini and Amir Hekmati yeah and you
know they let my mom and my wife go they
turn on the cell phones they've got like
hundreds of missed calls
yeah from Bret yeah from my brother yeah
you finally get my brother on the phone
and my brother's like you know screaming
at them you know I I'd like to talk you
to talk about my brother a little bit oh
my god but you know from your point of
view but I think it's pretty rare that a
civilian has been so involved in
something like ineffective but you know
he said look you gotta get home pack a
bag you're leaving on this plane and my
wife is saying well Jason's already left
you know the planes already gone and of
course you know I was still sitting
waiting and then finally by 11 a.m.
we're all reunited and we get on the
plane and we leave in there's still
complications I mean we're on the tarmac
for three or four hours before before we
took off and it was like the most
hair-raising thing you could imagine the
you know you remember the end of Indiana
Jones and the Last Crusade yeah yeah you
know only the penitent man will pass
he's got to take a step across the thing
and there's that bridge there you can't
really see it I felt like that you know
I've gone through hell and back for the
last year and a half I always kind of
knew that getting out wasn't gonna be
just like here you go
you're on your way and it wasn't can I
just ask you I mean the being arrested
for doing nothing wrong and thrown in
prison and thrown in solitary
confinement and and interrogated and
harassed is torture in and of itself to
do that wondering the whole time how
your wife is being treated if she's
gonna get out if she's okay is just a
whole other level of torture I
guess my question is like how did you
deal with that because I think my brain
would spin in loops that would drive me
insane I learned very early you know
maybe a week or so into it that I just
had to not think about things that I had
no control over mm-hmm
as much as I wanted to think about my
wife I thought about making plans with
my wife thought about what what it is
that we would do when eventually this
thing ended whatever this thing was and
if it ended but those first few weeks in
solitary you're too confused to really
be pondering the worst right yeah you
just assume that everything's gonna work
out that somebody's gonna have some
sense talked into them and you're gonna
go home and get back to your life but
there's time drug dragged on and I had
no news of her and you know they were
threatening me with this and death and
dismemberment threatening my in-laws
threatening her I mean inevitably you go
to that place and I hate to say this out
loud but you know if he in prison is
known for prison rape I mean there's
been a lot of that over the years so
when I finally saw her it was on day 35
that they allowed us a very brief
meeting it was probably the happiest
moment of my life right she's the
ultimate relief that okay she's alive
yeah she's you know physically okay I
remember she looked at me I had lost you
know 34 40 pounds at that point she made
me kind of pull up my shirt just to show
her that I hadn't been beaten you know
and and that kind of it was that those
those kind of short encounters that were
the only breath of air that I had yeah
right that would get me through another
period of time until I could see her
again
and then when she was finally released
after 72 days she spent all 72 of them
in solitary Jesus a couple of days later
they took me to the room where we would
have our kind of periodic meetings
together and I didn't know that she'd
been released and she walked in in her
own clothes okay you know on the one
hand I was kind of heartbroken that we
weren't let out together but at the same
time it was such a relief not to worry
about what could be happening to her
your brother you mentioned I mean he
what was so unique about him is you know
tragically there are a lot of people you
know a small number but too high of a
number of people who have loved ones who
are either taken hostage or imprisoned
in other countries or caught up in
political intrigue and you know there
are very few people who have the
combination of attributes your brother
did that he could play what I would call
both the outside game and the inside
game yeah right so some people are
really good at building public pressure
and public attention there's some people
really good at kind of coming in and
meeting with us and being informed about
it he really did both like it helped
engineer with the post a very new
effective relentless public campaign to
keep a spotlight on your detention to
get prominent voices out on it and to
make sure that there was pressure on us
as well as the Iranians to be resolving
this but at the same time he also was a
partner essentially to us in thinking
through different strategies to get you
out as Brett is working on this and I'm
wondering like did you were you aware of
any of these efforts on your behalf I
knew about the public effort yeah and
you know whenever yagi would talk to Ali
you know his response was we're doing
everything we can
there's no there's nothing that I can
tell you yeah yeah he's talking on the
phone right so
yeah exactly you know there's nothing I
can tell you all I can tell you is
whatever happens it'll happen to both of
you
yeah right yeah because I think that
that's something that you all agreed on
yeah and for her that was you know
obviously a big concern throughout so he
would you know you say look he's so
disciplined you know you would just say
I don't know if anything is happening
behind the scenes all I know is from my
conversations with with people that you
know they've given me their insurance
that whenever something good happens
it'll happen for both of you yeah and
you know it was in those last few days
when they came and told me that I was
being released the next day I had a
meeting with my mom and my wife and they
called him up and he's like I've no idea
what you're talking about so and I I'm
so thankful for that because I have had
a front row seat to other people who
were dealing with this similar thing
yeah yeah and as you say I mean some
people were really good at the public
pressure and you know don't know how to
separate those two yeah I credit his
ability to do that with our you know our
Persian rug so you know that's probably
the only way literally exactly exactly
it's literally the only thing Ron Ian's
about my brother I think like given all
that you've been through it would be
understandable if you hated Iran you
wanted to see Iran punished to the
greatest extent possible you want to see
military action against Iran you don't
you you support the Iran deal you
support engaging the wrong like why how
did you come to that position so you
know I write in the book and it's really
true the benefit and I have had the
opportunity to talk about this fair bit
it's the things that you guys were doing
was what I would have been doing if I
was in your position yeah and I think a
lot of times people have mistaken my
reporting for you know
being rah-rah about it I just happen to
be seeing the same things happening
right the the progression of the society
and the distancing of people from the
ideology and how opening up with Iran
and engaging the people even more would
be the ultimate way to support the
people and support them in a way that
would bring them closer to to our
interests as Americans and I think that
a lot of people have kind of in America
we have this problem of not being able
to to kind of separate a regime from its
people other countries don't have that
problem and you know people ask me all
the time like why why why can't you guys
figure this out
I mean it's partly media's fault yeah
right we're not that good at it at
separating the two so for me it was
always important to to you know show
Iranian people in a positive light and
if I'd be a real if I were to
kind of change gears on that right now
people ask me you know why I've decided
to sue Iran Yeah right
and you know I'm seeking a massive
amount in damages ultimately they should
pay for what they did to me and my
family and what they've done to innocent
people who are Nationals of other
countries they've been doing this for 40
years and nothing has made them stop
doing it and you know we talked a little
bit about the money yeah the money
talking point was the IRGC talking point
way before it was the neocon so the
money being the four hundred million in
cash that was flowing around that day
which is part of a 1.7 billion dollar
settlement I'm still waiting for my cut
yeah how does it feel watching that that
transfer of funds that we were that we
owed them that I think of it if the
court had ruled on that case we the
United States might have o Tehran more
more we actually got a good deal here we
go it's a lot lesson but they could they
if they pushed I mean again to boot we
owed them money from equipment that we
never delivered and there's interest
associated with the
lack of payment of that is fun right for
decades and so essentially what we got
is a you know a deal without the
interest I heard that you guys would
probably have to pay for point something
yeah ended up paying 1.7 yeah I think
that's a pretty good deal look I think
that that you know I've spoken to so
many people in government about this
anybody that follows Iran Iranian
Americans in particular knew about that
four hundred million dollars for the
last 40 years it's not a new claim that
the Iranians have made and I think that
you and I talked about it out you know
when when it became a front-page story
in The Wall Street Journal I think that
was early August of 2016 I asked you
about it in June of 2016 it was a known
thing that would this wasn't any kind of
seat we didn't try to hide it actually I
was joking you know that before we went
on here is it I was you know I was in
the meetings and I had a communication
responsibilities so people were like Ben
your people look at me very seriously in
these meetings before you got out you
know do you think that that you know
you're confident that we can defend this
and I'm like of course you know we're
getting a good deal and it's less money
than we'd have to pay with interest and
that's a bit you know saving billions of
dollars the fact that we had to do this
in cash is in part because our sanctions
make it so complicated to transfer money
to the Iranians yes right so it's not
like they didn't get anything it's not
like it was you don't mostly was more
valuable because I mean it's just how do
you pay somebody but you can't wire
money too because they're sanctions
right and that's what that was about but
I was saying you know I'm confident that
we can tell the story look I knew we
take heed I wanted to give that
assurance in part because I wanted you
to get out but there was something you
know there's so much cynicism and the
some of the attacks on us this was
particularly cynical because this was
all known it was briefed to Congress and
and basically what ends up happening is
you know long a pretty extended period
of time after the deal like eight months
after this is done the Wall Street
Journal Jay Solomon who subsequently
found to be
very close to the Emirati trying to make
that yeah you know sensationalizes as if
it's a discovery that some of this was
in cash and somehow first of all why
does it matter the value is the same
right so there was an absurdity to it it
can't venmo the rgc yeah yeah I
mean maybe you can but you know it's
ketchup yeah we use the cash I think
here's the thing you know and people
talk about and this became a talking
point in all of the debates as well all
three of the debates the you know the
trade came up in 2016 one point seven
billion dollars I mean I think the three
of us can agree that you know we could
split that money and Lou happily yes but
you know one point seven billion dollars
even for Iran whose military budget is
you know smaller than the Netherlands
that's not a huge amount of money
especially when there's all these other
stuff that they were doing in the
country development wise and you know
they're building all sorts of retail
spaces and you know trying to repair
roads and everything I mean that money
was spoken for you know well before they
ever got it and I just think the whole
argument is completely disingenuous for
another reason which is that you know
these same people that were attacking
you guys for doing this deal we're also
people who were saying don't do the deal
until until and now that we're out of
the deal in the lead-up of to to pulling
out of the deal last may not one of
those guys were saying don't pull out
until we get these Americans back yeah
and there's some Americans in prison and
there's a bunch of America six of them
now yeah and you know unfortunately I
don't see any of those people coming
home as long as we're out of that I
wanted to come back to selling time
we're saying which is you know being the
engagement question you and I had a
really interesting discussion about this
at the White House the first time I saw
you
yeah we got out because you told me you
you kind of seen the Cuba thing that
we've done you know you've been in
prison but you're aware of it and I
remember you said something fascinating
to me which is because I'd heard the the
point already about appealing the rating
people
we had some Iranian Americans on our
team
I had an Iranian American and worked for
me for three years very over Syrian and
and and so we you know in addition to
you know doing the analysis and the
experts you know talking to people they
make the case that if you did certain
things like you made it easier for
students to study United States you
built that goodwill of the Iranian
people that creates its own kind of
bottom-up pressure on the regime or that
empower is the kind of type of middle
class that you want to be demanding
different outcomes the other thing you
said to me that I thought was
fascinating was the one thing that the
the heart the real hardliners there the
the RDC types that people wanted to be
sealed don't know how to deal with is
engagement yeah they they know how to
deal with conflict they know idea of
confrontation they know how to deal with
bad rhetoric and tough talk to me it's
it's and it's so funny because the
opposite there's a mentality the United
States said know that the more we yell
at them and the more forceful we are in
our rhetoric the more they'll back down
and the point you made is that's
actually opposite they love having yeah
you know yelling fights back and forth
and issued statements back and forth
they don't know how to deal you throw
them off balance if you engage them and
and if you engage them in an open way
yeah yeah the people can see can see it
can see that you're willing to and and I
wanted to get your view of so we've
obviously seen this administration go
back to the let's yell at them and let's
not be seen to be engaging them there's
this kind of really bad effort to make
it look like they care about their any
people but I don't think people in Iran
really buy that and I'm wondering you
know I'd always saw it as if we were
building a ramp of our policy that had
continued my hope was that as that
engagement was was was evident and that
willingness to engage was evident not
that the regime would necessarily
suddenly just change but that you might
begin to impact debates inside of Iran
and sure there's a presidential election
coming up in Iran there's also gonna be
a Supreme Leader succession right that
guy's holding on you know by a thread
and I'm wondering how you think this
hardline approach is going to affect
those debates inside of Iran
mamita succession
the presidential elections so when when
whatever administration is in office in
Washington mirrors what the IRGC is
doing on it it it tightens that space
yeah a free society of civil society
right within Iran and you know look we
see more protests in Iran right now than
we have at any point in the last 40
years but that's because of economic
issues more than anything else people
aren't out there protesting you know for
free speech yeah by and large they're
they're protesting for bread and their
paychecks I think that you know the the
way that we talk about Iran right now
and supporting the you know the
aspirations of free aspiration of the
people is so disingenuous yeah
for a bunch of reasons but you know the
the greatest example is this travel ban
yeah
which you know is is supposedly a
domestic US policy but has real life
ramifications for tens of thousands of
Iranians who want to come here and
hundreds of thousands of Americans who
have connections to Iran so I think that
you know that we're only strengthening
those people that want to keep the doors
closed yeah by having this this hardline
policy the best thing you can do is let
people come and study here best thing
you can do is let people do business
here and oh by the way the people who
are coming and doing business still and
who are the ones that I can't remember
the type of visa but you need a half a
million dollars in a green card or
whatever you know those are the people
that are working with the IRGC right so
we're not doing anything to help normal
folks and I think that that's a shame
for a couple of reasons but one of the
biggest problems with it that I see is
that you know you guys between 2012 and
2016 gain so much knowledge yeah and
whether or not this administration wants
to use that knowledge for nefarious
purposes all they basically did was you
know that a garbage can lid it on fire
like okay we
starting fresh and I don't think the
American people are that stupid yeah I
don't think we're stupid
to think that you know we know nothing
about that country got spent a lot of
time a lot of capital will so and I also
think it's important to say that you
know on the on the nuclear deal front
you guys didn't see this as no solutions
we think I would make in this case the
only people who ever suggested that we
thought that were our critics yeah my
question though is how much of that Iran
policy and hope was in some way designed
to concur tale Saudi influence well
that's a good good I want to ask you
about that because you wrote
I mean Jamal khashoggi journalist who
was brutally murdered by the Saudis in
Turkey was your colleague at the
Washington Post he was your friend
you wrote a great piece about the total
lack of response to that horrific crime
in the total double standard of US
policy towards Iran and Saudi Arabia and
I took a lot of for that piece and
I continue to because people come to me
and say well you know you're an
apologist for the same regime that took
your prisoner yeah
first and foremost I've got no love for
the Islamic Republic of Iran yeah
but I'm alive and good and Jamal
khashoggi is not and he was he was
murdered in the most despicable inhumane
way that you can imagine and you expect
that sort of thing in a country like
Iran in the you know dark corners of a
prison you don't expect that in a
consulate you know within the you know
biggest city of one of our NATO allies
yeah right so I think that there is this
massive double standard there always has
been everybody knows about it but you
know I've i always thought yeah just
assume not that we're gonna like go and
you know jump into the warm embrace of
Tehran and forget about Riyadh and Tel
Aviv but like let's even the playing
field just a little bit yeah so our you
know it was in
because we took a lot of for this
sure obviously because people
interpreted because it was our policy to
essentially say to the Saudis look you
gonna have to figure out how to share
this neighborhood right and the more you
because some of these conflicts
you know Iran is precipitating but some
of them the Saudis you know are
escalating you know as well and it's a
back and forth and that if you guys
don't try to figure out some way to cool
the temperature down here you know what
to get along but like you also don't
need to be in war at war in multiple
countries right now Iran and Saudi
Arabia through their proxies are
fighting in most countries in the region
in some manner yeah so what's in
question of shifting sides to Iran at
all which is what the Saudis and they're
kind of proxies in Washington would say
it was about trying to find some degree
of balance here right and we tried very
hard and I haven't talked about the so
much publicly but in 2015 and 16 to say
to them open up a channel you know and
by the way we were Syrian to the
Iranians too you know you guys need to
talk to each other yeah and I remember
when we went to Riyadh for one of our
last trip story had maybe been our last
trip to Riyadh in early 2016
we made this case to them we laid it out
we said look they're people that we
think would talk to you on the Iranian
side and all we got was yeah I mean you
know know like we're gonna confront them
in Yemen right was that from MBS it was
directly right and you know the king is
saying and I always wondered you know
King Abdullah hated the Iranian stew but
he was a little bit more of a pragmatic
guy and it's an interesting question
because essentially what happens is we
had tried to facilitate some capacity
for there to be some some conversation
at least that like whatever you think
about the geopolitics this is not good
for the hundreds of millions of people
in Yemen but who could die in a famine
because the rgc in the Houthis are
fighting against the Saudis and Emiratis
and their proxies in Yemen so just if
you want to just talk about saving lives
and just you know pretty aside the
geopolitics of it like figuring out a
way to cool things off would be in the
interest and what's interesting is you
know the the the Saudis and Moriah T's
were pushing
back against that they got everything
they wanted in the Trump administration
totally siding with them you know a
hundred percent on their side on every
question and look what it's gotten them
right they're deeper into the quicksand
in Yemen they're opening
embassies in Damascus yeah you know so
they got what they wanted and guess what
like they're not taking back Syria
they're losing they're not achieving
their objectives in Yemen so they're
there they're proving that they're there
just punching themselves out here
completely and I think there's this
unchecked hubris yeah of MBS that I hope
at some point that the the damage that
he's creating in that part of the world
is stamped yeah because it scares me to
reading the book you talk about when
your dad came over to the United States
you know started at Georgetown ended up
transferring to Napa College right he
said he's the first person ever maybe to
make that transfer you know it's
probably only yeah there's a greater on
ian community and feel like home and
also let's be honest like living a nap
is pretty sweet but he literally opened
a Persian rug store and it was this this
heady time where he imported this
beautiful commodity this rug to the
United States at a time in the United
States that was pre Islamophobia right
and reading that made me so sad yeah to
think that there's this horrific strain
in our culture that was learned and was
learned in like 1981 uh and I just it
just it broke my heart and I don't know
I just I wondered what you thought when
you hear him talk about that period well
I think for most Iran Ian's who've been
in America since before the Revolution
this is part of our tragedy right we
were a growing immigrant group but not a
big one pretty successful if you look
back at the 1960s and 70s you know the
US had a obviously a massive presence in
Iran in terms of military intelligence
diplomatic
commercial but also Peace Corps you know
it was a place that we were really
helping to kind of develop the in the
rural areas educate people give them
better lives and on the flip side of
that there were more Iranians studying
in American colleges than people from
any other country for years up until the
revolution so this was like you know a
trend of coming together of these two
countries the likes of which we don't
see very often yeah
with other countries and so for to have
this very definitive kind of flag thrown
down or flag burned the case here
that really changed the course of this
relationship and changed it forever is
stunning and tragic at the same time is
that flag moment when the hostages were
taken hostages were taken and you know
the Islamic Republic was born when up on
the 40th anniversary in a couple of
weeks February 11th yeah and when when
the ties were severed I don't think
anybody thought it would take this long
and and all of this water would pass
under the bridge but still Iranians have
become the most highly educated
highest-income non-european immigrant
group that we have in this country yeah
we're thriving we're thriving even
though at various times in the last
forty years and I still get this you
know go back to where you come from
there's a bunch of us over there we'll
do fine you know yeah yeah well it's a
it's a beautiful book it's an incredible
story we are so glad you are here
thank you tell to us in person and
everyone should buy the book yeah they
really should I mean this is one that
there's not it there's some books to
come and go right here like oh that
might be interesting like there's not
another book that you're gonna read like
this one Yeah right like this is the
only book that can tell a story quite
like this by someone who is a writer
before they were a prisoner right so you
have a reporter's eye to your own
experience it comes across and an
sigh but also just as you said like it's
a human story a love story and
thankfully the happy ending is here in
terms of your presence don't you dare we
yeah yeah and hopefully there's a
hopefully as a happy ending to this
bigger story it's something I appreciate
I appreciate you guys having me on and I
appreciate you Ben for opening up to me
during yeah you know the time that I was
kind of researching this book and also
pointing me in different directions you
know I think a lot of people will read
it and I hope it comes off as seamless
but you know there's a lot of
information that was gathered after the
fact to put this document together yeah
yeah which is something that you know I
wouldn't wish on anybody
yeah but I'm glad I'm finished yeah
Jason good to see you
you
