welcome to plod save America all right
again welcome to pod save America I'm
John Favreau
I'm later in the pod mother jones's Ari
Berman talks to Dan about the Supreme
Court case over Trump's attempt to rig
the census in favor of Republicans
before that we'll talk about how the
president has responded to evidence that
he obstructed justice by obstructed
justice even more the threat of foreign
sabotage in 2020 and Joe Biden's entry
into the Democratic primary also be sure
to check out this week's episode of POD
saved the world where Tommy talks about
the Trump administration's decision to
reverse Obama's Cuba policy and good
news positive America is heading to
Vegas for the Life is Beautiful festival
September 20th through September 22nd
tickets went live today more info for
that show and for other touring dates at
cricut.com
slash events and finally we've got new
pod save America merch go to store
crooked comm to find our new pod save
America mug and three new tumblers
including an audience requested design
that says it's not great Dan showing
your tumbler that says it's not great
Dan and we also have some new votes save
America t-shirts so check it out alright
let's get to the news in the wake of
what amounted to an impeachment referral
from special counsel robert muller over
the president's multiple attempts to
obstruct justice many democrats like
nancy pelosi have argued that the house
should first conduct a series of
additional investigations before making
any decisions on impeachment well here's
how Trump has responded to that strategy
over the last week first he refused to
follow the law and make his tax returns
available to Congress second he sued
House Democrats to prevent them from
getting his financial records and
finally he announced that the White
House will be fighting all the subpoenas
issued by Congress because he doesn't
want any of his staff testifying about
any of the many scandals and potential
crimes committed by the president and
his administration so Dan the president
is once again placing himself above the
law and above an equal branch of
government
what's his bet here does he think he's
going to get away with this
or is it just that he thinks he'll get
away with this at least until 2020 in
the election both probably I think he is
a two-pronged strategy here which if one
you point out with which is to run out
the clock try to get as much distance as
he can make these things work this way
slowly through a court that is tilted in
his favor and hope that he can get to
the election be it past the election
before having to turn over all of these
fairly incriminating documents or have
these incriminating witnesses speak in
public and the second one is to fight
right he like he fights everything it is
good for his base to be seen as fighting
he is a person who needs and grievous to
get up in the morning and so this is
like he he wants to muddy the waters he
is very he's very good at this right
which is to take everything make it seem
like a giant mess and then
trying to cast blame on both sides so
now if he is fighting with the Democrats
that allows him to proclaim his
exoneration say he's innocent in saying
he is being persecuted by a group of
liberal socialist aoc replicants or
whatever how everyone's to describe it
yeah I mean demagogues need villains and
they need to play victim and they need
to then say that not only are they
victims but all their supporters of
victims and we are fighting against all
of the same enemies all the people who
don't like us this is you know this has
been Trump's message since 2016 and just
because now he's the guy in power he
doesn't want to give up on the fact that
he's still you know this victim being
attacked by the establishment I also
think he's there's a little bit of a bet
here that he's betting Democrats won't
do anything about it
or can't do anything about it right yeah
I think that's possible I think he put
yeah I definitely possibly think that
will back off in that the Democrats can
be bullied by Trump there's not a lot of
history to stir that Nancy Pelosi if
someone who can be bullied by you know
whatever you want to try Trump I mean
how how is what Trump's doing different
than
other presidents have responded to
congressional oversight and how is it
the same like how did we respond to you
know when the House Republicans tried to
conduct oversight and all these
investigations into Benghazi and whatnot
well I think there's two there are two
analogous examples right there is how
there's how Bill Clinton responded to
independent council investigations
against him and then in Picchu and then
there's how Obama in the more natural
course of business responded to
Republican oversight from a very zealous
overly zealous conspiracy theory spewing
Republican majority in the house so in
the Bill Clinton example Trump is sort
of rerunning some of that play right
he's been doing this for two years which
is prosecute the prosecutor you know
turn this into a trencher into a big
political fight fight everything and
he's using a message you know it's sort
of buried underneath all the insanity as
a lot of Trump strategies but a message
I want to legislate they want to
investigate and that was a very powerful
message for Bill Clinton Trump is not
hat the constant contact was very
different here the investigation is very
different here the Clinton impeachment
was around a personal conduct issue not
a professional conduct issue or at least
that's all the Clinton team was
portraying it and so they maybe had a
better argument in the Obama
administration Republicans wanted White
House staff to testify and we did not
testify now there are legitimate issues
of executive privilege that deal with
Congress getting to into the president's
decision-making process the his or her
staff right that is something that has
been litigated in the courts many times
the president do have had some rights
there and we exercise those rights at
time now what we didn't do was deny
everything we had non White House
officials testified we didn't order them
not to testify we negotiated to try to
find compromises to try to find the
ground between a partisan fishing
expedition and Congress is legitimate
right through
so maybe a White House official didn't
testify but they will conduct an
interview about a topic like Benghazi or
fast and furious where even though the
motivations the leading some of the
Republican oversight was absurd
the the right to do so was not and so
you know we tried to find a compromise
they are just trying to have a fight and
it gets very different yeah we also
didn't have a special counsel who
concluded that Barack Obama had
obstructed justice and tried to impede
an investigation into foreign sabotage
in addition to another I don't know 10
or so federal investigations into Barack
Obama's businesses his inauguration his
transition his administration and a
whole bunch of other things so that was
one big difference as well a low-rent
criminal conspiracy how the Oval Office
and Trump is so say The Situation's are
at least different in that level wasn't
it wasn't a mob boss in charge of the
government that was a that was a slight
difference so what can Democrats do here
and what should they do do they need is
it time for the Democrats to be more
aggressive because it does seem at least
from my point of view that Trump is
basically forcing their hand in terms of
impeachment proceedings because he you
know there's their policies over there
and a lot of Democrats have said okay
let's just conduct a bunch of oversight
investigations let's not jump the gun on
impeachment here but he is then you know
I put it in response Trump is saying
well I'm not gonna let you conduct these
oversight investigations because I'm
gonna stone while I'm not gonna make any
of my people available for testimony I'm
not gonna give you the documents that
you need so you
well let me ask you this question do you
think the Democrats have been not
aggressive enough put aside what's
happened since the malla report came out
on Thursday what do you think to date
only on the oversight investigation so
if you think they haven't been
aggressive enough so I don't know if the
word is aggressive because they've
obviously been moving forward on a
number of fronts in terms of
investigations and a number of
committees right you got judiciary you
got you know all the different
committees are investigating what they
should be investigating I don't know
that there has been a
cohesive consistent message and drumbeat
front coming from the Democrats so that
the American people know exactly what
they're investigating and why like it
has seemed a bit scattershot and so yeah
so I don't know I mean obviously some of
this was Democrats were waiting for the
Muller report now the molar report is
here and I do have this feeling like
okay what are we doing what's the plan
yeah I think that's right I think in the
defense of some of the Democrats who I
think are very good at this
like Jerry Nadler and Elijah Cummings is
that the courts have shown that Congress
has to show that they have made
legitimate Temps to acquire the
documents or get the witnesses before
subpoenas and contempt motions and those
sorts of things start to flow and so
they've been doing that now the two
challenges I think the Democrats face is
one I do think they are more afraid of a
backlash for overreach in their
investigation of Trump's been a backlash
for under reach and I think that should
be important because not being
aggressive enough would really does a
disservice to the voters who turned out
to overwhelm a elect a check on the
casts and corruption in Washington and
then the second piece is I don't think
that everyone particularly the Ways and
Means Committee which has been tasked
with trying to get Trump tax returns has
fully embraced what Trump's strategy is
which as we said this time run out the
clock so the tax returns in particular
are going to work their way through the
courts probably all the way to the
Supreme Court and that's going to take
time and so every day that you're like
letting Steven Oken analyze the legality
of the request is a day more that
there's more clock the Trump is burned
and so I think in that sense we should
shorten the timelines but we still have
they sought to do the work of trying to
get the stuff to legitimate means
because even if we all know the Trump is
dashed through all the norms I'm not
sure the course of a law have ingested
for that new reality in American
politics yeah I mean I also think look I
I can be persuaded that I know we've
debated whether or not they should
begin impeachment proceedings all of us
have debated this now quite a few times
I can be persuaded that Democrats should
pursue a series of investigations on the
way to potential impeachment proceedings
but I do think that Democrats need to be
very clear what the roadmap is and
exactly what they're doing and what the
timeline is and what happens at the end
of this process because right now I
think a lot of people watching what
Democrats are doing you know could
rightly assume that Democrats are just
trying to say like we don't really want
to impeach the president we're too
afraid of the backlash so we're gonna
say we're doing all these investigations
and hopefully by the time we finish the
investigations impeachment fervor will
have died down and no one will bug us
about this so we can all just move on to
the election like it does feel like
that's happening now I think you know
Hillary Clinton wrote an op-ed yesterday
in The Washington Post also suggesting
that Democrats conduct a series of
investigations on the way to impeachment
but I thought she made an interesting
point which is you know she was
obviously a part of the Watergate
hearings when she was a young staffer
and she said it in Watergate Democrats
held a series of investigations and
hearings very publicly so that there
wasn't just a report that the American
people were digesting but that people
could see on television you know exactly
what wrongdoing and in crimes I'm sorry
people could see on television just what
Richard Nixon had done because there was
a like a long line of witnesses and
everything was on people's televisions
and stuff like that
and so it the purpose of the next couple
months is to basically make the Muller
report come to life on television for
people so that now look in the course of
all these congressional hearings the
American people can see exactly what
Trump has done and hear from the
witnesses themselves and see the
evidence then great but if this is just
a stalling tactic by Democrats then I
think that's going to be very
problematic and I think you're right
that people who voted in 2018 and
obviously they voted you know to protect
their health care
more than anything but people did vote
for a check on Trump that was part of
what people voted for and if they see
the Democrats just sort of like move
along and try to tell people you know
don't don't worry we're taking care of
it but then they don't actually do
anything I think that could be a problem
I think the question I will I promised
myself I would not reopen me in a
crooked media the grid impeachment
debate went on cast in the flak channel
everything else and I thought yeah I
thought you John and Tommy had a just a
really great conversation about this on
Tuesday I do think there is this
question that underlies whatever your
strategy is if you want to get to
impeachment which is do you use
impeachment to build the political with
you do you Charlie again do you use an
impeachment inquiry to build the
political support for impeaching Trump
or do you build the political support
for impeaching Trump and then decide if
you should open in a peaceful inquiry
right like that is sort of the - I don't
think anyone with the possible exception
of a brief moment standing hoarders life
anyone is advocating that we go from
there we take them all reports stick it
in a drawer and pass you know some
message Bill's on job training and tax
cuts for jobs that for companies that
ship jobs overseas right it's sort of
these two choices which is tearing from
the context and impeachment inquiry or
hearings potentially followed by a new
kitchen inquiry and I think that is a
hopeful question the only other thing
I'd say about it is you only open in
impeachment inquiry and Democrats are
united around that question and it does
not appear to me that they are yet
united on that question so Nancy Pelosi
you're going to get there you've got to
get Democrats United otherwise it's a
 show of epic proportions that will
undoubtedly benefit chunk of we're
divided on yeah and what I'm trying to
figure out is I just don't know like
what kind of aha moments might happen
over the next couple months
through these hearings that are as big
as the release of the Muller report so
that people can so the Democrats who are
wavering or other people can say oh yeah
now he deserves impeachment like I'd
know how you can build more support for
impeachment on it you know based on any
specific revelation or moment beyond
what we just saw in the Muller report
that's the only thing that keeps you
know that that I keep wondering about so
we'll see
I mean well keep talking about it yeah
we'll keep talking about it but here's
the thing whether Democrats pursue more
investigations or impeachment no matter
what this is essentially a political and
communications battle who has the more
persuasive message Trump or the
Democrats so what is Trump's message in
this fight we talked about this a little
bit as you mentioned he's saying you
know we should be legislating not
investigating that and you know these
are all my enemies and they're coming
after me and this whole thing was a
witch hunt and we should investigate
them that seems to be Trump's message is
there anything else
Trump's trying to say here or get across
happy he did Twitter followers Lou Dobbs
is awesome that's very very focused a
problem with Trump always is there is
actually a good message in late I want
to legislate they want to investigate
addition to just the general rhyming
couplet of it but he also is spending so
much time doing other extremist
that he's not a good messenger for that
right it's not just that he's
undisciplined that he can't deliver the
messages that he is doing just dumb
things all over the place live tweeting
Fox News so he's not a it's just not a
good avatar for the idea of focus on
good government news of times and that
is the problem theoretically if it
invested she's just a bad messenger for
it right I mean because there's been no
evidence over the last couple years that
Trump has ever tried to legislate
anything or push any number of issues
onto the agenda right I mean except for
the caravans coming and the Democrats
right to get me that's those two
messages have been you know sorry
those have been Trump's two main
messages since he has taken office the
Democrats are it to get me this is a
witch-hunt
and by the way brown people are invading
the country and they're going to kill
you in your sleep that is that's the
entirety of Trump's message every once
in a while there's I'm going to take
away your health care I'm going to give
you a tax cut there's a couple trade
things going on there's a North Korea
best friends with Kim jong-un this so
there's a couple of their message was
there but those are the primary messages
when Clinton was being investigated
Clinton had a pretty you know tight
message which was like you know I'm
trying to protect Medicare and Medicaid
and education funding and the
environment and also the economy's going
well so why are you investigating with
Obama when the Republicans are
investigating saying we're just coming
out of the this Great Recession we're
trying to bring jobs back I'm trying to
work hard to bring the economy back so
like these other presidents have had
message good messages to counter the
investigations Trump doesn't necessarily
have that going for them he could but he
just hasn't tried the last couple years
that's right Clinton had an identity
that was built up since the 92 campaign
as someone that you may not trust you
may not like personally and you know as
we learned you know in his presidency is
capable of some pretty disgusting
conduct but people believed Republicans
and Democrats independence believes then
he worked his ass off to the American
people he really finely honed that
identity so he was the perfect avatar
for you know this is a guy you know
homework for you so last dog died it's
like that was it then where he was
pushing on an open door message right
Obama was someone that the public if you
were to kind of fall out the the far far
right but even you know you know
mainstream Republicans independents
Democrats ugly Obama was a person of
moral and rectitude and good ethics and
so it was not when Republicans are
trying to like spin these crazy theories
about Benghazi and fast and furious and
all these other things that Obama was
somehow corrupt the American people
didn't believe it so he and in advance
Trump's problem is American people think
he's incredibly distracted he doesn't
really focus on his job and is deeply
corrupt so he is not the right person
for this message the problem is he is a
messenger the Democrats don't have a
messenger and they have a thousand
people talking about this none of whom
people know and none of whom have a not
even like Trump's got like the world's
biggest megaphone and they that's like
no real way to get their message out
other than a couple of days
cable hits in ten thousand Twitter
followers so whether it's investigations
or impeachment what should our message
be what should Democrats message be and
who exactly are we trying to persuade
here what's the audience I think our
this is really hard because we are we do
know that public opinion on Russia and
obstruction of justice has been pretty
steady in the beginning right the moa
report didn't really change a lot it
didn't help Trump they they bar
exoneration and letter didn't
help Trump maybe his numbers have
dropped at pointer too since the report
came out but it's all kind of
statistical noise it's been pretty
steady and so it's not clear that
additional focus on that specific thing
is going to move numbers dramatically
there's just not a lot of evidence of
that so I think what we do know that
Trump the corruption including but not
exclusive to Russia and obstruction of
justice
is a powerful message so how do you wrap
this into a larger message about Trump
putting himself in his own political and
financial interests above the interests
of the American people like that it sort
of mess anything Democrat should scream
what are you trying to hide like what
are you hiding why won't you be honest
with the American people and then you
say the reason he won't tell he won't
tell us the truth the reason he has
stonewalling here because he doesn't
want you to know that him then he is
putting money in pocket he's helping his
businesses he's putting himself before
you right I think it has to be that's
the ladder up to a larger message and is
simply about this is was not a trial
right we are this is not long order
you're not trying to convince Trump in
the court of public opinions you were
trying to tell a story about him and
that story has to speak to something
beyond an issue that has already
polarized people into their chants and
they haven't really moved from yeah I
mean he the guy ran promising to put
America first all he's ever done is put
Trump first he betrayed the country to
win an election he betrayed the country
to enrich himself with
like deal in Russia that he tried to
hide from the American people and then
he refused to defend the country from
foreign sabotage and then tried to cover
it up and if it happens again he's still
not gonna defend the country from
foreign sabotage he's trying to cover it
up again and all because he's worried
about his own election his own political
legitimacy and his financial gains
that's all he cares about and I think
you know that message is a drumbeat like
people think that about Trump anyway or
at least think something in the realm of
that they think he's corrupt they think
he cares only about himself I don't
think he really cares about them they
think he's a liar they think he's
dishonest this is all you know what
people believe about him
but I think the Democrats need to pound
on that message from now until the
election yeah you need a flip side of
that message for sure Democrats need to
talk about what they're for what they're
gonna do for people absolutely huge part
of the message but the story that we
tell about Trump has to be that he puts
himself first he doesn't put America
first to me that that to me is the most
salient message yeah that's right and
the challenge in it is people know who
Trump is what Democrats have to do is
show why who trunk is is bad for that
line right like that Trump comes with a
bunch of chaos and corruption but how
does that affect their lives one of the
consequences to their lives Trump being
who Trump is there there are no
available voters to Democrats who think
Trump is honest forthright ethical etc
they they barely think he's a a they'd
everything is a liar and I think he's
fairly absurd and but they think that
that doesn't affect their lives and that
is better than whoever the corrupt more
traditional politician is that that is
the potential alternative and in that
and that is the sort of the key part of
the story is not who Trump is but how
who Trump is affects your life yeah and
look and that's how you're going to get
back some of those you will convince
some people come off the sidelines the
you know the four
plus million Obama voters who sat down
2016 how you're gonna convince the the
voters who switched from Obama to Trump
how you're gonna keep the voters who
switch from Romney to Clinton in our
fold those the like that is those are
the three target universes and you got
to make sure that message works involve
them yeah look going back to 2016
there was a cohort of voters who told
exit pollsters on Election Day I do not
approve of Trump I do not like Trump but
I voted for him there's a cohort of
voters who said they didn't like Donald
Trump and they didn't like Hillary
Clinton and for voters who had
unfavorable ratings of both Trump and
Clinton Trump won those voters by on a 7
to 10 points something like that and
there so it's like why would these
people who said they don't I mean
there's a bunch of people who just like
Trump and they like his racism and they
like his xenophobia and they like it all
right that was like a big part of his
base there's some people say I don't
like Trump but I'm voting for him anyway
because I don't like Hillary there so
why did he win those voters because they
thought well he's gonna blow up the
system right or he's gonna bring change
to Washington or he's a
businessman he's gonna create jobs
whatever people believed but
you're right what they thought is even
though I don't like him maybe he's going
to make my life a little better and what
Democrats have to say is no he
lied to you he didn't make your life
better at all he did what he's always
done for the last 70 something years of
his miserable life and he looked out for
himself and he made sure that he was
okay and he didn't give a about
anyone else that's what happened and
it's interesting that you can see people
from different sides of the ideological
spectrum in the Democratic Party making
this argument Bernie Sanders of all
people is out there almost every day
saying Trump lied to you Trump broke his
promise he said he was going to improve
your life and he didn't and then you can
see people like Joe Biden with that
message as well and more moderate and
centrist candidates so it isn't
interesting like it can unify people
across the Democratic Party that Trump
basically broke his promise to people
even if even if you didn't like Trump
and thought he was gonna fix things he
didn't fix anything it's I always wonder
and I'd like to you know see research on
about whether the broken promise message
is persuasive yeah yeah I don't know I
mean people know he's a liar so are they
shocked by it and so is it more
important that he broke the promise or
is it like is that the salient fact that
he promised in the accident he didn't do
X or is it what X is right is it just
simply the mere fact that teeth this is
less it's less about the promises and
what about the populism which is he said
he was going to take on Wall Street
protect Medicare protect Medicaid
protect you know not give tax cuts to
rich people and under Trump you know you
can make this very succinct argument
that corporate profits are up corporate
taxes are down your wages are flat your
health care is up the cost of college is
up the cost of your food is up are you
better off and there you can MIT right
yeah like they're like is that the
better argument then Trump said he would
do this Trump said he would do this he
didn't do those things right I think
that like we're like I don't know the
answer that nominee with us answer that
but it's gonna be an interesting
strategic calculus going forward because
with a normal politician the broken
promises thing is incredibly important
it was the death of George HW Bush for
saying he was going to we said read my
lips no new taxes and then he gave
people new taxes but his Trump unique in
the sense that he dishonestly is priced
into the baseline yeah although even
with that George HW Bush example the
broken promise was a promise that gets
to a certain economic populism right he
said he wasn't gonna raise your taxes
anything I think I think it's a
combination of both right like I think
if you just do a ton of broken promises
and they don't all have an economic
theme to them it doesn't really work as
well though I will say that even for the
immigration Hawks out there or the
xenophobes out there Trump promised that
he would fix immigration didn't do that
Trump promised he'd build a wall didn't
do that either now a whole bunch of
people in Trump space are gonna say I
don't really care that he didn't build
the wall because I know that he acts
like a xenophobe and that's really all I
wanted in a president so he's certainly
gonna have a bunch of people like that
and there's some people who were just
happy the Trump gave the middle finger
to Washington and to elites and to the
establishment even if it didn't produce
any real results which it didn't but
again those people were not really
trying to reach as much we're trying to
reach both Prabhu is trying to get our
base out to vote
trying to get non voters out to vote and
then trying to get a bunch of people who
you know some of the swing voters that
we captured in 2018 I hope to vote again
so we'll see all right on to the next
cheery topic the New York Times
published a story this week that former
homeland security secretary Kirsten
Nelson had sorry former homeland
security secretary Kirsten Neilson had
wanted to make election security a top
priority but was warned by the White
House chief of staff never to bring it
up around Trump because it wouldn't make
him angry the P said quote in a meeting
this year Mick Mulvaney made it clear
that mr. Trump still equated any public
discussion of malign Russian election
activity with questions about the
legitimacy of his victory as it result
miss Nielsen eventually gave up on her
effort to organize a White House meeting
of cabinet secretaries to coordinate a
strategy to protect next year's
elections also this week Jared Kushner
said he thinks the Moller investigation
has had a much harsher impact on our
democracy than quote a couple of
facebook ads dan what do you think if
you're the Russians do you even bother
to change up your strategy in 2020 or do
you just pretty much double down on what
worked so well in 2016 knowing that
trumps are not going to do a damn thing
about it
so that New York Times story caused me
to nearly spontaneously combust
I was really for two for two reasons one
just generally as a country what the
 are we doing the fact that we can't
even organize a single White House
meeting around a rooming threat to the
country in actual attack our democracy
is bananas like that should scale of a
shadow people because the meeting is the
easy part
the hard part is what coz is executing
the plan that comes out of the meeting
and so we should be very worried and not
just about Russia and but hurricane
preparedness national disaster the
 measles outbreak that's
happening in America from our
anti-vaxxer commander commander in chief
who's been tweeting about this stuff for
a long time like there's a lot of
happening and not a lot of copying the
people on deck to do these things yeah
well and also by the way I would just I
would just say that for that reason this
is why Democrats should be talking
about the mullah report too right
because I do think if all we do is say
Trump's committed a bunch of crimes he's
a criminal he's corrupt whatever you
know people could say like well like are
they petty crimes what crimes are they
but what Trump has done is to impede an
investigation into foreign sabotage of
our democracy that may happen again like
it does get to a national security
argument that like Trump Trump is not
defending the country he is not willing
to keep you safe because he cares more
about his own political standing I do
think that's a powerful message as you
just demonstrated the second reason that
argument I'm sorry the second reason
that story drove me insane which was
there is this world in which Trump
actually benefits from the low
expectations that the media puts on them
the way that story is written is that
Trump can't have the meeting because he
is too much of a toddler to have a
conversation about Russian interference
because it goes to his insecurities or
its anger at the Muller investigation
right and it puts the the motivation and
the most benign way possible from it
doesn't speak highly of him as a human
being or some of the qualifications to
be a kindergarten teacher so I was like
that it is this it didn't speaker how
attend is a human being or his
qualifications to be President but it
also doesn't even cut doesn't even
contemplate the other possibility which
is just as likely or more likely which
is that he wants Russian interference in
this election because he knows that will
benefit him he is someone with a long
documented history of cheating we know
for a fact he cheated to win this
election both in the illegal payment for
serving Daniel's to prevent that story
from coming out the efforts to collect
quote-unquote dirt on Hillary Clinton
from the Russians asking the Russians to
to hack her emails to teach Ethan on his
taxes we know we know in the new book he
cheats at golf which is the least
 surprising thing ever and so why
why is the assumption not that he is
willing to I'm sorry he is why is the
assumption not that he is openly
inviting
rushing your parents because he thinks
he needs it to win what is a very close
election and so like we should spend as
much time thinking about that it's just
oh there goes Trump again forgot to take
his nap and he's grumpy so we can't talk
about an attack on America yeah I mean
he's publicly asked Russia to help him
win an election before when he asked
them to get Hillary's email speken you
know July of 2016 so this is this is
nothing new he has invited foreign
sabotage of our elections his TV lawyer
Rudy Giuliani just the other day say
what's wrong with said what's wrong with
getting information from the Russians to
help you in an election I mean it's just
it's all there in plain sight
it's all there in plain sight and look
what we know from the mother report and
from reports you know over the last
month is not only I mean you know to
Jared's stupid point
this wasn't a couple of Facebook ads
either they hacked into Democrats email
systems they stole emails they stole
documents they tried to then publish
those documents through WikiLeaks and
they targeted voting systems in all 50
states
they actually targeted the voting
systems themselves and if we think that
they're not gonna do that this time
around we're sort of crazy because like
why wouldn't what what incentive where
the Russians have not to pursue this
again you know Moeller said they did it
but no one in the US government has
really done anything to stop them punish
them we've sort of dragged our feet on
sanctions they've been a few sanctions
here and there but the Trump
administration has dragged their feet on
sanctions on really punishing Russia
Trump is out there saying a million
times including when he stood next to
Vladimir Putin that the election
sabotage didn't really happen and as you
said we know that Trump really wants to
have help winning the election no matter
who he gets it from whether it's illegal
not illegal cheating not he just doesn't
care he wants the help to win the
election and he'll take it from anywhere
in anyone I used to believe based on our
experience working the government well I
talk to people you know in our you know
friends and family who you know
working government who just would be
panicked about the state of our ability
protect America against terrorism or
crime or hurricanes or whatever else
because Trump is an idiot and he is
staffed by idiots and so the sort of
view is like are we coming countries all
these screws and I would say on the cert
and I would argue on a certain set of
things there it like and we know this
that there are career professionals
bureaucrats Patriots who would be
working on these things and what Trump
tweeted or what he was what he was going
on Fox News or not or Steven Miller's
presence in the in the White House we're
pretty irrelevant to that fact right the
government was kind of going on beneath
the chaos and I actually no longer
believe that I believe that to be true
in 2017 and 2019 I'm much more worried
about it because the government is a
 ghost town the White House has
not hired people to replace the people
who left half the cabinet is acting
officials it's basically being run by a
temp agency would on the Secretary of
Defense when I'm Secretary Homeland
Security so all up and down and that has
an impact right people are the company
people are leaving because they're being
pushed out the there just it's empty
right we don't even have people to do
the jobs and that is very that that is
worrisome and it allows sort of the
nefarious motivations around something
like potential Russian aircraft the 2020
election to like trickle down and have a
real impact we are I don't there is no
sort of quote-unquote patriotic deep
State protecting us from Trump's
incompetence anymore the questions are
worth caring to people but no it should
be scary and the question is what can
Democrats do about it
one thing Democrats have decided to do
is pledge that they will not take
advantage of any Hector illegally
obtained information for political or
campaign purposes something that
obviously the Trump campaign will not
commit to Dan was this the right move
for Democratic campaigns and the DNC and
Democratic super PACs and all the rest
to take this pledge or are we putting
ourselves at a disadvantage here
considering that the Trump campaign is
welcoming foreign interference in the
election and by the way reporters and
journalist
are surely going to print information
about hacked and stolen emails again
they have they haven't made any
indication that they're going to change
their ways from 2016 when they all had
you know running blogs about various
WikiLeaks dumps I'm really torn on this
question I think for 100% sure for 100%
certainty Democrats should not use any
stolen or hack materials against other
Democrats in the primary yeah right wait
for some Russian somehow weird a
penetrating Joe Biden or kumla Harris
Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders his
email systems and released those emails
Democrats should pledge not to use that
against other Democrats yeah in some
ways maybe this is a hypothetical
situation will never come to pass
because there's a whole team because the
we didn't face this in 2016 it wasn't
like they're a bunch of hack Trump
emails at the Clinton campaign or the
DNC decided not to use because even
though the RNC and some of the other
Republican entities for reportedly
hacked those emails somehow didn't make
it through the WikiLeaks editing process
and we never saw those but were they to
come well good thing we're in a general
election and it's Democratic nominee X
against Trump and somehow a someone
attacked Trump's tax returns or other
stuff should a Democrat not use that I'm
not so sure about that
I yeah well especially good about it but
this world of unilateral disarmament
against Trump you know seems I'm not
sure that's wise alright great don't
feel great about it but I don't know
that we recommend you know as Tommy said
recounting his high school football
glory days he second moral
victories glory days I'm not sure
whether it's right or wrong I just don't
know if it's feasible I mean I do you
know there is a there's a debate about
whether it's very wrong but what I
wanted to what I'm wondering about it
was whether it's feasible because the
way this plays out in the general
election is not that someone hacks
Trump's tax returns and then privately
gives it to the Democratic nominee and
says okay do with this what you
we'll what happens is they get hacked
it's out in the public every single
media outlet does a story on Trump's
hacked tax returns and what is the
Democratic nominee gonna do I'm not
gonna comment on those stories about
Trump's tax or Trump's leaked tax
returns because I had a pledge not to
use stolen information to our advantage
like that's not gonna happen
right when like everyone in the country
in the world is talking about it because
it's been made public so I just I don't
know if it's a feasible pledge for the
general election because of the way
hacked information is disseminated
through today's media environment yes so
I think you're exactly right then this
is probably a dumb discussion because
the real problem here is not the Trump
campaign it's not the Democrats it's the
meeting right so there one scenario is
it's sort of the equivalent of the Trump
Tower meeting right so all of a sudden
the Democratic you know the researcher's
Democratic nominee opens their email and
it's Trump's tax returns so what do you
do there right but that's a that's a
different question then there's someone
hacked Trump's tax returns and give them
to the New York Times and New York Times
reports on then and then obviously not
wrong you're not gonna pretend like they
don't like this that would be an absurd
proposition I think a Democratic
campaign that receives stolen materials
has to call the FBI like that it that is
the only viable right thing to do and I
say that that someone who worked on the
gore campaign when the gore campaign
received stolen debate materials from
george w bush's debate prep and the
first thing they did that our campaign
did was call the FBI you mean you didn't
write back and say if it's what i think
this is i love it especially in the
summer well i my 24 year old self would
have done that but i wasn't the person
they hit someone higher up on the food
chain received the debate right
materials okay
let's turn to 2020 after months of Vice
President Joe Biden sorry after months
of speculation Vice President Joe Biden
has made it official he is once again
running for president in a video
released this morning
Biden's skip the usual talk of policy or
his record or his biography and instead
talked about Trump's reaction to the
white supremacist rally in
Charlottesville in 2017 he said in the
video quote
we are in the battle for the soul of
this nation I believe history will look
back on four years of this president in
all he embraces as an aberrant moment in
time but if we give Donald Trump eight
years in the White House he will forever
and fundamentally alter the character of
this nation who we are and I cannot
stand by and watch that happen Biden
would be 78 the day he takes office he
served in the Senate for decades before
joining Barack Obama's presidential
ticket in 2008 and the months leading up
to his announcement Biden's long record
has come under close scrutiny
particularly on criminal justice reform
and abortion but he comes into the race
with significant name recognition and
he's consistently performed at the top
of polls of Democratic primary voters
thus far his advisers are telling
reporters that their strategy is to just
let Joe be Joe
dan what did you think of his video and
his overall plan to win the nomination I
mean I guess I would give the caveat
first that like Joe Biden
I am from Delaware there was a small
place I have seen Joe Biden own Joe
Biden been around Joe Biden my entire
life I have very vivid memories of
meeting him for the first time when I
was I think in first grade or second
grade at the flower market which is sort
of like our State Fair in Wilmington
Delaware so I'm not okay and we worked
with him in the White House he's been
you know ups 10 20 up to 2017 in this
speaks to his age and long down in
Washington up through 2017 he had been
either my senator or my vice president
my entire life and it's been well
reported I'm not that young
so I'm like I can't pretend to be
completely objective here I thought the
video was good I mean it very
traditional right like Biden seems to be
making an argument that is a different
version of trumps right normal in a lot
of campaigns you have a argument for
nostalgia on one side and an argument
for progress on the other right yeah
funk make America great again is an
argument for a older Morken sort of
conservative wider version of America
and Trump was able with that Joe Biden
is
argue it seems to be arguing for a
different form of nostalgia me you know
I saw someone send us on Twitter an
argument to make America a 2015 again
they've like old quote it's an organizer
saying that and so that isn't that is
sort of a unique way in which to it's
it's unusual to have two people making
nostalgic our glitches for different
versions of the past so you know it's
hard to say how it'll go I think you
know we'll have a conversation shortly
about his strengths and weaknesses but I
thought as an announcement video it if
he is making a nostalgia argument of
sorts it works very well with that
because it you when I was watching and
this is partially I think related to
sort of Maya in all of our long-term
relationship with Joe Biden in our
political lives is it felt like a
something that happened before the time
of Trump like if you didn't see the
videos of the Nazis in the words of
Trump sort of it you have this Joe Biden
making a case hooding you know Thomas
Jefferson or whatever else in talking in
these sort of planet platitudes about
the soul of America felt just like a
different version of politics or maybe a
you know politician and a version of
politics that existed in a pre Trump
television short movie yeah I mean look
I will make the same stipulation I did
not
I've not known Joe Biden as long as you
have but ever since he joined the
campaign in a way and then worked in the
White House with us I have come to know
him well I think he is a good man I
don't think he's a perfect person I
think he's made plenty of mistakes but
he is someone who has learned from has
shown the capacity to learn from his
mistakes he has shown the capacity to
grow to change and I think he's just a
fundamentally decent and good human
being and so yeah that that's that's
what I think about Joe Biden I think the
question is and the question revolves
around basically him claiming that Trump
is some sort of aberration right and I
don't think that is a settled question
among voters I think for a lot of
liberals especially those of us who pay
close attention to politics we don't
believe Trump is an aberration we
believe that he is a symptom not the
cause we have said this
for and that the Republican Party has
become rotten to its core and has sort
of radicalized over the last 10 15 20
years and the question is has Joe Biden
not seen that radicalization of the
Republican Party or does he still
believe that the Republican Party today
is the Republican Party that he believed
you know but I'm sorry the Republican
Party that he worked with back when he
was a 29 year old senator 30 world
senator in the early 70s which is a
Republican Party where you could
disagree on big issues but still come
together and forge compromise and
there's probably a lot of people out
there a lot of older Democrats some
Republicans who don't like Trump some
independents who don't like Trump who do
believe the Trump is some kind of an
aberration and I think Biden's video
basically makes that argument too by
using Charlotte's Feld's like why did he
decide to focus the whole video on
Charlotte's but because Charlottesville
is the most extreme example of this
isn't just a Republican president we
disagree with this is someone who said
there's very fine people on both sides
when Nazis and white supremacist marched
through the streets of Charlottesville
and that is while you may have disagreed
fundamentally with George W Bush and
thought he was the worst president
history you know mostly because he took
us to war in the wrong country
you know even he would not have called
me neo-nazis and white supremacists very
fine people and other president other
Republican presidents wouldn't either
Donald Trump has and so he's different
that's Joe Biden's argument basically
and the question is you know do enough
people buy that argument or do they
think no Trump is just a part of what
has sorry the Trump is just the latest
example of the Republican Party's
radicalization and we need big sweeping
progressive change to fix this country
and I think that's the big question here
yeah I think that there is an open
question about the political appeal of
Trump as an aberration control is an
aberration is important if you're making
a nostalgia based argument for your kin
which is if we get rid of trumping you
put me in we will go back to this policy
this politics as usual that you didn't
want thought was better right where
Democrats and Republicans could we would
disagree but get along there'd be less
yelling yes less weeding and frankly
you'd probably pay a lot less attention
to politics which is probably very
appealing to a lot of people maybe not
people have podcasts but generally
appealing it but there may be a question
of the political appeal of that argument
but there is no question about the
inaccuracy of that argument right Trump
is not an aberration yeah
Trump is a direct extension of where the
Republican Party has been going for a
long time from Ronald Reagan states
right speech to George HW Bush's Willie
Horton adds to the homophobic nature of
the bush 2004 campaign yeah to
everything that happens is the day
Barack Obama stepped onto the national
scene and this like like win or lose if
we beat Trump we saw that giant
problem in this country because the
Republican Party is the party and Trump
it was the party of trophies for Trump
shut up he just put his name on
it like a third tier building in New
York and so like it may work politically
as a governing strategy if you walk in
there thinking you're gonna be able to
cut deals with Mitch McConnell because
of your old relationships that to me is
a very naive approach and Joe Biden's
not the only person who signatures a
handful of Democrats who are yearning
for this politics will pass I think
Democrats have to recognize that
politics is behind us and that it's
going to take real aggressive action to
change it and that I think that is and
it's going to be an important aspect of
the Biden candidacy that it'll be worth
discussing yeah no I people ask me all
the time like well what do you guys
gonna do what's what's gonna happen if
we get rid of Trump in 2020 and then
everything's back to normal you know and
it's like no if we get rid of Trump in
2020
first of all Trump's not going away it's
gonna be an ex president who's gonna be
on Twitter all the time it's gonna be
booked on every cable show and a
new show there is unless he's in jail
right yeah but so he'll still be around
but trumpism will still be around too
because that is the Republican Party now
the Republican Party is not going to go
back to some you know wonderful time
when they were a bunch of moderates on
the party and stuff like that like that
that's gone that is gone for good
Fox News is still there you know the
bright parts of the world are still
there the right wing lunatics of the
world are still there and a lot of them
are populating the elected ranks of the
Republican Party in fact most of the
elected ranks of the Republican Party
and Democrats have to understand that
and reckon with it right like that's not
to say we have to be a total war all the
time or the total war is something we
should aspire to but we should at least
be realistic about the party that we're
dealing with that's all we're asking for
here is just a realism about the party
that we're dealing with here
so is Biden immediately the front-runner
yes yeah I mean just some fact you know
he's out pulling Bernie Sanders who is
the next closest candidate to him by
about 8 points nationally and 7 to 8
points in Iowa according to the average
polls
he's got the highest favorability
ratings in the field and he has
relatively low pretty low unfavorability
ratings so yeah that's you know he by
you know we were we had this
conversation a couple weeks ago about
how Bernie Sanders was the front-runner
and he was because Biden hadn't
officially announced yet but now that
Biden announces I mean we'll see what
happens to the polls over the next
couple weeks but I think it's pretty
fair to claim that he's a front-runner
right now yeah I think we should it's
worth discussing his this sort of
strengths and weaknesses yeah I mean he
like right now his numbers are held up
by three things name ID mm-hmm a
perception that he is the most electable
Democratic with the obvious that
consistent caveat that no one knows
electability is and those who think they
do are often operating on gender and
racial stereotypes that we don't leave
some people to believe somehow for some
reason a white man it's the most
electable person which we know from
2008-2012
in the 2008 team in terms of that is not
the case right not to mention Hillary
Clinton winning the popular vote in 2016
and the third thing is a close
association with Barack Obama who has a
95 percent approval rating among
Democrats which is leading Biden to
receive north of 40 percent of the
african-american vote in polling and
that is most important in terms of
propping up numbers but when you are
trying to accumulate the delegates do
you need to win the Democratic
nomination the african-american votes
are actually because of the way
congressional districts are drawn more
valuable than any other group because
you feel ility than met the most
delegates from majority african-american
districts if you're pulling strongly
with that group yeah
now the question is are those
sustainable over time name ID is by its
very nature a diminishing resource right
as more people get name ID then your
advantage to that goes down electability
he he is going how he won right now he
has seen as most electable candidate
based on what people know what's in and
his association with - winning national
campaigns but now he's a cannon right
now he's got a show his likability every
day if his campaign in 2016 looks at all
like his campaign for 2008 and 1988 then
that perception electability could have
rode very quickly the third question is
there's gonna be a battle over just who
is the heir to the Obama legacy is it
someone who is it someone like Biden who
can be seen as a throwback to that
legacy or can to be seen as someone like
Elizabeth Warren or Carla Harris or Cory
Booker or better or work or mayor peach
who can be seen as the the next step
right the person who's going to take the
baton from Obama and sort of finish that
work right that sort of the next
generation of young progressive
leadership in this country and that
those are all of the questions now the
challenges are in every long dirty
record with a lot of troubling bones
particularly in the end with the view of
hindsight but even many of them even
troubling at the time and you know we we
were missed to not mention that he was
most recently involved in a controversy
or even a lot of criticism for being
inappropriate inappropriate touching
getting inappropriately close to women
that
you know and that literally is you know
he's had to deal with it how he dealt
with that didn't indicate I think a lot
oh I know what the right word it didn't
indicate a real understanding of the
gravity of that situation and if that if
not dealt with that it's also a huge
problem in this election yeah I think I
think all that is right for people who
do not want Joe Biden to be the party's
nominee of which there are you know
quite a few in the activists and base
community and and probably other people
as well
one thing I would caution is making the
argument that I'm sorry
one thing I would caution against is
making the argument that Joe Biden is
out of step or out of touch with where
the Democratic Party is right now
because I don't know that that's true I
mean he you know roughly half the voters
in the Democratic primary described
themselves as moderate or conservative
another thing to keep in mind 56 percent
of Democratic voters in 2018 in these
last midterms were over 50 while just
29% were below 40 so you do have a quite
a big cohort in this party of older
Democrats who were more moderate or
conservative who won't necessarily see
Joe Biden's troublesome record as a
deal-breaker partly because these are
people who may have evolved on all of
these positions themselves and partly
because when they think about Joe Biden
and like as you said he's got a near
universal name recognition almost
everyone knows who Joe Biden is when
they think of Joe Biden they have a
strong correlation to Barack Obama and
they think okay this is this fight this
is a guy who was vice president to the
most popular Democratic president in my
lifetime and he was a good progressive
vice president he you know jumped the
gun came out for gay marriage even
before Obama did because he let it slip
on Meet the Press right like these are
the memories that a lot of voters and
not just older voters by the way but
like you said african-american voters
young voters all kinds of voters these
are the memories these people that
people have of Joe Biden so then to say
oh but look at this record in the 70s
80s and 90s that's way more conservative
than it
B which is true to say look at that
record is going to cause some cognitive
dissonance with a lot of voters now can
that change over time if one or more
candidates makes a sustained argument
against Joe Biden for the policies that
he has support in the past and his
record yeah possibly but that is not
where we start this race it's just not I
I think reporters and pundits and
political operatives probably spend too
much time spend more time thinking about
older positions and not enough times
thinking about current positions yes and
I think voters sort of think about the
opposite right holy is somebody's pass
votes
everyone tests those whether it's
burnings votes on guns , Harris's
support our policies and on criminal
justice or better or works votes in the
house all everyone's positions are past
additions are relevant those voters put
a lot more value in where you stand
today and they have they give people a
wide berth for evolution if they can
explain why they did what they did and
why they did would do something
differently now and so what's going to
be much more relevant to Biden's
successful failure in the race is not
what he did in 1875 or 1993 but what he
says he's going to do in January of 2021
and that is real because we don't really
know his policy agenda is a blank slate
like we've assigned sort of this
moderate you know we've known people
with blue checkmarks and podcasts and
cable TV KB cable TV jobs or whatever
you know assign them this sort of
moderate Lane but like what if this
additional talks are going to be is
gonna be for a public option it's gonna
be for Medicare for simply improving the
ACA where is he going to be what's his
taxation plan where is he going to be on
regulation of Wall Street all of those
things going to be more relevant what he
did before although the stuff he did
before is the other thing it's
irrelevant but people are often more
looking forward to looking back when it
comes to what a politician is said and
done yeah I totally hurt that I mean I
think that if I was running a campaign
the primary campaign against Joe Biden I
would look at the policies proposing now
and try to draw differences and
and and not necessarily spend too much
time on the record only the exception is
where his past record sort of what it
tells you about the policies proposed
he's proposing now so for example in
2008 in that primary Hillary Clinton's
vote for the Iraq war was a very big
issue in that election because Barack
Obama was against it but it wasn't just
that Obama kept harping on the vote
first of all the vote wasn't that far in
the past it was it just been you know a
couple years ago and we were still
involved in the war right but Barack
Obama talked about that vote to say this
is the kind of commander-in-chief
she'll be now she's more likely to get
us into war or to take us to war because
of this vote and because of her past
foreign policy positions that was the
argument that he made so if Joe Biden
comes out with economic policies that
are not sufficiently progressive for
example then saying oh and by the way he
supported this bankruptcy bill in 2005
that made it harder for people to
declare bankruptcy working families
declare bankruptcy and now he refuses to
go far enough on X economic issue then I
think that's a more salient argument
that might be more effective than just
pointing to things he said in the early
70s in positions he took in the early
70s that he has since completely changed
yeah I thought like a model for the way
to handle this is how Kamala Harris
responded to your question on the
podcast a few weeks ago about the Truman
much maligned and rightfully rightfully
maligned truancy policy that she had as
District Attorney and that was and to
say I was wrong
here's why I wouldn't do it again is how
you have to do it I think if you can
explain that well you'll get it passed
if but it's hard Biden is not someone
who spent a lot of his time in life
apologizing right he's a very prideful
individual right he has been so you know
hit his explanations of things like the
lien appropriate touching from Lucy Lucy
Flores and others have talked about the
Anita Hill hearing have not been
I would say full of remorse right or
full of explanation but and so that that
will be a challenge it's it is hard for
you know it I think it's hard for to do
that in but he's gonna have to if he
wants to win this nomination yeah and I
do think the most important thing here
is where does he come down on the issues
of the day right like we know you know
in 2016 he came up for $15 minimum wage
he's come out for free college for four
years republic universities but like you
said we still don't know exactly where
he stands on health care a whole bunch
of other issues so you know the policy
pronouncements he makes in the coming
weeks I think will be very important to
what happens in this race last question
on this how much should Democrats worry
about two men in their late 70s Joe
Biden and Bernie Sanders potentially
battling it out for the nomination since
they are the you know number one number
two candidates in polling right now I
worry about it
I've already in two ways I worry about
270 year old white men balance the
Democratic nomination and although
that's also me the choice in the voters
not the activists and I worry about how
young people and people of color and
other people around this country who are
most affected by the policies the
government makes feels about a general
election between two white men in their
70s battling and out you know I think
that that you know I think one of the
challenges we had in 2016 was despite
hillary clinton's history-making role as
the first female nominee of a major
party because of all of the baggage that
came from years of investigations and
caricatures and unfair coverage of
hillary clinton for a lot of people that
elections got removed from people's
lives right and didn't feel it's not
more like the past in the teacher in a
2020 general election it feels more like
than the past and the future is
worrisome now des bernie sanders is
credit in this he has a demonstrated
record of exciting young people yeah and
maybe he
you know his age is not relevant it's
not been something that has been
prohibited from exciting young people
and so if he will be nominated you know
there's a chance he could replicate that
on the national scale you know this goes
to the you know our friend David Axelrod
always says that voters look for the
remedy not the replica mm-hmm and so
when you look in the Democratic field
you have lots of I what I what acts
means by that is they usually want the
opposite if they're gonna unsee a
president or replace a you know term
limited incumbent person they usually
want the opposite Oh thoughtful Obama
was the opposite of impetuous
intellectually uncurious Bush you got us
into a rocket Trump with the opposite of
Obama who is the candidate who is the
most opposite trunk in this race and you
know some people have argued I think
actually even Saul you know Axl has
quote used to describe this is you know
that's part of the appeal of mayor Pete
that's part of the appeal of it
Elizabeth Warren or Carmel Harris it
feels very different it feels more like
the teaching in the past and I think
that's just as we try to figure out what
the electability means the future
of or you know who represents an
exciting future for America is an
interesting question and you know as to
what is who is best to be trouble I part
of the problem with the remedy replica
saying with regard to Trump is Trump has
so many uniquely awful qualities like he
is one of our worst people as love it
always says that there's a ton of people
who were the opposite of drum you know
like it is not clear in this field who
is the most opposite of Donald Trump
right like there are a number of
candidates that can lay claim to being
opposite of Trump so it's sort of a
tougher thing to figure out my my
thoughts on the age factor here partly
because as you said Bernie Sanders has
dominated with younger voters did in
2016 and so far in polls is today it's
hard to say that for a lot of those
younger voters who were supporting
Bernie that he does he know he
represents the past or something like
that because they don't they don't
believe that I actually am
more of like what it means to serve as
president in your late 70s because I do
know that in 2008 there was a very big
issue made of John McCain's age partly
by us partly by the media and he was in
his early 70s and I think the job of
President is very difficult and it is
trying and it wears you down and it's
tiring and imagining two men in their
late 70s serving in that role you know
it's it's tough and perhaps they're both
up for it and they're both very
energetic and you can see if you know
Bernie's been running all around the
country and Joe Biden ran all around the
country in 2018 so you know perhaps
they're fine but it does it does worry
you that people and they're you know
it's it's a very very difficult job
being president and these you know both
Bernie and Biden would be the oldest
presidents by far yeah it's a very fair
point so that's what that's one thing
but you know they could surprise us and
just be as energetic as the young folks
so okay when we come back we will have
Dan's interview with Mother Jones Azari
Berman
you
