you went to the mat down yes I did it
was Josh acaba and I've been waiting to
talk to you about this outfit because I
told you I went to her estate sale
yes which what was that it was when I
worked at the Daily Beast and I got a
invite that said please come to her
estate sale and write about it so I went
up in the home was that weird prints guy
there her prints what was his name good
Louis yeah it was not there but the
things that were being sold were very
creepy no bottles were there let me stop
in case you don't know or whatever you
you you're not cultured etc Zsa Zsa
Gabor was kind of like a socialite from
the 50s what this is a sister named Ava
Gabor who is on the show Green Acres
okay Josh is the place to be
yes Zsa Zsa Gabor eventually became
famous for simply still existing diet I
believe at the age of 99 yeah a couple
years ago I'm lost was losing limbs it
was getting dirty right right right but
the important thing is she has a thick
Hungarian accent and we don't have any
real glamour anymore so just think of
that what do you think did you have a
Hungarian accent at the Met Gala I
didn't and also nobody was that
interested in talking to me that night
so I didn't really have to worry about
it it's important by the way that so you
went with Ryan Murphy and he was dressed
as Liberace correct so Ryan was my fairy
godfather with this whole thing and he
wrote me an email in November and said
we're going to the Met Gala it's gonna
be the most glamorous thing ever and I
was like okay so then he came up with
the idea and the theme was camp so he
came up with the idea that he was gonna
be Liberace and I was going to be Josh
on and I said thank you and it ended up
all coming together Christian Siriano
made the dress that was based on this
picture of her and in the picture she's
holding two pink poodles and we did try
to get real pink poodles to have on the
carpet but Anna doesn't want that no no
to the no live animals which I said we
could they let James Charles at the Met
you've been dying to say that you've
East 19 years old that I'm afraid of him
I'm so happy I understand that reference
well I thought cuz I said you know we
could have a trainer meet us at one end
of the carpet I'll be 15 minutes but
then it would have been a mess and what
if it pooped on the carpet which I think
would have been iconic
they did but they didn't allow it but
Judith Leiber made like a Swarovski
poodle bag for me to carry and Neil Lane
had all of that original jewelry so I
got to wear all of her original joy
which pulled the whole thing together
and it was really fun I still have
several toes that are numb from the
shoes that I wore I just you have to
change into sneakers I didn't I'm not
you understand like I'm not cool and
also but I have to say like the Met Gala
carpet is no joke like
it's not a joke and you know it's not
like there's a lot of people that are
like who's that middle-aged character
actress you know it's actually all I do
so I think twice that's Lois at Whole
Foods a Kurtz
one of my favorite things about the Met
Gala is like when you see a picture of a
celebrity and in the background you see
another celebrity yes just like it's all
happening at the same time and there's
so many famous people which was my
dilemma this year where I was like being
invited a lot of people they did invite
a lot of people maybe too many were I
was there please you got your invite in
November someone or was someone but like
we got there at like a weird cuz I've
been warned like it's like a real logjam
of celebrities like you get there and
everybody awaits online like it doesn't
matter who you are you're waiting on
that line and we got there and it was
this weird low so we just sort of went
in and then I had like that red carpet a
little bit soul-crushing you know I took
like you can't huh who cares one of the
vogue girls came over and she was like
stand there and take your picture and I
was like okay and then I was like so
uncomfortable and then she went you can
go to the top of the stairs now and I
was like okay so you know there's like
levels and levels and levels and people
like most people aren't they don't care
they're gonna work it they're gonna stop
at each level and pose and I was like
I'll go to the top of the stairs now
you just can't walk I just in fact my
fighter flight kicked in and I really
hustled my ass right up the stairs but I
have to like and you don't have to meet
the host committee so you go up and you
sort of curtsy to Anna Wintour and Lady
gaga and Harry Styles and Serena
Williams and you say hello and you kiss
the ring and that was really crazy was
Anna's hair in perfect parentheses of
course Peter Peter pumpkin eater she'll
absolutely being friends with Ryan yes
like or even just in your life have you
met Gaga before I have met her once
before and she's couldn't have been
nicer and when I said hello to her she
was so sweet I mostly she was so nice I
will admit that when I met Serena
because here's the thing like I was
raised by like nerdy Jewish parents who
think that what I do for a living is
endlessly tacky I was supposed to be a
rabbi like this gone sideways so I'm
like I'm a Stan of everyone so whenever
I'm at an event like this I'm like I
don't belong I'm a fan I'm like a person
off the street that got to sneak in so
when I meet Serena Williams I'm not just
gonna be like Hello Serena Williams I
have to so I got grasped her hand and I
said I think you're terrific - 82
year-old Katharine Hepburn do you I do
wonder like you know when you know look
if you live in LA like you see famous
people like there sure whatever gee you
know their name so you would be like yes
sir like you don't wait for Serena to be
the kinda you're just like we know your
name is Serena I did not and also that's
a queen living among us so that I'm
gonna bow down to and then I had most
people I met um uh oh my god I can't
believe his name share his clothing
designer I'm really happy
Wow that's don't worry
nice lady Ciara showed up in a Bob
Mackie that did she she did oh he was so
lovely but I did have one
I felt iconic moment with Celine Dion
who I thought looked amazing
and on my white women it was is she oh
yeah oh she's fantastic
yeah she's funny you know she is a white
woman that care would cross the street
and say hello to okay amazing so she
looked incredible and there was like a
moment where there was like the cocktail
hour before you get to go into the room
and she was like 10 feet away from me
and I saw her sort of just stick you
late towards me and you know in sixteen
Candles when Samantha comes out of the
church and Jake is waiting for her and
he waves at her and she's like me I had
that moment with Celine and I went me
and she went and then she pointed at my
necklace and she pointed at my hair and
she put up my dress and they went it was
great and then I just said I love you
and that was it I need to actually
illustrate that for the people the way
she did in front of her face was very
circular and very squishy yes and
befitting of the met she was essentially
it was a lot of like facial expression
like a lot of these she was Bradley
Cooper see you're you know sure there
was but I but she wanted to get one more
look at you that very nice that's what
may be the best interaction you could
have gone at the methyls it was so sweet
Selina and you feel like you see her
dressed in that the tassels and the head
dressing or like she just pulled that
out of her closet like she she just had
that she was there to have fun that's
what I like I'm not taking herself
seriously she had a great sense of humor
about herself and I was it was exciting
guys so what was it like when you got
inside like can you share any tidbits
from Artie okay so you go inside and you
walk through the exhibition of all the
camp clothes which is actually great but
it's sort of hard to absorb in that
moment and also you have to remember
that my feet were broken they were
broken stumps on my feet and I was
hanging on to my husband so hard that he
was like you're actually pulling me down
and I was like well you're just this is
why you work out for me to hold on to
you so you walk and you know it's hard
Museum floors well I'm really catching
about the museum floors then I go
um you walk to the display then after
the display there's a cocktail party and
then you have cocktails and there's past
orders which nobody eats and then you
walk like another ten minutes through
another display and then you'll go sit
down at your table and I will say that
when I finally got to my table because
every I'm with Ryan and everybody wants
to talk to Ryan so we were one of the
last people that got into the room and
at this point I had I had left my body
because of the foot pain I'm such an
ancient Jewish woman that that's all I
want to talk about is my foot pain but I
got to the table and Chris the the seats
were signed and Kristen Stewart was
sitting in my seat talking to Emma
Roberts and I don't know Kristen Stewart
and I just walked up to her I went hello
you must move now now now now now now
now now out of my seat though and she
was the cutest and most adorable and she
was like oh my god I was like my feet
are bloody stumps you've got to move and
she really understood so I sat down and
then you know how like the party's in
the bathroom I guess I didn't I didn't
leave my table no you didn't see Katy
Perry just hiding in her hamburgers I
did with JLo coming out of the stall
because I know them doesn't like that's
it's not even like she was like oh
that's where JLo was like oh it's not
I'm here so I obviously don't care about
this hamburger lady that's happening
it's also like if you're you JLo and
you've been industry like how many times
have you seen these girls in hamburger
she had the toothpick hi she was really
the toothpick missing Hamburg it was so
cute and I have to say that that
chandelier dress up close was really
stunning it was very beautiful and I
thought it was good it played sort of
like a boss to me I honestly can't stop
thinking about how your feet looked like
backward backwards clubs like James
commiserating no I actually I do think
about that a lot because anytime I have
to wear heels and a standing thing and I
see these ladies on the carpet and I'm
like oh you must change into something
or like you're like Oprah where you pay
a peasant to break your shoes Anderson
but this is something I actually think
about a lot like just from a female
perspective that if you're a woman or
someone who identifies as female and
you're wearing 6-inch stiletto heels
you really can't enjoy these experiences
you really can't in the same way that
men can I'm sorry but you can't because
every single person who's worn heels
knows exactly what I'm talking about you
got a 15-minute window where you're like
I can totally wear these by about minute
45 you're like I wanna die and then it
just becomes the entirety of your
evening so it sucks and it's another
thing that the war on women guys are our
shoes you see those Serena with in those
sneakers she can do that and everyone's
like that's adorable you know what I
would have loved to see the conversation
with Anna Wintour where Serena's team
was like so Serena's gonna be in some
Nikes and Anna having to just decide
what she was gonna do about she pulled
the second pair of shades over the shade
[Laughter]
you
