hey I love doing that every time
welcome to positive America QA queueing
on just getting the q9 rally on the mall
today was was Travis there you don't
know because he's not in the office I
don't know that he wasn't there that's
the hope that's the way how about these
sleek new Mike's John yeah we got some
great mics there's some concerns that
are peas might be popping but we'll find
out anyway Priyanka is here with us as
always hey as always we say it's been a
while since we did it has been a little
while back stream went down for a bit
and now we're back to answer all of your
questions or some of your questions we
have a lot of questions your cue nuns
alright let's start with nc9 special
election yesterday yeah even though Dan
McReady seems to have lost the special
election was the narrow victory narrow
enough to show that a Democrat has a
chance in defeating Trump in North
Carolina during the 2020 general
election and what will that take yes it
was if you are Tom Tillis who's the
senator from North Carolina who's up in
2020 or Donald Trump I don't think you
look at the results last night and feel
very good about what might happen in
2020
so Jessica Post who works at the DLC see
the Democratic legislative committee
that helps flip state houses she tweeted
last night Democrats are six seats from
flipping the North Carolina House and
five seats from flipping the North
Carolina Senate and if you get a result
in a state like you did in NC nine they
win Thom Tillis the center I just
mentioned won by less than two percent
in 2014 but he carried NC nine by 12
points
Donald Trump won by three and a half
percent in 2016
carried NC nine by 11 points the
Republican last night carried it by two
points yeah so North Carroll is gonna be
a really tough state because that's
obviously not it's not like evenly
matched throughout the state what I was
just mentioning but it's not a democracy
anymore right bockris anymore but I
think you know like Dan McReady over
performed his 2018 performance
in the suburbs of Charlotte which was
only part of that district but when you
look at like you know the Research
Triangle and North clarin as a whole I
think the suburban parts of North
Carolina plus the black vote there could
very well make it a competitive seed we
could flip the Senate seat and we could
and the Democratic nominee could carry
it yeah obviously would have been better
to win yeah so you know state some real
hard analysis you could spin it a lot of
ways like not every congressional
candidate will have the vice president
the president and national attention in
like tens of millions of dollars spent
on the race and coordinated outside
groups and all the that happens so
they poured a lot of resources into a
district that they should have been able
to carry no problem I do you think
bigger picture in North Carolina one of
the best things we could probably do for
our country this is to fix that
up stayed like that I was watching a
video of some Democrats in the state
legislature expressing some some
righteous rage about the fact that
Republicans are just like shoehorning in
a budget while all of the Democratic
colleagues were at a 9/11 anniversary
event like it's just you know as GRE man
dirt and screwed up in anti-democratic a
Republican Party as any in the country
so it would be great if we could clean
house there a little bit well on the
other opportunity there is that the you
know a court ruled in North Carolina
that the maps were gerrymandered and
that they have to be neat new maps for
2020 so there's a lot to do I mean North
Carolina a Brock Obama one North
Carolina in 2008 and when we want it
then we sort of thought North Carolina
was on a path to looking like Virginia
looks now which is almost a democratic
lock yep
and then we lost very narrowly in 2012
and then Hillary lost in 2016 it's been
downhill ever since partly because what
time he was just saying the Republicans
in the state gerrymandered the out
of it have just you know thrown
democracy out the window and so but I
think 2020 could be big year in North
Carolina so we'll see not good yeah I'm
gonna fact-check our next question
before we go million to it do we know
like turnout why is there were less
people who yes it was about two-thirds
of the turnout
20:18 last night god so there was lower
turnout with 20/20 we're dealing with
like regular election dates people are
generally aware of this where the
special election it's at a different
time yeah but how do you get people to
turn out for a special election is it
just like campaigns to be like this is
happening now like how do you get
people's attention when there's
something like that happening it's it's
hard as you can see if the results it's
not easy
I mean Democrats I think there's a
specific aliy have a tougher time
turning out voters in special elections
this has been true for a while I think
partly that's because Republican voters
at least in the current iteration of the
two parties alignments are older and so
older people tend to vote more regularly
and to be more aware of special
elections so they just it's a habit
especially more rural voters to tend to
vote more regularly they probably have
polling locations that are closer by
that are that are easier but you know I
noticed that where we don't seem to have
a problem is turning out a lot of these
urban and suburban voters and maccreedy
did like I said better in the suburbs
than he did in 18 and the turnout there
was a little bit better among Democrats
where we really sort of lost it was in
some of these more rural places where
there are still democratic voters and
there they tend to be a little poorer
and they don't vote as much and they
turned out in 2018 in the mid term and
they just didn't turn out as much last
night so you know more awareness and and
these campaigns can't leave any place
unvisited they have to talk to every
single voter like you know and it's
harder to do in a special election but
you've really got to make the effort to
go everywhere talk to everyone and
organize the out of every single
part of the district I think that when
it's a special election as mccreaney
said if he's gonna run again I don't
know I didn't see yeah interesting
okay well move to impeachment questions
today Sani lawyer said the house wasn't
in an impeachment investigation even
though Jerry Nadler and everyone else
has been saying
that it is he then backtracked I believe
but this question is since house
leadership cares so much about public
opinion welcome people who are
frustrated with the stalling and lack of
movement on impeachment do to move the
needle and change their mind yes a
lawyer first because I just started
screaming
Hoyer clarified that his earlier remarks
that the house was not in an impeachment
inquiry he said he thought the question
was in regards to whether the full house
is actively considering articles of
impeachment which we are not at this
time
mmm that that would be a dumb question
with an obvious answer seems like a
weird thing to confuse but whatever
Nadler and the Judiciary Committee Dems
are proceeding with an investigation to
determine whether to recommend articles
of impeachment to the full house either
way
it's crystal clear that the House
leadership doesn't want to proceed to
impeachment and they're dragging their
feet is everywhere every time they
possibly can it is infuriating I don't
think anything is gonna change Nancy
Pelosi's mind that it's bad politically
for the party the polls maybe maybe
polls I mean I think we at all were
wondering if there would be some
groundswell during the August recess
that pushed more moderate members
towards impeachment it doesn't look like
that happened so I don't know I've like
given up hope on an impeachment
proceeding personally I just wish that
these guys would pick a strategy pick a
message and stick to it
yeah honestly I'd rather them just say
they were giving up on impeachment and
oppose impeachment then do this sort of
middle ground political
strategy that treats voters like they're
 stupid is what they're doing
right now they're trying to be like they
think that they can maybe I you know
that this cynical view would be they
think that they can please the base or
the people who want impeachment
impeachment supporters and also please
impeachment opponents where people are
nervous about impeachment by saying
we're not going fully down that path yet
so they think that like both sides won't
hear the other side you know they keep
talking about both sides of their mouth
I guess the the most charitable
explanation here is that they like
policies worried about impeachment if
she's always
but said okay Jerry you get to go Jerry
Nadler you got to go do your inquiry in
your process and see what turns up and
maybe you can make a stronger case as
you get more documents and call more
witnesses and then maybe magically
public support will build and and
suddenly it'll be popular to do
impeachment yeah I guess and then you
know all of this is just a bunch of
miscommunication and incompetence and
all this like people not having their
ducks in a row but I don't think that's
the case because Nancy Pelosi is a
pretty smart person yeah I mean look
maybe she's right maybe impeachment
would be a disaster she's a shrewd
tactician she's a smart politician I
give her a lot of credit for all of
those things and I don't know but I do
feel like we are now stuck in this
middle ground that is unsatisfying to
everybody and there's risk of making
people wonder why they work so hard in
2018 to get a Democratic majority in the
house and not use it to the full extent
that we we hoped we could into your
question about what can people do people
others have to be louder and make a lot
more noise and call your representatives
and call your Congressman and let them
know how you feel because right now like
if calls were 3 to 1 in favor of
impeachment coming into these offices
things would change the politics within
the caucus would change if all these
members showed up to their caucus
meetings and said you know what I didn't
think it was very popular
impeachment I thought I was like people
didn't really care about it I've been
getting a lot of calls from people
people are making a lot of noise and so
maybe it is popular like that changes
things you know like over half yeah over
half of our it says so what happens if
for example like my rep supports
impeachment and I'm like great wonderful
do I then call them and tell them I
still care about it and I want them to
do more what should you do in that
situation I think you do I think you got
to keep keep keep calling keep what in
the mo because they'll think oh well you
know I sort of went out of limb to
support this but now I'm not hearing as
much anymore that people are into it and
so maybe I should just back off you know
so I think I think keep up the pressure
I think everyone who cares about this
should keep up the pressure on Congress
and on the Democrats in Congress and
that's what they need to hear from us
got it okay iris asks how would
impeachment affect the general election
campaign if it were this is where that's
a impossible
to predict unfortunately I mean the best
case scenario is we get a bunch of
documents and information about Trump's
corruption is terrible things he's been
doing both during the campaign and since
then and those are part of the case
that's made against him in a public
opinion fight that is part of the the
election itself but it it's I wouldn't
want to predict I think that the yeah
it's hard to tell like I think the
candidates whoever the candidate is
would be talking about it look look I
think part of the reason we want this to
happen is in the coverage of the general
election campaign it would be noted that
Trump is a president who has either been
impeached or is under an impeachment
inquiry and so then you know you'd be
get branded with the Scarlet eye for
most of the general election
yeah yeah I mean I D like what we don't
know where that effect that'll have but
that's what it will that's what will
change about the general election is
that he'll be an impeach present we
talked about this in the monday pod we
know that Hillary Clinton had the
private server because of the Benghazi
investigations it took like eight of
them to figure it out but that's how we
got there like it would be really great
if we got his tax returns or other
financial information about the the
Trump Hotel in Washington DC in the way
that he's steering foreign grifters to
stay there as they try to curry favor
with him like there's a million
different piece of information that help
us make a bigger case against Trump that
I would love to see but we gotta gotta
get that out that information gotcha
okay speaking of the election it's a
great transition for us to plug our
group thread for tomorrow tomorrow it's
been a while since we've had a debate I
know I are you guys looking forward to
tomorrow yeah actually yes I really am I
am kids it's finally one debate one
night and also Andrew Yang's got
something up his sleeve yeah because
people said he's gonna do something that
no cannon has ever done before
give me a thousand dollars under the
seat of everybody in the audience that's
a good idea it'd be cool if it's
something like tell the truth I'm gonna
I'm gonna walk to his office and punch
that person who said that in the arm Wow
okay not really no I'm looking forward
to hearing from everyone we've been like
hearing from Donald Trump too much
tweeting 50 times a day yelling about
 yeah democratic kids can barely
ever break through let's see him on TV
for a while let's see what they have to
say everybody's cooking up a little
strategy
yeah little breakout moment yes people
of voters are paying attention things
are getting you know we got zippy attack
the race has been oddly stable for a
very long time right now so it would be
interesting to see if that remains so
yeah I mean I'm it love I'm most excited
about the group threat yeah me too
fibers coming down party beautiful few
hours please subscribe yeah it's crooked
- mom / group Fred okay yeah or you can
go to youtube W - oh that's what I was
gonna do why Elijah would like the
subscribers to the YouTube channel or
hit me on tik-tok that's for the Nazis
okay
question when do most normal people
start paying attention to primaries
seems like the race has been stable at
least in part because a lot of
Democratic primary voters haven't tuned
in yet so do you think this debate one
stage after Labor Day etc might be more
impactful on this race I think now I do
people start paying attention the
conventional wisdom is after Labor Day
who knows if that was ever right but
certainly it's more likely that people
will care now yeah and like the only
reason it might be different is polls
are showing extraordinary interest in
the 2016 and 2020 16c we can't we can't
leave it in the 2020 race like more than
polls have ever been showing interest in
this period ever before so I mean
looking in 2018 we saw this the polls
were right about this because we have
the highest turnout almost ever in a
midterm election so it's it could be
that most people are already paying
attention and the Labor Day thing is
wrong but I think those who aren't
paying attention you probably get one I
imagine you probably get one crowd
that's like post Labor Day September
starting to pay attention and then you
get the crowd that's like alright Iowa
is gonna start caucusing in like three
weeks and now I'm really paying
attention
around December you know so you probably
got some late group of people but I bet
there's a bunch all this talk of Labor
Day has me thinking that maybe Andrew
yang will wear white on stage like this
is stupid
that could be it that's really funny is
this problematic white t-shirt no no no
it's good that's a dumb rule okay good
but is it like no white at all yeah like
a t-shirt that's like I don't know I I
didn't make this I just like I always
sort of thought it was sort of like a a
white outfit like I see a hole you like
a diddy part like did he buy if he comes
out in like a linen white suit or
something I'm voting for yeah he's got
to all right which candidates or groups
of candidates are you most interested in
seeing interact on the stage together
feel like they have a grouping in mind
that's my big one so I mean right like
will we see around three of Kamala V
Biden like I don't know I kind of doubt
it I bet she I bet she's she backs that
off that one after the last time well
anyone go after Warren and try to arrest
her moments and now the Biden people are
previewing that he wants to talk about
her corporate work seems weird first of
all why be previewing these what's up
with that look I realize you know just I
just read and Politico today that the
Biden folks are very annoyed by their
coverage and yet they are veterans in
this business but like for a bunch of
veterans I don't know I think one of the
one of the rules is you don't
necessarily Telegraph your attack in a
debate before the debate and the Biden
people aren't the only ones who've done
this like other candidates have done
this in the last couple debates boolean
Casarez people said he was going to go
after one candidate in this debate but
they won't say he just attacks himself I
just the only day of like previewing to
reporters on background what you're
gonna do in a debate isn't I I
personally don't think it's a great idea
yeah I bet most of them don't have a
strategy except for some life like who
knows I think I think the war and Biden
thing I'm obviously most interested in
yes not original to say but
his it is what I'm very who's muttering
this one Stephanopoulos so he's good at
this
yeah although there was that that one
brutal debate from 2008 with him in
Charles Gibson maybe so I was good it
was very contentious and people were mad
at the moderators were pushing them to
fight but I hope we won't get a lot of
the like hey Warren you sure you don't
hate Bernie yeah hey Bernie sure you
don't hate her
yeah that was annoying all right Colin
wants to know or he Thanks
I feel like debates are kind of
repeating the same talking points not
actually moving too much of a
substantive conversation on some really
important issues should I expect the
same going forward or will it become
more in-depth especially as the field
narrows now that we're onto one stage
what do we think so I don't know that
these debates haven't been in depth I
think they've been it in depth maybe to
the detriment of covering more stuff
right like there's been a bunch of time
together like 40 minutes on health care
policy and gotten real deep or on
decriminalizing the border or whatever
like yeah yes 30 to 60 seconds isn't a
very long time to get out a deep
thoughtful substantive nuanced answer
but I don't think they've been that bad
I'm trying to think of in 2016 in the
primary as it got down to just Bernie
and Hillary were they more substantive
or at least you heard them talk more and
the same thing with Obama and Hillary
Beck and the 15,000 debates we had in
2007 and 2008 right like I don't think
the problem of the talking points goes
away sadly I wish I could say that it
does but they do seem but you do get
because each candidate speaks more as
the debate stage narrows you get more of
a chance that they will say something
that is off their talking points or
different or interesting so the chance
of that definitely goes out but
sometimes you know if their teams have
their way than they are prepped to just
be on message and say the same kind of
talking points yeah sadly TBD
so none of these debates are topic
specific you know it's been an issue for
many people
I'm just curious now what topics you
expect to come up I know there have been
repeated like
saying Medicare and healthcare in
general that's been repeated what do you
expect them to talk about this time
around seems yes like I think probably
the same
yeah we're so resistant to predicting
anything at this point that it's like I
don't even know you know they do things
that are topical in the news and then
they'll probably hit every issue I would
imagine you know or all the major ones
do you have a better idea than like
having like breakout topic to be it's
that people one no I I I said there's a
couple pause ago but I think individual
topic debates would be great I think a
climate debate would be great but I also
think like a foreign policy only debate
would be great a guns only debate would
be great like I think there are and
there's there's a couple ways to do like
different issues within one bigger topic
but I think having these candidates dig
in on one issue or just a couple issues
in a 90-minute debate would be
illuminating for a lot of people I
really do the other two okay this is a
good question and I actually I'm glad
someone asked I think it's for you Tommy
okay John please feel free sure what
foreign policy questions could be asked
to distinguish between candidates who
are well versed on diplomacy and what's
going on and those who are not good
question so I mean I think the one
obvious area where there's been some
daylight on policy is US relations with
Israel and whether we should condition
aid the Israelis if Bibi Netanyahu takes
territory in the West Bank that would be
part of a two-state solution
so that's a place where people judge and
Bernie have expressed a position that I
think is to the left of everybody else
and I'd love to see them debate it to be
interesting to see where they all stand
on North Korea I'd love to hear like a
thoughtful critique of Trump's approach
and then what they do differently same
with Iran I mean I would probably stick
with like major big-ticket items I'll
probably someone who does like a what do
we do about China thing you'll get a
bunch of pablum but
yeah every time every time the topic
routes to China you really get some blah
answers yeah you know it's like what do
we do P Buddha judge probably is the is
the best on that he sort of feels like a
chance he does actually he's sounds
interesting on it yeah but it's like
it's a hard question right because it's
like China policy isn't like some
boutique thing that like one person owns
it's like massive security challenges
huge economic challenges there's a human
right zone there's like it crosses over
so many different things that it's hard
to know having all kind of debate all
China debate yeah oh yeah moderated by
President Xi that we get okay do you
think anyone who didn't make this debate
will make any of the others in fact we
know of at least one person mr. Tom
Steyer steyr is is in he's qualified for
the October debate which means that the
October debate will probably will go
back to being two nights I hope these
two eleven you could do eleven on stage
has anyone else on the cusp Gabbard is
two pulls away Tulsi and then but then
after Gabbard no one is close okay so we
could she if she gets it then you
definitely see two nights but if she
doesn't maybe maybe one night and eleven
candidates who knows pandemonium one
night okay this is a long question and I
am making my thought bigger because I
can't boy okay Chris is asking says my
question has to do with how we are
talking about the black vote it is
continuously repeated that Biden has a
huge percentage of the black vote but
most polls also say that what black
voters care about most is someone who
can win if someone other than Biden wins
Iowa and New Hampshire not unlikely his
national poll advantage does not exist
in the same way in those state polls and
parentheses and all of a sudden the
national frontrunner has lost the first
two primaries doesn't his vote share
with black voters diminish if say Warren
wins both and all of a sudden looks more
electable doesn't she make real inroads
in South Carolina the first state to
vote with a large black population I
just think we need to take Joe's
popularity with african-american voters
with the large grain of salt it's a mile
wide and an inch deep Thanks what was
this person's name Chris Chris that was
a statement not
based on analysis of the 2008 campaign
just want to make clear what that was
what I was gonna say it's it so we we
have no idea there is nothing in the
data to support that his support among
African Americans is a mile wide and
inch deep there just isn't it's possible
Chris could be right but there's no
nothing to support it and you know one
thing we know from 2008 is it was true
that this was true of Hillary in 2008 so
Hillary was beating Obama by a large
margin among black voters until he won
the Iowa caucus and then in almost
immediately almost overnight mm-hmm that
support sort of crumbled and Barack
Obama from Iowa on was leading with
black voters in almost every contest and
won them in almost every contest yeah so
right now button is a CNN poll his lead
among african-american voters he's at
42% and the nearest competitor is Bernie
with 12% and most of his backing with
african-american voters is voters over
50 it's not interesting it's older
african-americans who probably have
known who Joe Biden is for a long time
yeah and the other thing is and one of
the reasons I want to ask answered this
question is because Thomas adds all of
the New York Times wrote an interesting
piece in The Times today where he sort
of like looked at a lot of political
science research that's been done
recently by African American scholars
about the African American vote and
African American voters and what he
found is that as a whole
african-american voters are in fact
becoming more moderate culturally and
socially than white Democrats who are
becoming more liberal on cultural and
social issues and so there is a
moderation among black voters and how
they think about politics that also may
be a reason they're supporting Joe Biden
who looks like the more moderate
candidate so we don't know like we have
to see how this goes but I think it is
dangerous to assume that Joe by that the
affinity for Joe Biden among black
voters is due only to
his name ID or the fact that he was
Obama's vice president like it it that
it could be possible that that's the
case but it also could be possible that
these rotors genuinely like Joe Biden
and they like his policies and they like
his positions and they like his ideology
it's possible so we'll sit yeah there's
like a nugget in that question that I
think is really interesting about like
the national polling versus um for
caucuses and who is successful there and
how that affects ultimate national
polling like in your experience when
that changes and they don't match up and
whoever wins those caucuses is it does
that then have an effect on national
polling yeah I mean we've been saying
this for a while but like the national
polls sing take take take them with a
grain of salt as like you know that's
like the nicest thing we can say about
them they're completely meaningless
until the Iowa caucuses they really I
mean you got it's a waste of money I
don't know what people doing I know I
mean they they can they can take a
snapshot of a moment in time they can
give you like favorability ratings for
candidates all that kind of stuff
there's there's reasons for national
polls horse race in the primary is just
not one of them you know and so I do
think there's been we've been talking
about this too there's been like a real
lack of good Iowa polls there used to be
mitt way more way more Iowa polling
they're hard they're expensive
yeah make more calls and people don't
answer the phones it's just it's hard to
do it well that's why we everyone loves
like a insulters polls and they're doing
registers polls that's why people do
these national polls it's like it's just
easier to get several hundred people to
answer the phone if you're dialing into
these states yeah and one more before we
get to the fun stuff just about the
primaries in Iowa South Carolina or
caucus Iowa but the early states
what would you say differentiates the
people who are voting in them because
obviously they have a huge amount of
power and determining what or who we
ultimately vote on but what would you
say are the biggest differences in those
electorate who the voters are so Iowa is
older it's like 93 percent white that
doesn't mean the Democratic electorate
is white but it's it's it's older it's
whiter it's more rural New Hampshire is
an open primary so people can cross you
Republicans can vote Democrats right
yeah pretty sure that's case it's part
of the reason why McCain did so well
we're more flinty up infinity
though these the cliched word about New
Hampshire voters is Flint yeah as of
Boston together we're a little none of
their yeah we're a little Iowa
nice is a real thing like I think you
get a look from people and you know some
candidates like you just can never get a
look in New Hampshire and New Hampshire
people don't start yelling at us that we
called you notes my whole family's from
New Hampshire so I can I was going to
England
oh yeah we are yeah we're all you don't
think you're special some of the biggest
 in New Hampshire the people who
moved up there for Massachusetts all of
the noise yeah and then South Carolina
is the first state where there's a
significant hoarsely lecture it is
african-american was half yeah the
electorate and the Democratic electorate
it was the whole lecture we'd be winning
South Carolina all the time in Nevada is
a much more student Latino population so
like the the early state sequencing that
we have now was an effort by the party
to ensure that there is more racial
diversity as early states but doesn't
change the fact that Iowa New Hampshire
very very white yeah got it so those are
like the big four to watch those are the
key first four gotcha and we're gonna
hear more about that stuff
soon right more soon more to come cool I
don't know how much I can say I don't
really know that much them tell me the
Iowa project tommy's Iowa prejudice you
know I'm worried so I'm working on a
limited series about the Iowa caucuses
that hopefully will be illuminating
maybe I'll suck be great about it you
have to download know yeah okay good
I'll subscribe alright fun stuff okay we
had like some questions from people oh
we could start with this one about Leo
and Luca do the other office dogs get
jealous of Leah and Lucas relationship
or are they supportive I didn't even
know are they in a relationship like
friendship what are they talking about
so I mean I wouldn't say they're
exclusive
here's what happens Leo walks into the
office Luke is there Luca runs up to Leo
starts licking his face at first it
seems like maybe Leo doesn't like it but
then after a couple minutes he's sort of
into it
yeah there's a very familiar pattern
schoolyard sort of schoolyard crush or a
thing going on the same thing happens
every time they're both in the office
they run in Luca licks Leo until he gets
annoyed at her and tells her to go away
then she jumps up on John both because
she loves John and wants to greet him
because she knows that she jumps up on
John she can make Leo jealous that
starts the cycle of playing over again
I'm playing a lot of head games which is
very very yeah that's what normal I
think normal dogs and you're a prop in
this yeah and then pundit just sort of
stares from the side and says like
you're gonna hurt yourself like don't do
that that's against the rules
sort of like that survive Sarah's got a
dog named wizard who's still a puppy but
big biggest dog on the office for being
a puppet and he's just a big goofy wants
to play the Joel's got a dog
eggie eggie very tiny pink he's a little
guy who likes to play there's a lot of
intense so Luka and Iggy when they play
they do like parkour like she's like
leaps over him and like up unto
gonna blast
Griffen Griffen Jamie's dog very cute
very cute I'm gonna run a kennel Chelsea
Handler had her dog here yesterday she
was gonna keep it I didn't even want to
be in the office and then I saw the dog
first I was like wait that looks like
Joe sister yeah there's something at any
time in this office there could be five
or six dogs yeah totally most times
we're running a doggy daycare here with
a podcast company attached to it there's
a lot of barking actually surprisingly
only like when there are other dogs you
know yeah they're all relatively calm I
mean love it so pundit barks at love it
because she has trained him to give her
a treat when she's barking yep pretty
impressive that she has trained pundit
his genius dog who was trained her oh
she's very smart dog it just barks at
him and then love it thinks love it
thinks that he has like a kin that's
like full like puts like a coin into
Cannon and he shakes in her because he
thinks like that that's gonna stop her
from barking and it never does he also
negotiates
they're stopped I just peed doesn't work
okay we're gonna go back to my questions
because I feel I might bring it I can't
ask my own
all right advice time so I wake up in
the morning I'm not gonna reveal what
time because sometimes it's late and I
look at my phone and I see like a bunch
of slacks it's from you guys you've been
in the channel you guys are early risers
hmm so if I want to make the transition
into an early riser lifestyle not
necessarily to participate in office
laughs just in general what do I need to
do to go to bed earlier you need what
time you go to bed I don't I try to get
to bed by like 11:00 but I definitely
don't fall asleep by 11:00 look I mean
all you need to do this is real simple
get into your mid-30s and then suddenly
you can't sleep past 6:30 or six and you
are so mad about it and then if you have
a dog
the minute the dog hears you stir the
dog jumps on the bed and tries to lick
your face until you wake up so that's an
alarm clock I will tell you I used to be
I used to stay up fairly late and then
when I started dating and then married
Emily she is more of an early to bed
person so like last night we were
watching TV outside on the couch and
then she's like 9:30 and she's like
should we just go into bed now and watch
the rest of TV in bed and she could save
and watch TV in bed I cannot so it like
9:30 last night pretty embarrassing I'm
like asleep that's awesome when you go I
know that I don't like it as much
because I'm like I kind of want to stay
up a little longer but when you go to
bed 9:30 you are I am up at 6:00 a.m.
you're like earlier than it's not on
purpose
hey breaking news looks like tulsi
gabbard got 2% in this latest CNN poll
so now she's one away oh wow we really
could be heading to unite then for
October yeah exciting wonder if he'll do
the debate in costume for Halloween
what's that oh okay yeah is it on the
31st no I don't think it is I'd be cool
it was just October um anyways I saw
this great tweet yesterday this is
another question for me it was about
John Bolton mhm and Dean from bachelor
in paradise combining to a mattress I
saw that too okay can you explain it to
us for us okay because we I've stopped
watching bachelor in paradise
what it's just too much I only watch on
Mondays I don't grow anything
um so Dean from bachelor in paradise
he's with Kaelyn they were together oh
yeah he on her birthday
he like does all this cute stuff it's
great whatever now I know who knows it's
great but then he's like we can't date
he leaves he leaves the show on her
birthday like basically breaks up with
her and she's like what the hell like
that was crazy you don't have to do all
that nice stuff and we were just gonna
dump me whatever anyways he shaves his
mustache comes back on the show and asks
Kaelyn to leave with him spoiler alert
she does so do we think John Bolton
could do the same I love that theory
John Bolton coming back to the white
house without a mustache and just
showing up for work as the new national
security adviser and Trump not knowing
it's a completely plausible plot yeah so
that's a really good point
so we had a lot of fun on this on pot
save the world for today there's been a
whole bunch that's happened since Trump
did a press spray in the Oval today
where he just all over Bolton he
was like he thinks he's a tough guy so
toughy and dated Iraq criticized him for
upsetting the North Koreans I said he
was wrong I'm Venezuela it was like
really pretty nasty and I'm just hoping
and praying that John Bolton isn't angry
enough destructive enough little
that he's finally going to clap back at
Trump and not be one of these little
idiots who just gets you know humiliated
in front of the world and and goes off
quietly like don't take it laying down
John reporter he said I'll have my say
in due course
yeah is that like Jim mattis
timeline er yeah is he gonna write some
self-aggrandizing book that gets him on
the speaking circuit like I don't know
no pulling Omarosa when Omarosa release
the tapes that was such a happy period
and we're the rest of the tapes the
Jasmine crazy okay
you guys both on Twitter a lot
sure you've seen snippets about the
Caroline Holloway story will not read
will not read have engaged strike okay
that's me too but I thought it would be
so fun because I'm sure these commenters
at least some of them have read for you
guys to theorize about what you think
the story is about okay I got home last
night and I sat down for dinner and
Emily said so did you read the they did
you read the story and I said no I'm
trying to avoid it and she said can I
just explain to you what it is no you
cannot let's please talk about something
else
because I am avoiding reading it though
I may at some point but I all I know
it's like some Instagram influencer had
a ghostwriter and now there seems to be
bad blood between them that's all like
yeah that's what I get to so there's an
influencer and then someone writing for
them and then it seems like one of them
might have mental illness and that's
really the problem and so this is
getting really weird and complicated I
don't know one of them worked at a
pencil store maybe that's a tweet I just
saw yeah one of those the ghost writers
so like you know I did know that I would
love to just be a speechwriter for an
Instagram influence or some day that's
what I'm that's what I'm looking to do
after this job that is my next the next
move is to just find an influencer a
couple million followers and I'll just
write your a bit Dean's looking for
somebody this could be huge for you this
is it this is what I'm hoping for
okay even kind of looks like um uh
what's-his-name from not at CEO no
Brandon oh yeah a little bit sorry
didn't watch that job at all uh okay
this is from page I'm a college student
who was eligible to register to vote in
Texas and Virginia how do I decide where
oh that's a hard one yeah can you
register to vote Virginia for 2019 and
then change your registration
well let's advise this person look at
the laws carefully make sure you abide
by them to the letter khaa cuz it's
tough you're right like what Tommy was
getting at was our Jerry Fund right
which is helping to flip the Virginia
legislature because there's big
elections in Virginia in November this
number
never more 2019 so that's good if you're
looking to 2020 feels like Texas feels
like Texas because Virginia it feels
like we're pretty good on Texas could be
a swing state maybe and at least and
there's a Senate election there and you
could be living in someplace in Texas
where there's a house race that we could
flip to because there's my house raises
the deck or needs a defense yeah I kind
of like the Texas I did too mmm I wish
we knew we're in Texas
yeah each state but again please follow
the law you know at least the Spiritist
all right we're gonna close out with
your new year's resolutions that people
want to know how are they going yours
was to work out yes a Tommy that's all
that I remember I feel like what good
tried to frame it in a way that was
maybe interesting I was trying to say is
don't eat like a pig so then you
don't have to work out more and you get
all your life back but I'd completely
failed at that I have to say mine was to
not get into Twitter fights with people
and I have been doing a pretty good job
have been I got into a little scuffle
with Ted Cruz a couple weeks ago but I'm
not gonna apologize for that it sucks
if sound like Republican politician once
again if I with me I'll do it but I'm
not getting in fights with commentators
DSA members other other people who yell
at me on my mentioned I just haven't
been doing it and I feel a lot better a
lot better yeah you know I saw someone
who I respect and I like tweet something
that I think was factually inaccurate
today about the Trump effort to crack
down on jewel mm-hmm and I was going to
engage cuz I'm like I think that the
people who work at jewel deserve to be
treated like tobacco executives of old
like they're hooking a generation of
young kids on nicotine and they're
probably all going to transition to
smoking and potentially die of cancer or
something worse and they should
be treated like that but I didn't engage
in the fight I just waited and sub
tweeted from here yes there's a better
way to do it
hell yeah but Jul sucks stop Julie
that's that's our message yeah our new
resolution is for
people to stop Julian stop Julian and
there you have it guys
extreme Jules
