know if it's the JIT okay that's a
little bit enough okay welcome to pod
save America I'm John Favreau
I'm Tommy Vitor John Lovett is flying
back to Los Angeles from Milwaukee I
believe alertly after his stellar tour
of the Midwest all right yeah
later in the pod you'll hear Tommy's
interview with Auslan soup Singh from
The Daily Beast he's a White House
reporter who covered CPAC the
conservative political action committee
conference this week sounded fun yeah
good times
we'll also have to spend some time
talking on material we're also gonna
spend some time talking about Donald
Trump's bonkers speech from that
conference a new poll that shows his
approval rating has ticked up to 46% and
the latest news about the field of
Democrats who are fighting for the
chance to replace him also check out
Friday's plot save the world
bonus pod which includes an incredible
rant from Ben Rhodes very emotional Ben
Rhodes about Jared Kushner yeah Ben
hadn't seen the report that Trump
actually intervened to get Jared as
top-secret clear and so I made him I
read it to him in real time and he
flipped out but really it was an episode
about the North Korea summit and why it
failed we also talked about India
Pakistan some developments out of Israel
Netanyahu might go to jail spoiler alert
fun bonus it's a gray pod I also check
out Fridays pod save America bonus pod
that's an interview with Pete Budaj edge
by Dan Pfeiffer Murphy great guy and a
brand new lover leave it that was
recorded in Chicago last week is
currently out as well finally check out
organizing core 2020 dot-com this is a
brand new program from some of the best
field organizers in the country that
will recruit pay and train college
students to work on the 2020
presidential cycle starting this year
over the course of seven weeks you can
earn $4,000 learning project management
organizing digital communication and
data analytics after five days of
national training led by veteran
campaign staff core members will work in
their neighborhoods with their local
Democratic Party to turn their training
into on-the-ground experience organizing
neighborhoods and registering voters
programs kicking off in Arizona Florida
Georgia Michigan North Carolina
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin this is a
fantastic program so if you're in
college and thinking about work
not a presidential campaign but don't
know where to begin start here go to
organizing Corps 2020 calm and apply or
donate to help the cause it costs ten
thousand dollars to support one
organizer through the program so every
little bit helps yeah and so if you're
listening and you're not a college kid
who wants to work on the campaign just
know how important this is because when
you're running a presidential campaign
you go from like three hundred to five
thousand field staffers and you need
those people trained and ready to go
so if you donate to this organizing core
2020 comm campaign you're helping get a
whole crop of kids trained this summer
so they're ready to go as soon as the
next nominee staffs up for the general
election yeah I'm critical and this is a
great program I mean they're also gonna
focus organizing kor√≥n mentoring college
students from communities of color who
have often been underrepresented among
campaign staff and the program is going
to ensure that the eventual Democratic
nominee has the support of a thousand
homegrown field organizers who are ready
to hit the ground running as soon as
that person is the nominee so you know
is everyone's in you know fighting it
out in the primary it's gonna be really
important you know this is our unifier
dye fun too once we have a nominee make
sure that nominee is well funded and
make sure that nominee has a staff of
young people who are ready to be
organizers all throughout the country
yes really good a program check it out
all right let's start with Donald Trump
who had himself quite a weekend after
the collapse of his nuclear summit with
Kim jong-un in Vietnam which the
president tweeted was partly the fault
of Michael Cohen's testimony that seemed
well he said Trump said he walked away
so is he blaming Cohen's testimony for
why he walked away no logic is
irrelevant here there's no logic yeah he
got upset by the testimony that decided
to leave the summit like Kim jong-un was
like I was gonna give him more in terms
of nuclear programs I will shut down but
you know Michael Cohen really steered me
away yeah I'm worried he's implicated in
a crime now and this isn't a straight
shooter I was hoping to negotiate with
 baby
so Trump then delivered a speech to
right-wing activists at the Conservative
Political Action Conference a speech
that lasted two hours it was the longest
speech of his presidency or maybe any
presidency it's like Fidel Castro Google
Chavez at the UN length speaking so we
do have a clip from the speech that our
pals at Saturday night
put together it was on Weekend Update
and I thought that's probably the best
the best highlight reel so we're gonna
play that for you appropriate context
yeah somehow got crazier from there
here's the taste our country's in big
trouble folks because we have to get it
back darling is the wind blowing today
I'd like to watch television the
Attorney General says I'm gonna recuse
myself and I'm in the White House and I
was lonely I said let's go to Iraq
general one general - general three I
said what's your name sir my name is
raisin we have to fly in with no lights
[Applause]
what a great kicker Wow and so I know
that you're gonna talk to Swain about
this later but yeah what else did we
miss here from the speech I know that
you were a masochist like I was and you
I think you watch even more this and I
think we were texting about it on
Saturday I mean like the truest thing he
said is you know I'm totally off script
right this is how I got elected by being
off script I mean this speech was wildly
entertaining yeah to me at home to the
people in the room he was ranting he was
raving he was saying crazy things they
had one piece of news they were trying
to make which was some executive order
they're pretending they're gonna offer
that will help protect conservatives on
campus and actually brought up a kid who
gotten punched in the face at Berkeley
which is obviously terrible but there's
nothing that these big Republican
audience is a lot more than like an
aggrieved to college Republicans so that
was presumably the the message of the
day but I mean the guy starts 45 minutes
late he goes for two hours plus I mean
like darling is the wind blowing today
I'd like to watch television that's him
ranting about wind energy
apparently not understanding that a
thing called batteries exists the
consumer power I mean like the whole
thing was just wild and then I mean he's
just everything he does is
counterintuitive in terms of all the old
rules of politics like going out and
just ranting about Bob Muller for 20
minutes he called the Muller
investigation twice
they're trying to take me out with
 and then he's
he denied that he ever made fun of Jeff
sessions or his accent and then he just
did it from the stage Smok does acting
you know so like the people in the room
loved it
imagine if a democratic president mocked
the accent of a southerner it would be
treated as a career-ending slight he
also so he called them investigation
 he said the new green New Deal
would eliminate cars planes buildings
and cows there's a lot of cow talk a
fact the whole weekend
he attacked the Federal Reserve Chairman
that he appointed he mocked the
Washington Post Dave Weigel for not
flying private he accused Democrats of
executing babies and hating our country
one really interesting and probably very
stupid thing he did was he in recounting
how he fired Jim Comey he talked about
how he had a conversation with Melania
the first lady about why it might be a
good or bad decision which probably
implicates her in all of these
invitations Anya's gonna go down on the
obstruction they made her a witness
it's so stupid the couple say it's one
of those features that it's like you're
watching it and you are laughing but
it's also absolutely terrifying yeah I
mean some of the even that like
yeah the news they were trying to make
with some executive order that mandates
the protection of free speech on college
campuses and takes away federal funding
from colleges that somehow doesn't
protect free speech but like yourself
there's no definition of that there's no
way how would you enforce that it's like
such a thing he literally also hugged
the American flag you dry aunt it he
just I mean yes it was really me go
watch the clip it was really
weird weird
the man is unwell yeah yeah every we
know that's obvious but you watch that
for two hours and you're like and
especially we've been watching all of
these Democrats do their announcement
speeches and it's like no matter how you
feel about any of these candidates
they're just like normal people
delivering speeches like I said in
politics forever and then there's Donald
Trump out there just same crazy
yeah I mean we'll I watched Bernie's
announcement speech immediately after I
watched Trump because c-span just rolled
one the other and that was how bored I
wasn't Saturday and you know it was it
was frankly hard to focus on a normal
speech about policy after the two-hour
Trump show ain't likely I don't like
that I feel that way right I'm
embarrassed when I think back of how
entertain
the debates were in 2016 but like this
is what we're running up against this
time well wait do you think there was a
message buried somewhere in the madness
and did the speech tell you anything
about how he's gonna campaign in 2020
yes I mean I think that what it tells us
about how he's in a campaign in 2020 is
that he will be just as loose and
undisciplined as he was last time he's
going to say all this wild bizarre stuff
and he's gonna try to entertain his
audience and keep his base and keep
media attention on him at all times I
mean the reason that could be an
effective strategy is because ultimately
he has Fox News in the right-wing press
there to be his communications director
to filter out all the best messaging the
best polling stuff and then air that and
the rest of the press corps is like how
the hell do we even begin to fact-check
this and even when you do
no one cares I mean swin and I talked
about this like Trump was saying in the
speech literally no one has left the
speech the whole time it's amazing not
one of you has walked out I've been
going for two hours and you could see
people streaming out I mean it reminds
you of Michael his conversation with
Michael Cohen he's like there was no
Russia business being done during the
campaign you know we weren't investing
in Russia he just lies to your face
lives doesn't matter I thought it was
interesting in a few ways like he had
the immigrants are invading us and
coming to kill you argument which was
basically you know the centerpiece of
his 2018 midterm campaign that's all he
talked about immigrants invading
caravans invade all that kind of stuff
it didn't work for him in 2018 largely
I'm one of the worst midterm defeats in
history so he had that in there he's
also added accusing Democrats of
infanticide executing babies based on
this like complete lie
about late term abortions and they're
really going in Harlem he's going hard
on that they're gonna go hard on that in
20 because that's how they're gonna keep
the evangelicals get them excited so
he's got the xenophobia going for the
folks who who were interested in that
he's got the infanticide going for the
Evangelic all conservatives the other
thing I thought he'd been missing so far
was in 16 he really was
anti-establishment had this sort of
populism going right he went after the
establishment he went after corruption
Washington he talked about the swamp he
talked about
jobs going overseas outsource he didn't
have any of that in 18 and I think what
he did here is all the talk about
socialism and the green New Deal all
that kind of stuff what he's trying
there is it's interesting it's not
he doesn't talk about socialism like
it's gonna cost too much money its
government's too big it's you know that
like Republicans have traditionally
talked about it he said socialism is
about only one thing it's called power
for the ruling class and it is very like
he's gonna he's trying to get that 2016
sort of anti-establishment message back
by saying that socialism basically is
all the libs and Democrats that you hate
consolidating all this power in the
government so it's like the people that
you don't like the most are gonna be
running the country
if you don't elect me I mean they they
probably know just as well as we do that
what was in the NBC poll over the
weekend of that the socialism does not
pull very well among the general
population I like it terms of had
Democrats should deal with this I mean
I'd love to see some polling on the best
attack on Trump but like here's one
option right so if I'm Elizabeth Warren
on the stump today I say did you see
Donald Trump at CPAC this weekend he
gave a bizarre rambling profane two-hour
speech at a conservative conference but
you know is the most offensive thing
about that conference
it's run by a shady lobbyist yeah and
that shady lobbyist has a wife who's a
White House communications director the
swamp is not drained folks therefore I
propose the following lobbying reforms
right like you need to talk about what
he did but use it the pivot to your
message so you actually get covered
because this rambling two-hour nonsense
did drown out partially the North Korea
news drowned out the cone hearing right
it's a new big shiny object that
everyone has to cover because it's nuts
yeah and I think I think that that's
exactly right I think you could also say
like in two hours did Donald Trump say
one thing about people who can't pay
their medical bills did he say one thing
about people whose wages aren't enough
to actually pay the rent or pay their
bills or anything like that did he say
anything about the challenges that
you're facing in your life right now no
no he just it was all it was
I mean Komal Harris does this well when
she talks about the wall as his vanity
project right it
it's always about Donald Trump it's
always about him it's about his power
enriching himself and reaching his
friends yeah and like helping you know
basically dancing with the people that
brought him which are the right wing
activists and CPEC and it had very
little for anything else anyone else
yeah it was a what a weird conference
all right well let's talk you brought
that up the NBC Wall Street Journal poll
let's talk about Trump's standing
heading into 2020 this poll that was out
this weekend found that 41% of voters
would reelect Donald Trump today and 48%
would vote for a generic Democrat
Trump's approval has ticked up to 46% in
the poll which is roughly the same as
Barack Obama and Bill Clinton at this
point in their first terms
he's got the approval of 90% of
Republicans and 59% of Republicans don't
think that another Republican should
challenge Trump in the primary Tommy
what are those numbers tell you about
the president's strength as a candidate
in 2020 I mean it's a good reminder and
we all need to hear these reminders
frequently that this is a 50-50
reelection and that most incumbent get
reelected and we should approach this as
an uphill battle
I mean yeah his approval rating has been
remarkably stable since he took office
in January 2017 it's like the NBC
Journal poll has had in between 43 and
47 percent approval that's full time and
we should say that is very unlike almost
any president in recent history
yeah like Obama Bush Bill Clinton have
all had much bigger swings than that
yeah very very stable yeah and look I
mean another important data point is
that a majority of Americans are
confident in this economy and so I think
we also need to remember that that's a
pretty significant ballast for any
president and people are gonna you know
give him credit for that and and
probably understandable and I think I
mean Republicans are going to stick by
him and the his poll numbers in January
in December when they were lower during
the shutdown a lot of this was
Republicans sort of drifting away from
him particularly non-college white men
but those people are gonna get angry
with him from time to time you're always
gonna be back you cannot count on those
voters and I think you know it's it's
news this week that enough Republican
senators are gonna vote against the
emergency declaration so that he can
build his wall on the border and you
know it's great that Republicans are
joining Democrats in the Senate to vote
against his declaration they don't have
the votes to override his veto on it but
that's gonna be the exception rather
than the rule that kind of thing because
when you have 90% of Republicans
sticking with you like you also it tells
you something about why these Republican
politicians in Congress are acting the
way they act and sticking by him because
their voters are with him and you know
the ones in the house are in
gerrymandered districts so they only
have to answer to Republican voters
mostly right and a lot of the Republican
senators are in these sparsely populated
rural states where there's all
Republican voters too so the
polarization is such that the reason
that these people we all say oh they all
will act cowardly they do but that's
because their electorates want this yeah
I mean look at Lindsey Graham like he's
yes example of someone who pretended to
be a maverick when John McCain was
around and that was his brand and now
that he's worried about a primary he's
all in for Trump and in part you know
look you look at these numbers some bad
news for Trump for intense a they'd
reelect him but 58% do not think he's
been honest and truthful regarding the
Russia probe 60 percent disapprove of
the recent national emergency so maybe
that's why you're finding some guys who
some senators who were up in in 2020
opposing him finally on this issue and
potentially voting for a resolution that
would block his ability to do this
emergency declaration but III wouldn't
anticipate any courage among Republican
elected officials anytime soon we need
to get every Democrat turn out we need
to get independents to turn out
overwhelmingly for us and it's going to
be tough yeah I mean the other sort of
warning sign too he leads a generic
Democrat 46:40 in Indiana Michigan Ohio
Wisconsin Pennsylvania of now sources I
don't know why they picked those five
states like if I had been trying to sort
of correlate these poll numbers I don't
think I would have thrown Indiana and
there would never you know just that's
just something to keep in mind but he
also trails a generic term he trails a
generic Democrat 52:39
in Arizona Florida Georgia North
Carolina in Texas which is almost more
surprising that yeah Democrat has to
lead by that no state it was
like to me to be honest that Georgia and
Texas yeah with the generic Democrats
win but look and this is we're gonna
talk about next but I think what you
were just saying is we have to we have
to win Michigan Wisconsin and
Pennsylvania in 2020 is some combination
of states but at least we have to win
Pennsylvania have to burn Michigan em
Michigan Wisconsin if you've got some of
those southern states you could probably
do without it but regardless those three
states are very very important you have
to get all the Democrats in those states
you also have to get a lot of the
independents in those states and the
people who have voted Democrats in the
past but are up for grads and up for
grabs and people who haven't voted and
so it's not easy to get them so as we're
talking about like how a Democrat can
put together a coalition if you're not
figuring out how you can win
Pennsylvania how you can win in
Wisconsin then you're you're gonna be in
some trouble so let's talk about the
Democrats the NBC Wall Street Journal
poll asked Democratic voters about their
preferences in a 20/20 nominee poll
found that by a 15-point margin
Democrats would rather vote for a
nominee whose views on issues are in
line with theirs
then vote for one who gives the party
the best chance of beating Trump next
year 55% said they want a candidate
whose policies would bring about major
change but cost more while 42% preferred
candidate whose policies would bring
about less change but cost less and yet
only 45% of people who intend to vote in
the Democratic primary said they'd be
comfortable with a socialist candidate
33% said they'd be comfortable with a
candidate 75 or older just another
warning sign and more than 90 percent of
Democratic respondents would be
comfortable or enthusiastic with an
african-american a woman or a white man
about 80 percent said same about an LGBT
candidate tell me what do those numbers
tell you and was there anything else
that jumped out at you about Democrats
in that poll I mean it's interesting I
mean so socialism pulled with the the
socialism polled poorly with the entire
data set I think it was 18 percent
favorable 50 percent unfavorable orders
yeah yeah of all voters capitalism was
50 percent favorable 90 percent
unfavorable and then the numbers you
mentioned I mean a very low percentage
of people in this poll said they would
vote for socialist or someone over age
75 so I think a lot of people rightly
pointed at those numbers as a warning
time for Bernie Sanders
yeah because you know obviously checks
both those boxes that said I mean I
what I think it speaks to is the
disconnect between how we label policies
and the policies themselves because yeah
most voters want 55% want the government
to do more to solve problems to meet
their needs
compared to 41% who say the government
is doing too much already by the way
just on that number yeah we should know
that I was looking up sort of past years
on how that that question pulled in in
2013 that was more people wanted
government to do less than do more when
Obama was president 2013 so it does tell
you something the fact that we are at
now fifty five percent of people who
want government to do more right I mean
Democrats say four to one the government
should do more independents say that
Demick independent side with the
Democratic view by fifty four percent to
forty four percent so Democrats and
independents do want the government to
do more of course the Republicans think
the government is too big and does too
much by a two-to-one margin but of
course they did right because they've
been demagoguing big government forever
so I mean I guess like I don't I don't
know that we should over learn from the
results of this poll but I do think like
what this says to me is the Elizabeth
Warren approach of embracing a lot of
big important you know bold democratic
policies while rejecting the label of a
socialist might be a very smart strategy
we won't know for a long time
but that's what I read from it I do
think it socialism is hard to define and
sort of poorly defined totally probably
even by Democratic socialists themselves
right we all grew up in America and like
we were taught as American that
democracy in markets and capitalism are
good in communism and socialism is bad
and we all watch rocky for and it's all
tied up in cultural oh yeah and
like the today's DSA and Bernie Sanders
they're not proposing soviet-style
socialism like Adobe accused of right of
court was definitely on his way Lexile
car you can't even really call Bernie
Sanders policies socialist he's not
nationalizing a single industry right
he's not even even medicare for all you
know doct and people judge says this all
the time like the real socialist
position there would be to have all the
doctors and hospitals work for the
government right that's not that's not
part of the plan the plan is to just get
rid of the middleman insurance
executives there and to actually have
doctors and hospitals and providers be
reimbursed by the government so even
that's like the most far left policy and
that's not nationalizing things like
socialism so there III would bet that
Bernie Sanders himself run you know
outpaces socialism oh I do too we don't
have better but it so it is it's it's a
warning
it's a warning sign it's worth noting
it's relevant but I do think like people
have learned to Bernie is he's pretty
popular he's big good ideas like we
don't even fight it out yeah I also
thought that the you know only 33% of
Democrats saying they'd be comfortable
with a candidate 75 or older is
interesting too because the two leaders
so far in all of the polls the primary
polls are two candidates over 75 I know
Bernie Sanders and that's sometimes what
I think we get to specifics and in
polling questions people don't really
know what they want they're just kind of
guessing yeah it is what it does is
point out that they are warning signs
and potential weaknesses for both Bernie
Sanders and Joba yeah you dig in there
people are gonna could have that issue
so in that note the New York Times in
the Washington Post both ran stories
this weekend about centrist and
center-left folks who are worried that
Trump might get reelected if the
Democratic Party has pushed too far to
the left
The Times piece focused on Pennsylvania
as we said a state that Democrats have
to win back in order to win the white
house and it quotes former Democratic
governor ed Rendell saying quote the
more we have Democrats talking about the
green New Deal medicare-for-all
socialism the more that plays into
Trump's hands reparations what are we
talking about Tommy is this something
for us to worry about I mean so I read
the story and it annoyed me because you
know you juxtapose quotes from Ed
Rendell who is very easy to get on the
phone reporter who is last a governor in
2018 2011 and more reasons now the
governor of the Morning Joe group
exactly said the Lord's name in DC and
in green rooms right you juxtapose those
quotes from Ed Rendell with Coleman lamb
who's Connor lambs brother who was
recently elected to Congress who said
that personal qualities mattered more to
voters in ideology and he said quote I
don't think the only way to win is
someone who's proactively goes to the
middle I think it's more important I'd
have someone who's authentic who says
what they actually believe in things so
you know the framing tends to be oh
we're too liberal for the party but I
like
what really bothers me about these
stories I really think the undercurrent
here is race and they just don't say it
because in the time story this
Pennsylvania story one woman says
Democrats only want to help people on
welfare one guy says he doesn't think a
woman could run the country a retired
sheriff says none of the 20 20 Democrats
could get his vote because quote the
Democrat Party let their people down
they were going so far and into the
different extremes that they forgot to
put them in office the middle-class
white male so it's like so many of these
these articles about what states we
should focus on or what candidates
should be there are about race and
gender in this country and it would be I
think better serve the reader if they
were a little more overt about it yeah
so there's that that's a that's gonna be
a huge problem and look if there are
people who are uncomfortable with women
candidates uncomfortable black
candidates or think that the democratic
party favors black Americans and women
or any other minorities too much then
we're not gonna get those people back
those people are probably lost and
they're a very small minority which we
just learned from the NBC Wall Street
Journal poll right on the other hand
there were people like in this New York
Times story a longtime Democrat who
voted for Trump but then voted for
Connor Lam and 18 and now says his vote
is up for grabs and you think okay Trump
voter voted for Connor Lam who's this
guy wanting to vote for like a Joe Biden
type and he goes probably Kamala yeah
right so it's it's it's not all it's not
always about race right and and some of
these and I think you know Shaun Malka
we and the folks at data for progress
did like a real great deep dive into
vote switchers right so people who voted
for Trump in 16 but voted Democrat and
18 and one of the most interesting
things that they found was the some of
the vote switchers were more populist
than either loyal Democrats or loyal
Republicans and they define populism by
asking them sorry I have a good thing
here I forget it sorry and so you know
they basically define populism is like
you know I trust in the in the wisdom of
ordinary people more than experts the
system is stacked against people like me
right and so those voters are possibly
right for the Democrats to win back and
I think figuring out now that doesn't
mean to get those voters back that we
should ever abandon our values when it
comes to race when it comes to gender it
comes to anything else but framing our
argument in economically populist terms
and trying to persuade those voters is
incredibly important right it's the only
way to win Pennsylvania and those yeah
and I guess this is what annoys about
these stories is Barack Obama was
elected two times in a lot of these same
states with a populist economic message
right and it's sometimes seems like
we've forgotten that when I read these
pieces yeah it is but he was also any
but he was also very careful and
thoughtful about what his message was
sure you know he's also a person that
people just liked as an as an individual
yeah and look he approached voters and
he approached politics by saying like I
should not assume that these people
believe what I believe necessarily and
my job is to persuade them of my agenda
oh yeah and we shouldn't forget that
because sometimes you know on Twitter
people do so meanwhile the Post story
talked about tension on Capitol Hill
within the Democratic caucus
specifically over gimmicky show votes
that Republicans have forced House
members to take like an amendment to
last week's gun control bill that passed
the house but the Republicans were able
to get an amendment in there that would
require undocumented immigrants who try
to buy guns to get reported ties and a
few of the newer more moderate Democrats
have voted for the amendment then
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes said that by
doing so they were making themselves
targets for both Republicans trying to
unseat them and progressive activists
and then there was a bunch of back and
forth on this yeah tell me what did
Democrats do here is it good for these
debates to play out in public or or is
this a problem so I mean the debate is
about something called a motion to
recommit which basically gives a
minority party a chance to amend a bill
going to the House floor they almost
always lose these motion to recommit
because they're in minority but with the
respect to this gun control bill as you
described it was a reports like do you
think that we should report undocumented
immigrants to ice if they try to buy a
firearm so that's a tough vote yeah
that's a very tough vote and you the
background bill itself still passed but
liberals who want to abolish ice had to
vote for a measure that was seen as
empowering ice so that's hard for them I
tend to believe
that member should be allowed to vote
however they need to vote for their
districts and what they believe and I
think that the harm this vote
politically causes someone who wants to
abolish ice is less than the harm voting
against it could cause a Democrat in a
safe district like a Connor Lam you know
so like I am totally fine with Democrats
voting their conscience on these bills I
don't think we need to show unity on
every vote in the house I'm not sure why
this is such a big deal other than
everyone's constantly seeking for a
Democrats in disarray story I'm also
fine with Democrats primary other
Democrats who are in safe seats but we
should not be doing it in toss up
districts right seems kind of I mean
here's the thing to understand
one of the major consequences of the
Republican Party moving so far to the
right and sort of marginalizing
themselves on the political sphere is
that the Democratic Party now has a very
very big diverse coalition and part of
that diversity is ideological right and
we don't have the house in 2018 we do
not win the house if there are not a
bunch of moderate Democrats ran purple
and reddish districts who were able to
win their seats and guess what a lot of
them didn't win their seats by being
bold progressives that's right a lot of
them when they're Superman that there's
are exceptions right one of our favorite
new members of Congress Katie Porter on
Elizabeth Warren protege ran in a very
Republican district here in Orange
County and ran a you know bold
progressive campaign and she's still won
but mainly she was the exception that's
right you know I think what goes
unstated in this piece and what
frustrates a lot of the activists on the
left is how much institutional inertia
they're fighting against right there's
corporate interest there's lobbyists
there's the establishment media and the
consultants and the pollsters who will
all default towards the status quo or
the so-called like moderate middle
ground and that doesn't always align
with general public opinion or certainly
not with public opinion among Democrats
so Senator Michael Bennet is quoted in
this piece a senator who I really like
and respect and I think is incredibly
smart and thoughtful he says we don't
want to be like the freedom caucus who
are like the far-right members in the
house but I think that's a false
comparison where everybody we're a long
way from that yeah
like the freedom caucus is a bunch of
arsonists right in political nihilists
who are happy to burn the city down if
it cuts government and makes it
ineffective like so like take her
example you know you used to Katie
Porter
take for example congressman Harley ruda
who won a seat in the 40th district he
was not out there talking about
abolishing ice I don't believe he's a
co-sponsor of the green New Deal
legislation but he defeated Dana
Rohrabacher who was a climate denier in
a Russian stooge so obviously we are so
much better off having Harley ruda in
the house yeah and primary him would be
idiotic yeah of course I mean look I
think here's what we've we've learned
over the last four years right when
you're crafting your policy you're a
Democrat you put the politics aside
right you you put out a policy proposal
that meets the challenges at the moment
right right now we have a climate crisis
we have an economic crisis in both wage
stagnation and inequality we have a
political crisis so you come up with a
series of proposals that are actually
gonna meet those challenges that's why
you get things like the green New Deal
Medicare for all but you you do what you
think you want to do once you have those
proposals then and then you go sell them
to voters in your district it's okay if
they're if they're big and bold and
progressive even if you have a moderate
district but people are gonna ask you
how much does it cost right how much
will it cost me what will it change
about my life this you know will it
change anything like and the thing we
can't do is wave away those questions by
being like oh deficits deficits
don't matter if we believe that we've
cared too much about deficits which I
happen to believe you've got to tell
people why you're going to persuade them
if you if you think like oh people will
you know people will take a tax increase
if for Medicare for all well you got to
make that case to people you know also
whether or not you support eliminating
private insurers you damn sure should be
ready for the Republicans to say you do
I mean they went around saying that
Obama wanted to kill grandma right
you'll assume the worst-case scenario is
going to come it was death panels for us
it'll be killing all the farting cows
for the green new deal so that's yet
ready that's the part that is liberating
for Democrats right like they're gonna
call you a socialist no matter what so
you might as well put out a policy that
you believe is gonna meet the moment
right so that's looking but what we
can't do is then be lazy
about persuading people who might not
necessarily agree with us and I'm not
talking about Republicans we're not
getting them but I'm talking about these
independents these Democratic leaning
upend it's like we've got a job to do
persuading these people that our
policies are correct and we have to
answer all of their questions yes look I
agree it's liberating in one sense and
another sense it should be sobering
because voting your conscience when the
Koch brothers dump 10 million yes
Bertha's know your odds on you can be a
tough way to go last thing I'd say
there's one member of Congress who's
quoted saying alleging that Alexander
Alexander II Ocasio Cortes is putting
people on a Nixonian list I wasn't
really my read of what she said she's
been think she was trying to say if you
vote with the Republicans on these bills
progressive groups are going to notice
and and could target you she said that
in sheep as she said that then
Republicans will know that you're one of
the their targets to be because you're a
moderate in 2020 what point out the lie
assessing the political situation like
we kick it's these stories and you don't
framed as these silly extremes when I
think that solution is fairly obvious
well that's another piece of advice to
Democrats too is the reporters are
always gonna look for good Democrats in
disarray hitori right yes it's not
because they're out to get us right it's
that's their job they're not reporters
aren't on our team no and that's not
their job to be but they are gonna look
for conflict at any moment at any chance
they get within the democratic caucus
and you know I think Dan said this like
last week on the pond to like just stop
if you were stopped being an anonymous
Democrat stopping and I master
strategist like if you have problems
with the party if you apartment the
strategy resist the urge to pick
up the phone when the New York Times and
The Washington Post call you and just
lay it out there in the press because
even the tiniest disagreements are gonna
be magnified times a hundred when they
get in the press they sure are I don't
get why you pick up the phone speaking
of horribly uniting all that are going
to magnify I know anything you say so
Howard Schultz venti size hi we
play we drink Dunkin Donuts in Pete's
coffee here and I won't hear anything
else okay here's what Howard Schultz
tweeted from the sad spectacle of the
Cohan hearing and the Craven defense of
the president by Republicans to the
reports of fights inside the Democratic
caucus between the ascendance left wing
and more moderate wing of the party
this was another sad week in American
politics so he's comparing a president
who's knowingly committing crimes from
the Oval Office with Democrats debating
policy by a closed-door meeting having
having a small argument about a motion
to recommit what is wrong with you man
but this here's the thing with
Howard Schultz right yeah he let his
campaign like to say you know Howard
Schultz is sick of the conventional
wisdom in Washington there is no one in
the 20/20 field right now that is more
conventional that represents the
Morning Joe greenroom Isela corridor
view of politics than Howard Schultz he
was is it molded from clay by the
conventionalist
today be that that's what you know that
it's like the false equivalence Hall of
Fame there and but now here's the
problem going back to that NBC Wall
Street Journal poll 38% of Americans
said the two-party system is broken and
it's time for a third party and that is
the highest number since 1995 so again
you know everyone's like oh don't worry
about Howard Schultz like everyone's
panicking too much I know
worried about our Chelsea yeah worried
about her Schultz because that number it
should be a warning sign to people and
even if the guy gets one two three
percent in some of these states it could
be enough to tip it so he also doesn't
care that he's full of because he's
making all these wild accusations about
the Democratic Party drifting left when
he knows that if Biden jumps in he is
the front-runner yeah so your candidate
could be right there Howard you don't
need to run around attacking the
Democratic Party for a couple months
well and also he could have run as a
Democrat and tried to push the party to
the center in that way but he's decided
that he's too rich and he doesn't have
to compete in primary coffees sucks
so there's also a lot of 20/20 candidate
news to cover there's a lot going on
former Washington governor jay Inslee
announced his presidential candidacy on
Friday former Colorado Governor John
Hickenlooper announced his candidacy
this Monday morning former attorney
General Eric Holder announced that he
won't be running for president and
Bernie Sanders officially kicked off his
presidential campaign over the weekend
with big events in Chicago and Brooklyn
where his announcement speech drew a
crowd of about 13 thousand people
according to his campaign let's start
there Tommy what did you think of
Bernie's speech so as I said earlier I
mean it was hard to watch
from directly into Bernie because bernie
is a thoughtful reasonable human being
that said I mean I do think was smart of
Bernie to include new points about his
biography who he is where he's from is
critical to tell voters like what
informs your values and it was a good
he drew a good contrast with Trump yes
growing up middle class not thinking it
was cool to fire people I'll be honest I
still think Warren is doing the bio into
values into platform the best out of
anyone but it was good progress you know
a lot of the speech sounded like a
greatest hits from the last cycle of
Bernie's policies that's not a criticism
that's you know he's a big base of
support he's moved the party to his
positions in a lot of ways so maybe
that's all he needs to do to win this
party and he's gonna lean into that
strategy I don't know I wasn't blown
away by the speech it didn't like stir
emotion in me but honestly none of the
speeches have so far what I want to see
Bernie do is I'm curious for when he
gets to Iowa because he wasn't great in
Iowa at the personal politics sign your
supporter card take a selfie shake every
hand kiss every baby like it I
understand why it feels artificial
probably does to him but that's gonna be
key well look you hear this from a lot
of DSA folks social those people in the
last they're like you know you neo
Libyan
personality character stuff like that
like what really matters is issues right
like we spent too much time focus on
kids and they have a point we do focus
too much on personality but when you ask
like voters don't spend a lot of time
thinking about ideology they want
someone who believes what they believe
they want someone who shares their
values they do care a lot about issues
but just like normal human beings they
also care about the person's character
they want to know about the person's
personality and you see that Bernie's
advisors you know they were in a piece
or you know sorry they were in their
piece this weekend saying you know we
know that people want to know more about
Bernie himself yeah and that's why they
put that in and I do like his basically
the speech was his stump speech from
2016 and 2018 except for the personal
stuff and the contrast with Donald Trump
which I agree I thought was the most
effective pause well then and look I
think it might be a criticism because is
that
stump speech which was very powerful and
very effective in 2016 enough to broaden
his coalition in 2020 that remains to be
seen
yeah but it was interesting the Trump
thing made me think and again we've been
saying this for a long time now like
Democratic candidate all their energy on
Trump
but as we're having all these debates
within the party and so much of the
coverage lately has been about are the
Democrats moving too far to the left on
the green New Deal or Medicare for all
it's funny that it was Bernie Sanders of
all people who laid out in a speech the
difference between the Democratic
candidates agenda and Donald Trump yeah
and I do think that's probably gonna be
important going forward because you know
we can argue about green new deal or no
new green new deal but Donald Trump
becomes president it's till it's over
yeah he's a climate denier we will not
fix anything we can argue about Medicare
for all and what's the best way to get
some air Carell Donald Trump becomes
president again we're losing the
Affordable Care 20 million people lose
their health insurance like we have to
remember the contrast here I agree I
look also it obviously issues are
important they're the most important
part of electing and Canada but we're
all human beings and we communicate and
we learn things by telling stories not
by sending around fact sheets we just
remember that and the media sure as hell
doesn't focus most of its time on issues
in factories they focus on fighting and
stories and so drawing that contrast was
smart and it allowed him to tell a story
about himself as juxtaposed with Donald
Trump that got into all the things he
believes in why he'd be a better
president yeah um you can complain that
that's reality but it's reality it's how
we it was I've been thinking but I mean
538 did a piece on this or like what
percentage of Bernie's coalition was
just sort of never Hillary voters and
whether he can win in an election this
sprawling primary this sprawling with
just his original base maybe he can't
I mean look maybe the whole strategy is
these are the people who voted from last
time this is why they love me like let's
run it back in a big field maybe my 25
percent enough in Iowa and you know he's
leading in New Hampshire and maybe that
can be it yeah it's it's very possible
but like you know look these primaries
they have a way of humbling you
yes stupid things will become the focus
of every single news cycle for months
look at Hillary's emails Bernie Sanders
has never faced an attack ad that's yeah
which is you know that's that's a lot
and I don't know who you know I'm hoping
that none of the Democratic candidates
start attacking each other but as this
thing goes on you can see that you know
elbows can get shot also but that's it
like look I hope the primary stays is
positive and optimistic as possible but
I'm really glad that Reverend Wright
came out during the primary for Obama
and we got to vet all those issues
before we got the general election yeah
it's real good to kick the out of
each other a little bit and vet and go
through records and like that's yeah it
makes you a better candidate right all
right let's talk about Washington
governor jay Inslee who's promised to
make climate change the defining issue
of his candidacy Inslee served as
Washington's governor since 2013 he
served in the house before that during
Inslee's time as governor Washington has
legalized marijuana ended the death
penalty raised its minimum wage last
year Washington voters rejected a
proposal he backed pushing for a carbon
tax it would've been the first of its
kind in the country
he's also said he wants to get rid of
the Senate filibuster because it's
unquote Antebellum rule in the Internet
age Tommy will mine
what's enslie's path to the nomination
here I have no idea I really like
Janesville yeah like he was when he was
on one of our very first live shows we
went up to Seattle and hung out with
James Lee and I don't like him just
because he was nice to us but like we
spent a lot of time with him we did we
stayed on stayed with him for like an
hour as he answered detailed questions
about light rail projects in the state
and like all these sort of things like
he's very smart uh he's had a lot of
success he was a governor which I think
shows you actually can can run a budget
and lead a state um
the thing I'm not sure about is I don't
think that voters view the presidency is
a one-issue job and so I wonder about
the strategy of just saying I'm gonna be
the climate candidate I just don't know
that that is gonna fly
you know who's really thought about this
a lot is the people who put together the
green New Deal and the critics of the
green new deal will say if climate is
such a national emergency or an
international emergency right if it's
the most urgent issue of our time why
you get all this economic stuff in there
why are you talking about health care
and job guarantees and you know training
opportunities all that kind of and
the reason is because
you know before 2018 Gallup found
climate change is the fifth most
important issue to Democratic voters
behind health care and wealth inequality
so we have this issue where climate
change is an existential threat to
humanity and we probably only have ten
years to really do some about it and yet
a lot of people don't believe that in
the country we have you know Republicans
are all climates and Iser deniers but
even our people even Democrats are
thinking like you know I think about my
job I think about my paycheck I think
about my healthcare and they put that
ahead of climate and so the question is
how do you get people to care about this
national emergency and like will up
you're right like will people look at
James Lee and say this is the climate
change guy and he should be President I
don't know but good for him at least for
saying I'm gonna make this part of the
debate in 2020 and I'm gonna do it by
being the one can't be in the field who
talks about it all the time yeah
I mean look good for him and maybe it is
a really smart strategy maybe it will be
the reason he broke through and he's
defining himself in a way that no other
candidate will be I'm with you look I I
schedule dinners in two weeks that I
don't want to do tomorrow because I like
to punish my future self so like I have
no idea how voters are gonna react in
this situation what like that's what the
primaries were yeah finally former
Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper
announced his presidential campaign
today the 67 year old is a former brew
pub owner who served as mayor of Denver
and then two terms as governor during an
economic expansion in Colorado where the
state expanded Medicaid legalized
marijuana and enacted gun control
Hickenlooper calls himself quote an
extreme moderate and said in his
announcement video where does this stuff
come from
instead it as an announcement video
quote I'm running for president because
we need dreamers in Washington but we
also need to get things done he told
George Stephanopoulos this morning that
he'd be able to bridge our political
divides by sitting down with Republicans
quote I would go to Mitch McConnell to
his office and I would sit down with him
and say now what is the issue again and
we would talk sounds silly right but
this works does it work tell me I
started twitching when I saw that I mean
come on man I look again I like you can
looper I think he's been great it's just
he's great on a lot and in Colorado he's
done a lot of good things but it really
bugged bothers me when I see people say
things like look we just need to have a
dialogue and bring Pete
together that's I used to naively
believe that but in the 2007 in a race I
believe that and then Mitch McConnell
made it his life's work to deny Obama
re-election and blocked everything we
did so no going to conservative mayor's
across Colorado and trying to get them
to work with you is not remotely the
same as going into Mitch McConnell's
office and getting him to work with you
because Mitch McConnell doesn't give a
 about working with you he wants you
to lose and he wants power that's all he
cares about this is maybe the biggest
challenge that all of these Democratic
candidates face right is when you talk
to voters like their big concern maybe
their overriding concern is this sort of
political crisis we've had in Washington
for a long long time and they look at
Washington they say nothing gets done
mm-hmm and they've said this for more
than a decade right and as you said when
Obama was running his response was
that's right that nothing's getting done
in Washington partly it's because
there's too much influence from money
and lobbyists as part as much as partly
it's because everyone's fighting weary
fighting the fights the nineteen ninety
and we got to sit and sit together got
stuff done we got to Washington and
realized that wasn't gonna happen
because Mitch McConnell said I'm making
him a one-term president I'm gonna
obstruct everything and the Republicans
all felon Bobby didn't play golf with
him enough was yeah a beer with
him right yeah so it's like I don't know
how you look at that at the Obama years
and say you know what Obama just didn't
sit down with Republicans enough that
was the problem after everything we've
seen after Merrick garland after Mitch
McConnell and what he did with the
Russia investigation after
Donald Trump after Paul Ryan like yeah
how do you look at that and say like if
only Democrats in Washington reached out
to their colleagues we could get stuff
done you don't need a Robert Carroll
book you're not calling up Michael
Beschloss to tell you that this was like
a couple years ago we the same people
are there there were actually they're
way worse right worse than the illah for
that worse than Speaker Boehner and the
reason it's a problem is because the
other thing that voters think is I don't
like the fact that there is constant
political war in this country right like
I don't want this country to be so
divided so and that's also a real
feeling out there and that's why people
like Joe Biden still and that's why
people are like looking for some
moderate candidates as well because it's
it's a
real feeling out there but as a Democrat
what do you do with the knowledge that
voters are tired of division in this
country but at the same time you know
that it is impossible to sit down with
Mitch McConnell and some of these
Republican leaders and get anything done
yeah like I've watched a lot of events
and I've seen enough polling to
understand why a lot of these Democratic
candidates aren't going to early States
and just hammering Donald Trump for 40
minutes people do reject the politics of
division they're sick of it they hate
the acrimony I think that's kind of a
perennial concern but when I see a
comment like that from Hickenlooper I
sort of have two choices one that it's
naive or two that you're just telling
voters that that's how you're
accomplishing things and either way is
going to leave you unhappy because it's
not gonna work that yeah and we should
actually have a real plan to get things
done we should target Mitch McConnell
and take him out in at the voting booth
next time or we should figure out
another way forward but it's not gonna
be kumbaya meeting in his office it's
look I don't think that voters look at
Washington and say you know what would
really make me happy is if you know the
Democrats and Republicans got together
and had a beer right and get along what
they're looking for is for Washington to
pass policies that are going to improve
their lives that's what they're sick of
the gridlock right so there's other ways
to get around gridlock than just trying
to ask Mitch McConnell over right and
that get that that's why we've spent so
much time talking about filibuster
reform right like there's only so many
ways we can get things done in
Washington we have one party that is
obstructionist that has gone off the
 deep end and one of those ways
is to eliminate the filibuster which jay
Inslee was talking about you know
there's a whole bunch of other way with
a lot of elections when a lot of
elections right and not just focus on
the president's focus on the Senate
focus on the house focus on down ballot
elections focus on redistricting vote
you know there's a million things we can
do together on sess and I think it is
incredibly important for every
Democratic candidate running to talk
about not just a bold progressive agenda
but how they are going to get that
agenda passed yep and Hickenlooper
theory is you know that he's gonna sit
down with Mitch McConnell and and good
luck to him selling that theory and I
think you know we're gonna hear a lot of
that from Joe Biden too but I do I think
every candidate whether you believe in
bipartisanship whether you believe in
getting rid of the
filibuster you need to talk about your
plan to actually get your agenda passed
yes because there's a lot of cynicism
right there out there right now you know
well-earned cynicism from people that
someone's gonna tell me something during
election and they're gonna go to
Washington and nothing's gonna get yes
and I don't mean to pick on Hickenlooper
but I will be even more cynical and
skeptical if Biden goes out and tries to
say he can sit down with Mitch McConnell
cuz he tried for eight years right it's
not gonna work and he and and you can
invite and tried for eight years and
Biden also had a pretty good
relationship with Mitch McConnell and
his people and it didn't help Barack
Obama had a pretty good relationship
with John Boehner John Boehner and he
would talk all the time John Boehner was
like you know what I would like to pass
immigration reform with you comprehend
segregation worm I have guys in
districts who have no Latinos to speak
of no immigrants to speak of it's all
white districts and they're saying we're
not gonna pass immigration reform so I
can't get it done that's what John
Boehner said to Brock Obama so it's like
there's it doesn't the relationships are
fine to have but they're obviously not
doing anything they don't hurt they're
not like they're not they not the answer
to getting stuff done and I think the
Democrats have to really dig deep to
find out what the answer is to get stuff
to yeah it's a mess all right when we
come back we will have Tommy's interview
with us when soup saying
you
