welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the
pod you'll hear Dan's conversation with
friend of the pod Marcy wheeler about
the latest in the mauler investigation
fascinating conversation you have with
Marcy dan I listened in
I can't wait for anyone to hear you yeah
I knew you sometimes when we do the
interviews you like drink coffee or
something the other room but I know most
Marcy with interesting information on
the mall investigation you would
definitely listen I fall I follow all of
Marcy's tweets she is my entry point
into the Russia investigation always so
one of one of my favorite guests we've
got a lot of news to discuss as well
from the deal to keep the government
open to the dueling rallies that
President Trump and Beto or Roarke had
on the border earlier this week to a new
analysis that shows how Howard Schultz
can only help Donald Trump win
re-election also check out this week's
plot save the world where Tommy has a
really interesting thoughtful
conversation with Peter Beinart about
the ill Hannah Omar controversy a really
great episode
also check out crooked comm slash events
for our tour schedule we just had a
great swing down south and in April
we're headed to Boston and New Hampshire
so come see us it'll be fun
alright let's get to the news as we're
recording this the Senate and then the
house will be voting on a budget to fund
the government and avoid another
shutdown as a reminder Trump shut down
the government the first time because
the Senate's budget only included 1.6
billion dollars for fencing and border
barriers when Trump wanted 5.7 billion
dollars for a wall so then after a
thirty five days shutdown and weeks of
negotiations Trump is expected to sign a
budget that includes not 5.7 billion
dollars for a wall not even the original
1.6 billion dollars for fencing and
border barriers that he rejected but a
little less than 1.4 billion dollars for
about 55 miles of fencing on the 2,000
mile border are of the deal so obviously
Trump could decide last minute to veto
this bill because he's a stone-cold
 but would he really have the power
to stop it from passing or would
Congress at this point just override his
veto that's a great question and just to
give you some breaking news Trump just
tweeted reviewing the funding bill with
my team at the White House exclamation
point
so maybe we'll find out during this
podcast what he's gonna do I think he I
mean he certainly has it within his
power to say he's not going to find it
and he can do that and there would be
there was the freedom caucus who would
side with him the bigot for great sorry
the bigot brigade at Fox News would back
him but you get this sense this time
that the Republican senators are not
likely to follow him over the cliffs on
this and you know you know I never want
to mean it's one of our rules here upon
say America and we don't put a lot of
stock into that courage and dependence
of Republican elected officials but it
feels like there's not the trumpets on a
limited leash here and it would be very
hard for him to get enough Republican
senators to side with him to shut the
government down again for essentially no
reason yeah I mean I think what the
Republicans learned through the shutdown
is what we all saw they can all read
polling information they can see you
know the protests and of you know
federal officials the air traffic
controllers who didn't want to show up
for work because they weren't getting
paid the contractors who didn't get paid
I mean the shutdown was a political
disaster for Donald Trump and the
Republican Party took their polling down
to new levels I don't think they have
the appetite for that again I mean we'll
we'll see but I don't I I think that's
why Trump seems to be reluctantly going
to sign this bill though as you said he
just tweeted that he's reviewing him now
he also he's not worth doing it because
reviewing it requires reading words and
numbers and neither of those or his
chosen way of getting information yeah I
mean the longest thing he's read in the
last couple months are Zach I run on Fox
News so all right so I guess the
question now is what's next for the wall
Trump said on Wednesday quote the wall
is very very on its way it's happening
as we speak you'd have to be an
extremely good shape to get over this
one they would
able to climb Mount Everest a lot easier
I think so the way the White House says
he's either going to take money from
other agencies to fund the wall or
declare a national emergency will either
of these options work whether they're
sort of the drawbacks to each of these
options you know it both of them have
two risks one being legal risk that
particularly sort of declaring a
national emergency you cannot really do
that to go around the will of Congress
and since this is a solution that would
take years to implement for a fake
problem that isn't it happening Dallas
Trump claims it seems that at least some
courts at least before we get to Brett
Kavanaugh was revenge theater and the
Supreme Court would strike that down and
Congress the appropriators and Congress
even Republicans and Democrats are
pretty they get a little worked when you
start just taking money from one pot and
putting it in another so there are some
risks to doing it but ultimately that
I'm not sure matters to Trump because he
he doesn't need to build the wall he may
not even really want to build the wall
because if it were that if he were to
have this in Mount Everest like
impenetrable barrier that would prevent
him from scaring people about armies of
women and children coming to America in
typically violence then it would
probably be employ'd of his political
strategy but he can also lie about it
and just you know like in this he's like
he's right now attacking Democrats were
blocking the wall and patting himself on
the back but building the wall and it
seems to be at least some inconsistency
in the messaging but that's sort of how
Trump rolls
yeah I mean mark Meadows who rolls with
the very Trump iasts of the House
Republicans said on Wednesday if he
signed the bill based on what has been
reported and suggested as in the bill
and did nothing else it would be
political suicide so you know is he
right right like Trump central campaign
promise in 2016 was that he would build
a wall across our 2,000 mile border with
Mexico he has built zero miles of
all he is up for re-election next year
as you pointed out even if he goes with
the national emergency that probably
gets held up in court
even if he tries to re-appropriate money
from other agencies you know who may not
be happy about and that and Congress may
not be happy about that
you look there's a provision in in the
funding bill right now that says
communities along the border get to
review any sort of wall or fencing or
barriers that's going up on you know
where they live
for a little while before it happens I
mean it seems like under any scenario no
matter what Trump does he ain't getting
a wall built before 2020 so what does
that mean as he heads into re-election I
[Music]
word that would be some blow to Trump's
reelection prospects where he said he'd
go though all he didn't build the wall
therefore he failed and therefore he
would lose I could not disagree with
that more I don't believe Trump's voters
love Trump because they love the wall I
think they love the wall because they
love Trump and therefore they're not
gonna I just heart it's hard to imagine
the voter who thinks the law is the most
important thing and is then going to
either walk away from the person most
associated with the law because it's not
yet built the wall is like I think even
voters understand the wall zone is a
political metaphor for racism racism
xenophobia and they just want someone
who will speak proudly if racism
xenophobia more so than they want like
actual border and brick being put on the
border of the United States yeah I think
that's I think that's probably largely
true I do wonder if for again these
aren't like hardcore Trump fans but sort
of borderline Trump supporters people
who voted for Trump this could feed into
a larger narrative about broken promises
as we head into re-election hours Trump
heads into reelection which of course
every president running for reelection
faces I mean in the era of pre Trump
right when it was just normal politics
you run for president you make promises
you then run for president again four
years later and you're judged by whether
you
kept those promises or not right that's
like simple politics and I just remember
you know I don't know why I was
watching this but like you know I saw a
clip of Ann Coulter talking to Bill
Maher just kill me and she was and she
was making this case she's like you know
the argument for liberals for everyone
right now is pretty easy cuz it's the
same argument and she's like I'm making
against Trump right now which is he made
a bunch of promises and he didn't keep
them he said he was gonna build a wall
he didn't build the wall and he didn't
do what he said he was gonna do as
president and that's a problem and I
wonder if at some point you started you
know that case starts building if that
becomes a problem for John so two points
on that one I do believe that voters
give you credit for trying and you know
this was true with Obama and the economy
in 2012 they believed he even though he
hadn't achieved everything that everyone
hoped in terms of an economic recovery
after the financial crisis they believe
he was trying his best and that was for
something and I think Trump's voters
will probably believe he has tried on
the wall I do agree with you that broken
promises is a very powerful message
against Trump and I think it is largely
I think the better argument there is
going to be around the fact that he ran
as a populist in governance corporatist
he ran as a reformer and governed as one
creature creature like that seems to be
the things that might have the most yo
but he was not the change he promised as
opposed to not a Lyndon Johnson like
figures into liver a wall but all of it
I think we're in agreement is that the
trumpets left some opening here or and
that this is like this will least hang
over for some period of time with the
end cultures of the world and that just
creates interference in his daily life
and that makes it harder to get his
message out so another question is you
know did Democrats get the best deal
they could and if not could they have
gotten a better one we know the
Democrats made some progress trying to
force ice to detain fewer immigrants in
this deal but not as much as they
originally wanted we know the Democrats
wanted the deal to include back pay for
federal contractors who never got the
money they lost during the shutdown but
Trump rejected that idea because you
know he's never been big on paying
contractors
could Democrats have won these fights
what would it look like if they had just
passed you know a continuing resolution
to fund the government at previous
levels were there other options here I
think with one glaring exception this
deal is fine right and that's sort of
the best you can afford if you control
one half of one branch of government as
a deal that is fine
it's basically status quo of where we
were before right there are some little
money here for other things some things
were addressed but we didn't make any
dramatic changes in immigration policy
one way or the other and it's ER at
peril and amazing it's Nancy Pelosi if
there's only so much leverage she has
did you still need not just a Republican
Senate you also need to keep onboard a
handful of moderate Democrats who are
pretty uncomfortable with shutdown
politics generally and so we're sort of
limited I do think Democrats drop the
ball on contractor back pay I think this
was there was a moral obligation to do
this it was the right thing to do I
think we sometimes you get any
legislative negotiations it's like you
get one thing we get the other thing but
these things are not equal and I think
if we had pushed hard on this we could
have gotten the Republicans to give but
it was simple really
where you shut down the government again
or the problem is we're going to shut
down the government again over
contractor back pay yeah it's a it's the
absolutely right thing to do it's good
policy and good politics and I think
that it we didn't fight hard enough for
that and I think that's really
unfortunate because the the contract in
an economy where more and more people
are being pushed towards contract
workers or part-time workers gave work
if we don't take a stand that those
workers are equal to salary workers in
terms of what they deserve and well then
it's a it's simply the wrong thing to do
in a fundamental mistake yeah I agree
with that and I'm I'm curious as to why
they didn't push harder I mean I guess
you know Friday is the deadline the
government gets shut down no one wants
to be the one who caused another
shutdown obviously Democrats don't but
it's like I don't know I mean it seems
like it's an issue that is incredibly
politically popular to pay people to pay
workers
who were stiffed by the government and
stiffed by Trump shut down so I don't
know why you wouldn't take a bigger
stand on that but I guess it's not an
ideological issue right it's not like
we're asking come - we're not asking
Republicans do something they are
theoretically or they're actually
supposed to be opposed to right if you
were because they're for pay back pay
for government workers so it's sort of
like we just let me just this was too
hard so we decided not to do it I think
that's uh I know these things are hard
you know let's shut down the government
but I think that is really unfortunate
that happened because these people were
owed money and we left them - we all
have collectively not just Democrats
everyone involved in this process let
them down yeah and by all accounts it
seems like they didn't include it in the
deal because Republicans said Oh Trump
said he wouldn't sign this deal you know
and it's like well like here if you give
if this exact deal went less the Senate
with contractor backs a trunk is not
indeed over get over contraband contract
back by that is like that isn't absurd
reason does not do this okay well we
will see if he ends up signing this deal
by the time you listen to this maybe
it'll have I already passed one house
but stay tuned all right let's talk
about Trump's trip to El Paso earlier
this week where he held his first rally
of the 20/20 campaign gave a stump
speech that's basically his same you
know Brown terrorists are invading us
routine from 2016 with a few new attacks
on socialism abortion and Beto O'Rourke
who delivered an anti wall speech at the
same time just a few blocks away
funny aside here Trump bragged that his
crowd count was 35,000 in betos was two
to three hundred though the truth was
the Trump's was 10,000 and betos was 10
to 15,000 so he's just a little off on
that crowd count what have anything
struck you about Trump's first campaign
speech what argument is he making what
proactive argument is he making for his
own reelection it I mean it's always
hard to extract something a you know
core message or strategy out of anything
Trump said this one was on one level the
delusional ravings of the
dishonest with a cable addled
brain right it was like conspiracy
theories it was crazy like all over the
map like if you had to like read the
words of it you would it would be
exhibit a and a 25th amendment hearing
against Trump right say it's very
alarming but on another level he is
making a you know he is there's almost a
self-awareness to how he's doing this is
that Trump knows in some way I think
down deep that he is not likable right
that there are larger people who don't
like him but he remains incredibly
confident in his ability to make the
whoever he is facing off against or
running against even more unlikable and
from the Trump positive message
standpoint it's all over the map like we
need a wall we're building a wall I had
saved you from the armies of my grits
and ms-13 armies of migrants in ms-13
are about to kill you it like it doesn't
make a lot of sense but he does he is
making an argument that Democrats are
too radical to govern this country and
he is doing that with a measure of
consistency that is very dishonest by it
is it is a message yeah I mean look we
again every incumbent president goes
through this when they face reelection
and we did this to as Obama was facing
re-election in 2012 the opposition party
opposition candidate wants to make the
election a referendum on the president
right so was Trump a good president
these last four years
did you like Trump as president do you
want four more years of this right
that's the question that we want to ask
as the incumbent what you try to do is
say no this isn't a referendum this is a
choice between me who maybe you don't
like that much maybe you're a little
disappointed with with me and my
policies and my record but look at the
other guys look what they have to offer
look how extreme that is and we
successfully did this in 2012 against
Mitt Romney and we did it largely around
economic issues in economic
vision look at Mitt Romney's vision for
the country he wants to give huge tax
cuts to rich people and screw over
working people that was the choice that
we forced people to make and Barack
Obama is gonna continue to fight for you
and I think you're right like in in this
reelection that's Trump is not Trump
can't win this election but he's gonna
try to make the Democrats lose this
election so he can't he can't get his
approval rating up that far right like
they've been stuck it they've been stuck
between 38 and 44 percent since he's
been in office they probably haven't
moved much at all and so he's gonna he's
sitting there with forty four forty five
percent maybe in some of these swing
states he'll be up to 46 47 percent
that's not 50 what he's gonna try to do
is whoever the Democratic nominee is
paint that person as an out-of-touch
extreme you know weirdo yeah it's like
you may not like me but you're gonna
 hate this other person and like
you hit on what is the exact identic
elections which is when someone is
running for president their strategy is
to make people want change and when
you're running for re-election your
strategists make people fear change and
it's gonna how Democrats defined what
change is and why it is I'm sorry listen
how Democrats define what that change is
will determine our ability to win this
election yeah I mean what do you think
about the specific attacks on Democrats
you know he basically he called
Democrats quote the party of socialism
late term abortion open borders and
crime just to put a real fine point on
it he said he said that the green New
Deal would eliminate airplanes and cars
and tear down buildings and then he
called Beto a young man who's got very
little going for himself except he's got
a great first name what what do you
think about these attacks at least on
the issues and the socialism and what
what's he trying to do there I mean it's
exactly what we're saying he is trying
to make Democrats seem so radical that
even if you are uncomfortable with Trump
you would be much more uncomfortable
with what these Democrats are trying to
do and you do sort of see in here why
don't I say that's why usually
incumbents win reelection right which is
the Democrats are going to spend the
next 15
months having a debate among themselves
about the green New Deal Medicare for
all
you know what's Rebecca not like
policies we want to put my it's all good
and it's a good and important
conversation but trunk the RNC the Koch
brothers the Fox News you know and
somewhat aided and abetted by the
mainstream media are going to spend the
next 15 months demagoguing the
Democratic position sort of making you
believe that if a Democrat is elected
we're going to take your car away and
have to take a we have to ride a bike to
get a salad right I like that I mean
it's hard right there like that is all
that is the huge advantage that
Republican that incumbents have is that
they yes it maybe get to make their
argument straight for a year and a half
while you're busy making your argument
you're not talking to any voters who are
not Democratic primary but is your only
argument to the people to your base for
15 months and that that is a challenge
the Democrats seem to think and not just
a Democrats running but the democratic
progressive world largest have to think
really hard about how we prevent Trump
from defining what meaning a Democrat
means before the day the Democratic
nominee steps onstage at our convention
to me and picks up the mantle yeah and
look this is what we faced on the first
campaign that I ever worked on with John
Kerry was the Democratic nominee and
going into that campaign everyone
thought oh everyone hates george w bush
everyone doesn't you know people don't
like the war in iraq people that you
know and they thought that you know it
was gonna be easier to prosecute this
case against george w bush and yet he
was able to define john kerry before
john kerry was able to define himself
with tons of money and the swift boat
ads and all this other stuff as this
sort of out of touch aloof weirdo and it
was effective enough to secure george w
bush with another term and i think you
know it is it is not going to be easy
and i guess the question is like what
how what can democratic candidates do
about trump demonizing them and the
party as you know 500 of them are
running against each other is there is
there anything that we can do how should
we respond to this what do you think i I
think it's really hard to tell you know
come on Harris Elizabeth Warren
or Cory Booker or anyone to say hey go
try to win the Iowa caucus but also try
to win Ohio in the general at the same
time that's an impossible task no
campaign will do that I think it's gonna
be and this is a responsibility it's
gonna be go to the rest of us right to
figure out how to keep Trump on its heel
so it's going to be antsy closest
responsibility it's going to be the DNC
its responsibility it's going to be you
know whatever progressives super PAC
infrastructure there is to keep Trump on
his heels I don't I just don't know that
the Democrats can do it look every time
they have the national stage they should
make an argument you know to make an
argument against trump and trumpism you
know I think we've seen a lot of that
like we talked about Carla Harris's
speech in Oakland was a very strong
argument against trumpism others have
done it but so use your platform to push
back but I think others are gonna have
to pick up the slack because we don't
live in a world like it used to be you
would think well you know Trump always
get shitty press coverage so he'll just
get shitty press coverage for the next
15 months and then Democrats would start
prosecuting the case against them it and
that's just not how the world works in
our filter bubble information economy
and so you're gonna have to like other
parts of the small handful of Democrats
that were any for president gonna have
to spend the next you know 12 to 15
months prosecuting the case aggressively
yeah I mean we have said for a long time
that it is very important for Democrats
not just to oppose trauma but to offer
but to offer a positive vision and
agenda of their own and that is true but
everything is a balance and I do think
you know Democrats are going to be
arguing over which Medicare for all plan
to embrace or to pursue and there's
gonna be all kinds of arguments on that
but they should also remind people
Donald Trump gets reelected people's
health insurance is going away they are
going to finish the job that they
started and repeal the Affordable Care
Act and 20 million people will lose
health insurance Democrats can argue
over which green New Deal plan is the
best and how far we should go and how
fast we should go and decarbonizing the
economy that's fine but let's remember
Trump is reelected it's a party he's
part of a party that doesn't believe
that climate change exists and nothing
will be done about climate change for
another four years when we only have
basically ten years to stop it
you can argue over some late term
abortion bill that applies to like you
know 1% of people in the world or you
can say Donald Trump's going to be
reelected again there will be no women's
right to choose
it will be over it will be ended because
he will be able to appoint another
justice the Supreme Court probably and
that will be that so like there are very
real consequences to Donald Trump being
reelected they're far greater than any
kind of little arguments we're having
over which policy were pursuing and how
far it can go and I think that that
definitely has to be part of the
Democratic candidates message as they're
arguing with each other over these next
you know nine ten months yeah that's
right it's like we have to we have to
keep the stakes of the election as high
as possible for others and that is
something that oh you know we can do
other Democratic specials we do but also
the candidates can do out on the stump
well let's talk about one of those
potential candidates let's talk about
Beddoes response to trump you know
thinking about the green new deal for
sure just spent a lot of time it's been
a lot of time on that and a lot of
pundits have written that Democrats are
you know I'm giving Trump a cudgel right
they're given him a path to reelection
by doing the great New Deal and well
there's nothing like a 1 that's a really
stupid way to think about something when
the planet is melting before our
eyes but it is also possible that
something can be good politics for Trump
and good politics for the Democrats at
the same time yeah like yes there are
elements of the green New Deal that
Trump can demonize and scream about and
caught in panic some people about but it
also it's basically I think table stakes
for Democrats to appeal to young voters
to offer a bold climate change plan that
is commensurate to the threat that the
country faces and so it doesn't have to
be as as good for Democrats good for
problems it could be both in the
ultimate decision the ultimate verdict
on how well it works will do will depend
on who does a better job in the final
weeks making the argument
right it's like there's not I don't
think there's a world where the
Democrats could really have come out and
just like offered the same you know
circa 2009 cap-and-trade plan and appeal
to younger voters I didn't here's this
is the last night with Michael Tubbs who
are guests at our Sacramento show last
year cookiecutter people don't know he's
the 28 year old mayor of Stockton
California and one of the most
impressive public officials early but I
asked him like you're the Millennial
mayor how do you how do politicians
reach Millennials like what are they
chairman he said I want to have a planet
to live on when I'm 50 right and he's
and that's the thing he hears all kinds
of young people I think we have to
recognize the way young people view
climate change and that's why the son
rights movement and AFC and everyone
else will write to push this and
Democrats had no choice but to embrace
it so it gets both good policy into
politics well and again what we saw in
El Paso from Trump you know lying about
getting rid of airplanes and bikes and
all this Trump is going to lie
about and exaggerate and demonize any
plan or proposal from Democratic
politicians he just spent the 2018
election saying that we wanted
terrorists and criminals to overrun our
country he has talked about you know
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton being
the founders of Isis like he has gone
there on every single argument and will
continue to so the idea that we should
you know strategize about our own policy
agenda based on the attacks that may or
may not come from Donald Trump and the
Republican Party is silly because they
have gone they have been calling us
socialists for the last 40 years Barack
Obama was a socialist remember Barack
Obama was also like a Kenyan Muslim
imposter right like they they will use
every single argument in the book they
have they nothing will stop them from
saying something crazy about Democrats
so should we so when we construct our
policies and our proposals we should
think about what is necessary and you
know what we can sort of cobble together
a majority around it's such a pass right
like that there are very real arguments
that we're gonna have over what kind of
Medicare plan to embrace what kind of
green new deal to embrace but they
should be about what
we can actually get done once we have
power we shouldn't we shouldn't trim our
sails based on what the Republicans are
going to say about us because they're
gonna call us everything yes be the
Affordable Care Act a health care plan
originally based on an idea from the
Heritage Foundation based on a plan
enacted by Republican Mitt Romney that
did amazing things but did not go as far
as we're like what's called socialist
the entire 2012 campaign and brock obama
won so what are they gonna call Medicare
for all like extra socialist right super
socialism it's like just do what we're
gonna do like these are hard arguments
you're we're gonna have to win them but
we we have to win them on our terms and
not let trump define the four corners of
the argument right right and that
doesn't mean that doesn't mean there's
room for people who want more moderate
policies like that's fine but but
propose that because it's what you
believe not because you're worried about
the Republicans are gonna say all right
let's talk about betos response what did
you think of his event in the speech he
gave
and what hints
does it give about you know the kind of
presidential candidate he might be if he
finally chooses to enter the race
interesting to see because you know the
last time all of us the political world
saw beto was basically the night before
the election and his last big rally very
emotional rally and I'll pass up yeah
and like in that we had spent you know
more than a year seeing him has been so
very powerful rhetorical moment seized
large crowds this excitement around his
candidacy and then it's been dark for a
long time like he's just been sort of
off the stage he's been driving around
posting or medium that's received mixed
responses to say the least who released
the political world and just in a world
in which everything happened so fast
Egypt he's been absent right like you
just haven't seen him and so to like
that event was a reminder of why he
caught then you know a good portion of
the political world's imagination may be
actually more than political wall do you
know he he can't you know he became a
national figure anus you know
long shot long shot ish Senate race and
that was a reminder of what that is like
what that means for him as a
presidential candidate isn't open
question he showed some of the strengths
that we think he would bring to we
talked about before he was bring a
present expand the sense that you know
the only successful campaigns at least
on the Democratic side are merger or
service Ryan the only successful
Democratic campaigns match enthusiasm
and organization and you know he
certainly has the ability to put get a
crowd and that at least gives you the
chance to make an argument in front of
people which means you have a chance to
win Iowa and that's sort of the whole
thing so I think the challenge for him
is he's gonna have to make an argument
for why him not the others right I think
that's sort of your gonna be coming
incumbent on these candidates as explain
what they uniquely bring to the field
and it's but you have to be almost
explicit not attack the other person but
what is the thing that the field is
lacking that you offer and I think that
that is going to be a challenge for
everyone who is either running or
thinking or these 7,000 people were
thinking of getting it whether it's
Biden or Bernie or bed over Stacey
Abrams or all the other says why you
write like why are you better than the
others right it can't just be we're all
equal to put the butter decide you have
to make an argument for why you are a
better vehicle for winning this election
and bringing the progressive implement
for us and policies that we care about
you know it's interesting I think
pundits and you know DC folks always
tend to underestimate the power of
enthusiasm which is often measured by
very large crowds and very large sort of
grassroots fundraising and they always
do this because any look they did this
to us to Obama we did this in 2016 with
Trump's crowds and with Bernie's that's
right and and you know and I think
people did it with with Beto - and a
crowd look you know one of the reason
that Kamala Harris is you know at the
top of the field right now is because in
her announcement suddenly 20,000 people
showed up you know
Oakland that's very impressive and if
you had told the DC set before her
announcement that like oh oh she gets a
huge crowd in Oakland will that matter
much they probably like rolled their
eyes but when you actually see the crowd
and you see the enthusiasm suddenly or
most of these people are like oh yeah
that is a pretty big deal and like the
fact that that Beto was able to get you
know and the people of El Paso and the
organizers in El Paso because they
helped organize that crowd as well but
the fact that that crowd was able to
assemble ten to fifteen thousand people
in just a few days notice to sort of act
as a counter rally to Donald Trump to
the president coming to El Paso is very
significant I think and you know as you
said talking about like the Y right
which I think the longer you're sort of
decided to still deciding whether to get
into the presidential race like Beto is
like Bernie is like Joe Biden is it
becomes an even greater challenge to
look at the field that we have and say
okay what's missing from that field that
I bring
and I think betos argument would
probably be he at least you saw a hint
of this during that rally which is you
know he really focused on sort of like a
revival of democracy and civic
participation itself right like that the
only way that we're going to not just
beat Donald Trump it sort of restored
the America that we want to be is for
people to show up at events like this to
be active to be active you know to
participate in our democracy again and
that sort of what his campaign was about
so you can start to sort of see what his
message might be and I also thought it
was interesting with his rally that you
know we've been talking about how a
Democrat handles Donald Trump and we've
said you know well you don't want to
respond to everything that Donald Trump
does and always be like you know he's he
says something offensive and then you're
forced to respond and then you're going
down the path that Donald Trump and that
doesn't really help and that but I think
there's there's something between that
and sort of doing your own thing apart
from Donald Trump when you know that the
media attention is always going to be on
Donald Trump and betos rallies sort of
found that middle ground in El Paso
it was it was a response but it wasn't a
response directly to Donald Trump it was
a response to the country and it was
bigger and hopeful and positive but he
was still able to get that split screen
by making sure that you know when Donald
Trump had a rally he had a counter rally
and that's an interesting option for all
the Democratic candidates that when
Trump is holding an event Trump is
talking about something you talk about
that thing also but you sort of show why
you're different than Donald Trump as
opposed to just going back and forth and
tit-for-tat with him yeah that's right
yeah I thought it was you know it's
really interesting is you sort of look
at the field there you know as big as it
isn't as big as it could be there are
lots of candidates with lots of
different assets you know her sorry show
you guys well you can talk to different
strengths and you know weaknesses and
you know I do think one of the things
that said it would bring to the field is
something that I you know from the
candidates I've seen thus far that I
think Hummel Harris Pete Budaj and you
know potential candidate CC Abrams bring
is just a very like a good way of
handling Trump right like not getting
overly rattled by him but making a
broader argument again it's easy to
argue against the man trunk right he is
a walking set of flaws and crimes but
there was also you have to argue about
what Trump represents yeah because
that's the true danger of the country I
think Beto did that a lot in this
campaign he did that the other night of
a Bellas a team of come with Harrison
speech they create see the evidence
response
I've seen people are in some interviews
you know just talk about it from the
perspective of millennial on a person
who served to the military but like that
to me is it like you can get out of you
every American people are not stupid
they know that Trump is a massively
flawed individual
they know that he wives they know that
he has probably been involved in all
kinds of criminal at least crime
adjacent activities over the years they
know these absurd they know he's chaotic
every sense terrible tweets like we like
everyone gets that and people voted for
him despite
that right but there is a broader danger
to what he represents and how it is
diverges from the tradition of how we
think of ourselves of America that that
is the truth like that I think is well
people can make that argument that will
separate that will be the separation
between the the best candidates to run
against Trump in the rest of the field
yeah all right let's talk about less
pleasant 2020 news on Tuesday night CNN
hosted a town hall in Texas with former
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz the
billionaire who's deciding whether to
run for president why should we care
about this I see a lot of people on
Twitter why are we giving so much
attention to him why are we talking
about him why are Democrats so upset so
here's why we've learned through a new
analysis provided to crooked media that
the only person Schultz's candidacy
could help become president is Donald
Trump this was an analysis by Katie
Connelly and Joel Benenson of the
Benenson Strategy Group as some of you
know Joel is a friend of the pod who was
Obama's chief pollster from 2008 on
basically here's what they did they gave
Trump every state where a Republican has
won by more than 10 for for the five
last elections in a row and then they
gave the Democratic candidate every
state where a Democrat has won by more
than 10 points for four of the five last
elections in a row then they labeled the
rest of the state's battlegrounds and
this is a generous map full of
battleground states so like Oregon's a
battleground state even though Democrats
have won Oregon in every race since like
1984 Texas is a battleground state even
though Republicans have been winning
Texas non-stop so the battle - when they
did all this the battlegrounds that were
left after you had safe Democratic and
safe Republican states only added up to
268 electoral votes so even if Howard
Schultz runs the table on every single
battleground in this expanded
battleground map he doesn't get the 270
votes he needs to win and if no
candidate gets the 270 votes which would
happen in that scenario what happens is
the election is thrown to the House of
Representatives now the House of
Representatives if they have to decide
the election it's not just a simple
majority that decides it eat
State gets one vote each state
delegation in the house gets one vote
well right now Republicans control 26
state delegations in the house
Democrats only control 22 and the
arrests are tied so Trump wins in that
scenario and beyond that there are
plenty of other scenarios or even if
Schultz peels off a tiny percentage of
Democratic votes in battleground states
he tips the election to trump dan what
did you think of this analysis and how
much of a threat do you think Schultz is
to the Democratic candidate in general I
mean the analysis is exactly right it is
impossible for Donald Trump
it is impossible for Howard Schultz
pecan president it is we are we have a
two-party system his office and now that
may not be great I would be all for
getting rid of the Electoral College
moving to a popular vote system which
would increase the chances of
independent candidates or third party
candidates to win but this the simple
fact of the matter is it cannot happen
and then you get these actually
from like the Schultz team or reporter
so it's like how can you say that Donald
Trump and Barack Obama won no one said
that could happen
it's like politics is changing except
for the fact that politics is changing
in the exact way that makes it less
likely for Howard Schultz to win the
country is getting more polarized yeah
and so it makes it harder like the group
of voter is available to even an
appealing independent unit of which
Donald Howard Schultz is most certainly
not is smaller and so all the only thing
that Howard Schultz can accomplish is to
win enough votes from people who do not
like Trump but may be unwilling to cross
the line book for democrat if they have
some other choice and tip the election
of trump that is the only thing that can
happen it's not sure I mean Howard
Schultz could run and get you know
essentially zero votes and be and matter
nothing but there is not a world where
becomes president and if your goal is to
become president you have to run in the
primaries of one of the two parties you
do not get to opt out of it because you
made a billion dollars and you use fancy
names for a small medium and large
it's not you don't get out of like that
is not how it works he cannot become
president on this current path he's
wasting all of our time and
giving us a lot of anxiety because he
poses an existential threat to Democrats
taking the White House in Johnson yeah
and look this this last point is very
important because of all the people
saying Oh Democrats are overreacting
he's you know and look polls show that
his favorability rating is garbage
people hate him and not just Democrats
but independents and Republicans most of
the country doesn't know who he is
so people say what's the problem he's
not a threat like even if he runs and
gets the same percentage of the vote as
Jill Stein did or Gary Johnson did he
could still tip the election to trump
remember what we were talking about
earlier like Trump probably has a
ceiling at like 45 46 47 in some of
these battleground states and Trump is
not trying to get to 50 he knows he
probably can't get to 50 he's gonna try
to do what he did to Hillary Clinton in
2016 which is try to destroy the
Democratic candidate and push some
voters just as tiny all he needs is a
tiny percentage of voters to be pushed
away from the Democratic candidate
towards one of these third-party
candidates whether it's Howard Schultz
or Jill Stein or Gary Johnson or someone
else and he can win those states and
look people in the Clinton campaign will
tell you that when they polled Trump
versus Hillary in a lot of these
battleground states in a two way race
Hillary Clinton was consistently winning
all through the fall even in some of
these states the Trump ended up winning
like Michigan Wisconsin Michigan and
Pennsylvania but when you switched it to
a four-way poll when it was Trump and
Hillary and Gary Johnson and Jill Stein
she was losing ground and she was losing
ground in the very battleground states
that she ended up losing this is very
serious the man has a billion dollars at
his disposal here and this whole idea to
like oh if we don't talk about him you
know he won't get attention why are we
talking about him why is the media
giving him attention if the media gave
him zero attention if we gave him zero
attention he's worth a billion dollars
he is going to run start running ads in
the next couple months that is his
team's plan they've said that he's gonna
start running ads he's gonna start
buying his own media and he's gonna
start you know it's a real threat to the
Democratic nominee it is a very real
threat
and even if he is not even if he decides
also it did not run for president he is
paint here this moment in time where
based on this purported potential
presidential campaign he has a media
platform he is using that media platform
every single day to do Donald Trump's
bidding for him he is seeking to
radicalize Democrats on core issues
saying that America Medicare for all
it's an American that the green New Deal
immoral acts of wealthy are ridiculous
or unamerican and even in this town hall
basically using NRA talking points that
Democrats want to take far less
Democrats want to take away everyone's
guns right liking both sides in oh yeah
I didn't how you say that more but you
know what I'm saying
guns days from the one-year anniversary
of parkland it is it is cynical and
gross and it is stupid and maybe the
right strategic thing to do is to not
send angry tweets about Howard Schultz
or to rant about it on this podcast but
that is level self control I currently
do not have because everything about
this effort is infuriating because it is
a bit like it is politically dangerous
it is just incredibly cynical the amount
of arrogance is astounding and it's just
the absolute how bad he is that
something as important as running for
president infuriates me like if you were
going to do a town hall for one hour and
take questions of journalists have some
 positions have an answer to the
question of what would happen to your
Starbucks stock where you may come
president have an answer about what you
would do I'm day one have an answer
about whether you release your tax
returns do have answers to questions do
like a monic and look prep in QA
beforehand is it like it like this is a
serious thing and he he may be a serious
business person who did a very very good
job bring Starbucks and Starbucks eat a
lot of very good things including making
the egg whites Tommy but he I think
those opposed I can't believe the
response time we got on Twitter for
 on those egg bites those things
are disgusting but here's the
point I others up people can have
independent opinions of food
like the egg bite I can like the egg
bite and for all these people on Twitter
there's no right or wrong answer to that
like that is your opinion
because like people were mad at me for
liking them furious and Tommy forced it
for opposing such an easy you have a
choice you can light like it's like
there's no right answer to the egg bites
like I like if Tommy doesn't like him we
both have that right I don't make him
eat him he doesn't stop this video like
the rest of you people need to like just
like it's not like I even got my direct
messages from people who are like way to
fight on the egg right then don't let
Tommy cares like we all have our
breakfast it's not like it's not like
liking Elliott Abrams you know we're not
going to get into that yeah on something
there's a right answer but food choices
yeah music choices which TV shows you
like like that's your opinion
you're welcome to it it's like eat when
you've enjoying watching you enjoy read
what you enjoy don't spend time yelling
you people for enjoying different things
I am a I made a time of national crisis
this is not a good you so energy as we
know I am a very big fan of Dunkin
Donuts specifically the Dunkin Donuts
coffee which some people think is you
know just gross sugar water I want it I
want more of it give it to me all the
time that's what I love but anyway back
back to Howard Schultz the coffee man
who's trying to ruin our democracy I
just look if Donald if Howard Schultz
ends up running and gets on the ballot
then maybe it's time to stop talking
about him and not give him attention
right now our goal should be to try to
persuade him that running is a very bad
idea
and that he will have no support to do
so and persuading him and persuading his
advisors and I know that a lot of people
had tweet us yes we did work with Bill
Burton and Bill knows exactly how we
feel about this and has not been
persuaded as of yet but um we we should
be all of us right now trying to
persuade these people not to undertake
this candidacy which could only elect
Donald Trump and could not elect Howard
Schultz and could only hurt the
Democratic nominee it is it is serious
and and I don't think it's an
overreaction at all because like I said
you know no one knew about Gary
Johnson didn't get any attention I think
the last rays are very little Jill Stein
didn't get much attention but in
critical states
they help swing the election away from
Hillary Clinton it happens it happens so
this is not a prediction but the most
likely scenario is that Michigan
Pennsylvania Ohio Florida are decided by
a point like that is the difference yeah
like the last letter said by 80,000
voters over three states it is like
it'll be it is likely to be that close
again that is just how elections operate
in this polarized world and so every
little thing matters and the power
Schulz pulls it 1% in Wisconsin he can
be the reason Donald Trump gets elected
this is not a writer he can get 15% or
20% or 30% so whether he get 1% and
that's how much these things matter good
times
okay when we come back we will have
Dan's conversation with independent
journalist marcy wheeler
you
