we're good all right we're ready to pod
those thumbs up all right thumbs up from
now mm-hmm
welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the pod you'll
hear jon lovitz conversation with
congresswoman Lauren Underwood to stop
by crooked headquarters this week before
that we're gonna talk about the news
from why Democrats are embracing ideas
like eliminating the electoral college
and the filibuster to Trump's new
strategy around a potential Muller
report to the latest on the candidates
looking to beat the president in 2020 on
the new episode of POD save the world
Tommy talks about online extremism with
Charlie warts all of the new york times
on keep it the gang talked about the new
Elizabeth Holmes documentary and they
interviewed busy Phillips at busy
tonight tickets are still available for
our shows in New England in Boston and
Concord you can get them at crooked comm
slash events if you live in Boston you
might also be seeing a promo video that
involves Tommy and me teaching love it
how to speak in a Boston accent might be
coming to a Facebook page near you it's
it's worth check it out all right let's
start with the news so over the last few
weeks a lot of the Democratic
presidential candidates have been
talking a lot about what I will call
small D democratic reforms during a CNN
Town Hall this week Elizabeth Warren
endorsed eliminating the electoral
college multiple candidates have talked
about adding seats to the Supreme Court
or instituting term limits on justices
they've talked about statehood for DC
and Puerto Rico they've talked about
getting rid of gerrymandering and making
it easier to vote and you might have
heard me nag Cory Booker about getting
rid of the filibuster in our interview
this week and he did change his position
a little saying he's not closed the door
on it dan why do you think a big
discussion about these democratic
reforms is happening now in this
campaign in a way that it hasn't in any
other presidential campaign I can
remember and why is it so important why
should people care about these seemingly
unconnected set of proposals I I like
that you call them small D democratic
as opposed to Soros funded socialist
paragraphs yeah I thought that you know
I'm a I'm a messaging guy so I think
that these this set of issues has risen
to the top for couple reasons one is
there is sort of a homogeneous on policy
issues where people are pretty close to
each other or on what they would do if
they were president and the area of
distinction is how they would get those
things done and I think these question
that this discussion comes from the fact
that both Trump selection and the
behavior of Mitch McConnell and the
Republicans both before Trump's election
definitely after Trump's election has
shown that there are fundamental flaws
in our political system that the system
itself is based on this notion that you
would have two parties operating in
equally good faith trying to achieve
different visions for the country that
you would have people who would be
President or Senate leader who would be
would put patriotism above you know
prophet may here lining their own
pockets and that people were just a
bought would naturally abide by some set
of good behavior and we now know that's
not true
we know that the Republican Party both
through Trump but also before Trump have
exploited the loopholes in the system to
push forward a essentially plutocratic
minority rule in this country and
something has to be done about it if the
system can't sustain a world in which
the voices of the majority of Americans
are diminished by a set of
anti-democratic rules and laws in this
country I think that last point is is
key I mean we now have one political
party that's established minority rules
by maintaining a set of anti-democratic
rules laws and institutions the last two
Republican presidents won elections
without winning the popular vote
Republicans held on to the House of
Representatives for so long because they
get to draw congressional districts and
basically pick their voters Republicans
have an advantage in this
because they're voters as polarization
has continued now live in rural mostly
sparsely populated states plus in
addition to that there's a rule called
the filibuster which says that nothing
can get past past the Senate without 60
votes so that is going to benefit the
party that represents more states
especially more sparsely populated
states and between the two presidents
who lost the popular vote and the
Republican Senate leader who represents
the population of Kentucky those those
three men were able to install four
extremely conservative justices to the
Supreme Court that is the situation in
our country right now that one party
using a bunch of laws and institutions
and rules has established minority rule
in a country and so the majority of
people in this country when they go to
vote their voices are not being heard
like they could because of all these
other rules and institutions and because
by the way I mean the thing that's
really driving this is that as the way
that the parties have sorted themselves
over the last couple decades means that
Democrats are increasingly living in
densely populated urban areas and
Republicans are living in sparsely
populated rural areas and so the states
that comprise those rural areas are
having more power in their politicians
that they are electing having more power
in Washington and if this continues this
way and we do not do anything about it
it is extremely unlikely the Democrats
will ever win 60 votes in the Senate
that we will ever be able to pass any
kind of progressive majority we could
continue to see popular vote losers
become the president United States and
we could continue for a generation to
have a Supreme Court where no Democratic
president and and and thus the voters
that elected that Democratic president
ever have a say and who their Supreme
Court justices it's not great dance like
obviously we are biased we we are
progressives we want progressive
policies to be the law of this country
that's all true but I think we use have
to take a step back and look at this
through just a non partisan lens which
is what is
for democracy that we hang on to these
outdated anachronistic archaic norms
that were written at a time in which we
were 13 colonies and not a large country
of 300 million Americans or we changed
the rules so that people the actual
majority of Americans get to have a say
in their government because I can tell
you that will be deeply damaging to
American democracy as flawed as it has
been in history but as we know it
is if generations of a progressive
majority a ruled by a conservative
minority because of this because of how
extreme court constructed because of the
electoral college because of filibusters
how the Senate is that and that that is
dangerous and the argument should not be
what is best for Democrats or
Republicans it is what does the majority
want and then it is for the Democrats
and Republicans or whatever other
parties may come to exist one day that
to argue for what that is because the
Republicans had a choice after they lost
the 2008 election they could develop a
set of policies that were broadly
appealing or they could change the rule
to diminish the voices of the people who
wanted progressive policies and so they
just instead of trying to win the game
they change the rules and that and I
think large swaths of the public and
large swaths of democratic elected
officials in the Senate in particular
are completely numb to what is happening
in this country we're there oh sorry
is it there completely numb that what is
happening in this country and that is
deeply dangerous yeah and look the
general thrust of American history has
been towards reforms constitutional
amendments and laws to give more people
more of a voice in this country that is
we we it that there is one point where
we didn't have people directly elect the
president they direct they you know and
so the electors and the electoral
college elected the president then we
changed that so people have a choice two
people can vote directly for the
president we used to have a situation
where people couldn't directly vote for
senators right and so like and
not to mention you know amendments to
the Constitution that protected voting
rights that gave citizenship to everyone
that gave women's suffrage that gave
african-american suffrage and equal
rights right like every reform and and
law or at least the general sweep of
them has been towards the general
direction of giving more people more of
a voice and I think that if it's
Democrats argue that that's what we have
to keep in mind you're absolutely right
it's not about giving one party an
advantage over the other if we have a
system where the majority of people in
this country are represented adequately
and those people are Republicans but
we're cut because Republicans have
policies that more people like then fine
but that's not what's happening right
now you know so the question is do
voters care about these reforms and if
not how do we make them care they
probably don't care at least with the
same level of passion that we apparently
care about it but I think the reason
that they know you were well why don't
why do you care about the Booker and we
have great this a bunch of times and I
talk to people about it and Tommy talked
Elizabeth Warren and the reason we raise
this I think it's because we have a
certain perspective which is we all sat
in that White House and tried to figure
out how we take the things that Barack
Obama ran on and in a larger and a
significant majority of Americans voted
for and turn that into actual policy how
do you deliver on those campaign
promises and I think this discussion
around the filibuster electoral college
which you know in Supreme Court is all
of it it's a proxy for a more important
question it's what is your theory of
change how are you going to succeed
where others have failed
how are you going to take these promises
and turn them into policy and I think
voters care probably about that larger
question and are interested in that
larger question more so than the sort of
the details of how you get there but
it's like why are you going to be
different why are you going to be able
to enact change than other set down I
think that is something that voters in
do care about and look and and I was
saying this to Cory Booker right like
what's driving anger disgust with
politics cynicism
apathy people turning away from the
political system is gridlock in
Washington the fact that Washington
never seems to get anything done this
was true when Oh Brock Obama started his
race in 2007 we saw it threat his
presidency we have seen it recently we
saw it in 2016 like people are angry
that nothing ever seems to get done
pundits treat that like people are upset
that everyone's yelling each other and
there's no bipartisanship
I think people care even less about
bipartisanship than they do they just
want action from Washington they want to
see that the people they're electing are
actually solving their problems and my
concern is if a Democrat gets elected in
2020 and it turns out that all of the
big promises they made on the campaign
trail
we're just promises because they don't
have an actual plan to get them passed
that will deepen people's cynicism and
lead to more Republican governance and
more people like Trump more demagogues
more populist like our job in this
election and if a Democrat wins is to
prove then a Democratic president a
Democratic Congress and Democrats in
general can actually bring about the
change that they talked about on the
campaign trail to me like that's even
more important than your policy agenda
for the reason that you said everyone's
policy agenda is is pretty progressive
there's differences some are a little
more moderate than others but generally
they're all moving in the right
direction the difference is how what's
your what's your theory for how you're
gonna get that passed and that's why I
like you know people talk about how you
know new and ambitious Elizabeth
Warren's policy ideas are I think what
makes her even more fit to lead is her
embrace of these democratic reforms and
she's been a leader in the field and
embracing a lot of these her you know
people judge has embraced a lot of them
as well we've heard jay Inslee better or
ork like some of these people are really
embracing these these reforms and that
to me is a really good sign at night and
I think more candidates will like I
think a lot of them Carla Harris said
she was interested in abolishing the
electoral college as well which was
great so I think a lot more of them will
be catching on to this the I thought
what was most interesting about Melissa
thorn was most interested in the answer
of this entire campaign has been when
she was asked what
bill she would do first Reich is that
yeah theoretically you have the most
political capital in media after you're
inaugurated the first bill you take up
is the one you have the most likelihood
to succeed on right so there that is
like prioritization is a really
important question it's one that we've
all been asking people and the 20/20
interviews we've done and Elizabeth
Warren's answer was not Wall Street
Reform it was not her child care policy
or Medicare for all it was her
anti-corruption legislation and their
argument was that everything else would
be easier and you can get reduce the
influence of special interests in
Congress by passing that bill really sad
that like that is a theory of change
right that is a very well thought out
theory of how you go about passing your
agenda and I think that is the stand of
the Democratic voters whether in Iowa
and I'm sure any of the other states
that people are going to come to should
push them on that not just what you
gonna do is how are you gonna get it
done yeah he's gonna have the best
policy agenda in the world it can be the
exact thing I want but if you have no
concept or no actual theory of how to
get it done with an understanding of the
moment we're in and who the opposition
is because you got to understand that in
this world with this Republican Party
bolstered by a propaganda operation like
Fox News funded by billionaires like the
Koch sit is a war to keep a
lights on let alone to transform the
economy into a green economy or right
you move large portions of the
population to Medicare like this like it
is like you have to it is not as simple
as going down the hall to talk to Mitch
McConnell or having more people over for
drinks or playing golf with Kevin
McCarthy or someone it is like you have
to have a theory but it should push
people on that because a someone who can
get something done is incredibly
important here yeah and in look I think
a lot of voters either don't know about
these reforms don't think about them
that much but when you pull them you
know their people have been in favor
majorities have been in favor of doing
away with the electoral colleges since
electoral college since the late 80s
according to polls I saw well I looked
up I looked this up but I saw like only
one poll about the filibuster there was
a narrow plurality that wanted to get
rid of the filibuster I'm sure no one
sure most people don't know what the
 the filibuster is so I think the
and all of us would benefit from a lot
more polling on these issues and
hopefully that will happen over the
course of this race let's talk a little
bit about the media reaction to this
which is as dumb as you might imagine
headline and NPR Democratic candidates
embrace the risk of radical ideas they
got you know governor of the DC green
room ed Rendell and that piece saying
Democrats will lose to trump if they
embrace these reforms and here's James
Holman of the Washington Post quote it's
discordant to watch Dems warn in
apocalyptic terms that trumps
disregarding sacred norms and destroying
the Republic in one breath while calling
for court packing abolishing the
electoral college
ending private insurance and paying out
reparations in the next I don't know why
those last two things are part of this
discussion it just that that tells you
something right there dan you want to
take that one before the Twitter hordes
go after James Hill then he's a pretty
good he's a good reporter is family
watching this newsletter is this smart
so yeah no I love it which it so I just
want to like not tell people liked it
like I definitely disagree with this
tweet as you'll hear in a second but
he's not the cause of all the problems
in American journalism this idea is so
 stupid it hurts my brain the
argument is basically is that the
Democrats are responding to
unconstitutional power grabs from the
Republicans by using constitutional
processes processes to ensure that more
people's voices are heard that's right
they're undertaking a crazy idea to make
it so that the person who gets the most
votes wins the election like what the
 we talked to you about right and
the Democrats are not proposing stealing
any Supreme Court beats they're
proposing passing laws should be signed
by presidents passing constitutional
amendments to be ratified by state
legislatures right and then even put in
the act to put in the same bucket under
radical power grabs taking power away
from the insurance industry so that more
people could have access to
portable quality healthcare is bananas
it is just this desire this like
tractor beam of asinine conventional
wisdom pulling people into a both sides
argument when there are not Jew sizes
argument there is one side there is the
right side it is the fact that the
Republicans have disregarded every norm
every bit of their constitutional duty
to protect Trump to horn power to
benefit millionaires and I'm sorry
benefit billionaires and Wall Street etc
and all Democrats want to do is fix the
problems that this period in American
history has revealed in the US political
system right and also every norm that
Donald Trump has broken including
possibly some laws has been about anti
majoritarian anti-democratic
authoritarian moves right like calling
the press the enemy of the people you
know trying to oh selling access and
influence to your White House by you
know letting foreign leaders stay in
your hotels and pocketing the money and
having members at mar-a-lago pitch you
on policy right like every every norm he
is breaking is about consolidating power
is about less democracy you know and so
it's like there's a complete and and
he's breaking the norms like you said
we're just asking to pass some loss
right like if we can't pass them we
can't pass them words right you know
we're trying to ask them for some
constitutional amendments which will be
also you know pretty hard to pretty hard
to pass but we're just asking about them
we're not saying like let's elect our
president and then have that president
declare a national emergency say to pass
a bunch of legislation we're not
proposing that yeah I mean it's wild the
whole conversation is wrong it's just if
you're talking about selling access I
think I would just like to note a story
that should be the biggest story in
America which is that the woman running
a sex trafficking ring in Florida that
ensnared Bob craft is a moral log of
member selling access to Chinese
officials as part of an implement
peddling
through Trump's privately held club just
completely under the radar like that is
like textbook scandal and we're too busy
having a national conversation about the
George Conway and John McCain and
everything else but then the Democratic
response to that is to move more people
onto Medicare extreme crack so the
question is is there is there any
political risk here for Democrats
potentially Trump clearly sent some sort
of opportunity when he tweeted the
following this week quote the Democrats
are getting very in parentheses strange
sorry in quotation marks strange they
now want to change the voting age to 16
abolish the Electoral College and
increase significantly the number of
Supreme Court justices actually you've
got to win at the ballot box I mean he
didn't actually win the majority of the
people at the pellet box but that's
neither here nor there how do we avoid
that trapped in it but yes there is
political risk there is political risk
in getting out of bed morning the
question is and I do think it's
important that if Democrats are going to
propose these reforms that they are
specific about what they mean right I
think people there's been some it's
early in the campaign but you know a lot
of people are like yeah let's open the
door to court packing or let's open the
door to filibuster reform and I brought
them late so let's say what that beam
like when we had people to judge on he
he didn't he he didn't outline what a
specific proposal core packing was but
he floated an idea right it probably
makes a lot of sense to people by having
a larger Supreme Court where some
numbers and numbers have to be selected
on a bipartisan basis right right so
like like I think if you're going to do
it you have to be specific about it
because that makes it harder for Trump
in the Republican Sen demagogue but
ultimately what he wants to do is scare
the public because any election
involving an incumbent is a contest
between frustration with the status quo
in fear of change and Trump was able to
win the election by winning by telling
people that their frustration with
status-quo exceeded their fear of Trump
as president and now he's going to try
to do the reverse with Democrats but
that doesn't we also talked about in
2018 in fact this released immigration
or Medicare for whatever it is is that
chunk is gonna lie about your position
so if you think you can be for keeping
electoral college and keeping the
Supreme Court and Trump and the
Republicans are not going to attack you
every day for poor packing and
eliminating the electoral college then
you're in sync then you've been sleeping
through the last many years of
Republican politics so before we move on
we've talked at length about filibuster
and court reform on this pod before but
we haven't actually talked much about
eliminating the electoral college we
mentioned that Elizabeth Warren called
for this during her Town Hall this week
it's something Pete Budaj edge has been
talking about for quite a while and he
talked about in his CNN Town Hall a
couple weeks before Kamala Harris told
Jimmy Kimmel's she'd be open to the
discussion this week better or Roark
said quote there's a lot of wisdom in
the idea what do you think Dan good idea
the Electoral College is stupid
it is a stupid idea there's an old idea
it makes absolutely zero sense the idea
that we are exist in a system where a
minority of Americans can elect the
president because what state they happen
to live in is in such an outdated idea
it is it should be eliminated and the
fears about like what the changes that
would rot or also stupid the it is so
common sense that it's stunning and
telling that we actually haven't done
this a long time ago
so you know the big argument well
there's a couple arguments against doing
this right the first argument is this is
what the founders intended
you know the founders and all their
brilliance and so we must not change
what the founders intended and look we
have already talked about this just on
this pod right like the founders also
set up a system where people couldn't
you know directly elect the president of
the Senate and the people who could
participate in democracy were white male
landowners right so like the founders
intentions have gone a little bit of
stray on who participates in our talk or
see that's number one so this the other
big argument against this is
okay well if that happens then
presidential candidates will only
compete in densely populated areas in
the cities right like the all the
election will just take place in Los
Angeles and New York City and in Chicago
and and places like that and no one else
will have a voice what do you say to
that argue well John I have some
thoughts on this but you and I we've
done a lot of traveling during
presidential campaigns yeah how many
times did you think we went to Ohio
Florida Colorado say in the last month
or so if it's Oh 8 or 2012 election all
the times you know exactly where what
what hotel you're gonna stay in it's
like what all the time how many times
did we go to Idaho never been any time
do we go just to raise money here oh
yeah to raise money and be on The
Tonight Show no no no campaigning and
seeing voters you just you you go to uh
you go visit with some rich people you
get their money and then you you do a
show like like pod save America if
you're in LA everyone please come to
Palmer we want to change electro college
so more people will be here to do it's
like people already campaigning in a
narrow set of states and the idea that
they would only go to a densely
populated areas and that and and we
people only go to mostly densely
populated areas in those states now we
go to the largest media market you go to
where there are voters I mean but that
it like you're not this is not a problem
that you're not creating a problem and
you're not fixing a problem it is you're
simply changing the fact that you think
it's a good idea that the majority of
Americans should be able to pick the
president and others like their densely
populated areas like Atlanta or Jackson
Mississippi or places like that the
candidates never go to that they might
go to now because that vote right now
they vote a vote in Georgia at least
before this upcoming election
Mississippi is worth almost nothing
because you already know how they
outcomes going to be but if you can get
some number of votes out of those states
you would go to the states right and
that would actually I think make it and
people campaign more places not fewer
places and frankly it seems to be the
reason that Elizabeth Warren wanted to
have that Town Hall in Mississippi and
break that news in Mississippi because
Mississippi is a state with a very high
percentage of African Americans who live
in that state but because the state is a
Republican because of the system that we
have presidential candidates don't go
there because they know it's going to go
thinking it's going to go to the
Republican and if it was about stitching
together a national coalition and not a
coalition that adds up to 270 electoral
votes in different states presidential
candidates might go to Mississippi and
campaign there and talk to those voters
and give those voters a voice and this
goes for both sides as well if you're a
Republican in California do you really
think about going to the polls to elect
the president like might might you think
about it a little more if you knew that
your vote counted towards a national
popular vote as opposed to thinking well
California always goes to Democrats so
what does my vote matter I grew up in
Massachusetts and then I lived in DC and
then I lived in Chicago I've lived in
Los Angeles right like I have never
lived in a place where my vote for
president where I thought that my vote
for president would really make much of
a difference because I lived in deep
blue states all the time think of think
of what would be on everyone's mind
about voting knowing that your vote
could add to a national popular vote
tally that would then directly elect the
President had States think of the
strategies that would change on behalf
of the presidential campaigns where they
would go the different coalition's they
would try to assemble the different
states they would try to go to and also
the idea that you can't just campaign in
the cities better or or campaigned in
Texas do you think he spent all his time
in Austin Dallas Houston and San Antonio
he did not do you think Stacey Abrams
spent all of her time in Atlanta she did
not she organized a lot of people in
rural areas do you think Andrew Gilliam
spent all his time in the population
centers in Florida he did not write like
these these progressive candidates who
are running in some of these very red
states in 2018
they actually went around those states
to try to assemble a coalition beyond
just the population centers I mean the
other way to think about this is just on
the perspective of a campaign how it
spends its money how it spends its time
is right now a Republican candidate has
zero incentive to narrow the margin in
California and democratic and his zero
incentive to narrow the margin in Texas
or Louisiana or any of the states like
that so now simply it would be me he
would make so much sense in a popular
election for Republican to campaign and
spend money in California so you can
just narrow that margin by five points
it would be it's got millions of votes
they're available to you right if you
narrow the margin in Texas for a
Democrat from nine even if you lose a
state B nerds from I think the seven or
nine to Tillery lost two to three that's
millions of votes into your tally and so
there is actually not really other than
this clinging to this idea of thirteen
separate colonies there isn't really
it's not a legitimate or even if you're
electoral college just to pure what is
good for the country how can this we'll
spend their time how can suspend their
money what would increase voter
participation this country all of the
arguments push towards eliminating the
electoral college just you know one last
stat here ninety-four percent of the
2016 presidential campaign events were
in 12 states 24 states plus the District
of Columbia got zero campaign visits in
2016 24 states that's that that's the
okay so the question is what do we have
to do to eliminate the electoral college
obviously this is in the Constitution so
there is a constitutional amendment
constitutional amendments are
extraordinarily difficult to pass
because you need two-thirds majorities
you need state legislatures to ratify
right but there's another way to do this
it is something called the national
popular vote interstate compact this is
how it works
individual states change their own laws
so that they award their electoral votes
to the winner of the National popular
vote and the compact doesn't take effect
until States representing 270 electoral
votes opted in and passed these laws
once they do the winner of the National
popular vote would be guaranteed a pool
of 270 electoral
it's from the states that are part of
the compact this week
Colorado just passed the law to make
themselves part of the compact which
brings the total electoral votes right
now in the compact to 181 New Mexico
Delaware Nevada Maine and Oregon could
all be next
they have Democratic governors who've
been on records are supporting this we
won
Democratic majorities in some of these
states in 2018 and so if these states
pass the compact as well it brings it to
206 electoral votes which is just 64
votes short of ending the electoral
college so this is actually something
that could pass without a constitutional
amendment pretty excited yeah we need to
use some of those some of the red states
need somebody big states here need some
of the big states and similar and some
of the red states I think those last 64
votes will be will be pretty difficult
but who knows who knows can I do what
can you want to attend them to our norms
discussion that I think sure I don't
there to be confusion is in the
beginning you know you mentioned so
thank you for talking about including DC
and Puerto Rico becoming States right
and sometimes when we say this we at
least some confusion of what our actual
position is on this which is the DC
should become a state that should be the
first one of the first things that a new
democratic president democratic majority
does but Puerto Rico should decide its
own future if it wants to become a state
I really should do that it wants to
become independent they should do that
they want another option is you do it
just as sometimes we hear from people
who think we're using the court of
people Puerto Rico as the political pawn
here and work and we're not we people
Rico should tickets pass and then the
New York government should do that D
League has indicated 2-1 statehood and
should have statehood it should become a
state again it fits with our larger
theme here more democracy people get to
choose if people get to if people want
to choose that they become a state great
if they don't want to that's okay to
just give more people a voice in our
democracy that's what we're saying all
right let's talk about the investigation
of the president I don't know if you've
noticed Dan but Trump has been acting up
a bit lately he's a little unwell he
continued his feud with deceased Senator
John McCain
complaining he didn't receive a thank
you for giving him the kind of funeral
he wanted just I don't I don't even know
what we're to begin on that one he
lashed out at White House senior advisor
Kellyanne Conway's husband George and he
attacked robert muller himself saying
quote I know that he's conflicted and I
know that his best friend is Comey who's
a bad cop he also complained that even
though he had one of the quote greatest
elections of all time in the history of
this country now Muller gets to write
the report when no one voted for him dan
did he seem like the deranged musings of
an innocent man they certainly do not
seem like the musings of someone who is
feeling very centered and comfortable
personal situation yeah it's not great
this is like dick like I know we never
want to ascribe strategy to the things
Trump is doing because his strategy is
to watch Fox News and then immediately
say or tweet the thing that is most
that's a rather it's like fires the
synapses of his very addled brain but
like we are all talking about the
Conway's and their marriage and what it
means that Trump did this and this feud
with John McCain and my personal opinion
both of those stories including the time
like Ansari is I do not give a yeah
I know we all knew a long time ago too
Trump was an that is part of his
brand he is he is advertisements that
Hillary for years but not to talking
about it anymore
it's it's gross that he attacks McCain I
don't give two shits dr. Conway the
other way but we've all talked about the
more important thing which is the fact
that the president is involved in
multiple criminal enterprises in a
massive amount of Correction and like
somewhere in there there is a message
and a strategy it's just pretty
hard to find so well it is hard to find
because the House voted last week 422
nothing on a resolution demanding that
Muller's work be made public upon
completion Lindsey Graham then blocked a
similar resolution in the Senate he
actually asked to amend it to include
the appointment of a new special counsel
to look into Hillary's emails
 you not but then Trump has said
quote
and he said there's a game yesterday let
it come out let the people see it that's
up to the Attorney General so what do
you think's going on there does Trump
really want people to see the Muller
report and when will we see them on the
report I don't know whether we'll see it
or not
you know we've had long car skating with
Marcy wheeler and others about how it
could become public one day regardless
of what Attorney General Barr decide but
humph also swore up and down that he
would be more than happy to testify or
be interviewed by Muller and he did not
do those things and so yeah there is
zero connection between what he says and
what he does and there is no question
that all of us Republican House members
who voted that way will find a way to
twist themselves into some sort of
pretzel logic that will allow them to
justify that vote and justify defending
the Trump Justice Department for not
really seeing the court right well so we
get a preview of how Republicans are
likely to spend this report from The
Associated Press which ran a story this
week that said the following quote Trump
and his allies are starting to see
Muller's investigation as something
potentially very different a political
opportunity with Robert Muller's
findings expected any day the president
has grown increasingly confident the
report will produce what he insisted all
along no clear evidence of a conspiracy
between Russia and his 2016 campaign and
Trump and his advisers are considering
how to weaponize those possible findings
for the 2020 race according to current
and former White House officials and
presidential confidence who spoke on
condition of anonymity Dan is being
investigated from multiple felonies and
watching some of your closest aides go
to jail actually good for Trump press
where they're like well we've written so
many stories about why the criminal
investigation into the president is bad
for the president what if we wrote a
story about how it's good for the
president we do have some sourcing among
his advisors hotcake Ben burns it so
it's not there's no it's also shitty
journalism because you're just
transcribing the spit without any level
of scrutiny to that spit right the fact
that the president having eight
 meltdown over the last few days
suggest that maybe he's not so confident
that this report will be good for him
and the fact that his his allies
Republican Congress and his wholly own
propaganda network her out all
over Muller in this report suggested
maybe they're not so confident this is a
good thing because if they thought this
thing was going to a be a political
winner in B be a political winner by
declaring his innocence then they would
not be undermining the legitimacy of
said reform so it like it's an insane
spin and it's sort of embarrassing to
have transcribed that with zero scrutiny
but I will say I expect that the media
the mainstream media or at least much of
the media has set this bar so high now
where if you know Robert Miller doesn't
come out and say this man must be
impeached or if he doesn't indict Don
jr. or Jared Kushner or anyone else then
they'll say or if there's not like you
know as we've always talked about the
the recording of the phone call between
Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin where
they say hey let's collude then somehow
this whole thing is gonna be this big
disappointment a problem for Democrats a
win for Donald Trump and you can imagine
all those analysis pieces getting
getting written you can imagine cable
news running crazy with this and you
know I don't I don't quite know what
Democrats do better to accept you know
bang their heads against the wall and
scream but it does seem pretty wild
that given the information we already
know about the president's criminality
his advisors proven criminality and all
the other corruption that's going on in
this administration how that can be good
for him I don't know like I'm I like pre
angry about this know exactly what's
gonna happen I already know who's gonna
say what I know who's gonna write what I
can read the guy Rob's on TV I
know what my reactions gonna be I
already know what I'm gonna tweet I know
what we you and I are gonna text about I
know when I'm to yell in that pocket I
see the future I know how this is going
and it's going to be really
Arcanine but but it is but get this
thing out of the way over with but turn
it in Bob Muller and you got a sense of
people in jail instead of in jail if
you're not get the report out let's go
through this ritual process for the
press the size and this is a winner for
Trump that Democrats overplayed their
hand oh my god what are Democrats going
to do like it's over like people will
start pre trafficking from second
inaugural let's get that out of way but
everyone needs to focus on the fact that
Bob Moeller ain't gonna solve our
 problem the only way Trump is
getting out of here is if we thought
positive America we the American public
do the hard work of winning elections
just like we did 2018 we knew Bob
Moeller wasn't going to save the
Democrats from not getting controlled
the house we so we have to know that Bob
Muller is not the solution our problem
we have to be troubled the ballot box so
let's get this behind us that start
focusing on that then there's some good
news by saying this right now you've
ensured that before this podcast comes
out Bob Muller will come out with a host
of indictments and potentially save us
all I have three I knew this because the
chatter is quite high in Washington that
the chatter is important is coming
anytime soon my afternoon is free
basically after 1:00 o'clock today I am
ready for emergency pods bonus positing
of things I am I am prepared for the
rage that will come when this report
does not because the only thing the
press would accept would be just a
one-page that just as guilty guilty and
then Bob Muller Bummel or perp walking
Donald Trump out of the White House
that's what they're looking for
yeah perp walk Donald Trump out of the
White House in cuffs with Bob Muller and
he's got his hands raised hi victory
that's that's what that some people
thinks gonna happen it would be one of
those huge busts where they also take
pens down and Nancy Pelosi just moves
into the office
anything short of dances closes with her
stuff in the office by 5:00 today
there's a massive loss for Democrats and
Trump the election and then at the end
of the episode she just puts on her
shades just walks out of walks walks out
of a Capitol Hill walks down to the
White House takes
that's it that's the end roll the
credits thank you only governor it's a
good segue to what we really need to do
in 2020 there were a pair of somewhat
concerning stories about democratic
enthusiasm heading into the next
election that ran this week the first
was by Matt Iglesias at Fox who wrote
about what he believes is the
demobilization of the resistance since
the midterms he said that there wasn't a
mass mobilization around the emergency
declaration from Trump
there wasn't a mass mobilization forcing
a Senate vote on the House Democrats
Anti Corruption Pro voting rights bill
HR 1 our friend Ezra Levin of
indivisible responded saying there was
plenty of activism around both of those
incidents those issue sorry around both
of those issues but as we did agree that
we have got to build political
engagement now in advance of 2020 that
we can't wait till 2020 and the other
piece Washington Post reporter Philip
bump noted that in special elections
before 2018 Democrats over performed by
an average of nine points over perform
their usual margin but in a special
election since the midterms the ones
we've had recently which I haven't even
noticed them all to tell you the truth
but there have been there been a bunch
and Republicans have over performed by
one point and have already picked up
four seats held by Democrats
so first overall question how much
should democrats be worried about
complacency heading into 2020 as we say
or as I say I got to worry about
everything panic about something yeah we
should be worried I think in both these
pieces there's sort of two separate
things but they are related around the
enthusiasm question I think it is unfair
to talk about the unbox piece for a sec
to compare to expect Democrats to have a
same level of civil disobedience
response that the same level civil
disappearance we had two taking health
care away from people or impending all
Muslims from coming in this country to
the moving around the federal dollars
for small portions of a sense that will
be built like you
it's not the same thing right right I
don't think you can it be emergency
declaration has long-term process
concerns about how our government
functions but the actual result of it is
not something that has happened
immediate or real or affecting people
the building of the wall itself and so
many people should mobilize around but
this is a very small piece of it is a
very esoteric sort of dumb argument and
everyone knows that everyone sort of
playing a part in a fake game here so
it's like I don't like I'm very
cognizant and receptive to esra response
to this but we do have to assume that
Republican enthusiasm is going to be the
through the roof and we have to
remember that Republican enthusiasm in
2010 swept them to one of the largest at
least in terms of seat pickup elections
ever and then they got their ass kicked
in 2012 and so you know you have to
recognize that 18 can teach us lessons
about how to win in twenty but it's not
predictable it's going to happen in
twenty so we have to be even better even
smarter even more enthusiastic the in a
larger presidential field you actually
need more enthusiasts
you need more people to come out because
they're like small increases in thews es
in here and there are minimized by the
fact that it's happening in a larger
pool of voters so this is a it's gonna
be hard we have to be aware of that yeah
and look and the other thing that can
sort of hurt us or at least SAP our
enthusiasm about beating Trump is a an
extended fight with each other about who
we're nominating in 2020 and I you know
look I I think it is true that most
Democrats in the country right now most
Democratic voters the vast vast majority
of voters probably have warm feelings
towards all the candidates they most of
them don't know all the candidates
they've heard like Bernie's name and
Biden's name and then probably after
those two Elizabeth Warren but they
don't know a lot of the other candidates
that well yet and you know they like
them all and they're not really paying
close attention yet but a lot of
Democratic activists and and writers and
journalists and people on Twitter
are already playing way too much
attention to the race us included all
the time reading about 2020 and this
sniping the early sniping among
Democrats about the field already is
causing me a little concerned I have to
say over the over the last couple weeks
and you know I'm a huge fan as you know
of saying Twitter is not real life so
it's not causing great concern yet but I
also know that reporters now report off
Twitter and then they have they you know
create media narratives and the media
narratives eventually bleed out into the
public and my worry is that when this my
new worry here is that worry about
everything panic about nothing is that
when this race gets heated up you know
there will be there will be just a lot
of angst in this party and I will say
this it's it's great that it's not
coming from the candidates and campaigns
themselves right now you know they are
they are being good to each other
they're being respectful of each other
they are acting exactly how they should
but a lot of other people are not and
it's it's quite annoying it's annoying
and we'll have to see whether it's
impactful but the length of the
Democratic Party primary does not
concern me on its face this is the tenor
guys right if we get into this world
where it's either a bi person or no one
then that's going to be a that's gonna
be that stage like we need everyone
there's no world like we cannot afford a
single Democratic someone who voted for
someone a Democratic primary to then
vote for a third party candidate or stay
out because they're pissed about the
outcome the tenor was what matters right
we can elite and particularly when
people are focused on winning you can
put these you can put aside those
problems right you know put aside in
addition so I I am Who I am I have lots
of concerns and I do think we have to be
cognizant and aware of the fact that
beating an incumbent president is very
hard yeah the history of it is not great
it usually requires everything they go
your way and that's even true when the
president come and president your train
to be is an incompetent clown who is
treating the presidency of some sort of
pretrial diversion program to avoid
going to jail
like this is going to be challenging we
are going to have to do everything right
we are all gonna have to get on board
and people have to the question for me
is all it's this primary place and
something everyone's getting involved
and and you know picking the candidates
important donating that candidate or
making protect me for that Canada making
calls for that candidate what are we
doing we writ large large progressive
universe to do two things one what are
we doing to build up the infrastructure
of the Democratic Party and the larger
progressive world to help that nominee
once we have that nominee and second
what are we doing to prevent Trump from
strengthening while we have this fight
and those are the questions I think a
lot we will spend time talking about the
DNC will spend time talking about
Democrats in Congress and others less
time talking about which is as this
primary plays itself out we can't put
all the other work at beating Trump on
hold right and I think yeah so what do
we do about all this I think we have to
remember to focus on Donald Trump on
what he's doing because that's you know
that unifies us that unified us during
2018 right we can't completely ignore
Trump here I also think we have to focus
on down ballot races right like we have
to focus on the Senate that's gonna be
it's gonna be huge to try to take the to
Senate back that's going to be a big big
goal in 2018 I think by the way we also
have to focus on keeping the house you
know I was talking to some of the newly
elected members of the House and you
know we're facing sort of the end of the
and we're going to talk about
fundraising in a second but we're facing
the end of the fundraising quarter at
the end of March and the NRCC which is
the Republican Committee that deals with
House elections are already set to
target a bunch of the most vulnerable
Democrats who just won in 2018 and those
Democrats need to raise money and it was
easier for them to raise money in 2018
because the focus was on the house and
it is harder to do so now in 2020 with
everyone focused on the presidential
election so I would tell everyone you
know if you go to the cook Political
Report they have 16 House seats held by
Democrats that they haven't tossed
but they will be toss up seats in in
2020 and I would think about giving some
of those candidates some money
especially at you know in advance at the
end of the March deadline because that's
when the Republicans will think okay
who's got a lot of money on the
Democratic side who doesn't and the
people who don't maybe will target them
and will run really good candidates and
spend a lot of money in that district
and you know it is not going to be easy
keeping the house it is not going to be
easy pointing the Senate back and we
need to make sure and that's to say
nothing of the state legislatures and
governors mansions that we could flip in
2020 as well or the ones that we need to
hold on to I think it's really important
for everyone to focus on the party as a
whole and making sure we build a
progressive majority in 2020 and that
goes beyond the presidency yes all those
things play together right the if you're
the Democrats in these toss-up seats
many of which are in you know they
quote-unquote swing states if they have
money to run good campaigns that's going
to benefit the presidential election
right yes whoever our Democratic nominee
is to will go take from the Democratic
nominee is in Arizona or Iowa North
Carolina if they have money to run real
races and and really organize that they
starting now then that will benefit the
presidential if the presidential
candidate is strong in well-funded that
will benefit down ballot because there
is like we have to be aware of how hard
it is going to be to hold on to some of
these health seats and how much work
it's going to take what was the popular
vote margin and 18 was it 7 points I
think so yeah so it is extremely
unlikely that absent a collapse in the
in Trump's numbers or some
Zionist event that were to happen that a
Democrat is going to win the popular
vote by 7 points right so you're going
to be this is a tougher playing field
already so it's going to take even more
work even more organizing even more
focused and smart strategy to hold on to
some of these seats and ensure that if
we have a Democratic president we have a
Democratic Senate House to actually do
the things we care about all right let's
talk about fundraising in the
presidential and how much it really
matters The Wall Street Journal reported
this week that former Vice President Joe
Biden has told at least I have to
supporters that he will be running for
president and has asked for their help
to kick-start his fundraising according
to the journal Biden could have an
exploratory committee set up by sometime
after Easter which is April 21st but
he's also reportedly concerned about
making a big fundraising statement if he
were to get out of the gate and told
supporters he's war sorry but he's also
reportedly concerned about making a big
fundraising statement right out of the
gate and he told supporters he's worried
he won't be able to report the same kind
of online donor numbers the people like
Bernie Sanders and better o'rourke did
as they kicked off their campaigns so
just to step back for a minute like his
Biden right to be worried about raising
money online
why is online money treated as more
valuable than traditional fundraising
these days like a lot of people hear
these numbers and I think there's not a
lot of context for what it means how
much it matters why should we give a
 about this it's a pretty stunning
statement about how fundraising in
campaigns has radically changed in the
last few cycles because here you have
the to time sorry here you have the two
terms of isolated states then in
democratic politics for decades who I'm
sure has met every Democratic fundraiser
has one of the largest rolodexes in the
history of democratic politics and he is
worried about fundraising because he
does he cannot raise money he's worried
he cannot raise money from people who
are giving five ten twenty seven and
forty eight dollars whenever the average
for your chosen candidate is and we're
now we're in a world where having a
large fundraising email list is seen as
more value and more important than
having a large role the decks of rich
people and absolutely I think that's
great progress for the country Biden is
right to be worried in the sense that it
takes you have to have the list you have
to have been working on this for a long
time you have to have built up a donor
base that he just has not run the
campaign that had the ability to do that
in every one right but it didn't he did
not have that success in 2008 and then
he was on the ticket 2012 and so he
wasn't wasn't his list and he was in
running 16 and as far as I know
if Kim has not spent the same amount of
time and energy and money that Komal
Harrison's team in particular spent in
the last few years using digital ads to
and using other strategies to build up
their list and so you're sort of
starting from scratch and so it's going
to be very hard to from anywhere close
to what some of these other channels
have done let alone way better Bernie
did and how much does money matter
obviously we know it matters in the
sense that like you need money to hire
staff and run ads and do all the things
you in a campaign but what if anything
does the amount you raise and I guess
more specifically how many people you've
raised it from tell us about a
candidates chances or a candidates
political strength does it tell us
anything well president Jeb Bush would
tell you please cut I think there's two
separate things here right which is if
you can raise lots of money for lots of
different people it is a measurement of
enthusiasm for your candidacy right that
people are excited enough about you the
large enough people are excited nothing
about you that they are going to give
you money and that that is important now
I think the lesson of the the joking Jeb
Bush reference is the you don't have the
person with the most money doesn't
necessarily win and there's lots of
changes in how politics are conducted
with we mentioned the internet social
media the new media landscape that allow
it did it there more than you can you
can be smarter and succeed with less
money but I do think you need to hit a
threshold to be able to run credible
campaigns in the early primary States in
primarily Iowa and so in that sense I
think there will be some sort of cutoff
I have no doubt that Biden can raise
across that threshold through whatever
means he gets there but there is it you
have to hit a threshold VM to run a real
campaign and blow that then you're just
sort of wasting your time and everyone
else's yeah I mean you know the leaders
on how many donors they have right now
are Bernie and then Beto and then Kamala
and it does show and you know they have
you know they can show that they have
these small dollars
in all 50 states right and that means
that they're at least their initial
support is has breath to it right like
we don't know how much depth it has but
it has breath there's no like a lot of
different people that are contributing
to their campaigns and so I think it's
like one early measure for those
candidates to say look we have we have
pretty widespread support outside our
donor lists outside our home states but
you're right to be on that like
especially as we get into it's like one
of those early indicators and as we get
deeper into the race it matters less one
way though it does matter a lot this
time that it hasn't mattered in the past
the DNC is offering debate invitations
to candidates who have at least 65
thousand donors so long as they also
have a minimum of 200 donors in each of
at least 20 states so you can get into
the debate by hitting that threshold of
donors or earning at least 1% in a
series of public polls and so for
candidates weren't polling well or who
aren't and our polling well just because
no one knows who they are because
they're just like brand new names to
people building this donor base is a way
to get on stage with the debate and
that's why you know Pete Budaj edge
recently surpassed the 65,000 donor
threshold
Andrew yang has surpassed the 65,000
donor threshold he's a venture
capitalist who believes in universal
basic income I don't think we talked
about him much on the pod yet but he's
he's going to be on the debate stage and
 centers
former Senator Mike Gravel is floating a
presidential bid and for those who don't
know who Mike Ravel is what year was it
that he was on the debate stage Dan 2008
micro-velvet abate stage and let me tell
you he is he's a character so like I
don't know there was there was some
interesting political piece the other
day like is was this the smart move of
the Democratic National Committee to
make it based on donors because could
just very random people sort of game the
system to get 65,000 donors and suddenly
you have all kinds of folks on the
debate stage
I mean sure yes people you have to be
able to put together a real campaign to
guessing 5,000 donors had spread out
over 20 states that's a hard
thing to do yeah and you have to draw a
line somewhere and I think the ability
to build a grassroots fundraising base
is more is a better measure of deciding
whether people should get on the stage
that a series of poorly conducted media
polls where people have very limited
name ID because that's a self-fulfilling
prophecy which is the view don't you
you weren't known to check out the base
days so you can't get no to taking on
the debate stage it's sort of you know
not an ideal way to do it so having both
measures you know either-or I think
makes sense and yet we might end up with
you know it might have seemed absurd you
know two months ago for you to say well
the South the mayor of South Bend
Indiana is 37 years old is gonna be in
the debate stage but now that everyone's
got a chance to ki repeat go to judge
and see him and he's able to build this
for everything this I think everyone's
excited he'll be able to make things and
so I don't I think it's a fine measure
is it a perfect measure no there's no
perfect measure here that's you're gonna
anger some people you're gonna have
people who you wish were on stage you
aren't who you wish were on stage you
are and that's just sort of how it is
but it's better than just simply using
polls which I think it's not a great way
to do it right last question before we
go since this is in the news this
morning what do you think about the
various reports that Biden is
considering the selection of an early
running mate like Stacey Abrams I am I
am as Pro stating Edwards as you can get
I want more Stacey Abrams in my politic
than what most easy Edwards in my life
she is one of my most favorite
politicians that I have had a chance to
meet and in my life I think she is
amazing I have to say that this is
someone who has a long-standing level of
affection for Joe Biden as Delaware
natives and obviously we worked very
closely with him for a long time I'm
deeply uncomfortable with the way this
conversation is happening that this is
someone who has much claim to run for
president yeah one who's running for
president yes is being swatted into a
vice presidential slot before she even
makes a decision and I think that that
is an unfair to her and it's just in its
present an unfortunate way for the
verse a Shinto take places diminishing
of someone who should not be diminished
in any way Stacey Abrams is a star she
is brilliant she is I I agree there
she's one of my favorite people in
democratic politics and if I were her I
would be like okay I'm either gonna run
for president or I'm gonna run for
Senate and if she runs for president she
will be an incredible addition to the
field and if she runs for Senate that's
great too it should be up to Stacey
Abrams but the idea the idea that
through like reports about advisers that
like they're thinking of like slotting
her in a ticket I don't know if if I
were her I wouldn't I wouldn't want that
hey like I'd be like I'm a star I am
like I got more votes than any Democrat
in Georgia's history I should I should
run for Senate here or I should run for
president myself which she could so I
think it's a little silly and I don't
think it's great for Biden either by the
way I think that now if you're gonna run
for president you need to go out there
and say I'm running for president on my
own
vote for me don't vote for me because
you like that there's a package deal
here like it doesn't seem it doesn't I
don't know it just doesn't seem like it
seems more of like a gimmick than a
well-thought-out move yeah I think the
American public's detector is
quite high and it will just it'll seem
gimmicky it's basically putting a
flashing sign over your head says weak
and it's just like this is a similar
idea also flowed in a story that Biden
would commit to running for only one
term yeah which is being talked about as
a way to deal with them with his age but
all right now I remember seeing polling
in 2008 because people know floating
this idea about McCain who was also an
older presidential candidate and it was
a it pulled terribly people look I think
they don't want to go through election
twice it just it if you were too old to
do or for whatever reasons unable to do
two terms why would I pick you to do one
term no maybe it's a different world
than it was you know a decade ago but it
seems alarming I think the biggest
threat to my tendency right now is not
the lack of an email list it's not the
light it's not age it's not
his older position is the verbal
diarrhea of his advisors who are having
these conversations and the pages of the
New York Times instead of within a
conference room at his headquarters
somewhere and so he is like okay put all
the ideas on the whiteboard just don't
show the whiteboard Jonathan Martin if
any hurt time it it's I think it's
really diminishing to Biden it hurts his
chances and it makes whatever he if he
were to Federer makes his announcement
less I'm a clean shot by having this big
national discussion about how weak his
advisors think he is and what absurd
measures they can take to address that
weakness yeah for all we know Joe Biden
has already decided against either of
these moves and is just gonna announce
his run for president on his own but now
because people couldn't keep their mouth
shut
this is out there all over the news
today so that's you know it's a good
lesson on keeping it running a tight
ship in a campaign so there aren't a lot
of leaks that's you know we tried very
hard to do that in 2008 and so I think
it's a it's a wise move okay when we
come back we will have jon lovitz
interview with congresswoman Lauren
Underwood
you
elected to Congress it ever elected to
Congress congresswoman Lauren Underwood
welcome to pod save America thank you so
glad to be here so good to have you so
this is the first time we've gotten a
chance to speak with you since you've
won last year you started your work in
Congress what's been the biggest
surprise so far about the job well I
think the biggest surprise is honestly
the pace of the work you know there's
such a reputation of you know gridlock
and dysfunction and I feel like we are
just moving at a clip getting things
done and the way that we have to sort of
divide our attention I'm on three
committees I do education and labor and
on that committee we actually do
healthcare stuff to Veterans Affairs and
Homeland Security and then you know
there might be a bill on the floor about
Yemen or there might be a bill on the
floor about you know HR 1 and
anti-corruption or whatever and so we're
just keeping all these different balls
in the air and just getting it done
imagine how busy it would be if there
weren't currently there wasn't gridlock
right I mean the Senate is completely
dysfunctional yeah and you know I think
our Constitution did not contemplate
having a chamber that did not want to be
separate and co-equal right part of the
legislature and and so we need to make
some changes over there and that's why
elections are so important and each vote
counts
but for now I'm excited about the
progress we're making in the house so
you're the youngest African American
woman ever elected to Congress what's an
issue where you feel like being a young
african-american woman in this space
that is dumb you know I was looking
before before you came in the average
age of a member of Congress is now
around 60 yeah which is the oldest are
close to the oldest has ever been what
is something that you find you're
bringing that that some of the members
are learning from you just by her
presence well I'll say that I certainly
approach problems differently and during
orientation we had a training for the
first time they had us do a sexual
harassment and assault training for
members and I said in that training it
was inadequate and I was just like god
it needs to be better and so started
looking at what policies were in place
and realized likes this place was set up
to support these bad actors and enable
them to you know have sexual misconduct
in the workplace and so I was not sworn
in yet and submitted some amendments to
the rules package that we would vote on
first day they were accepted by the
Rules Committee and they passed on our
first day in office saying that members
could not use non-disclosure agreements
to prevent witnesses or victims from
coming forward with information and
saying that members of Congress couldn't
have sexual relationships with committee
staffers and you know that kind of thing
had been long-standing accepted practice
in this workplace but would never fly in
any other workplace around the country
and and so I think that it takes a
millennial woman millennial woman of
color to come in and say mmm not okay
and find a creative way to get it done
have you found that there are some of
your older colleagues that kind of feel
a bit flummoxed by this this sort of
there is a phalanx of young people who
have come in and they don't seem to
really care about the way it used to
used to be done you do you find that
they're surprised caught off guard some
of the sort of like old guard members of
both parties 100% I think that some
people feel a little threatened they've
learned how to thrive in the dysfunction
and so now we're finally back in the
majority folks have their gavels or they
have their little fiefdom and here comes
this new crew of freshmen who are now a
quarter of the caucus yeah the new
members are quarter of the Congress and
nothing can pass if we're not on board
and that just immediately is disruptive
and so I think that some people were
surprised and I've sort of felt that
maybe kept us at a distance but it's up
to me to build relationships and build
bridges and to get to know people for
individuals because I'm not a threat to
my colleague what we are though is gonna
say that you know we put people first
and we're here to serve and it doesn't
matter if you're a democrat or
republican right because there's
corruption across the board sometimes
and not afraid to call it out not afraid
to stand up and say no and not afraid to
lead by example have you had to show any
older members how to use their phones no
but I've done a few selfies and selfies
on the floor and you would be surprised
the number of people who are interested
in that and you're not supposed to take
pictures on the floor obviously of the
house but you know this is what we do
so you're from a district that Donald
Trump won in 2016
yeah and you the and the swing on the
Congressional vote was tremendous right
the the person you defeated by around
five points had won his previous race by
twenty points that's why something like
that
they've been these pieces coming out of
Washington coming out of the coverage of
the presidential cycle covering some of
the debates about the green new deal
about about Medicare for all and about
this question around Democrats moving to
the left now you were asked this about
there was a story about this in Politico
that asked a bunch of members from
districts that were flipped from Trump
winning to to a democrat taking the seat
about whether or not that is hurting you
in your district you sort of a you
basically said that's not the questions
you're getting but do you feel like this
conversation is one that is one that
matters inside of your district are
people talking about socialism people
talking about the green New Deal do you
get some questions or skepticism from
voters when you're when you're back home
I get questions about climate change I
get questions about health care
affordability what are we gonna do to
lower the price of insulin we get
questions about a you know affording
higher education and making college you
know reasonably priced so that people
don't aren't having hundreds of
thousands of dollars in debt I don't get
questions necessarily about like hashtag
green a deal or you know what what kind
of label are you right like I'm a
Democrat people know I'm a Democrat and
and so it's not framed in that way and
so what I encourage my colleagues to do
is to be prepared to have conversations
that regular middle-class families
understand and it's grounded in reality
in their lives right there's a lot of
aspirational goals and that's great and
I think bold ideas are wonderful but I
think that we have a tremendous
responsibility responsibility to the
people that elected us to make sure that
we engage in a two-way conversation and
if we're up having a conversation and
debating around these aspirational goals
that may
happen for another 25 or 50 years right
that long-range planning is important it
really is but the people in my community
are like literally struggling with
$2,500 a month for their kids insulin
and that's a problem in their day to day
life literally struggling because they
can't have sick leave to take care of
their son because their job doesn't
offer it right these concrete issues
that may not be the bold ideas that make
headlines but certainly make a real
impact in people's lives so well it
seems like there is this there's this
divide right there are those who are
saying well sure we need to address
those issues right now but we need to
set a goal for where we're a aiming
towards in the long run and be to pull
the debate in the left right that if we
are talking about only preserving the
Affordable Care Act and Republicans are
talking about repealing the Affordable
Care Act we're not talking about where
we want to get to sure so congressman
privilege I appall has introduced a
medicare-for-all bill you have not yet
signed on to it you've talked more about
stabilizing the Affordable Care Act how
do you feel about this debate over
Medicare for all and and do you believe
that's the goal we should be aiming
towards so I believe healthcare is a
human right and that's been foundational
to my nursing practice I'm a nurse been
a nurse for a ten plus years and I think
that absolutely in 2019 we should not
have tens millions of people in this
country that don't have access to health
care don't have health insurance and so
yes heard about Medicare for all when I
talk to people in my community and I say
well what do you mean by that I usually
get a variety of answers people say
Medicare 55 and up Medicare 40 and up 18
and up Medicare birth those are all very
different things and some people want to
buy in well I know just based on our
health care system right each of those
have different timelines for
implementation it would transform our
health care system or not and I think
that the the details matter when it
comes to health care right we saw with
the Affordable Care Act that people
might have supported the broad idea but
the way that it was implemented created
winners and losers and we want as we
think about transforming our health care
system moving forward to make sure that
we design it in a way where folks come
out ahead and one of the concerns that I
have from my district is just we're not
sure how much it costs and how we would
pay for it and so until I get that
information
I'm not co-signing the bill but I do
think it's a great goal and I think that
a lot of people are really energized and
excited about the idea of expanding
health care coverage and that's where we
need to be moving as a country so you
are someone who has this nursing
experience this policymaking experience
the local level and also at the national
you have a kind of there are a few
people that could say that they've been
but a nurse they've just worked on a
Medicaid plan at the local level that
they've been in the Obama administration
as health care Obamacare was being
implemented it sounds to me that you are
more concerned about the transition then
a lot of people are right now I mean you
got to remember a year ago two years ago
our health care was under attack so
those of us that were on Obama care and
I'm one of them I have a pre-existing
condition for people like us we did not
have certainty that our plans would even
be offered through the end of 2017
we've not have certainty that if we were
trying to plan a procedure that we even
have coverage and so I think there's a
lot of people millions of people in this
country who felt threatened and and not
having a stable environment for their
health care is one that creates a lot of
uncertainty and they were looking to
their elected officials to say who's
gonna have our back for this basic need
health care and so I think that the
Medicare for all debate has been framed
as an either/or ACA or Medicare for all
and I think that that is fundamentally
flawed we should be able to do both
we should be able to fix the health care
system that we have right now and ensure
that people like me and millions of
other Americans write over hundreds of
millions of Americans have pre-existing
conditions and we need to make sure that
they have their coverage make sure wow
we have this very important policy
debate that has now gotten to kitchen
tables right like all across the country
people are talking about you know what
should our health care system look like
and that's great but we haven't settled
on that final plan that final policy
that conclusion we are in this idea
generating phase right now
and so let's let the process play out
but I think that we can fix our
let's do but letting that process pray
out like do you have a position on do
you believe in the end most people
should end up with a Medicare like plan
or do you think that private insurance
has a valuable role to play for people
that currently have it and like their
private insurance I think that we should
be creating an opportunity to cover more
people and right now we have tens of
millions of people who don't have health
care coverage many of whom live in
states where they chose not to expand
Medicaid and so we can look at expansion
opportunities in a way that is fully
consistent with you know existing laws
but offers people a pathway to coverage
I don't think that we should necessarily
say that you know your private policy
that you enjoy and it works for your
family is wrong it's flawed it should go
away tomorrow right and some some ideas
say that and I don't support those
policies but I do think that you know we
need to have an upfront conversation in
this country about the amount of money
we spend on health care throughout the
lifespan how we pay for it and what is
what kind of quality care are we getting
in return
a lot you know we have all sorts of
people who are going into the hospital
coming out with infections leaving the
system and we're shape than they entered
and certainly for the amount of money we
spend we should be able to provide
higher quality care it's all about
oversight you had the moment with the
Secretary of Homeland Security talking
about family separations about the
impact it has on the children the kind
of effect it has on these families it
was a big moment there's this question
now about the kind of oversight
Democrats are doing questions around
impeachment are you worried about
Democratic overreach whatever that means
or do you think that's a silly
Washington thing you know we came from
an environment with the with the
republican-controlled Congress that
didn't want to do any oversight they
don't want to ask any questions any kind
of critical questions what the Trump
administration was doing and so you know
I'm on three committees where we have I
think robust oversight agendas and
that's part of the article one
responsibility of the Congress and we
had a Congress in 115th that just ignore
that responsibility so I don't think
it's overreach I think that these are
really important questions we had
Kirsten Nielsen come in and I asked her
about the family separation policy and
she was not prepared she was not candid
answers and that's unacceptable right
and and I think that we are making a
good-faith effort to do oversight in an
orderly way
let's bring the secretary in and ask her
to be upfront honest before we go in and
have subpoenas or before we go and make
this a really difficult working
environment for all involved right we
should be able to just as colleagues
share information and it's it's not it
should not be a surprise I worked in the
executive branch for many years during
the Affordable Care Act and the Congress
cared how we were implementing that
program were we doing it in accordance
with legislative intent and how is it
going to change our health care system I
also worked on the Flint water crisis
and those lawmakers from Michigan and
around the country would bring us in in
the Obama administration and say what
are you doing and how are you helping
these people and that kind of oversight
posture is critically important to a
well-functioning democracy and so I
believe that what we are doing as House
Democrats in the Congress is one that is
important for long-term health and
vitality of our democracy and it's doing
it in a way that allows for bipartisan
action and I'm really encouraged that
you know maybe not during the hearings
when the cameras are on
but maybe the closed-door briefings my
Republican colleagues have a lot of
questions about the topics that they
hadn't wanted to raise on their own
right so on homeland security we've had
private briefings on election security
what happened in 2016 with the hacking
you know what's gone on in 2018 and how
are we able to ensure that our elections
were able to go on without interference
right publicly you don't see Republicans
wanting to ask any questions about that
but privately they have follow-up
questions and they want information
right amazing how courageous some of
these people are privately well you know
what I'm not here to ask for sympathy
for our Republican colleagues but what I
will say that smart is right but what I
will say is there is a responsibility to
protect and defend the Constitution of
the United States and I believe that
there are true patriots and lawmakers
who are willing to uphold that oath from
both political parties
that's encouraging so I think we've so
we've seen a little bit right there was
this four hundred to zero vote that the
molar report should be public people
took 420 420 420 to zero though a few uh
a few presents couple people voted I'm
here I'm around whatever but at the same
time you know we've seen a breakdown in
the House Intelligence Committee between
Democrats and Republicans
congressman Congress congressman Nadler
has faced criticism from his Republican
colleagues for the sweeping request that
he made which you know I personally
think are justified speaker Pelosi has
talked about the need for a bipartisan
basis if we ever you know partisan
buy-in if we ever to move toward
impeachment and yet if we decide that
the standard is not some objective
nonpartisan standard but one in which
both Democrats and Republicans agree
that something went wrong aren't we
giving a veto aren't we saying that if
Republicans don't if there's no standard
by which Republicans will decide that
Donald Trump did something impeach it
well there's no standard by which Donald
Trump did something truly terrible that
demands being called out because they're
worried about calling him out because of
their base because of Fox News because
of all the pressures they're under are
we are we creating a standard in which
Democrats are held but it's held to a
set of norms and values and principles
but Republicans aren't because
Republicans aren't willing to call out
their own as much well okay I have a lot
of thoughts what haters are gonna hate
and the Republicans right are we know
that they are going to protect their own
they are gonna always criticize what we
do in terms of oversight action and they
want to talk about something else it
makes them uncomfortable it's not
flattering to their base to their
colleagues and they want to deflect that
does not mean that we change the subject
it means that we continue forward with
our priorities which are to protect and
defend the Constitution really basic now
in terms of the standards that Democrats
are held to I think that we all are held
to the same standard because we all are
up for election in 2020 right and so
it's up to the American people and how
they how they judge our performance and
impeachment is one issue it's not the
only
shuh and in communities like mine it's
not the main issue it's really not and
so when I heard the speaker as comments
about an impeachment needing to be
bipartisan I saw that as a tactical
assessment right if if we are going to
if we receive information that suggests
that there are you know such high crimes
where impeachment is warranted we
literally will need Republican votes in
order for it to move forward that's not
some kind of you know theoretical let's
all skip and hold hands and walk down
the yellow brick road together that is
like literally that's how you move
something through the Senate the Senate
yeah you need you need bipartisan
support and we saw that the house came
out ahead of the Senate on the emergency
declaration and the joint resolution we
were able to get some bipartisan support
in the house we saw there's bipartisan
support in the Senate and we'll see next
week when we go back with this veto
override how many people are willing to
be courageous but the key is there's
going to need to be bipartisan action
doesn't mean that the standards are
different it's just tactically where we
are well it would that would suggest
then that even if there's a even if
there is a majority in the house made up
of Democrats who believe Donald Trump
has committed impeachable offenses she
might not pursue it if she didn't
believe there was bipartisan support for
it in the Senate even though we have the
power to impeach him without those
Republican votes you'd have to ask her
okay okay fine sorry we'll ask her yeah
you should I think she was hoping you
would spit ball with me but well okay
what do what do I think might happen
yeah I think that whatever information
moves forward it will be done in the
most transparent way because what we
were talking about is so critical to the
future of our democracy that it will not
be provided in some closed-door
classified briefing just to the members
of Congress this is going to be a
national conversation and all
policymakers are going to feel pressure
to act okay and so that's encouraging
right we talked about transparency and
Sunshine rules and we talked about how
you know
we want to lead in a way that is
inclusive and reflects the values of our
communities and this is the test okay
you have very good member of Congress
this made eye contact with me oh good
it's making me very intense aha it I
feel as I'm the only person in the room
good it's just a private conversation
that we're having here so you're
roommates with congresswoman Katie Hill
katie is my girl she is a friend of this
show she was one of the crooked eight
who one of the people we campaigned for
and sort of led an effort out here in
California cuz we're gonna flip those
seats on election night we weren't sure
if we're gonna get them all we ended up
getting them all does she leave towels
on the floor what is the most annoying
thing that she does as a roommate are
there old boxes in the fridge that
should be thrown away but she won't do
it
okay so Katie is the best first of all
we have okay this is such an odd thing
I'm 32 Katie's 31 we are regular people
that we're living our normal lives cared
about our country and decided to step up
and run during this chaos and confusion
I hope that this buildup is leading to a
pretty good okay and and it is so this
is an odd thing being a member of
Congress it's weird it's fun it's
challenging and I get to go through it
every day with a real friend in Katie
hill and so you know we have lots of
Amazon deliveries that come and and and
her family sends all kinds of fun stuff
and it's like an unboxing you know like
the bloggers do the unboxing it's like
that sometimes it's pretty fun she goes
on TV shows you know like the the new
shows and stuff and so sometimes it's
really early sometimes it's really late
so sometimes we miss each other but I'm
always excited when we're both home and
we can catch up I would hope that
everyone can have a friend and support
person like I found in Katie Hill and
I'm grateful to be able to serve with
her in the Congress that is such a
moving answer does she leave we dishes
in the sink
we don't you're you're dodging the
congresswoman there's no dirt this is
the kind of politics that people are
sick of all right there
sick of this you're dodging the question
alright does she not throw away her
chopsticks if you have sushi if she left
little things as soy sauce when you
order takeout I need some dirt okay some
dirt we don't eat that much in the
apartment okay and she listens to her
podcasts on speaker that's brutal and so
I am always very well informed of what's
going on because I hear her news of the
day all right I guess we can count that
that is a frustrating thing for a
roommate to do it's not frustrating it's
just you know I am hearing from news for
outlets that I would not have otherwise
picked myself uh it turned now you just
turned it into a compliment unbelievable
what I understand how you won this Trump
friendly district what you know this
kind of this kind of smooth operation no
that is not how we won we showed up in
people's living rooms in their soybean
fields and their cul-de-sacs and we
talked and you know what I invite
everybody to come the 14th district of
Illinois is a beautiful place it's half
suburban it's half rural we have these
wonderful women
I call them Pat and barb and Sue and
Marge because they are the real ladies
of the 14th and they will sit I'm
telling you they will sit and have a
wonderful conversation with you they
will tell you all about their families
and their concerns and what we need to
do about climate change and how we can
lower drug prices and then they will
offer you some cookies and some tea and
then they will ask you all about your
life and you'll be like but I have these
talking points they'll be like no tell
me about your life in California
what are you doing how's your family and
you won't want to leave and she uses
coasters whenever she's using the coffee
table absolutely and you need to take
your shoes off and coming into her
living room okay mm-hmm okay Congressman
Lauren Underwood thank you so much for
being here
well thank you this is so fun um and you
know what I hope that everybody takes
some pride and the work that we're doing
in the Congress we work for you the
American people and so be in touch with
us right like I love seeing comments
online on Facebook and Twitter and
Instagram I love people stopping at the
airport or on the train or whatever
and that kind of dialogue is important
for so long we Millennials have not had
elected representatives in the Congress
and for the first time in the Democratic
side we have a whole little caucus and
and you know let's make sure that we are
doing the work that you know will
improve all of our lives do you think
that titling this episode congressman
Underwood slams roommate Katie Hill will
get people to hear it you know what
let's talk about that clickbait culture
and let's talk about these reporters
that are so pressed to so division
between me and my other congressional
Connie's sick of it particularly the
women of color in the caucus that they
will slap my picture on an article that
I am NOT quoted in that is not relevant
and they'll be like you know centrist
Democrats are worried about socialism
and the Democratic Party and I'm just
like I have nothing to do with me take
my picture off of it and go maybe I
played into this in some way by trying
to divide you and Katie I would just
encourage everyone to reflect on the
importance of having a big tent party
and the opportunity for voices to speak
authentically and perhaps if folks are
you know a little bit uncomfortable with
you know the thoughts being expressed
maybe let's just focus on those
sentiments and not who is speaking right
because for the first time the
superstars coming out of the Democratic
Party are young women of color isn't it
incredible it's exciting it's exciting
and you know that's disruptive in its of
its own and people get you know they
start to feel some kind of way but we're
here and we're leading and we're making
change and we're serving the people and
I'm really excited let's just leave it
there
okay we're supposed to do it we can't
say anything after that thank you so
much appreciate it that was great
you
