welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm John Lovett and with us
today we have editor-in-chief of Cricut
media Brian boiler hi Brian
hey guys we are doing a special Moscow
on the Potomac edition of America today
thanks to the budgets BuzzFeed story
that broke last night I'll tell you guys
so I did a forum at the Hammer Museum in
LA about the 2018 elections that
Shaniqua McClendon our political
director put together and about to go on
stage last night and I see in our slack
channel Michael Martinez said the story
about the BuzzFeed thing and I just saw
the headline and I was like ooh that
seems like a big deal and then there's a
two-hour event I just looked at Twitter
and it's like this is the first ever
emergency pot maybe maybe it was one of
our New Year's resolutions to do more
emergency pods okay so here's what
happened
let's start here during a confirmation
hearing earlier this week Senator
Lindsey Graham asked attorney general
nominee William Barr whether it would be
a crime if quote the president tried to
coach somebody not to testify or testify
falsely bars answer which he repeated
again when asked a similar question by
senator Amy Klobuchar was yes then last
night Jason Leopold an Anthony Cormier
of BuzzFeed broke the following story
here's the lead quote president Donald
Trump directed his longtime attorney
Michael Cohen to lie to Congress about
negotiations to build a Trump Tower in
Moscow according to to federal law
enforcement officials involved in an
investigation of the matter Trump also
supported a plan set up by Cohen to
visit Russia during the presidential
campaign in order to personally meet
President Vladimir Putin and jumpstart
the tower negotiations quote make it
happen the sources said Trump called on
Brian just to refresh everybody's minds
what do we already know for sure about
the Trump Tower Moscow deal from both
the previous BuzzFeed story by Leopold
and Cormier and Muller's sentencing
though
right so I guess we should start at the
at the at the beginning of the story
which is that initially Trump and
everyone around him denied that there
were any contacts with anyone in Russia
during the campaign at all that's very
unequivocal that story evolved when I
believe it was Yahoo news but it might
have been BuzzFeed also revealed that
there had been negotiations between the
Trump Organization and Moscow about
building a Trump Tower there and this is
where Michael Cohen put himself in
jeopardy is that in order to like reduce
the sense that maybe there was some kind
of quid pro quo arrangement between the
Trump campaign in Moscow where where the
Trump campaign promised policy spoils
and in return Moscow delivered election
assistants and maybe at Trump Tower it's
our to boot what have you in the
election will throw it at our but it's
it's the election if you win the tower
if you lose yes and and the mombasa food
story suggests that the tower deal was
gonna be worth like 300 million dollars
yeah to the Trump Organization which is
bigger than any deal they've had going
back decades so what do some plus I bet
they don't I don't think Trump Tower is
like I don't think you get Wi-Fi I think
you have I bet they're that they're the
kind of douchey hotels where you have to
pay for the Wi-Fi but this is the key
this is the key and this is where Cohen
put himself in jeopardy and thus you
know put himself later in a position to
incriminate Trump about about pressuring
him to lie to Congress under oath is
that to minimize the sense that there
was some sort of illicit arrangement
here Cohen told Congress that this was a
this was a you know a nothing deal we
had some early conversations about it
there might have been a letter of intent
but it went nowhere and and you know
this you know we stopped talking about
it before the primaries are even over
it's it's not that big a deal it turns
out that the negotiations continued well
into election season and we're much
farther along than anyone led on
including under oath and they involved
not just Trump but Ivanka Trump and
Donald Trump jr. and so this is
reportedly what Trump asked Cohen to lie
about
and Cowen's already been been charged
essentially he confessed that he lied to
Congress under oath and robert muller
hinted in a in a sentencing memo last
month he said basically cohen has been
cooperating with us in good faith
including by telling us basically the
provenance of this testimony that
included the false statements about the
Trump Tower Moscow deal so Muller was
kind of hinting back in December that
other people might have been involved in
helping him craft whatever cover story
he told Congress and now BuzzFeed is
saying that that was at the direction of
Trump himself
so basically Cohen tells Congress you
know what we had this there was the
potential deal with Russia for a Trump
Tower thing but it ended in I think
January of 16
yeah and Trump wasn't really involved
and the kids weren't really involved
Donald Trump jr. testified to Congress I
was quote peripherally aware of this
deal right and so no big deal nothing
but I didn't even really talk to them
that much whatever and then we find out
from Muller sentencing memo so we know
this is true that Cohen lied about this
that they were talking about it well
into the campaign I think into June June
of 2016 that also Michael Cohen had not
just been talking with random Russians
about a tower but had communicated with
the Russian government itself including
Putin's press secretary I believe yeah
and so all right and so there was a lot
more contact so and then this story that
came out last night how does this add to
what we already know what is the new
information in the story so this is the
Trump both that Trump told Cohen to lie
about it and that Trump was willing to
go to Moscow during the campaign and
meet with Putin himself yeah Michael
Cohen was gonna go to Moscow first and
it's but basically you know set up a
future meeting between Trump and Putin
that was going to happen when Putin
visited New York for for a meeting of
the UN that plan I think got scuttled
because news broke in The Washington
Post that the DNC had been hacked and
that and that Russia was most likely
behind and so things got too hot and so
they and so they called it off
so what else new does this tell us it
tells us well suborning perjury is a
crime importantly it is a crime that has
formed the basis of impeachment for
Richard Nixon and for and for Bill
Clinton so if it is substantiated by
Congress that that Trump did tell Cohen
to lie to Congress they either have to
follow the precedent that they set in in
the Nixon era and in the Clinton era or
they have to kind of explain why Trump
is different and so by the way does
William Barr who maybe Attorney General
because he just said if if a president
coaches someone to lie to Congress it is
a crime it would be so trumped by the
way to just withdraw bars knight nation
how do we know there was also that story
that said Trump was caught off guard by
how chummy bar and Muller were like wait
their friends they hang out their wives
are friends what the that's not
what else was parking for so Brian you
alluded to this in Muller sentencing
memo he wrote his sentencing memo of
Cohen he writes Cohen provided relevant
and useful information concerning his
contacts with persons connected to the
White House during the 2017-2018 period
and described the circumstances of
preparing and circulating his response
to the congressional inquiries while
continuing to accept responsibility for
the false statements contained within it
so basically this means Michael Cohen
told us that about all the contacts he
had with both the White House and people
who helped him prepare his testimony to
Congress about the Moscow Trump Tower
which we know is a lie why don't you
think that the memo stated directly that
Trump directed him to prepare the false
testimony since Moeller did say the
sentencing memo did say that Trump
directed Cohen to lie about the payments
or the SDN why yeah Moe said the Trump
directed Cohen to lie about the payments
to the women too stormy Daniels and
stuff like that it's weird that in
Multan in the Muller memo he didn't make
clear Trump could be behind right so I
think the answer to the question is that
if he was going to make an allegation
like that that would be an allegation of
a crime just like in in the SD and why
the Southern District of New York
charging documents for for Cohen they
refer to individual one as having
instructed Michael Cohen to make the
hush money payments the stormy Daniels
and and prosecutors just do not make
criminal allegations outside of
indictment so this was a sentencing memo
that was meant to suggest to judge you
can be lenient with Michael Cohen
because he's providing us useful
information to to back that up
he can't say and here are the crimes
that we know happened but what he can do
is say we got useful information about X
Y & Z he wouldn't put Muller would not
have put anything in this sentencing
memo that was irrelevant like it's not
useful to Muller if Michael Cohen
truthfully said I wrote this testimony
all by myself nobody coached me on it
nobody helped me with it nobody told me
to lie to Congress I spoke to people in
the White House and they were super
honest with me about everything and they
told me tell the truth and I lied anyway
right like that would not be something
that Muller then went to a judge and
said look at how honest he was like you
can be lenient with him the point of
putting it in there is to suggest Cohen
told us about more bad acts that happen
around this testimony and presumably if
Muller does include this as part of
whatever his report is or whatever is to
come he will do so while substantiating
yes because you see because in spurs
while the BuzzFeed report doesn't just
rely on Michael Cohen
it doesn't rely on Michael Cohen at all
it's funny because the Giuliani White
House Fox News it's all the same
response is Michael Cohen is a liar how
could this story be like anything
Michael Cohen says you can't trust
because he's a liar it's like well fine
and then Jason Leopold wrote the story
was like yeah we didn't rely on Michael
Cohen in fact I'd love to talk to
Michael Cohen Michael you know my number
please call me we'd love to hear you for
the story because they didn't they
didn't rely on Michael Cohen what they
were lied on is it said the special
counsel's office learned about Trump's
director for Cohen to lie to Congress
through interviews with multiple
witnesses from the Trump Organization
and internal company emails text
messages and a cache for other documents
Cohen then acknowledged those
instructions during his interviews with
my right this is a because because
because because it captures a lot though
right that captures a very important
moment in Michael Cohen's life
it's important on two fronts
one is that the claim in the story is
that Muller had Trump dead to rights on
suborning perjury and then Cohen
confirmed it yeah okay that's incredible
so so it's not just Muller saying that
Cohen told him this and he's taking
Cohen's word for it and then the second
point is that in reporting it
BuzzFeed didn't rely didn't go to
Michael Cohen and say oh yeah you know
Muller's got Trump dead to rights on on
obstruction of justice in suborning
perjury they got it from from law
enforcement sources and may you know may
have confirmed it with Cohen's
subsequently but they didn't source the
story to Cohen and and a according to
the story Muller isn't sourcing the
allegation if it's to come to Cohen
either he's got it from documents in
from other witness testimony and
normally you'd say well presumably
nobody would be so stupid as to put this
kind of brazen criminality and email and
yet time and again that is exactly what
they do inside of the Trump Organization
we have seen emails from the Trump
children saying things like no one can
find out about it if they do they'll
know it's fraud or if it's later in the
summer especially later in the summer so
these were people throughout the
campaign you know one question I have is
and I'm wondering what you guys think of
this how much of what we are looking at
is a group of people in way over their
head who did not believe that yeah sure
who did not believe Donald Trump would
be President and saw the campaign as an
opportunity to make money get a tower
off the ground all right and get the
most worth they could by giving Putin
whatever they wanted in the platform
Trump could be nice during the campaign
and then they could build a tower and
make some cash after the fact I mean one
thing that I always come back to is
Michael Cohen's experience of working
with the Russians mirrored Donald
Trump's experience on the campaign
I believe Michael Cohen's first attempt
to reach out to the Russians was through
a public press email his first attempt
to get in contacted them was I don't
even know if was the first attempt but
it was certainly a successful attempt
because that that was he eventually that
someone worse
bonded to him and he talked to the
government this guy this is not some
like low-level like assistant to the
assistant know that but it was a puppet
he's but he's reaching out blindly right
and seeing just how much being connected
to Donald Trump can get him and it turns
out the closer Donald Trump got to being
the nominee and then the president the
more and more it got him and none of
them ever looked back here's what we
know for sure we do know that everyone
in the campaign up through Donald Trump
himself did not believe that he was
going to the election I mean none of
them really planned for this Donald
Trump himself when he found out he won
was fairly shocked
so grab salanio wept so he right so
you're absolutely right that their
mindset during the campaign was and I
think Donald Trump by the way said this
last time we had a Trump Tower Moscow
story he said like well yeah there's
nothing remember very legal very cool
and if I didn't win the election I
wanted to make some money and I wanted
to have my business basically he just he
admitted that I mean there's more to
sort of back up your interpretation of
events one is that they've done
basically no preparation for a
transition right they didn't think they
were gonna win the other is in my mind
you if you go back and look at how have
like Trump's aspect changed after he won
and like both right before and right
after he took office lose sort of like I
won oh they're gonna come looking
for all the crimes that we committed
right and he pivoted did this like gotta
cover everything up gotta obstruct
justice I mean I think it's very
possible that he also told Mike Flynn to
lie which in Mike Flynn then did lie to
the FBI and then he said to Comey please
let Flynn go and then when Comey
wouldn't do that then he fired Comey I
mean these were these were things that
he never thought he'd have to tell
everyone to lie about because I think it
you know everyone was gonna kind of
disband well you know we gave it our all
didn't work out and and you know jump
back into that deal just to get that
tower in the nature of things you know
it would look pretty bad if the Hillary
Clinton Justice Department started
prosecuting the the Trump campaign so
they just kind of assumed they'd get
away with it all right it's a little bit
like you know
when in this when like on The Sopranos
they would take over a sporting goods
store you know their goal was not to
sell kayaks the goal was to strip the
copper out of the walls and use it as a
place to launder money and then all of a
sudden all of a sudden they become the
best sports store in New Jersey Sports
keep going
is it so is it possible the Trump also
he's not just not just content with
suborning perjury by tell asking Michael
Cohen to commit perjury is it possible
that he committed perjury himself and
lied to mom I mean I Trump obstructs
justice in various ways in public all
the time right he just today like sort
of subtly threatened Michael Cohen's
father-in-law
not very subtly Brian right okay
just she tweeted about him like like
basically he's trying to SiC prosecutors
or some other goons on to Michael
Cohen's father-in-law to get him to not
testify to incriminate in facts before
Congress next month right so he does
this all the time and it's it's
super illegal and it's definitely
impeachable but for whatever reason we
like have been waiting for evidence of
you know one of these impeachable crimes
to to kind of fall into our laps and
have it match you know something that
formed the basis of an impeachment of a
past president so that the Republicans
who defend Trump and the Democrats who
are hesitant to talk about impeachment
have nowhere to run like I can't claim
this is sort slightly different or we
don't have enough information to
substantiate this or you know we don't
know if prosecutors would really regard
that tweet as witness tampering or
whatever like this if the if the report
is is accurate and Congress can
substantiate it all then it is like on
all fours exactly what Congress has used
as a basis of impeachment it passes so
that's one reason why it's a bombshell
the other reason it's a bombshell is
because it suggests there's an active
cover-up of much worse crimes right you
don't get
why so yeah I think the big question is
why did they lie why did Michael Cohen
lie why did Donald Trump direct him to
lie about this deal if this is just a
real estate deal in Russia he's a
private citizen president maybe it looks
bad but why why lie about you know oh it
was over in January and not June like
what why why do go to this lengths to
cover this up I mean my suspicion is
that there was a big quid pro quo deal
that involved Russia committing crimes
on trebs behalf to win the election and
in exchange he promised them certain
deliverables in Syria in Ukraine NATO
listing sanctions etc on and on down the
line and and that this is in some sense
provable and so you need to engage in a
big cover-up so do I think that he
possibly not just told Michael Cohen to
lie under oath but also in his answers
to robert muller for the record that he
might have lied himself yeah absolutely
i mean the the the the pattern here is
clear and trump being a liar is super
well known he's lied under oath in the
past
it's also worth remembering to that in
the oh face we won right one of his
first acts as president elect is to war
is to publicly let Platt Amir Putin know
that he doesn't need to worry about
whatever Barack Obama says about
sanctions that in that immediate moment
you can imagine well that's what he told
ya that's what he told Flint right all
the Russian ambassador which got Flint
in trouble and you can imagine there
he's wrestling with this incredible Jam
he's now found himself in which is he he
wanted a tower he wanted a tower he made
a bunch of promises but what he wanted
was the tower and now all of a sudden he
is in cahoots with Vladimir Putin he has
to be nice to him because Vladimir Putin
knows about all the that went on
during the campaign so that is such a
key point here is that Erica they're
birds like you know what is Putin have
on Trump is it the P tape right but yes
we should mention we should let people
know that Brian is covered in red string
he and he also came in with a bunch of
wax sealed envelopes alright and I he's
dropping them all over the place I don't
even know it that's just bizarre he says
he got to get him to his dead drop okay
I don't know what that I don't know what
he where who was picking those things up
so yes the P Tate may exist but Putin
for a long time now has had a lot of
blackmail on Donald Trump and don't
Trump Senate because Putin has known for
years now
that Donald Trump has been lying about
his contacts with Russia and about this
Trump Tower and this time it's no and
this dovetails with a story that was
like you know a century ago earlier this
week I think we're where we were kind of
marveling about the fact that Trump has
gone to great lengths to conceal
transcripts and notes about his private
conversations right with Vladimir Putin
like five different conversations over
the course of the last two years you
know all we can do is speculate but like
if you were being essentially extorted
by the leader of a different country
because they had in compromising
information on you in this case about
Trump Tower but also possibly about the
PTA or possibly just about other long
long-standing financial entanglements
with nefarious and money laundering
various organizations Russian oligarchs
which Trump has been sort of in bed with
for a very long time in one way or
another we are just left to wonder
whether one reason
Trump is wants all of those transcripts
the I guess not transcripts notes from
from his interpreters to be withheld
from his own government is because in
those meetings there is some indication
that he's being extorted right whether
it's you know super overt or not that
that Trump has leverage over him and
exerts it when they meet privately and
you know our friend Marcy wheeler who
we've had on the pot before points out
too that this wasn't just a real-estate
deal with any old company in some
foreign country this was a real estate
deal that involved partnering with
Russian banks that were under US
sanctions so that is another thing that
and possibly Trump may have known that
they were about to enter into this deal
with the Russian government for a real
estate deal and the funding had to come
from a bank that was under sanctions by
the United States which that's not just
any real estate deal I mean is it
possible this is just the producers that
that's all this has been the whole time
they just needed the show to tank and it
 was a hit yeah it's the
producers with Russian oligarchs and
international conspiracies to defraud
the United States the other the other
piece of this to which is always worth
coming back to is like you like look we
know but we we have a lot of data about
decisions that have been made we're
trying to put together a lot of deeply
strange unique circumstances about
Donald Trump and his behavior and we
don't have all the answers and we don't
know what Muller knows we don't know
what has been over torqued or not and
one thing I always come back to is
Donald Trump doesn't care about
America's global interest he doesn't
care about NATO he has no personal
ideology it would be so valuable for
Donald Trump to rebuke Vladimir Putin in
some way it would be so useful to him
with Republicans to go out to the podium
and say do I think it'd be good if we
got along with Russia he can even give
him that yes but Russia attacks
journalists and it undermines NATO and I
loved and we loved this country we're
gonna make sure that we stand up for
American values the the the political
windfall for him for engaging in just
that small amount of Republican
orthodoxy would be a huge relief for the
for the weak need Republicans in the
Senate and he won't do it well he won't
do it more to the point I think he acts
as though he realizes that the fact that
the the russia-us relationship has
deteriorated under his presidency is a
threat to him because when he when he
talks about the Russia investigation his
meetings with Putin it's out there's
always this backdrop of you know it
would be great if we could be friends
but there's all there's the witch hunt
and there's this and so it's impede
from you know making a deal with Putin
it almost sounds like what he's saying
is like trying to buy himself time in a
way that like he was supposed like his
his being elected was supposed to
redound to to putin's benefits in Xyz
ways and it's it's not really happening
at least not as fully as it as it could
and and and Trump seems to worry that
like if he doesn't like deliver that
what you know you know Putin has
receipts essentially so let's talk about
what happens next I imagine right now
that reporters at the Washington Post
the New York Times CNN everywhere else
are trying to confirm the story just to
say a little about the story itself in
these reporters you know Leopold and
Cormier Cormier also broke the original
trumped our Moscow story a long time ago
now which was basically a hundred
percent corroborated by Muller's
sentencing memo on Cohen so their first
but reporting was completely accurate
the sourcing in that original story was
according to two FBI agents the sourcing
in this story that we're talking about
now is according to two federal law
enforcement officials so it is similar
sourcing so so no people are gonna talk
about you know is the story true can we
confirm it other outlets are gonna try
to confirm it but you know their
reporting has been held up in the past
so I guess people are gonna try to
confirm the story if they're wrong we'll
just take this episode yeah we'll just
say down what happens in what happens in
Congress now we have not heard a lot
from Republicans today they're all
they're a hope they're doing they're
sort of like I it's they're not doing
their I haven't read the story yet or
he's just an unusual president thing so
far they're just not talking at all
they're all like disappeared there was a
Kevin McCarthy shaped hole on the side
of the Capitol and apparently he there
was a cartoon-like trail that went all
the way from DC to an avocado field in
the Central Valley of California
and that's where his his trail does run
cold Democrats you know Joaquin Castro
congressman from Texas said he should be
impeached or resigned if this is true
Schiff Chris Murphy all these other
people are there they're pretty there
they said they're gonna investigate
I thought Murphy's statement was the
most interesting he's basically like we
can't it look if Robert Muller is
treating this like any other
investigation and
eventual prosecution right he's going to
wait until he's ready to seek an
indictment he's gonna get an indictment
it's going to name the people at least
in you know on the obstruction side of
things who obstructed justice and it'll
either include Trump's name or it'll
refer to him as individual one and we
don't know how long that's gonna take
and if it takes until well into this
year then you're getting so close to the
election that it's impossible for
Congress to do its its job you know to
begin impeachment proceedings without it
getting tangled up in the election
process and he's saying we don't need to
wait for Mahler to finish to start doing
this ourselves like I think that there
is a very strong there's growing there's
growing a growing demand among Democrats
to start getting their hands on some of
this evidence whether from Muller
directly or from the same sources Muller
pulled from himself that's important too
for another reason you know we are it is
amazing how history repeats itself but
you know we're we're basically slowly
filling out the Nixon Mad Libs
for impeachment right and so you have
one article impeachment against Nixon
it's around obstruction of justice you
have a second article of impeachment
against Nixon it's basically about
breaking the law yeah and you know
misusing the office and then but there
is a third article of impeachment and
it's basically not allowing Congress to
do its job to investigate Richard Nixon
so one of the reasons it's really
important to get Congress in the game is
because we will learn a lot about what
Donald Trump does and doesn't do how his
team cooperates and doesn't cooperate
who is willing to testify who requires a
subpoena all of that will be informative
even as it kind of runs behind what
Robert moley yeah I mean this is an
investigation of how exactly Donald
Trump betrayed his country right and the
obstruction the obstruction angle on it
is important but it is as part of a
cover-up of the betrayal right and and
all along Congress particularly
Democrats in Congress have treated the
Muller investigation as like their sort
of get out of jail free card for having
to take this crisis head-on right and so
that means waiting until Robert Mahler
says definitive definitively or not
Donald Trump cheated in the election by
partnering with the fast
for an intelligence service to sabotage
Hillary Clinton that we don't know a
whether robert muller is ever going to
be able to conclude whether that
happened one way or another he might
just go silent on that question if he
can't substantiate a full conspiracy
that involves trump and it you know it
might it might drag on past the election
we we need the clarity on this sooner
then we can get it if Congress is going
to sit on its hands until Muller's done
it's also not it's out like they have
two different jobs robert molars job is
to prove crimes yeah it is Congress's
job to find the truth yeah
and those are different responsibilities
and well it's its mother's job to you
know prove the truth true but like like
Brian said not on anyone not on anyone's
timeline but his own but not not on
meanwhile we have the crimes piling up
he has a specific mission right it is it
is an investigation of potential crimes
and and Congress's job is to oversee the
administration in a much broader way
obviously they should try to uncover
crimes if they exist but also just
general incompetence malfeasance things
that might not rise to the level of
crime disloyalty etc these are more
complicated subtle distinctions and
still worthy of our knowing so you know
we end with one day to circle on your
calendars February 7th Michael Cohen
will be testifying again before Congress
now I heard
Anthony Columbia say today that his
sources told him that Cohen did cut a
deal with Muller to say you know I will
not talk about in in my testimony
anything that is still under
investigation by the mullet by Muller so
you can imagine that there may be some
questions that Cohen gets where he's
gonna say like I can't say but what do
you think we could we might be able to
learn what would you want to ask Michael
Cohen who I want a couple minutes to
think about that I think I would just
ask him this then as kind of just take
that take the facts of the Russian
investigation out of it and ask him did
Trump ask you to
i under oath to Congress because he was
worried about more damning things that
might come out yeah because that way he
doesn't have to say anything about
whether there was a hotel involved or
the hotel was in Moscow and whether that
hotel was going to be a prize for you
know Syria and Ukraine he can just say
yes there was there there was much worse
stuff happening and that's why he wanted
me to lie that's probably where I'd go
in the meantime I'm gonna be looking out
for any indication that Trump's threats
to Cohen's father-in-law are are having
an effect I mean Cohen hasn't been
subpoenaed as far as I know and you know
he's gonna be sentenced to prison
shortly after he's scheduled to testify
and Trump's goal seems to be to try to
get Cohen to shut his mouth one way or
another I mean this is like gangster Bob
right and and it's not crazy to me to
imagine that that Cohen will get nervous
and will want to not talk about things
that might implicate his you know his
family's business the taxicab stuff the
truck you know his his role in the Trump
Organization aside from Russia you know
it makes me it makes me really nervous
that he might he might the Trump might
succeed in tampering with this witness
also it's worth keeping in mind that
Michael Cohen is a degenerate liar a
criminal and has been sort of chastised
by prosecutors for not being cooperative
fully you know he's he got it better he
had a better he got a better record he
got a better grade from Muller yeah than
he did from from prosecutors in New York
and that that is important his
incentives have changed I mean I I am
NOT vouching for Michael Cohen in any
way but but all of his criminal behavior
occurred when he was in Trump's good
graces and he has slid so far out of
trumps good graces that he's going to
prison with no hope of a pardon he's lot
you know if he has not already been
disbarred he will be you know all he
wants is to be able to get out of prison
and spend some time with his family
without being destitute right twist 2020
candidates pledged to pardon Michael
Cohen
[Laughter]
Michael go and welcome to the resistance
yeah me look from Muller's perspective
whether Cohen is a liar or not as has
been so far moot because everything that
Michael caught everything that he has
attributed to Michael Cohen has been
backed up by emails Jack's document well
accept everything we have seen you know
we don't know we don't trust your report
right bills under reporting and we don't
know what Robert Muller has not been
able to corroborate corroborate from
Michael Cohen you know one other thing
I'd add is a lot of this has to you know
there there's plenty of this story that
exists in conversations one-on-one
conversations between Donald Trump and
Michael Cohen and we are relying on the
fact that these things can be
corroborated outside of those
conversations but sometimes it may not
be possible I just think I just think
it's worth keeping mind that Cohn's
incentives are completely different like
who benefits from him lying under oath
when Trump has his back when Trump might
pardon when they have a lot of money at
stake you know the the idea that you
might lie to Congress and hopefully get
away with it like so he's not lying to
Congress that you shouldn't do it lyin
to Congress doesn't reduce his sentence
anymore right exactly so yeah he's
already half pregnant with lying to
Congress well I guess we write the one
thing you eat the one thing we do not
know is what crimes connected to Trump
or otherwise Michael Cohen has still not
right been proven to have committed and
what money he is relying on from the
right act so many crimes so little time
okay all we have for today thank you
Brian boiler for joining us that's a
title by the way too many crimes
all right everyone we will we'll talk to
you we'll we'll have the next part on
Tuesday of next week have a good have a
good long weekend keep a lookout for
that impeachment eagle soaring soaring
majestically over the nation's capital
that that that unmistakable cry
furloughed workers looking up overhead
you
