on the line is Dave waggle he's a
reporter at The Washington Post you
might have heard of it and he writes a
fantastic newsletter called The Trailer
Dave welcome to the show it's good to be
here thank you uh I am so glad to have
you on because I think that you are one
of the best political journalists in the
business and I think that is because you
seem to spend as little time in
Washington as humanly possible so I
believe you're just back from Iowa right
yeah I got back yesterday afternoon
after four of five events Warren was
holding and colleagues who were there
for the entire trip so I got I got the
the gist although it was interesting to
hear her work out the message and then
you know this early stage of the
campaign maybe you get hives when you
think about it it's good time when
there's no Secret Service yeah you're
kind of catching up with staff right
after the events and seeing how they
think it went there kind of things are
getting worked around it's like what I
imagine like a table reading is for a
script yeah totally yeah this is like
the magical part of a campaign where you
actually have access and people are but
also this time usually when the
presidential cycle happens people are
like oh my god already and this time
people just seem pumped oh absolutely
so one venues for this we're all
overflowing as you know I mean as you
know the nightmare is we book a thousand
seats and 950 people show up and the
cameras trained on the 50 empty seats
right yep yep they're always at the
front whose people are playing don't ask
questions and she filled the van if she
talked around around 3,000 people showed
up at these events and she did some
scrums of the media or almost everything
she did all so this is important it
doesn't sound important it sounds like a
horse race nonsense journalism but she
made sure to take photos and sign books
with everyone who wanted to after the
events they baked in time for her hang
around having covered lots of campaigns
at this point not everyone does that you
know and this was a reason I thought
Bernie Sanders ended up losing Iowa does
it met it matter that's a very good
question but very early in the in this
can they campaign or I just want to be a
campaign to accept exploratory because
this is such a time wasting word this
early in the campaign no they've got
exactly what they wanted
and it's not as big as the Obama launch
and Iowa I'm not to say much to pander
to you on the scale of people making
their first visit it was pretty big ya
know I appreciate that that was my baby
I'm just getting commands oh okay so
you're with Elizabeth Warren interesting
to me I thought I thought it was
interesting that she started her her
kick off in western Iowa which is
traditionally more Republican it's
generally less important for Democrats
and the caucuses because of the way the
delegate math works most of your
delegates are gonna come from Des Moines
and then the eastern part of the state
do you know why they did that and how do
you think her message was received
generally in those noses well it's not
just that and that again I want to keep
saying too as you know
all right let's let's assume both of us
here are in it don't need to Iowa's
plane to each other right but yeah also
if you're in western Iowa half your
crowds are going to be from Nebraska
from South Dakota and they can vote at
some point but if you're South Dakota
and you're voting like six months after
I would uh so yeah it was it was
interesting and the sense I got that you
they don't like to talk shop that you
can get you can get a feel from talking
the campaign staff any Democrat could go
to Davenport or Des Moines and get a big
crowd Warren got a big crowd and Council
Bluffs
she got a big crowd in Sioux City these
are places that you know forget forget
Hillary losing them they have big don't
go Democratic there's history she got a
ton of she I think wanted to demonstrate
that for all the coverage about how
she's the lefty Bernie progressive move
on candidate that this message is
interesting to people who do not fit
that stereotype these are not places
that he went very strong for Bernie in
2016 so I think that came off there
there were Republicans in in some of
these crowds not a lot a lot I mean
there but you did not see the kind of
hard-nosed cynicism people showing up
and turning away because she they they
wouldn't answer very you know how do we
close off the border with laser beams
questions but it was it was a pretty
moderate crowd it wasn't just lefties
who showed up I mean it's frankly just a
lot of a lot of guys in beards and
trucker hats and Teamsters who did not
love Hillary Clinton and when I talked
to them
like a ton of animus but we're not happy
to vote in that election and showed up
for her so I think that message got
across
of course she finished in Des Moines in
Ankeny right but it was notable that she
did her first three stops in places the
Democrats don't tend to win yeah thank
you me being a northern suburb of Des
Moines ank you yeah yeah so the joke
during 2016 was that Marco Rubio was the
mayor of Ankeny because he would just
come to Des Moines go to the suburbs and
then go back home for a fundraiser he's
the mayor of his own sad little
existence now so I watched a couple of
Warren's events on YouTube because I I
lead a rich and fulfilling life on the
weekends and the message seemed to be a
lot of her bio and then she really
hammered income inequality corruption
talk about influence peddling in
Washington there was not a lot of Trump
talk was that what the caucus goers
wanted to hear absolutely and I think
this is lost in DC and New York and
wherever else you can you know yell
about a green room
lachchi local in ruins green rooms or
those of the plot with a problem green
room right the Morning Joe one yes so
there's an idea that Democrats want a
fighter and the fact that Michael
avenatti showed up to us some Iowa
events and had a crowd and said we need
to fight that got some attention but
they just that snot really what people
want they assumed they wanted Democrat
who will defeat Trump and there is a a
trauma from 2016 that I think in some
ways is useful some ways is probably
paralyzing that if you are in a fight
with a guy every day it just it's going
to backfire and frankly I I want a piece
I wrote I quoted something you said so I
noticed that okay good so you know in
2016 Democrats had a very different
theory and frankly at the time there's a
lot of Republicans who were embarrassed
by Trump who are have now gone like the
the Lindsey Graham Rey education
treatment and appraised him for
everything but it was not crazy to think
that pulling Trump out and exposing him
and calling him a racist yada yada
that was that was getting hit that was
baiting him that was getting him off
message that was Warren's role in 2016 I
mean she was tweeting giving speeches
making fun of him I remember kind of
super PAC videos that were like cartoons
that showed Trump literally like
shrinking is she talked about him and
yeah it could he you at the time said
that was that was a good role for her
and frankly I think in some ways it was
that is not how people think
right now that is not how she thinks and
a question that was kind of hard to
untangle right now I think a will be
untangled is whether she is in a worse
position to criticize Trump than other
people is because she does not want to
do that she does not want every time she
goes out because this is this is her
life for a while every time she goes out
she gives a policy speech she talks
about corruption and people are like
then trumple tweet crazy Pocahontas is
at it again and she gets asked 50
questions about Pocahontas yada yada she
only mentioned literally only mentioned
his name when a voter who won who in the
tone of the question wanted her to win
just was worried that about her in Trump
baiting said you know why she a DNA test
he said I can't control when Trump says
racial slurs and in 2016
she tried to control that means that was
when she was speaking was trump would
say something and she tweet at him and
would write about it they have a very
different theory now which I think
comports with what Iowa Democrats and
we'll see about other Democrats what
they want which is OK we want somebody
who is going to answer that voter who
took a chance on Trump and is being
driven crazy by how bad he is at this
job and they do not want to hear the
Trump sucks that is taken for granted
it's something that mirror that's what
people ran on in 2018 when she she
didn't do a ton of travel for Democrats
in that cycle it did a little bit she
did help a lot of campaigns and she
stayed very close in touch with
campaigns and I think heard that message
people were not winning by saying you
believe this crazy things you see that
SNL clip it was hey this guy said he's
gonna fix things he didn't enough about
that joke a jokester hears what like I'm
going to I'm gonna get in there and
expand health care that was her message
yeah I and I know I watched that
question that QA about the DNA test it
was it was a vintage Iowa caucus-goers
because it was sort of a pundit question
like why would you give Trump more
fodder to attack you like a lot of the
questions she got were yeah political
and she kept saying you know I've been
in politics my whole life I'm a policy
person so let me answer that way it's
the incredibly disciplined and
impressive and the other thing I'm
hearing from activists and friends who
are you know getting recruited for jobs
frankly is that she is like calling
people emailing lots of personal touches
like really I think an impressive
campaign so far yes he's very good on
those metrics and also just the way she
presents herself I've seen her
in Massachusetts a few times at Town
Hall's I've seen or a big progressive
events right but I seen her in town
halls where she gets a couple of annoyed
questions from people and the thing I've
always said about her and since she's
been in politics is like she she did not
full of it she really did not ever face
use and run for office like had they
just made her chair of the CFPB she
would have been chair of the CFPB that's
it so she was a communicator and an
expert who would have to synthesize
ideas for people but not in a way that
would say and then vote for me and she
did that for decades and then she's been
a politician for seven years
yeah so the skill set just there's it's
it's there's no way to do that without
taking decades getting good at something
she has the skill set of talking about
policy in a way that does not sound like
a bunch of advisors came up with it and
she she sometimes um kind of sets it up
I should remember one question she got
which again was nobody's headline was uh
I just want to thank you for your work
on the 2018 bankruptcy bill and she's oh
and she says oh we're gonna nerd out now
great I mean that's why she talked yes
she loves it now are used to and
everyone else who's a good communicator
in politics comes out you know voters
voters really won authenticity we always
say they do but more than ever they
think just Trump's going to puncture you
puncture your armor if it looks like
you're a stuffed shirt politician and
that was not how she came across man not
everyone who was at these events came
away saying I'm all in for but but you
did hear that I mean so I was standing
at she'd she I mentioned the overflows
in the big crowd standing at one
overflow in Des Moines and like right
next to people who are having the kind
of pundit REE conversation we were
mentioning I just these these nice women
who are like well you know and the polls
by doing really good she's only eight
percent already communicating about the
polling but then afterwards she gets
done she's like well she just seems so
real you know
and so like Biden also has this not to
get into Lily's I will go can of a
candidate but that was somebody who is
not super solo of anybody but knew where
the vibe was ahead and then her first
impression was that's a normal person
running for president who knows stuff
okay yeah yeah I mean the other things
impressed me with her was the way she
wove her bio into her vision for the
country which which brings up something
interesting you wrote
today which is the political
conventional wisdom is that Senator
Warren and Bernie Sanders occupy the
same political space but you vote that
Senator Warren quote is not Bernie
Sanders what did you mean by that
yes actually I notice that was a
headline of one of the opposition
research publishing groups blasted
reporters like devastating gas hi Warren
she's not Bernie no but so Bernie just
has a theory of politics that is you
have ideas you build a mass movement you
spread the ideas through giant rallies
and personal lifestyle behaviors you're
you are not important the message is
important so he does not talk about
himself I was as I just kind of has
office opening that of celebration his
office room being sworn in last week and
Linda Sarsour wears women's wash
organizer member tell her telling him
Bernie you're so humble and it pisses me
off he he just doesn't talk about
himself yeah he just he just shows up
and he's like the the room at Bernie's
speech is policy idea applause policy
idea applause why don't we have this
policy applause whereas Warren gets up
and just says green be here I want to
tell you who I am and she expense about
four minutes on her biography which is
one of the things if you're a reporter
you assume everybody knows it and they
really don't look around the crowd and
she mentioned she's from Oklahoma and
you see some people go like oh you know
like not nudging each other like I
didn't I didn't know that and mentions
that she just grew up she grew up
she's to say the ragged edge in the
middle class she doesn't say it anymore
but just tells the story of her family
because of medical bills nearly losing
their house and her mother having to go
to work and from that says and that
informs everything so that informs
everything I do every time I'm think
about this I think of my mother pacing
around her house saying we're not going
to lose this house and putting on her
dress and going to get a job at Sears
and back then you could with a minimum
wage job they'd pay for a family that
mine and now you can't and that's why
I'm in this and that's the message and
frankly not to dump on Hillary Clinton
but what I came away was something you
know again some some savvy voters were
saying you know boy Hillary never could
explain why she was doing this and
Warren explained it and I thought you
know cartoon light bulb appeared above
my head that was the problem that people
kept I say
for Hillary another point I'd make is
that she also in her bio just in talking
about her work as a senator it's a
combination of here's a bunch of stuff I
beat the bank's on mainly the CFPB but
also what wells Wells Fargo Equifax and
she just goes after come bank but not
Republicans and when she talks about
Republicans she talks about individuals
that she has dealt with and gotten
things passed with so it's it's a it is
a message that I think resembles some
that have worked before which is there
are enemies that I've identified they're
not your neighbors they're not
Republicans there are these people who
if left unchecked are going to screw us
all over which is not the same as Trump
sucks yeah I was impressed if it's a
tight fifteen minute 20 minutes stump
speech that I thought it was really
compelling um yeah another thing that's
been impressive is that she locked down
a bunch of talented staff including oh
yeah a woman named Emily Parcells who
was my colleague for a year when she was
Obama's Iowa political director in 2008
it's like the most competent person I've
ever worked with and when I saw Emily
get hired because I didn't think I'm
losing to do their campaign I was like
oh look that is an impressive team
and for the first time it really made me
think that there is a cost to those
waiting to make a decision like are you
hearing any more sense of urgency from
the Bernie qumola beto Biden camps a
good question so Bernie is unique
because he does have a team that's ready
to go if he says if he blows the whistle
again not exactly the same as last time
but he'd be the only guy running who you
know has a modern campaign team and
Biden last did this in 2008 2008 right I
I think it has shaken some of the other
people's schedules I don't want to you
know I'm gonna try to break the news
when I want to hear people are actually
running but it was it was the first
really smart move because I think not
only in terms of hiring staff did Warren
get an advantage but there are certain
narratives that you could see if these
events already sunk in with people like
there are really irritated with how she
was already being compared to other
women who'd lost stuff and she was being
caught unlikable and I think had camallo
gotten in or
delivering gotten in on December 31st
they would have gotten some of the same
coverage not identical but there would
have been you know anonymous Republicans
telling Politico or Axios or or boast
you know she's just like Hillary and we
would have had the same likeable
discussion when we were about the post I
think that helps and that's kind of an
intangible thing that you can't replace
with another good staffer but no it was
very revealing to people I mean the the
the very smart very serious take for the
last two months was Warren mr. moment
Warren's had a bad rollout etc etc but
that was not the impression that
talented staff came away with and I
think that has changed the way other
people are thinking I mean there there
really was a will Ken weren't even run
idea totally circulating a few weeks ago
and it is now oh how can we scramble to
get staff before she does which is night
and day
yeah anyone taking her for granted
should watch some of those events from
the weekend because they were good last
question for you it has now been three
days since congresswoman Rasheeda Talib
said of Trump we need to impeach the
 I just want to know how are
you doing I know that people in DC
rarely diverge from the King's English
and it has been a tough time for a lot
of folks in the Beltway and I just want
to make sure you're okay I'm fine you
know um journalist it's very well known
that we just break into spontaneous
tears whenever someone uses a curse word
it's awesome we have to go home for the
day we're very well what I try to do is
I go and say a couple rosaries just to
purify myself now the conversation was
idiotic do that word the dynamics are
more interesting is that it is true that
that Democrats do not want to talk about
in Pietschmann all the time and it's it
smoothly
mostly immediate saying they just hate
being asked by bad stuff literally
anything else are doing but the the
premise that they hated her choice of
words actually would be there's like two
or three immigrants like Joe Manchin who
I will point out said he'd beat the hell
out of him buddy who tried to burn a
flag burned a few Jarrett's actually
said then you'd like to erase a word the
rest were in similar to Nancy Pelosi
saying that's a generational thing I
wouldn't said that word but whatever and
and because they know that people in
Paul
talk like this it's just absurd it's
almost like if somebody said this at
like a locker room yeah well I can't
believe people talk like that no we know
that they were a little bit impatient
and frankly the thing that is too thorny
to get into is that to leave has already
attracted the ire of I have a lot of
people because she's Palestinian
American who believes in the two-state
solution and refute and is at least
against banning BDS the punishing
boycotts of Israel isn't some so I want
to speak for her has moved a little bit
forward towards boycott divestment
sanctions Israel and okay that more than
a curse word that is not something
Democrats want to talk about everywhere
but what I found is that like just as
louie gohmert can exist and like Charlie
Baker doesn't have to ask didn't get him
get asked by him all the time
she will exist she is trying to shift
the window of a debate for her beliefs
and that's okay
and reporters who are grownups and know
how to curse should not pretend that we
are blown back when somebody uses the
f-word yeah I mean look Brad Sherman a
congressman plans to reintroduce actual
articles of impeachment I believe he
introduced them in 2017 with a couple
others so I'm not sure why we're so
worked up a bit better O'Rourke talked
about impeachment during his Senate
campaign but like I you know what I like
about your reporting is you wrote up
about how you know how stupid this is
basically but it did launched a million
pearl clutching takes where we act like
civility is now dead it's like I just
wonder how does the the media
establishment sort of go forward with
that kind of nonsense in the era of
Trump like don't people see how stupid
it is in the in defense of people like I
do
if you polygraph people I think there
are some who resented that they had to
chase around to leave but the desk
needed it not to get to to in the in the
week so yeah all right like we we need
new footage of people responding to this
woman do we but and there's defense some
of these questions like you know Kevin
McCarthy comes out on the fainting couch
you know brings his own fainting couch
which is actually very hard to get up
the stairs in the Capitol looking around
all the skittles
how offended they are and the first
question is I mean like pay minority
leave here the president called woman
horseface did you guys my complaining
about that and he kind of hems and Haws
so like as long as don't look the the
time to say that this rhetoric is
unacceptable politics was jail is
November 2016 and had Trump lost and a
congresswoman said this I think there be
a different conversation but it is just
it like beggars reason to get into this
fight with wall Trump as president and
the questions of two Republicans have
taken that tone I thought was um you
know there is such a thing as real
outrage it doesn't happen very often
most code we end up covering in politics
is totally fake outrage meant to get
frankly people like me but hopefully I'm
not dumb enough to fall for it to people
like needed to write about it yeah it's
hard to spot real outrage in the wild
these days last last question what is
prog rock and why should all the kids
listening like it that's right so I in
addition to everything I was talking
about
I wrote I've written a lot about music I
wrote a book came out in 2017 called oh
sure it never ends about progressive
rock and it is it is a history of this
cul-de-sac rock went down where in the
late 60s and then there were a couple
other movements that sparked after we
read about kind of acid rock and mod
evolved into extremely ornate orchestral
multi-part song suites that incorporated
either classical forms or Asian
instrumentation or electronics just a
very high-minded
evolution of rock that was seen to be
the future for like five years
there's actually a pretty long time you
think of how price trends burn out and
then was totally discarded by 1977 so
that's what's about any people should
buy it buy it the newsletters free the
book is not free but you know well
you're gonna like if you're like me and
I just like lost spare $100 headphones
yesterday you know you what's eighteen
dollars okay and it who cares that's
right air pods are the easiest things to
lose in history uh subscribe to the
trailer by the book pay for the
Washington Post it's incredible
journalism David Weigel thank you for
joining us he's got you people need to
pay for his trips to Iowa so he can keep
telling us what the hell's happening
there and if you buy the book on Amazon
you basically have so no cool perfect
yeah all right thank you so much man all
right how we going thank you
you
