joining us on the pod today he is a
reporter who covers Energy and Climate
Change for Vox I also think he is one of
the smartest and best thinkers on
climate change David Roberts welcome to
the pot thanks for having me so the
National Climate Assessment vol 2 is out
the Trump is the the trouble
administration tried to bury it over the
holidays but it's here it's pretty bleak
what did you learn from the report
that's well it's sort of funny you know
following this area for a long time
these reports come out with great
regularity and they haven't changed a
whole lot since they started coming out
so for me at least you know that who've
been paying attention to the previous
reports I didn't learn much of anything
I mean all that happens with a new
report is the numbers get a little worse
at the margins but the but the basic
message is the same as the last report
and the report before that and the
report before that right so because the
IPCC put out a report I put out a report
and I were that had similar that had
similarly dire warnings what is the
value of a report like this when the gap
when it's not as though the problem we
have right now is that those who believe
we need to act don't understand the
stakes it's that there's political and
economic barriers to action well that's
right I mean I think this a report like
this which is you know a really deep
dive by US federal agencies 15 of them I
think worked together on this report
would be extremely helpful for an
administration that is geared up to do
something about this to help them sort
of guide and shape their efforts but as
to its usefulness in persuading anyone I
think I think at this point anyone who's
persuadable by a report has been
persuaded so I really honestly don't
know what the usefulness of another
report like this is I would like to see
all these reports shift toward solutions
you know shift toward solving the
problem like at this point I think
everybody who's open to hearing that
it's a problem has heard well too that
there's one I I agree that but one one
aspect of it I did think sort of struck
a chord with people anyway is that the
report is very precise about long-term
economic impacts and says that as much
as 10%
they could hit as much as 10 percent of
u.s. GDP by the end of the century you
know we've seen Republicans including
some of the more serious supposedly
serious Republicans opposed action on
economic grounds or suggests that
regulation isn't the answer you've said
that the idea that addressing climate
change would hurt the economy is every
bit as nonsensical as the idea that
climate change is a hoax do you think
that this kind of sort of specific
number 10 percent of GDP will help cut
the legs out of that argument well I
wish it would but no I mean first of all
it's worth saying that 10 percent of GDP
by the end of the century is a very very
very high end I mean I think if if that
was the median projection that might cut
through but but uh you know there's only
so precise you can get about these very
long-term economic projections but but
at this point like the exact numbers
don't matter so much as if if this thing
is going to you know if we're if the
economy is going to be hurt as they say
worse than the Great Recession and we
know this is coming the idea that it's
expensive to prevent that kind of
disaster is just sort of conceptually
incoherent almost by definition you know
that we would have a lot of trouble
spending enough money to cost us more
than climate change is going to cost us
right about the point it's also it's
just a bit tinny to be talking about
sort of global dislocations and massive
immiseration on this on the scale of
billions of people in terms of you know
yeah one thing that's always worth
noting about these reports is a lot of
the most sort of grim human damage isn't
going to have that much impact on GDP I
mean the sad sort of the sad fact is
like hundreds of thousands of poor sort
of southern Africans could die in heat
waves and it wouldn't move the needle
all that much on global GDP but it would
still be worth avoiding it seems to me
so that seems right so let's let's talk
about the pot let's talk about what we
can do we have this you know Pope we
have this proposal for a green new deal
being pushed by Alexandria Acacio Cortes
and other progressives what did you make
of it
well I have I have mixed and complicated
feelings about it complicated feelings
on virtually everything yes that's
that's that's right so on the one hand I
mean it's just it's fantastic it's not
and I don't think it's meant to be any
kind of detailed policy roadmap I mean
if you look at the sort of bullet points
on it each one of those bullet points is
itself an enormous national undertaking
that would involve dozens of policies I
mean it's really it's less a policy
program than a sort of marker like this
is what a real solution would look like
and in that sense I think it's a
fantastic development I mean it's the
first time that a solution on the scale
of the problem has been put on the table
by a political actor like in Congress
it's the first time an adequate plan has
graced the halls of Congress someone
willing to state the goals right the
actual goals be being on a hundred
percent renewable and in a short
timeframe that sort of thing right right
it says for instance decarbonize us
transportation and that's great we
really do need to do that but that's you
know that's going to involve more than a
single bullet point so I mean I think
it's great to have that as a marker for
people to rally around people who want
to do something adequate now have a sort
of you know place where they can plant
their flag as to the sort of political
maneuvering and how to push the
Democratic house as far as possible on
this that's gonna require I think some
some it's gonna require more than
righteousness let's put it that way it's
gonna require some savvy it's gonna
require knowing who has the power and
who can do what and sort of what are the
sort of limitations of the possible so I
just hope that people within that
movement are are deploying their savvy
behind the scenes as much as they are
deploying they're sort of you know sort
of righteous outrage in the press which
is you know obviously adjust
viable part of all this well I would say
look one piece of the sort of public
campaign for something like a green new
deal would have to be shifting what is
possible right I mean the last time the
last time we made a big push on climate
change Democrats this was during the
Obama administration Democrats managed
to get something through the house which
was an incredible achievement by Pelosi
viewed as a tough vote for a lot of
Democrats it ended up dying in the
Democratic Senate even getting all
Democrats on board took a ton of
compromise along the way how do you see
the politics of this changing I mean
it's gonna require more than it the
reason we didn't have a stronger bill
then is not because we lack the savvy on
the part of those pushing for a climate
action right well like Henry Waxman I
think is that is the person you'd want
to give the most credit for that too and
there's nobody there was nobody more
savvy in the house ever than Henry
Waxman and I think if you look at the
sort of waxman-markey deal or the
waxman-markey bill that got through the
house you know in 2009 that is what sort
of the median position on climate change
in the house looked like then and it was
pretty conservative but you know as you
know the Democratic Party was
considerably more conservative back then
so the party has moved left we will find
out how much I mean I think I think
people really need to understand just
how radical this proposal is I mean I
mean the the proposal that she has put
in front of Pelosi would demand that as
a precondition of this committee forming
in the house it would completely
decarbonize electric electricity provide
a federal job guarantee for everyone in
the US you know spend hundreds of
billions of dollars so this is as far
left as you can go I don't think the
median and the house has moved nearly
that far left but this is a good way as
you say if sort of like sounding out how
far left has it gone so that's what we
need is sort of a modern-day Waxman to
to find the limits of the possible to
find out how much you know sort of the
suburban Democrat in you know Topeka or
whatever
like how far is he or she willing to go
so all of that very difficult task is
still an intra Democratic task we were
describing and I don't know if you've
been paying attention to the news but
Republicans control the Senate in the
White House so you know people I think
people feel pretty hopeless about
climate in part because they look at
this and they say all right
even the good the good faith actors some
of whom have their own sort of whatever
more parent motives but nonetheless the
collection of on the whole good faith
actors coming together might be willing
to potentially do something that could
be on the way to doing enough and yet
there is this rearguard action this
group of conservatives in the United
States standing in the way of of not
just American Progress but also to some
extent to global progress what what do
you say to people who feel that sense of
hopelessness well I mean I'm sorry I'm
so I'm giving you all the questions
right what's your what else are you
gonna do this is a very hard question
this has obviously been a central
problem for climate politics in the US
since it since it started the
Republicans are movable so you know the
question is how to move them and what
has been tried for decades now is
reasoned persuasion that's what all
these reports are there's I mean I could
point you to just billions of words
patiently sort of explaining the science
blah blah blah
that didn't work it's not gonna work I
think at this point it's clear it's not
gonna work so what's the other way to
move politicians if persuasion doesn't
work the other way is fear so the only
road I see to moving some Republicans on
this is to make it good politics make it
popular make it so that they're scared
not to come along and to do that you
can't do that with these sort of you
know these sort of backing into the
future halfway incremental waxman-markey
style you know sausage making if you
want the politics to be
if you want people to rally and make and
create some genuine grassroots
enthusiasm and passionate about this you
have to go big you have to give people a
big clear vision so I mean that's what
the green new deal is about it's
obviously not going to pass in this
Congress I hope I'm not saying anything
controversial when I say that or
probably any Congress anytime soon but
but it might shift the politics and
create some real grassroots energy
around this and then eventually you know
Republicans what remaining Republicans
are in sort of purple districts in
purple states and even you know sort of
renewable energy is invading red states
like eventually they'll just be scared
not to get on the bandwagon and that's
what will bring them along so so if
you're you know if you feel sort of the
sense of hopelessness just like double
down and go forward faster like that's
the only thing you could possibly work
so it seems like there's in terms of how
it neva tably the conversation about
climate change becomes a conversation
about how we talk about climate change
yeah believe me I know
so there's been all kinds of thought
about how to do this you know you need
to make people feel like it's solvable
you need to make people feel like it's
dire and an emergency it needs to feel
like a national security threat what
what is your thinking on this right now
about what Democrats should be saying
differently than we're currently saying
on this issue yeah well first a meta
note on that you're right that climate
change politics have been dominated in
the US by discussions of language and
framing and I think that's a that's a
sort of symptom of the fact that this
came out of science and scientists want
to explain things to people and persuade
people and so and it hasn't been working
and so they just analyze and analyze and
analyze how they're talking but the
reason action is not happening on this
subject is not that people are not
saying the right words it's not some
magical phrasing that's going to shift
things it's power its fossil fuel
interests have a lot of power and money
and so changing that requires you know
counter
power and money no amount or variety of
talking is gonna substitute for that
work its power and organizing that are
going to change things and and sort of
that said I don't think I mean I I think
I've gone a cycle through a lot of
opinions on this subject but I sort of
coming back around to I think we're
talking about it mostly fine it's a it's
a giant problem that's already beginning
to manifest it's gonna get worse and
worse and worse until we clean up and
decarbonize so let's decarbonize i think
that's a perfectly fine way to talk
about it like danger to danger to our
fellow Americans and future Americans
you know looming serious danger seems
like a great motivator to me and it has
motivated a lot of people like a
majorities of Americans want to act on
this majorities of Americans support
renewable energy and they support
alternative energy like Americans are
more or less persuaded and onboard for
action it's not it's not persuading
ordinary Americans that's that's holding
things up here it's concentrated power
and money at the elite level and the
only thing will change that is counter
power and counter money and organizing
so one thing I wanted I'm just curious
to talk to you about you know the IPCC
report makes this clear it sort of often
sort of almost an aside in the
discussion that that's keeping global
temperatures from rising more than two
degrees will require some form of
negative emissions you've written about
this on the one hand it's it's seen as
like sort of this far-off technology and
yet on the other hand it seems like it's
essential to any any or the vast
majority of reasonable estimates for how
we could keep global temperatures from
rising too high what are your think can
you just tell people what negative
emissions are and and what the status is
of on these technologies sure sure I
mean the basic frame here is that is
that climate change is a concentration
problem it's about the concentrations of
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and
so the rate at which you're emitting
doesn't really matter
physically all that physically matters
is how much of the gases are up there
and so the idea is if we want to limit
temperatures it's going to be really
hard to prevent concentrations from
rising above the level that we would
that we would think would produce two
degrees but then we can crank the
concentrations back down by pulling
carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere and
we can do that with new kinds of
Agriculture with reforestation with
different kinds of soil but we can also
do it with machines like we've built
these machines now that will directly
suck carbon dioxide out of atmosphere
and then you can bury it so I mean I
think the thing to say about that is
getting to the point that we're going
negative requires first getting to zero
so I mean I it's great that people are
worried about the sort of what we're
gonna do in 2050 or 2080 with negative
emissions I'm glad we're looking ahead
to that but the first task is doing all
the stuff we know reduces emissions now
at economically positive returns so I
would just say we need to have our eye
on that it's definitely we need to be
doing R&D we need to be doing testing we
need to be thinking about how to
construct a giant continent spanning a
network of burial sites where we can
bury tons and tons of co2 it's all that
stuff needs to be researched but we've
got plenty of work ahead of us before we
we get there
like maybe we could like raise the gas
tax you know before we start talking
about like burying Giga tons of co2 or
dimming the Sun or all these sort of
crazy things were coming up with you
know we could just like raise the gas
tax first listen let's take things one
at a time I think that you and your
fellow anti snowpiercer
zealots I want to get so much carbon out
of the air that we cause an Ice Age the
mammoths come back alright well also
this is all premise on the idea that
like we can turn the entire Earth System
you know sort up and down like we've got
hold of a knob
and you know I don't know that I want to
bet the future of the species on that
it's like you have to do we have to turn
the whole machine from from suck to blow
is that that's basically where we're at
one last question and then we'll let you
go let you go thank you so much for your
time
are you hopeful today well yeah okay
I mean I've come I've gone running
around about that about that question so
many times also that I'd sort of come
out like what does it matter like what
what does it matter whether I'm up I'm
I'm I see a big dangerous problem I'm
doing everything I can to sort of
explain it to people and rays warnings
about it and talk about how we can solve
it whether I have hope or not it's not
going to change whether I do that work
the work is the work you know like I
have hope in the sense that I know that
there are thousands and thousands of
people of goodwill out there in America
who are also doing the work so that
gives me hope as to like trying to
predict some outcome in 2100 like you
know don't waste the mental energy just
do the work David Roberts thank you so
much for joining that was great
you
