well in case you missed it the Romans
took Kevin Hart and nailed him to a
cross last week oh he is dying for our
sins
his homophobic jokes I cannot believe
we're still talking about I know it keep
it we like to keep the topics fresh like
trust us we don't want to talk about
this that much more but he keeps adding
so much collectively of our time with
this a story that really
shouldn't have been a story you know all
you had to do was apologize you would
still be hosting the Oscars no one would
order or quit and be quiet about it
yeah I also would have taken that but no
Kevin Hart is still on his apology tour
where he hasn't truly apologized and
last week he made an appearance on The
Ellen Show where he announced that he
was quote-unquote evaluating if he
should return to host the Oscars after
all after Ellen who literally just sat
there saying Kevin you're my friend I
think you should host the Oscars I think
you said I called the Academy and told
them to take you back I started a
hashtag for you to come back to the
Oscars first of all couldn't you have
texted the Academy the Academy saw Ellen
vii call and we're like if this send an
email it's mind boggling just okay well
first of all as somebody who is obsessed
with the Oscars let me just say I'm
pardon me if I've said this before I
don't usually care who the host is it's
like people who are obsessed with
football it's like who is performing the
national anthem at the Super Bowl just
it's like I guess I'll see it but I'm
not gonna years later with my boys be
like oh my god remember when the Dixie
Chicks killed it no three no so the fact
that we're still on this conversation is
so stupid but the thing that was
horrible about it was when he's sitting
across from Ellen he keeps referencing
these years of apologies he's given and
by the way we all have the Internet
Kevin so we can see you're you're like
alleged apologies and most the time
everything he has said up till now about
his homophobic tweets which we were
counted in another episode
ammount - I wouldn't say those things
now because people are more sensitive
and let me tell you something Kevin I
already know you have a problem with
wimpiness because one of the jokes you
made was about smashing a dollhouse on
your gay kids head so I already knew you
had a problem with sensitivity and not
even the Ipsen book no right the Kevin
Hart stuff I've just found so profoundly
like uninteresting like I thought his
tweets were boring stupid homophobia it
should have just been an immediate like
oh this is not okay we're done yeah I
thought the conversation around it is
uninteresting the most interesting thing
that's happened was the Ellen
conversation because I think it brought
up conversations about marginalized
groups and who is or isn't allowed to
forgive that's kind of interesting but
it is very much like I I think about a
lot of the things that I wrote for
Jezebel which was very like racism 101
like by the way this is bad
like I don't think people are having
interesting conversations to your point
I don't think anyone gives a who's
hosting the Oscars and it was just like
you're wasting our time with something
that should have been such a quick like
oh look what we found great we're done
with him yeah this didn't none of this
needed to continue and it's so
uninteresting and it's taking away from
other things that we could be having
conversations about but also by the way
we could be having a valuable
conversation about like different kinds
of homophobia homophobia and black and
like Don lemons response got into that a
little bit which was great but for the
most part we got another quote-unquote
apology from Kevin alongside Ellen where
he said the words Kevin Hart 50 times
and the word homophobia once it was very
weird that he kept referring to himself
in the third person
yeah like you know oh man Kevin Hart's
gonna get - I didn't even get to bask in
the glow of Kevin Hart gets to host the
Oscars I'm like do you know that you're
Kevin Hart it was watching Ellen - just
sit there and st. nothing thank you and
it was really it was that moment of like
oh it's just cuz you're all rich and
famous like you're all operating it's
kind of like it's not good right but
you're like wow they have really
abandoned all of these other things that
might have been dividers between the
because they're both super rich and
famous and it really was like this
about the haters on the internet and
that was like Oh Ellen is just sort
of keeping for
someone else who's at her kind of like
power level and that's what she cares
about and it really was like oh that is
you're different because of the
situation that you're in now right
that's mostly what I addressed in the
piece that I wrote for The Hollywood
Reporter oh do you still meant to
discourage you from doing that go ahead
well you know once I finished my novel
on sixteenth-century shoes in Russia
uh-huh you will find out how great it
right oh right yeah okay well until
 then okay
the Czar's are waiting for anyway I just
wrote about the fact that the self
preservation of celebrities is wild
because you could tell Ellen was like
I'm a comedian I'm wealthy Kevin Hart's
a comedian he's wealthy we are sort of
vibing I mentioned that it was
completely different from when she did
an actual interview with Caitlyn Jenner
on her views on same-sex marriage
which were wonky because Ellen as a
lesbian who is married to Portia Taurasi
Caitlyn Jenner having fucked-up views
about same-sex marriage affected her
reign you know and so she was pissed off
and she had something to say also
Caitlyn Jenner is a Republican she's
probably the Kardashian family she wrote
it for Trump it's obvious that Ellen
isn't with her and like doesn't
go to parties where she's at yeah
where's with the Kevin Hart thing it
wasn't even an interview it was just
sort of like oh here's my friend it was
sort of like and then her trying to
convince him to take the job back right
it was sort of like if I have a friend
that Kara doesn't like but I'm still
friends with that person
I invite Kara to dinner and then I
invite that friend to dinner and I'm
just like well I like them you know it
gave me a little bit of a michu thing in
that when the men around a lot of that
they're the men that have spoken out and
said dumb things it's because they're
kind of afraid it could happen to them
not kind of they're afraid it could
happen to him and the Ellen thing was a
little like
she maybe could see a world where the
trolls and the quote/unquote haters are
coming after her another rich comedian
that kind of thing and it seemed like
she was like what did you remember on
The Ellen Show when she was little and
for that entire dog a dog oh my god yes
and she did this whole thing on TV that
was obnoxious and wild it was early days
of Twitter if it happened now
she was gotten great dragon see like
she's kind of afraid that like what
happened to Kevin Hart could happen to
her which was why she probably felt the
need to to jump into this and to control
that narrative and to do whatever she
did with it and like it's a it's it's a
little I mean it's not a little like
it's sad and just also so deeply
unnecessary oh yeah also something to me
that was so interesting in kind of uh
nellen about the whole situation was I
feel like she's somebody who like for
instance Kevin Hart keeps talking about
basically a conspiracy against him and
his reputation
I feel like Ellen is one of these people
who like is a master of dealing with of
addressing people online and kind of
calming people down and sort of being
like it's okay that we all have these
negative feelings or whatever we we can
work through them she basically was
taking his side and being like these
people who don't like you you're right
what is wrong with them that felt very
unlike her to me
to be fair I feel like it's also couched
in the fact that they're constantly
always rumors that Ellen is kind of not
as nice as she pretends to be on TV
which would make me love her and I feel
like part of it is she's always dealing
with the things like when people who
used to work for Ellen are always like
this was a bad experience for me I feel
like part of that was couched in her
being like I've had people saying that
like I'm awful I have the haters matter
to me I get what Kevin's going through
yeah
like Cara said the only interesting
thing that really happened was seeing
pieces from queer black people
responding to the Ellen thing and
especially Don Lemon who at this point I
think is has been replaced by Webb
body double is living in the white house
pretending to be Melania because the Don
Lemon who is her CNN addressing this is
not the Dom lemon is not the Don Lemon
that once said to a woman who had been
raped why didn't you like fight back and
bites penis basically not not the same
man brand new John lemon I really liked
how he got to the point of listen we all
hate it when people are like the black
community is more homophobic than the
white community because white people
just as homophobic well there's like
studies that they're literally not yeah
and they are the ones who passed
anti-gay legislator it legislation in
America but there is the idea that we do
not address homophobia in the black
community especially when it comes to
you know black male stars like a Kevin
Hart these things are things that like
black where people are supposed to just
sort of brush off the thing we're sort
of like oh he said like a homophobic
joke and his response of people are too
sensitive now is whiteness and tell
those jokes suggests that he in no way
has thought about it where he's like
those jokes are harmful to people it's
just sort of like oh it's just jokes I'm
making fun of gay people like we all do
that well what I the thing about the Don
Lemon stuff and what you said about the
articles that came out it was a it's a
that conversation right about homophobia
within the black community needs to
apple and black people why people have
no business being part of that
conversation and so Don Lemon speaking
to this other person and those writers
having that conversation like this is
something that like we need to deal with
the way like white people should talk
about home look like white people and
homophobia every what like and I think
that that sometimes where the
conversation gets muddled and so it was
like great this is a time for like us to
talk about this together and and try to
come to something and like there hasn't
really been that opportunity where like
those were the voices that were really
you know what I mean that we're that
we're being elevated and getting a
chance to talk about well and it's
particularly hard to have those
conversations because now that you know
media is so much more mainstream and
accessible via social media you know
blood Twitter can't even have a Congress
without uh huh without white people
jumping in or a right media outlet
reprinting what has been said or what's
trending on it it's the idea that you
know you see a media take out the shade
room things like these which report on
black celebrity you look at the comment
section and they are dripping with
homophobia misogyny it's like these are
conversations that I don't think that
people in black media outlets are
properly addressing and it's a thing
that we really do need to have that
intricate Manatee conversation without
sort of talking with white people yeah
the thing that really upset me about
Nick Cannon after well remember cuz he
was defending Kevin Hart at follow these
dummies and the thing that he was doing
when we talked about before when he was
like well you know I remember when Sarah
Silverman made these things I was like
we're not talking about these white
people we're talking about you ya know
we're talking about why no one batted an
eye that Rick Ross you know just said
 in a new song on a Macmillan Jay
track it's like JC you were married to
Beyonce we know you got approval before
that song came out right why is that on
that song can I also Kevin Hart I don't
know if you know this but it's not hard
to search tweets you dummy he was out
there like they combed through my
thousands of tweets they're coming after
me you it's a word search like did
he really think people scrolled through
he sounded like he thought people
scrolled through thousands of tweets I
was like we already know you shouldn't
be up here talking but I was like you
really shouldn't be up here talking if
that's what you think has happened
that's how we know celebrities don't
know how to use exactly you're not
involved in any of that
I say Alexa Kevin Hart and she's
like here are twenty pages it's also the
fact that maybe just baby people knew
about the homophobic tweets already
right and it just decided to ignore them
because you're famous and we're like
let's just not up his money but
then when you started to be announced as
the Oscars
host a show which a lot of gay people
give a about people are like hey
didn't he tweet a bunch of times did
a quick search and it came up well i
resent the fact the idea that kevin hart
thinks he's so important that everyone
was just like ever like the gays got
together and said let's get let's let's
get our plan right none of this was hard
it didn't take a long time it didn't
take a lot of effort no one was trying
to bring you down this is real easy and
also by the way he seems obsessed with
the idea that we get some sort of thrill
over like taking gigs away from honey I
do not lose sleep cuz you didn't book
Carnegie Hall
I do not care you will be famous anyway
you know it's just it literally was a
simple question we talked about this the
other week just a comprehensive actual
apology our reckoning with the culture
in which these words and slurs exist
would have been enough we would have
been fine with you hosting the Oscars
because again we don't care who hosts
the guys if men knew how to apologize we
would have been done with this yeah
weeks ago I was like I cannot believe or
just like a publicist and like who's
your publicist yeah like oh just a well
worded statement and we would
have been done with this remember
when like Scarlett Johansson apologized
for whatever role she had taken that was
Asian or something and then she our
honor the transgender role that she
almost took and then she whatever PR
person she paid 2,500 to they did a
great job right write it all out which
reminds me that we did not bring out the
fact that Emma Stone shouted I'm sorry
yes that was hilarious
I just lastly want to say that Don Lemon
also said that Kevin Hart can help
change homophobia and I'm not expecting
him to really be a beacon of change it
is Kevin Hart I wouldn't ask him to help
me order at a restaurant but I will say
that there's something to be said about
media television and film when we see
black queer stories told on like Empire
or anything else it's usually by
or likely no wife doing something he's
usually quite a black queer artist and
it feels very hard sometimes being part
of such a small community trying to tell
these stories and the way that Regina
King my god is the globe's was like you
know include more women in your films
and in your crews and when we talk about
fixing diversity and gender parity in
Hollywood it usually involves adding
more people of color adding more women
to things one thing you could easily do
is just work with more queer people you
know it would not hurt Kevin Hart's
career to make a comedy where the lead
opposite him is Alina weaith or even
like Titus from like unbreakable Kimmy
Schmidt yeah you know if we see more
straight men particularly black straight
men reaching out and doing things like
that I think that that could go a long
way and it's something that we actually
never demand the people you know it's
also better than an apology
it is better I don't want an apology I
want to check yeah that's beautiful
I'll be in the next Kevin Hart I will be
in get hard - Wanda Sykes is gonna play
your manager at a store
you
