welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the pod in
lieu of our traditional interview you'll
hear stories from listeners who called
in to tell us how Trump shutdown is
affecting them and the people they care
about and thank you to everyone who
called in and shared your stories with
us before that we're gonna talk about
the latest shutdown developments
including Pelosi taking away trump's TV
time we'll also talk about Michael
Cohen's decision not just pretty good
we'll also talk about Michael Cohen's
decision not to testify before Congress
and all the latest 20/20 news also love
it or leave it as back shows tonight
pod drops Saturday this week on keep it
eirick air and lewis talk about the
Oscar nominations and the fire festival
documentaries which means it's an
outstanding episode have you seen those
documentaries there Dan no but I know
that you you recommended the Hulu want
to me have you seen the Netflix one I
have seen the Netflix one they're both
excellent I think the next one Netflix
one is perhaps better produced but I
think the Hulu one is more interesting
anyway but I'd watch both this I'd watch
this so the Netflix actually has the
most ja Rule
so that is that is that is a deciding
factor there but they're fantastic it's
right up your alley you would love those
so perfect okay finally if you live in
Charleston New Orleans or Durham you'll
have a chance to see us live and in
person in February when you're when
we're on tour
go to crooked comm slash events for
tickets they're going fast but you can
still get some in each of those three
cities we still have a few left so check
it out you can also check out the
listings for love it or leave it shows
coming up in Chicago Madison and
Milwaukee in pod save the people shows
coming up in Philly at Brooklyn Portland
Seattle San Francisco and LA okay let's
start with the news the state of our
union is a Dan on Wednesday
the president wrote a letter to the
Speaker of the House telling her that
despite her earlier objections he still
planned on coming to the Capitol on
Tuesday night to which Nancy Pelosi
quickly responded no you're not and so
late on Wednesday night Donald Trump
tweeted that he
we'll deliver the State of the Union
when the shutdown is over then what do
you think about this outcome are you
surprised that Trump folded as fast as a
trump casino
I appreciate you passing up the tripe
but low-hanging fruit state of our
disunion missed opportunity with failed
state of our union all kinds of options
I leave that to the cable yeah I am
actually surprised that he that he let
the fight go so quickly like because as
part of my new year's resolution I have
been steadily reducing my phone time I
put my phone away last night in order to
watch some television Wow game was
really nice I didn't know that I did not
see until later that he had folded and I
was quite surprised to see that I think
there are a couple parts about this is I
think what happened you know sort of the
way this happened is as we talked about
a few weeks ago Nancy Pelosi sent a
letter saying I'm moving the State of
the Union because the security concerns
Trump then sent another letter yesterday
that said check on the security concerns
noted truth-teller
Kirsten Nielsen says it'll be fine come
in anyway I look forward to seeing you
and then Nancy Pelosi was like nope
and Trump called her Bluff only to find
help like 30 seconds later that she was
holding Full House and he and I and so
the things they're interesting about it
are one he gate they're two options here
which I think we're probably talking
about one is he could have prolong the
confrontation or prolong the fight or
done why you've like showed up at the at
the house or done something or he could
have given the speech in an alternative
location and the fact that he chose none
of these it gives me some measure of
hope that he's starting to see all the
doors close around him I read for this
confrontation yeah I mean we all were
trying to predict what might happen on
our on our crooked media slack channel
yesterday
Brian boiler thought there's going to be
an armed standoff between the Capitol
Guards in the Secret Service that was me
oh you thought that Oh Brian Brian had
Brian had the best suggestion of where
the alternative would be
oh right Oh Brian
was saying the armed standoff to both of
you thought the armed standoff was gonna
I have text evidence great minds think
alike
pleased to be part of the same weird
conspiracy theorist with Brian I thought
that it would be another location that
was my guess and then Brian said
obviously he's gonna deliver the State
of the Union at Covington high school I
had this plan that I've been working on
for two days which was I was going to do
an outline that was completely fake it
sent it to you with like the first half
of the pod was just gonna be our takes
I'm a Covington Catholic thing the
second would be promoting the state of
journalism for buzz both loopy or maybe
not getting something wrong you would
have really really push my but that
would really push my buttons
I guess Tommy and and John answered a
question about Covington on the live
stream yesterday so they finally had to
get into it but I'm staying out so yeah
I actually thought though he would go to
another location and because you know he
cuz there were some reports that maybe
he'd go to the southwestern border there
are other reports that maybe he'd do a
you know a mag or alley somewhere and
then I I did read after he gave in to
Pelosi someone said on background that
you know some people in the white house
thought that maybe giving the speech
somewhere else would diminish him and
would make him look small which it's
funny the people in the White House
still think about actions that would
make Trump look small live-tweeting
Tucker Carlson on a nightly basis so
here's a tweet from Maggie Haberman last
night she said White House believes
Pelosi has erred in giving sorry White
House believes Pelosi has erred in
getting into a tactical fight with Trump
that involves testing who can kick more
dirt Dan is there any evidence that
Nancy Pelosi made an error by doing this
no we actually have polling which says
that no Nancy Pelosi is beating Trump in
this and people are more approving of
the way she's handling it then Trump by
pretty large margins and the whole thing
the whole conversation
this is stupid I'm actually kind of I
think that suppose you did the right
thing 100% you if you want to shut down
the government a temper tantrum over
your fake wall then you don't get to
come to her house and give the State of
the Union right open up the government
then you get to keep your speech
like that is the right approach but the
whole discussion around it is a
distraction from the most important
thing which is the actual crisis
happening in this country
yeah so in that sense I'm glad it's over
but Nancy Pelosi handled this right
Trump mishandled it for a while and then
actually did what was probably the the
first strategic thing he would done
which was quit a fight you know you're
gonna lose early right yeah it did seem
like he by tweeting that there's at
least a glimmer of hope that he wants a
path out of this perhaps who knows I
just think it's hilarious that someone
in the White House told Maggie like she
made a real mistake getting down in the
dirt with us just just an admission that
the White House most of their tactics
and strategies are just down in the dirt
like don't play dirty with us you know
because then you'll get then you'll get
burned it's just so it's so cynical
it's such a cynical thing to say I mean
yeah but you're you're important to
remember yeah these people are dumb yeah
they're not dumb or nobody they were
dumb you know they're dumb cuz they
decided to work for Trump and then you
know they got dumber because being
around Trump makes people stupider
it takes people even people who've been
serious in other parts of their lives
and drags them down into a swamp of
stupidity
so like why we're even quoting these
people why they get we get to hear their
anonymous takes on these things is a
great question yeah and look we
also had a slew of polling yesterday
about the shutdown that was taken over
the last couple days Associated Press
has Donald Trump's approval rating at 34
percent down from 42 percent last month
so that's a new record 59% of people
disapprove of Donald Trump in the latest
CBS poll that's the highest number since
he's taken office
seventy percent of americans told CBS
news that the issue of a
border wall is not worth a government
shutdown 70% when if 70% of Americans
agreed on anything recently and then you
know the morning consult political
Politico poll had 54% of Americans
blamed Trump and the Republicans for the
shutdown that has climbed by six points
since their last poll so so much for
Trump's big prime-time speech working
not only did it not work it actually
probably hurt things and then the final
number here by 12 points
47% to 35% people think Pelosi is
handling the negotiations better than
Trump dan what are all those numbers
telling you it tells us the what has
been obvious from the beginning which is
from the perspective of politics which
is the least important perspective in
everything that's happening the country
right now this is a disaster for the
Republicans and it is it is getting
worse by the minute and actually I think
there is something encouraging if you're
really like digging deep for a
silver lining there is something
encouraging in the fact that some
measure of the normal the quote unquote
normal or old rules of politics still
apply yeah if you do something
incredibly stupid that does damage to
the country for no reason you will pay a
political price which is something that
we in the post 2016 environment we were
we wondered if that was still true yeah
I mean Trump has not suspended the rules
of politics political gravity does apply
to him and does apply to Republicans
especially when you do things that
affect the lives of ordinary Americans
right and I do think I mean it is very
sad in our politics right now that in
order to you know drive Trump's
approvals down this much or have this
many Americans agree on something which
is that we shouldn't shut the government
down over a wall you have to start
cutting into Trump's base into the
Republican base and so you know you're
starting to see his approval rating even
among Republicans fall and that's
frankly because there's probably a lot
of folks who work for the federal
government or who were somehow connected
to the federal government and therefore
hurting in the shutdown
who are Trump supporters over live in
you know red states and I think for them
this is probably one of the first
actions Trump has taken since becoming
president than has actually hurt them
there was a threat that they were gonna
be hurt by his decision to try to repeal
the Affordable Care Act but he failed at
that you know they didn't like the tax
plan that much because it went to the
rich farmers have been hurt by Trump's
trade deals but that's not everyone I
think this is probably the action he's
taken that has caused the most
widespread pain to all segments of the
American population since taking office
would you agree definitely had the
biggest impact on the most people but it
is also the stupidest thing that
has happened in politics in 50 years
unconscionably stupid what is happening
what we like
everyone knows the wall is
Trump knows it's the
Republicans done with the
Democrats know it's the public
knows it's and we have shut the
government down over this thing it is so
like if you just watched Trump in the
Cabinet Room yesterday after Nancy
Pelosi first rebuffed his speech and he
was doing some meeting with
conservatives because that's the only
kind of meeting he does yeah and he just
had this he he spoke to the press and it
was the most incoherent thing in the
world we need a wall we're building a
wall we build the wall crime will fall
that's a new slogan oh and by the way
crime is really low like what the
are you talking about it is so like
people get it like for all of the noise
and the Twitter and the propaganda there
are some things that can still break
through and this is one of them because
it's so people get it right yeah you can
put a blind eye on it and even if you
think it's stupid you're not going to
abandon Trump on it but the overwhelming
majority of Americans can agree that
this is really stupid and it should stop
so let's talk about what's next
today senators will vote on two
competing proposals to end Trump shut
down one bill from Senate Democrats will
simply open
government for a few weeks so that both
parties have time to negotiate a deal
the other bill from Senate Republicans
will only open the government if
Democrats agree to five billion dollars
in steel slats and stricter Asylum laws
in exchange for not supporting hundreds
of thousands of immigrants but only for
three years so by the time you're all
listening to this the vote will have
happened which means that there's
probably a good chance that it's
unexpected how come
since we're recording this now but it
seems as if neither bill has the 60
votes necessary to pass so why do you
think McConnell and Schumer agreed to
put these bills on the floor i this is a
tough one to sort of figure out but I
think to understand this from
McConnell's perspective sure I just
wants to get Republicans on the record
voting against endangered Republicans
getting on the record against voting for
a straight up-or-down proposal to reopen
the government right that's what he
wants
and they kiss he thinks they should have
to like the Republicans in the house be
forced to vote against these bills to
open the government right and so it
makes complete sense for him so why did
McConnell who rules the Senate like a
dictator allow this to happen
perspective McConnell only key doesn't
care about Trump he doesn't care about
the wall he only cares about power
Republicans being in power that's like
whatever that means he's for and so I
think he allows us to be on the floor
because he wants to one give his
vulnerable members like Cory Gardner who
announced today in Colorado he's gonna
vote for it a chance to get themselves
well on this into I think he wants to
send a message to Trump that this and
maybe other Republicans that nothing is
passing Trump's proposals not I think
the sooner he can kill Trump's proposal
from a week and a half ago right sooner
we can maybe move on to something that
will actually open the government cuz as
long as Trump and noted dilettante Jared
Krishna are running around making you
think that you can pass this absurd
proposal that they wasted all of our
time with it creates a permission
structure for Republicans to not cave
and makka firma
like mcconnell once is for trump to end
this to end it doing as little damage to
trump as possible and not being able to
cast blame on mcconnell and so i think
this is at least starting to get us to
that path i think that's right and I
think McConnell also wants to show that
the Democratic bill to simply open the
government for a few weeks also can't
pass so then you know he wants all the
Democrats who are saying well if
McConnell would just allow a vote you
know we could open the government
immediately and he wants to prove today
that that's not true now the big
question there is will it get fifty
votes yes that was just gonna say so we
know that Cory Gardner is gonna vote
with the Democrats to open the
government Susan Collins said that she
would vote for both both bills so that
means that we have so they'll there's at
least then forty nine votes for opening
the government and the question is what
will Lisa Murkowski do what will I think
Thom Tillis is another vulnerable
senator from North Carolina but he said
he was voting for Trump's plan who knows
if he votes for both what would Joni
Ernst do maybe Perdue in Georgia maybe
you have someone like Lamar Alexander
who's retiring you know that wants to
open the government I don't know I can't
tell you everyone will know by the time
they listen to this podcast but I do
think you know we have this situation
then where if both bills die which seems
like they may oh and then we have joe
Manchin joe Manchin is gonna
vote with the Republicans and the
Democrats he's gonna vote for both bills
as well and I don't know if any other
Democrats will do that do you think any
other Democrats will do that I guess we
don't know I don't know so then most of
the other the most
I mean sadly most of the other likely
suspects for such a move lost right in
2018 so so then I guess the question is
what happens right so if both bills fail
then like I still don't think Democrats
should just say okay well we'll start
negotiating because their whole position
has been open the government then will
negotiate right like it isn't there at
least have to be a sequence here where
Republicans say okay we will vote to
open the government if we are promised a
vote on XY
z or we can immediately intern
negotiations like there's got to be some
face saving measure for the republicans
here even though everyone's gonna know
that democrats really won the fight yeah
it like there are some things that have
been done in previous standoffs over
things much more consequential like the
future of medicare or how much the
government spends on the military or
health care or things like that that
could happen here if we had something
resembling a functioning government so
one thing would be we're gonna pass a
two-month continuing resolution open the
government get everyone paid and we're
gonna have a process with three people
appointed by mcconnell yup appointed by
schumer three pelosi three people
appointed by Skittles mccarthy and
should have been starburst mccarthy god
damnit so much better to say and they
say we're gonna negotiate we're come
with a proposal and and the like and
then there's some guaranteed that
there'll be a vote on it like there's
something like that which is totally
fake and leads to nothing but at least
gives the republicans a talking point to
come down from where they are right and
but that is like there's been no
discussion around that like no one is
talking and we just the idea of how
absurd this is is that the fact that the
only proposal on the table was this is a
proposal to get Democrats and
Republicans together to open the
government was concocted by Trump Mike
Pence Mitch McConnell and Jared Kushner
none of whom are Democrats without
talking to a single Democrat and then if
that was not absurd enough as you guys
pointed out on Tuesday then Stephen
Miller went around and inserted all
kinds of poison pills into the bill and
so there's not even like no one is
talking there is no effort to get it
going and that's because the Republicans
are too wrapped around the axle of
stupidity to make progress and so we're
sort of stuck so let's talk about what
the Democrats can do here and also it
does seem like at least a few Democrats
are getting anxious for reasons that I
can't understand there were reports that
House Democrats are thinking about
making their I'm sorry that again there
are reports that some House Democrats
were thinking about making a
counteroffer to Trump that would include
more funding for border security but not
the wall Jim Clyburn who's number three
in the house even talked about five
billion dollars for a quote smart wall
that basically involves technology and
drones and like that I thought that
was a bit of a head-scratcher what what
what are they doing there dan what's
going on could I make a recommendation
that for the Democrats that the only
people allowed to speak are Nancy Pelosi
and people who've been in Congress less
than eight years yeah like everyone
everyone else just take a step back and
let these people handle it because it's
just I just it's a mess do you think
uestion for you do you think Democrats
are had put aside the actual strategy of
trying to open the government without
endorsing legislative houses teaching as
a means of governance uh-huh do you
think the Democrats are approaching this
the right way or doing enough doing
enough to end the shutdown
yeah just like from every perspective
right are they taking it seriously
enough
are they messaging it right are they
message you get enough etc um I think
they are by and large I see the problem
with what Clyburn said yesterday is we
have a message the message is open the
government and we'll negotiate right and
I actually think that maybe Clyburn x'
position and he was just like quoted
sort of getting out ahead of okay once
the government is open perhaps we'll
negotiate up to five billion dollars in
non wall security funding right which i
still don't know why you'd throw out
 five billion dollars which is
trumps number but whatever but I do
think the message out of every single
Democrats mouth is like we are open to
negotiate anything that is not a wall
Trump's wall but anything around border
security and immigration once the
government is open through a normal
legislative process government shutdowns
are bad they are inflicting pain on this
country it has to stop that is number
one it just has to stop we are open to
all kinds of negotiations once this
government is open and people in this
country are getting paid again and I
think as long as they stay on that
message and at that negotiating position
then they're in good shape I do think
and you know we were just gonna talk
about this but like I think all of us
need to sort of ratchet up pressure on
the outside you know I heard that calls
to the Senate still were more Pro wall
and Trump than they were Pro Democrat
position of ending the shutdown which is
not reflective of public opinion by a
 country mile so I think that
there needs to be a lot more pressure
and you know there's going to be move on
organizing a protest we can talk about
that in a second and so I think that and
I also think the Democrats could do even
more and we're gonna try to do this
today on the pod to sort of elevate the
stories of people who are being hurt by
this shutdown because those stories are
multiplying and they are intensifying
and they are very sad and they are very
painful for people and I think we need
to sort of step up the urgency and
that's why I mean I'm glad like like you
were glad that the state of the union
silliness is over because that whole
thing just looks like a tit-for-tat game
even though Nancy Pelosi did the exact
right thing and Trump caved like I want
to get back to the real crux of this
shutdown which is the pain that people
are feeling across this country the fact
that by having the government shutdown
it's putting the rest of us in jeopardy
our safety our security whether it's
flying on planes eating food that hasn't
been inspected
you know Manhattan ufff people I mean
it's like crazy what's going on right
now putting us in danger and
jeopardizing uh jeopardizing the economy
and potentially sending us into a
recession so I think like that should be
the main Democratic message and they
should figure out a million different
ways to get that message out every
single day so I agree with everything
you said except I think I agree the
Democratic strategy I agree is no
correct message I do think the body
language of a lot of Democrats ourselves
sometimes the press is inconsistent with
the massive crisis that's happening in
the country
yeah like we've become
nerd to the stupidity in the insanity of
the Trump era I agree what kind of all
going along with our lives well 800,000
of our citizens are not getting paid I
totally ran out we're not inspecting
airplanes the air traffic controllers
say the system is about to break we're
not expecting lettuce the Coast Guard
which is a branch of our military is not
getting paid right now over this and it
is just like this weird thing that if
you turn on the news like Mexico does
getting lots of news coverage is getting
a lot of local news coverage on local
impacts and that's very important but
there's also it's just I just
it just feels to me like we're not fully
focusing on the fact that we're in the
process of doing real damage people who
work for the government who
theoretically have good solid government
jobs are going to food banks yeah and
being laughed at by what we Ross I for
that that we're just not doing and so I
guess what I would say is we have to
like I think a part of that is because
we we don't believe that the normal
rules of politics can pressure Trump
into doing something so we're not doing
the things we would normally do I've
been a part of as you have shutdowns and
debt ceiling crisis is and people don't
go home for the weekend by the time this
pot comes out most of Congress is gonna
phone home for the weekend now I'm sure
they're gonna be their constituents who
are affected there but like why are they
not like camped out in front of
television cameras holding press
conferences why is the Senate or not
trying to keep the Senate open with a
filibuster 36 straight hours they'll try
to draw attention of this like it
doesn't feel like we are using every
weapon or you're okay let me try that
again we're not using every tool in the
toolbox to try to bring this to an end
and I think there's two groups that I
think could do more like where are the
ads targeting these vulnerable members
of Congress both in the house and the
Senate to try to push to put pressure on
them to do the right thing yeah there
isn't as far as I could tell like if
someone has seen those ads or they are
happening I would be excited to be
corrected but it seems like everyone's
just like yeah we're with it the polls
say we're winning so we're not going to
do more and the second group are the the
half dozen or so Democratic presidential
candidates
they're happy for the most part the best
messengers in the party which is why
they think they can win the White House
and by virtue of the fact that they are
now potential presidency United States
they command more press attention than
every Democrat other than maybe Nancy
Pelosi and so that when they are giving
their announcement speeches when they're
doing their interviews let go in Iowa
New Hampshire they should be talking
about the shutdown first and foremost
more than anything else like it like
there's this wheat like I'm watching
some of the video sees campaigns are
pointing out some of the things they're
saying and it feels so disconnected from
what is happening like what you can do
first is help us in this Arliss it well
you can do first is help force the
government open again by using the bully
pulpit that you have by virtue of being
a presidential candidate that is the
right thing to do I think it's probably
even good politics for you like Komal
Harris is giving her announcement speech
in Auckland this weekend I'm excited to
see it but I hope she spends a lot of
time talking about the shutdown and
using that is that speech will probably
be covered live on cable news
it'll get press coverage and she should
use it to hammer home the exact message
you were talking about the shutdown we
have I think we have to do more we have
to do more members of President cants
have to do more Democratic groups have
to do more I think there's it just feels
like more can and should be done here
because this is a horrible crisis and if
weak this keeps going something really
bad things are gonna happen to families
and something really back it up in this
country because we are taking our eye
off the ball on things like airline
security you know no I completely
completely agree at this and it's like
if if you like years from now if you
look back at this period of time in 2019
and you look at last weekend you will be
 bewildered beyond belief that
the top story was about
Covington high school and something that
was going on on the National Mall
when 800,000 Americans in the country
weren't getting a paycheck it is
 gross that we are so attention
addled that we can't
focus on like the big problem in crisis
at hand in the country and we have to go
to yet another like Twitter
generated controversy and and you know
it ends up on the Today Show and all
across the news and everything like that
it's it's obscene I will say your app
like if you turn on TV the entire
American business community as far as I
can tell has put on very expensive fur
coats yeah Davos Davos to heckle
Alexandro Casio cortes like while the
like Rome is burning people like let's
get focused the economy may contract may
have zero growth this quarter which
affects everyone people who need jobs
people need better wages and your
companies who care so much about your
bottom lines while you're spending your
 Trump tax cut on artisanal hot
chocolate get back to America and do
something for your company and your
customers artisanal hot chocolate
sounds like ice delicious no and look
you read about the candidates - I saw
Connell Harris's interview with Maddow
last night and she talked about it which
was great I think Elizabeth Warren was
with TSA workers at Logan Airport unless
I'm imagining that I think she was this
week - which is good but you're right
like it could it should be a part of
every presidential candidates
announcement what they are - what
they're talking about and also by the
way like you can connect it to a larger
message about you know government being
 broken in the Trump era and
politics being broken and and democracy
being at risk here I mean I think I
think when the flood Jon first happened
you know better wrote a media medium
post about that as well how like it was
a it was a larger issue of our you know
democracy but it's like everyone's now
gonna go do something about that right
like show up join protests use your
platform to end this thing I think
that's like the most impressive intial
candidates both because it is the right
substantive thing to do for the country
and you have the power to help which is
the most important thing but also like
it can fit easily into your political
message so you don't have to choose
there you know yeah Beto point your car
the direction of some unpaid federal
workers go do a press
to them and you could blog about it but
everyone's gotta scrub in here cuz this
is everyone jump in yeah everyone um so
what can people do call your Senators
and tell them to open the
government especially if you live in
Alaska Arizona Colorado Georgia Kentucky
Iowa Maine or North Carolina which all
have Republican senators who were up in
2020 or could be vulnerable or are
moderate enough to possibly vote with
the Democrats here you can call them at
202 two two four three one two one
then on Tuesday January 29th which was
supposed to be the date of the State of
the Union that has been cancelled
moveon.org is holding a shutdown the
wall open the government day of action
you can check out moveon.org slash
shutdown to find an event near you so
check that out there's gonna be a lot of
people a lot of events so that's a
that's a great thing to be part of most
importantly no matter where you are you
can support federal workers in your
community by donating to local food
banks and help spread the word how
others can help so definitely look up
local food banks in your area they
really need the help will Barrois wilbur
 Ross our billionaire Commerce
Secretary was on television this morning
saying he doesn't understand why people
would need to use food banks who aren't
getting paid by the federal government
who's like can't they just get loans
yeah you can get a loan that has
a crazy high interest rate there are a
few banks that are actually providing
bridge loans to federal workers at 0%
interest rates but they're not that many
and so there's a lot of people who can't
just go get a loan that they're
not gonna be able to pay back because
they can't pay back the interest rate
and Wilbur Ross doesn't get that because
he's a billionaire just like
everyone else in the Trump cabinet and
they have no idea how normal people live
it's really bad it's really really bad
anyway that's what you can do okay there
were some other news
in other news on Wednesday Michael Cohen
announced that he's indefinitely
postponing his testimony before Congress
which was scheduled to take place in
early February that's not that wouldn't
have been the craziest news ever except
for the statement from Cullen lawyer
Lanny Davis about why he's not
testifying quote due to ongoing threats
against his family from President
and mr. Giuliani as recently as this
weekend as well as mr. Cohen's continued
cooperation with ongoing investigations
by advice of counsel mr. Cohen's
appearance will be postponed to a later
date
totally normal right Dan the man who
implicated the president in multiple
felonies is scared to testify because
the president keeps issuing vague
threats about investigating his
father-in-law should go and be scared
here this 1,000 times since Trump became
president but it's worth noting again
that if Trump had communicated these
threats privately through a letter
through a phone call second hand through
one of his goons sons it would be an
obvious crime and people would freak out
about but because Trump does all this
crimes out in the open we think it's
fine like Twitter is not Hamsterdam like
the laws apply there like if you tamper
with a witness on Twitter it's still
witness tampering it's just and every
Republican is like cool that's fine yeah
I mean like Cohen doesn't seem great
like tamper away threaten his family
he's threatening his family like
a third tier character from Sopranos the
whole thing is yeah I mean well in the
New York Times Chuck Rosenberg who's a
former senior DOJ and FBI official he
was saying like even if Cohen said
Trump's comments didn't intimidate him
and that he would testify those comments
could still constitute witness tampering
because witness tampering is even trying
to intimidate a witness or tamper with a
witness's testimony so you know we found
out this morning that the Senate
Intelligence Committee is issuing a
subpoena to Cohen to come testify
unclear whether that's closed-door or
public hearing but in the past they've
asked for him to come to do closed-door
testimony I think House Democrats have
basically said that they're gonna issue
a subpoena to Cohen as well they might
have already by the time you listen to
this is that the is that the right move
Dan yeah I think so I think let's we
don't know whether Trump was going to
fire Muller mother's gonna shut though
investigation down whether the mother
report will ever see the light of day
based on
potentially future Attorney General Bill
Barr said so the Democrats need like
let's have a belt to spend his approach
to our criminal president and let's have
Congress creating a record of what he
did because we may need it for
impeachment hearings in a trial in the
Senate one day ya know and I think and
that goes back to the first thing we
raised which is like should Democrats
also be formally looking into the fact
that the president is trying to
intimidate witnesses I mean the I you
know as we were just saying the
country's on a crisis right now because
the government shutdown but the reason I
want to talk about this Cohen thing is
like the president intimidated a witness
a potential witness against him and and
led that witness to decide not to
testify in front of Congress yesterday
like that seems to be big news
yes were I mean and it's part of a
pattern here let's not forget Trump's
attorneys talking about potential
pardons with manna forts attorneys
earlier in this process the very strange
joint defense agreement that Trump has
that manna Ford has had with Trump's
attorneys to continue talking to them
throughout this process
even after Manta Ford had agreed to
plead guilty and cooperate the special
counsel there was a lot of smoke here
yeah and look I mean it raises a larger
question which is you know how are
Democrats handling their oversight
Authority so far you know we that we've
had a couple weeks now congressman
session I know they're still setting up
the Oversight Committee they just added
you know AOC and a few other freshmen to
the committee they announced that just
this week so everything's still getting
set up but do you think the Democrats
would be moving even faster by now or
should that I think I am surprised I
know this takes time it absolutely does
you got to get your committee to think
they're just added people to the
Oversight Committee and you got to get
up and running by time is of the essence
here like we are in the middle of a
national crisis and there is two years
of constitutional checks and balances to
do and we got it we gotta get going I'm
surprised and it's obviously the
shutdown hangs over there so I
understand it doesn't affect the what
Congress is doing because Congress is
getting paid in the shutdown but there I
I'm surprised there has not been a
high-profile oversight hearing yet and
that there have not been subpoenas
issued yet and I think that should that
I mean it should happen too soon as
possible I'm not intern I'm sure what
the benefit of waiting is and look you
know Adam Schiff gave an interview this
week where he sort of threw out some
concerns he has which is that you know
William Bar Trump's nominee for attorney
general looks like he could get
confirmed even though he's suggested in
the past that sitting president should
not be indicted it's not clear whether
bar will end up sharing everything that
Muller comes up with with Congress with
the public and so you know if those
things happen
Trump starts closing off all avenues to
hold him accountable for his behavior
and basically the only recourse at that
point is Schiff and other Democrats in
the house like you just said making sure
there is a record of all the misdeeds
for either potential impeachment
hearings or at least for the public to
judge at some point because it does seem
like we don't know how bars gonna be as
AG but you know if he if he doesn't
indict Trump then impeachments the only
remedy but to impeach Trump and to have
a you know a full fair transparent
impeachment trial you need to know a lot
of information and you know if Trump's
hiding this information or if he's
intimidating witnesses like Cohen so
that they don't share the information
then the public's not going to have the
information it needs so that their
representatives can you know hold a
trial and it's important to remember
that that trumps criminality is not
confined to his dealings with Russia or
even the contents of the Southern
District of New York investigation into
the stormy Daniels case yeah if that is
only a small fraction of the crimes that
Trump may or may not have committed and
the in you could plot you could almost
certainly make it an incredibly
compelling case for the impeachment the
presidency it's without ever
in the word Russia yeah and therefore
there's all these other avenues beyond
just Russia they have the Trump Hotel
emoluments all these other things that
are incredibly sketchy that need to be
looked into the Trump inauguration for
instance which seemed like a giant
money-laundering scam since they spent
more money than anyone in history and
had fewer people imagine that and like
getting to the bottom of all of that is
incredibly important like week the it
mother will handle some of this but he
won't handle all of it and we can never
be positive that mother will get the
opportunity to finish his job yeah
Trump has corrupted the office of the
presidency in many different ways and
among many other priorities it is the
Democrats job now to reveal to the
country and to stitch together a
narrative with proof with evidence that
he has corrupted the office of the
presidency and to put all that together
and I think they need to they need to
get working on that all right let's talk
let's talk 2020 the newest candidate
competing for the Democratic nomination
for president is the mayor of South Bend
Indiana Pete Budaj edge he's a 37 year
old military veteran who'd make history
as the youngest president and the first
openly gay President President Obama
name checked him in a New Yorker
interview a few years ago as one of the
future faces at the party he recently
made an unsuccessful bid for the DNC
chair Budaj edge has not released a
platform yet but he said that he
supports Medicare for all in a green new
deal
he's also supported minimum wage
increases during his time as mayor and
helped economically turn around the city
of South Bend dan what do you think of
mayor Pete's candidacy do you think that
basically I support Medicare for all is
like the password that gets you into the
Democratic primary okay when you knock
on the door and they're like what's the
password if you don't say I support
Medicare for all they just they say no
lord help the person who's great look i
when you say the mayor of South Bend
Indiana is running for president it's on
its face seems absurd right but I will
say that I think people judge is
incredibly
talented politician I think there was
something very compelling about
certainly his life story and bio is as
impressive as you can get from serving
in the military to being a Rhodes
Scholar to the work he did as mayor of
Indiana I remember you and I interviewed
him on you don't take mark oh no we did
last year he's a friend of the pod two
years ago we were doing this so long two
years ago it was when he was running for
DNC chair and I was supporting Tom Perez
I can't remember if you had started
supporting time for us at that point but
we had all the candidates on and I I
knew of people to judge you know from
many people brocco bomb himself talking
about it but I hadn't actually spoken it
before you and I walked away being
incredibly impressed with him he's
compelling he's earnest mm he's got a
lot to offer I would not is he the
favorite to win no is he is it a a long
road for a mayor of smaller smaller city
in Indiana to be the price in United
States absolutely but he has talent and
he I'm interested to see the case he
makes yeah and look I'm always
interested in in the case particularly
in the message and I do think watching
you know his video yesterday and seeing
him speak he is leaning heavily on his
age his young age as an asset you know
the line he used was what will America
look like in 2050 for when I reached the
age of the current president which is
funny and also a good question he said
you know I'm the only one to live a
middle-class lifestyle in a middle-class
city in middle America he was saying
that his underdog status which he's
embracing you know allows him to embrace
big ideas talk about new ideas so you
know the test now is what are those new
ideas right and what are those big ideas
I think the challenges he will have are
obviously experience like you said it's
he was mayor of a small town though
yesterday he answered this by saying I
have more executive experience than Mike
Pence I have more legislative experience
than Donald Trump and I have more
military experience than the two of them
combined which is a good retort it's a
good for toys
I wanted to read a tweet from our friend
and former Obama White House colleague
Ben LaBolt about this yeah so this is
what LaBolt tweeted yesterday of the
announcement he said there's some talk
about whether the mayor of South Bend is
ready to be POTUS but a credible openly
gay candidate that breaks down every old
stereotype is good for America when I
came out I referenced Will and Grace
imagine what a gay kid seeing Pete
Buddha judge run will think yeah I like
that
is I mean both is exactly a really
important thing to think about the power
of this particularly when you were just
when you know 12 years ago the
democratic everyone running for the
democratic presidency was opposed to
marriage equality right and 16 years
after the president United States ran
and was reelected on a homophobic attack
on gay people in this country with a
constant running on a constitutional
amendment yeah and we've come and I
think that this like you should not for
all the other conversation but whether
he can be president whether he will be
President there was something an
important and powerful happening here
that's gonna mean a lot to a lot of
people and so I thought Ben's tweet
really summarized that yeah me too look
and I think the challenge he'll have is
also standing out as all of them will
have are a lot of them will have
standing out in a very crowded field
when you don't start with a lot of name
recognition in the country and you know
he's not even potentially the only mayor
Julian Castro was the mayor of San
Antonio he's running potentially
Garcetti runs the mayor of LA
potentially Bloomberg was the mayor of
New York so he's not the only mayor he's
not the only young candidate he probably
was the youngest candidate tied with
Tulsi Gabbard who's also 37 and there's
some other candidates potential
candidates in their early 40s so you
know it's he may be one of the only
veterans in the field actually unless a
friend John Kerry gets in so it's it's
interesting like you know how how he'll
stand out in this field but you know
we'll see everyone in the pool all right
let's talk about our pal
Joe Biden on Wednesday the New York
Times ran a piece about how the former
vice president lost some friends among
Michigan Democrats when he gave a paid
speech
the Economic Club of southwestern
Michigan in which he ended up saying
friendly things about fred Upton a
longtime Republican member of Congress
whose family's Foundation supports the
economic club Upton later used by Daan's
praised in an ad and ended up winning
his race for re-election in November by
about four points this morning Joe Biden
responded by saying quote I read in the
New York Times today that one of my
problems is if I ever run for president
I like Republicans bless me Father for I
have sinned
but from where I come from I don't know
how else you get anything done dan what
do you think about all this I will
stipulate now and many times
over the next two years of Joe Biden
runs for president that I am hopelessly
biased when it comes to Joe Biden yeah
he I am from Delaware
he has been omnipresent in my life as my
senator and then barack obama's vice
president i think he is a truly
remarkable and very human politician he
is faced unbelievable personal tragedy
and every time handled it with strength
and use that tragedy to help other
people whether it's find a cure for
cancer or just stopping people in the
hallway at the White House or going
through tough times and talking them
through it from the perspective of what
he suffered he is a he's not a perfect
person he has flaws as a person to
cannot like we all do but he is one of
America's most human politicians you
know the question for Joe Biden if he
decides to run is is his old-school
approach of politics born in a different
era in relation to a very different
Republican Party than the one Trump
leads now is that appropriate for the
crisis moment in America and I'm not
sure it is I don't know I I would love
to live in a world where the Joe Biden a
Mitch McConnell can get in a room and
they could figure out how I get Medicare
for all and you know cut some deal like
the mythology that isn't really true of
Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan like is
that possible I don't think that's
possible I think the only way to return
American politics is something like
normalcy is to beat these Republicans
and beat them bad and beat them over and
over again and I don't think befriending
that
is the way to get it done and I think
that that Joba I think it's gonna be a
tough case for Joe Biden to make if you
were to run for run in the Democratic
primary now to his credit he is not
changing his he's being very clear about
what he's doing like there was nothing
in polling or Twitter or conversation in
Bukhari activist as suggest this is a
good message but it is what he believes
and he's doing it and there we either be
a market for it or there Walt
yeah I mean he's you know the fact that
he said that this morning means he's not
shying away from this at the very least
which you know good for you if that's
what you believe okay this was a tough
one like you you read the story and you
can see why Joe Biden did this right
fred Upton was instrumental in helping
increasing funding for cancer research
that means a lot to Joe Biden lost a son
to cancer and so and Joe Biden's already
prone to want to work with people across
the aisle so he says something nice
about up then you you know you you
understand why that would happen Upton
also tried to repeal the Affordable Care
Act which is you know a bit discordant
with trying to increase funding for
cancer research but you know Joe Biden
is the type of person who says I don't
agree with you on one thing but I like
what you did on something else and so
I'm gonna say you're a good person to
work with you because I want to work
with you again but you're right that the
bigger question around there is you know
how Democratic candidates in 2020
candidates handle the fact that the
Republican Party since at least as far
back as 2009 when Barack Obama took
office but really a long before that has
been unwilling and in some cases unable
to cooperate or compromise with
Democrats in any significant way
potentially around the margins you know
you get a few Republican senators and
Democratic senators working together on
some bill that they can both stand up
there and say look at us we passed this
bipartisan bill it's great but it's not
like a significant significant policy
change right these are like smaller
legislative achievements there has been
no Republicans willing to cooperate with
Democrats on any significant pieces of
legislation and that includes the
 Affordable Care Act which was
you know parts of it were born in the
Heritage Foundation and parts of it were
MIT Romney Republican Mitt Romney's plan
in Massachusetts and they still tried to
paint that as though
ilysm right so I think we learned over
the course of the Obama presidency
because Obama was of court Obama was the
president who came into office saying I
want to work with Republicans and
Democrats I want to bring people
together to get things done and we
learned over the course of eight years
painfully that that was not possible and
that even when Republicans wanted to
compromise with Obama they couldn't
because the Tea Party and the right wing
and the people who eventually made
Donald Trump president refused to let
other Republicans cooperate with
Democrats that is the political reality
of where we are right now and the
question is how two Democratic
candidates in 2020 grapple with that
political reality while still appealing
to those voters and the party and people
in the country who know Washington is
broken don't fully know to blame
Republicans for this and just want the
endless political where warfare to end
and I don't know I think it's tough
because look it's not just Joe Biden
right like there was a story in The New
York Times about betos friendship with
moderate Republican congressman will
heard and he didn't endorse Gina Ortiz
Jones because of this friendship this
pre-existing friendship Cory Booker
talks about the need to love our
political opponents Kirsten Gillibrand
emphasized working with Republicans to
get things done many times since she's
announced during our interview she did
too
you hear that kind of language from Amy
Klobuchar Elizabeth Warren even was in
Iowa talking about working with Chuck
Grassley on hearing aid legislation why
do you think Dan candidates are
emphasizing this anyway are they seeing
something in polling is there a feeling
in the country
that they're trying to reflect I think
in some cases these are personal
decisions I think Biden's is who who he
is in his experience Plus as you say he
was grateful for what fred upton did and
joe biden is not going to not say that
publicly joe biden always says what is
on his mind that is yeah both his
strength and his greatest weakness as a
politician and so he did that betos
decision as i understand it was very
personal over a relationship that he had
built with
I do think that people want to get
things done like polity like for all of
the cynicism about politicians people
run for office to do things you know and
ultimately the only way to do things is
to be able to get both parties together
that is except in those rare moments
where you have single party control of
the government but even then for most
things you're gonna need some number of
Republicans to get to 60 or whatever
else and they just so they want to get
things done and that's the way to do it
I think I think the country wants to be
unified I think they would like that
they know what is happening is wrong and
terrible the question is how do you get
there and I don't think you get there
with more cocktail parties and more
Pat's on the back right and is a
different world and I think that this is
Denver and I think Beto who you and I
both like a lot and have spent time with
but I think he was wrong to not endorse
Gina Ortiz Jones and I say that only
because the Republican Party under
Donald Trump is one of the greatest
threats to American democracy in decades
whether it is the authoritarian impulses
of Trump voter suppression allowing
billionaires to run our government and
lobbyists to run our government the only
way to stop that is to get Democrats in
office and that is more important than
anything else than personal
relationships then gratitude for
something someone wants it doesn't mean
you can't say it doesn't mean you can't
be balanced about it but it is like this
is it and I like my approach to politics
has fundamentally changed in the last
few years I have I have seen the light
and I think Democrats need to change our
approach to politics to reflect the
severity of the times the Republicans
stole a Supreme Court seat two years ago
yeah well for decades affect every
progressive policy that we are if that
we will ever be fortune enough to pass
you look at ya if they are willing to do
that we do not we should not be like
them we should not be a paler shade of
orange
we have to confront the threat with the
seriousness of the threat I agree and I
mean I've gone through the same
experience as well like my approach to
politics has changed because of what we
witnessed during Obama's presidency and
of course now the trump presidency my
question is has the country's view
changed and has the Democratic Party's
view changed so I you know I would look
this up because Pew asked this questions
Pew Research they say no would you
prefer politicians who are willing to
compromise with the other party or
politicians who want to stick to their
principles and positions and as recently
as last July okay
69% of Democrats said they preferred
elected officials who made compromises
and that was a bigger number than
Republicans Republicans don't want to
compromise Democrats mainly did but
today just 46% of Democrats say they
prefer elected officials who make
compromises versus more who believe that
they want their politicians to stick by
their principles so the Democratic Party
is changing on this and I think that
Trump may have changed a lot of them too
but you know only 46 percent say this
that's still a big chunk of the party
who would rather their politicians make
compromises than always stick to their
positions and that is that's a tougher
position for us to be that's that's more
of a heterogeneous position in art
within our party than Republicans who
most of the Republicans just don't
 won't compromise at all and want
their politicians to stick to their guns
and that's that we are a more
ideologically diverse party than they
are and just a more diverse party in
general and I think you're seeing a lot
of these twenty twenty candidates
contend with the fact that there's about
half our party who still thinks
compromises the answer and I wonder what
I wonder what politicians and what
leaders in the party do about that I
think I think what you see is you see
this sort I mean we saw this during my
interview with Gillibrand right like I
asked her and I hope to ask all the
candidates this I hope we all ask the
candidates this you know you have this
big bold progressive agenda Medicare for
all green New Deal the only way to pass
that is with 51 votes maybe there's no
way you're going to get 60 votes for
that agenda so are you going to get rid
of the filibuster
and you know she she said she'd think
about it but she had some discomfort
saying that she would get rid of the
filibuster so you have all these
candidates out there with these bit you
know Medicare for all big progressive
agendas and yet they're all sort of so
far at least these many of them seem
wary of playing politics like Mitch
McConnell and the Republican have and
Republicans have played politics over
the last decade and I think that's gonna
be something they all have to grapple
with it's like can you can you run on
and be a politician and a president who
tries to heal the wounds of division in
this country while still aggressively
pushing for your progressive policies
that actually have majority support in
the country that right do that is the
question it like Medicare for all is on
its face very popular elements of the
green new deal will be very popular tax
you know he'll exams Ocasio Cortes his
tax plan or something like it very
popular like can you push for popular
policies and try to unite people around
them without allowing the Republicans to
you to basically have minority veto on
every on what matters and to say like
compromise is an idea where you get half
I get half but the problem is the
Republicans move the window so far the
right that you basically get a quarter
or a third or nothing if you want
something at all can you can you fight
fire with fire with Republicans and
still try to unite unite the country so
that at some point if you can break the
fever within this version of the
publican party we can have a more you
know you not unified better America
going forward and that I think that is
the test for what will be the best
Democratic candidate whoever that is
yeah and look one potential option here
for Democratic candidates is to talk
about the division in this country as
something that has been caused and fest
and fostered by Donald Trump and the
Republican Party and Republican
politicians right yeah I don't think you
need to go after Republican voters here
because there's some Republican voters
not many but
a few that darknets could get and
certainly you get a whole bunch of
independence and you need a whole bunch
of independence right so I think that
you know Donald Trump has divided us
against each other and the Republican
Party over the last decade has tried to
divide us against each other by race by
gender by class they have continued to
do this you know and and why do they do
it
they do it so that their rich friends
their donors their powerful people can
stay in power and become richer and they
hope that by dividing everyone else
against each other that no one will
notice that they're taken all
the spoils and enriching themselves in
the process and we shouldn't be as
divided as we are in this country by
race by gender by where we live because
there should be more that unites us than
divides us but there are people you have
to point out the people who were
responsible for the division in this
country it didn't happen by magic it
didn't happen because our politics is
broken in both sides did X or why it
happened because a specific group of
very powerful wealthy people in this
country wanted to have it happen that
way and so there is a possibility for
unity in this country but we have to
unite around these forces that have
divided us for far too long to me that's
like one way to sort of bridge this need
for a very progressive more democratic
agenda small D Democratic agenda with
the fact that there's people in this
country who don't want endless political
warfare that's right I think that's
exactly right the we what we are
advocating for is not the flip side of
what Republicans are advocating for
right like I think that's important to
remember what a large part of the
Republican agenda under Trump which is
essentially as you point out billionaire
funded racial grievance politics yeah is
to give more power to the wealthiest in
this country and what we want to do is
again to give more power to wealthiest
country and to diminish the political
power of the individual yeah making
their vote count less do gerrymandering
by making their voice count less because
of campaign finance laws that benefit
corporations and billionaires and like
can you make an argument
four and have a policy platform that is
democratic small D right that is yeah
good for democracy like to be fighting
for every individual person to have a
voice in this country to share in this
country and to be able to benefit from
it by having a universal right to health
care or you never earn or pre-k or child
care whatever the thing is that is to
return power to the person from the
wealthy and it's can you do can that be
a unifying message and I and I think I
think it can it's just but you don't
have to write off all half the country
to do that right and look may have to
write off half the members of Congress I
think about what our you know our friend
Adi Barkan wrote in the nation and when
he said you know we've learned that the
cure to what ails democracy is more
democracy and I think that's true when
it comes to voting rights that's true
when it comes to how we handle economic
policy in this country it's true you
know it's it's true for everything and
so I do think that is a a strong message
for for Democratic candidates to run on
ok when we come back you will hear from
many many people who were who have been
sorry when we come back you will hear
from folks who have been affected by
this shutdown whose families have been
affected by this shutdown who have
called in to crooked media over the last
couple days and left messages
and so we will hear those voices next
again donate to your local food pantry
and call your Senators and moveon.org
go there to figure out if there's a
rally or event near you on Tuesday the
29th so we can end this shutdown
all right outro
you
