welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vietor
later in the pod my conversation with
Beto O'Rourke who left the campaign
trail to be in his hometown of El Paso
which was the site of one of this
weekend's two mass shootings the other
took place in Dayton Ohio and we will be
spending today's pod talking about what
led to this domestic terrorism and what
we can do about it before we do a few
housekeeping notes love it how was the
show this weekend I heard new democratic
sex symbol jay Inslee stopped by so
that's good yeah yeah you did wasn't
just the planet heating up we had a
great lawyer leave it Oaks they're just
okay I hope I hope to hear the model
news that may be the one I used in the
episode who can remember it was a great
episode Kara Swisher kara Browne Rami
Youssef jay Inslee stopped by truly one
of my favorite episodes in a long time
check it out check it out we also have a
brand new crooked miniseries coming out
this wednesday hosted by our very own
Shaniqua McClendon crooked media's
political director it's called rigging
North Carolina and it follows the story
of the political consultant who was
accused of committing election fraud in
North Carolina's ninth district during
the 2018 midterms it's why we're gonna
have another election there in September
one more from 2018 so check that out
it's an excellent series and Shaniqua is
awesome okay the news over 30 people
were murdered in two mass shootings that
took place hours apart this weekend in
El Paso Texas in Dayton Ohio
just a week after a shooting in Gilroy
California that left three dead the El
Paso massacre that occurred at a Walmart
left over 20 dead dozens more injured
and is being investigated as a potential
act of domestic terrorism the suspected
gunman drove from Dallas after posting a
manifesto on the site 8chan where he
wrote that quote this attack is a
response to the Hispanic invasion of
Texas
later that evening in Dayton and other
gunmen used in ar-15 to murder at least
eight people including his own sister in
a killing spree that lasted for less
than a minute before he was shot by law
enforcement sunday marked the two
hundred and sixteenth day of 2019 and
the two hundred and fifty first mass
shooting with El Paso becoming the
eighth deadliest shooting in US history
guys we're going to talk about white
nationalism and gun control and what we
can do but what were your initial
reactions over the weekend hearing this
news we've had this conversation on the
show many times and that is what I
thought about what I thought was well
here we are again this is completely
expected and predictable these events
will happen again and again and again
and we have done nothing to prevent them
from happening we've taken no actions to
change the underlying conditions that
are causing these events to happen on
repeat and so when it happens we
shouldn't be surprised which is a
completely predictable outcome of our
politics and our policies is what I
thought yeah I mean I think that there
are probably two parts to it I mean I'm
like a relatively large adult male who
lives in a safe place and now I enter
public spaces and scan for exits so
that's a up feeling I you know
essentially asked my wife not to go to
the mall on Saturday it's just out of
paranoia so that's the personal side I
think on the political side I'm just so
far past sad I'm furious these warning
signs have been coming for a long time
and I think there's sort of two parts to
it that you can't really disaggregate in
my opinion there's the the problem of
guns just being awash in this country
and then there's this growing threat of
paranoid white nationalists taking
paranoid horrific action to murder
people based on language they're hearing
from mainstream political commentators
like Tucker Carlson in the present it√≠d
States and we need to deal with both and
I think you know we need to summer some
in some of this rage and remember we
have agency here and start fighting for
some changes yeah I think what really
hit me was I saw a headline in the in
Australia Sydney Herald and the headline
in the newspaper was us in the midst of
a white nationalism terror crisis
accurate and it always it always hits
home when it's another country how
another country would report about your
country and I think sometimes it's hard
to have that outsider perspective when
we're here watching this unfold every
day and to see that other countries are
calling what's happening in the United
State
to America white nationalism terrorist
crisis is it's pretty stunning and
pretty sad alright so like you said
Tommy I think it is hard to completely
separate our white nationalism problem
from our gun problem but let's start
with the 2300 word manifesto linked to
the terrorist attack in El Paso in which
the author said that he was inspired by
the writings of the white nationalist
terrorists who killed 51 people at two
mosques in Christchurch New Zealand the
author also decried shameless race
mixers accused Democrats of quote
pandering to the Hispanic voting bloc
and justified the murder of Mexicans and
Hispanic immigrants as quote simply
defending my country from cultural and
ethnic replacement brought on by an
invasion yet another reason to send them
back he ends by writing that his views
quote predate Trump though the president
has repeatedly referred to Hispanic
immigration as quote an invasion of our
country and at am a rally in Florida he
asked how do you stop these people you
can't a member of the crowd yelled back
shoot them and when the audience cheered
Trump smiled and said only in the
Panhandle can you get away with that
statement so my first thought was does
it really matter whether this domestic
terrorist was radicalized before or
after Trump became president I just
think like it's seabus I don't know why
we're at a point I don't know why we're
believing this little head fake in this
kids manifesto he was 21 he's 21 when
now we shot up this Walmart Donald Trump
announced for president four years ago
so he has spent his formative years from
16 or 17 to 21 hearing Donald Trump and
hearing his rhetoric starting with
Mexicans being rapists and and all that
has followed so of course Donald Trump
was part of the process that radicalized
this kid you know I just I think we're
being it's worth asking the question but
I just think it's it's self-evident I
also think even if he wasn't even if
he's on the off chance that he's telling
the truth about this the president's
this shooting shows Christ Church shows
Pittsburgh po-wei California all of them
that the president's language around
this is a threat to national security
and as I mean and it's it's not just the
president's language it's the language
that
Tucker Carlson uses on Fox News that
Laura Ingraham uses on Fox News that all
kinds of buffoons on that network
use that is spread throughout 8chan and
4chan and all these online
platforms i mean this is this is a
bigger deal right right yeah I mean look
one this is this is the this is the
challenge of describing you know what
people call stochastic terrorism the you
know if when Donald Trump when Tucker
Carlson were Laura Ingraham say what
they say when advertisers pay to
promulgate what those people say it
reaches a lot of people and when it
reaches a lot of people it causes some
of them to take it seriously and it
takes some of them to take it to its
logical conclusion all of this rhetoric
is added to the extremists moment it's
added to the it feeds the discussions
that take place in the you know dark
corners of the Internet it feeds what
you see on Twitter it feeds into the
minds of damaged and troubled people who
take it literally so whether or not this
one person had this idea before hand and
was galvanized by what Trump and others
have been saying or whether Trump is the
person who planted the first seed is
really beside the point what we have is
a system that is pumping out really
dangerous information and when it
reaches certain people they are willing
to use it as a justification for their
desire to kill people to kill themselves
by killing other people to take their
vengeance and violent fantasies public
in a very real way so I'm not really
interested in the exact trajectory of
the kind of white supremacist extremist
ideology that managed to get into this
one person's brain I think I think it's
probably also useful to talk about what
this ideology is I mean you know we've
said this before too and everyone says
it's about immigration it's about
immigration it's really not about
immigration there is a debate to be had
over immigration a legitimate debate in
this country about
how we secure our borders how much
immigration is the right amount of
immigration and how we fix our
immigration system so that we have
orderly legal immigration in this
country right there's fine debate about
that this is not Trump's problem this is
not Stephen Miller's problem this is not
tucker carlson and laura Ingram's
problem they're talking about black and
brown immigration that's their problems
talking about you have ethnic cleansing
or purity right Trump has talked about
how wanting more immigrants from Nordic
countries white immigrants in this
country he's not upset about that kind
of immigration
I found that quote I forgot with all
this is that Trump's has so many heinous
things all the time that it's just you
know they all get memory hold and we
forget about them but remember in July
of 2018 when he was over in London and
he gave an interview to I think it was
the Sun Inn in the UK and he said about
immigration I think you were losing your
culture I think it's changing the
culture I think it's a very negative
thing for Europe and I know it's not
politically correct to say that but I'll
say it and I'll say it out loud and this
was about refugees from Syria and
immigrants and migration in Europe it's
about losing your culture
yeah it's about white supremacy I mean
I'm glad we're talking about eight Jan
and the daily stormer and some of the
darker corners of the internet because
if you go to those places and you see
what's talked about its open calls to
incite violence its posting this video
repeatedly in an effort to get people to
take copycat copycat action so it's good
that that stuff is coming down but you
don't need a Chan to hear hardcore white
nationalist rhetoric you can read the
tweets from the president united states
i mean he read it he retweeted an
account called white genocide he
retweeted that that's what the great
wood policeman theory is you can watch
tucker carlson or laura ingraham or
tommy Lehren and they say that
immigrants are replacing white people
they say immigration is destroying
America they say that there we were
being invaded and so the poll the way
they launder through politics is they
say the Democrats want these things to
happen because it will benefit us
politically once we make all these new
black and brown voters citizens so they
can vote for Democrats but like it is it
is disgraceful it happens all the time
and it's not you know like
when you when you you'll watch these Fox
and Friends hosts even the people that
get treated like they're normal like
Abbey Huntsman or or Edie Henry they'll
sit there and they'll listen and they'll
nod as you know Tommy Lehren will say
that immigrants are coming to replace us
in destroy our nation it I don't know
how you can work in these places in good
conscience and and not speak up and say
something I was gonna say I mean Donald
Trump is a buffoon he's a racist buffoon
but he's a buffoon and the people that
are writing the script for him for him
to say these things and tweet these
things are the primetime hosts at Fox
News yeah that is where that is his
source of information it's not the
presidential daily briefing
it's not his policy advisers it is the
prime-time lineup of Fox News and
 Fox and Friends and I don't know
how like the Murdock's can go anywhere
without being protested I don't know why
there's not protest outside of Fox News
at all I don't like I realize you know
there was a legitimate debate at some
point do the Democrats go on Fox News
this genitals absol I don't know how any
Democrat anywhere or any person any
American can support that network at
this point and the dance that the the
rubble can party tries to do is they
they just go up right to that edge of
what's acceptable and but so here's a
good example so this guy named Paul
Nalin who was running for Congress I
guess Paul Ryan in Wisconsin and
Breitbart was all out and fought in
support of him Steve Bannon I believe
had endorsed him they ultimately had to
disavow Paul Nayland because it became
clear that he was a straight-up Nazi
like I think some direct messages came
out that guy was literally cheering what
happened in El Paso I mean that's how
sick these people are they're making
they're on like telegram now or discord
or some other type of servers but like
those people were part of the Breitbart
alt-right movement very recently yeah I
mean Tommy you were in the NSC National
Security Council in the White House how
would the response to the shooting be
different if the terrorists had been
Muslim or immigrants I think the
National Guard would be in the streets
patrolling you know like it would be and
how would the FBI and DOJ handle all
what isn't there any different way that
we treat a terrorism that way after 9/11
all the resources of the government
swung towards Islamic extremism and
proof
al Qaeda attacks and terrorism I think
that if this if this were a bunch of
Isis recruits that's what you would see
right now yeah I mean you know Chris Rae
the FBI director said recently white
supremacist terrorism is now the number
one domestic threat in America he said
the FBI has recorded about a hundred
domestic terrorism arrests in 2019 most
of them involving ties to white
supremacy for the first time the FBI has
also identified fringe conspiracy
theories as a risk factor for domestic
terrorism including Kuna and Tommy
you've been talking about this cueing on
who were now showing up at Trump rallies
I mean I there was a cop on Mike Pence's
detail who was wearing a qyn on Pat
Jesus Christ that's how weird this is no
he's a so Ray has said all that which is
good I'm glad that he's acknowledging
that but you know he also said the
bureau doesn't investigate ideology no
matter how repugnant we investigate
violence I mean I think Brian boiler
tweeted this yesterday but he's like I
think the Democratic candidate should go
out there and say if chris ray does not
make progress on shifting the FBI's
resources so that we're actually going
after white nationalist terrorism then
the Democratic candidate say I'll
replace him as FBI director if I'm
president I mean it seems like this is a
this is an emergency for law enforcement
right yeah I mean it's the ideology is
becoming more dangerous because it is
backed by the president it is backed by
indirectly and sometimes directly by
Republicans in Congress it has a massive
corporate finance propaganda apparatus
and it has had huge it is and it has had
outlets online that were unwilling to
shut down the most extreme conversations
and forums for people to foment
extremist white nationalist views pop
you'll popularize the the the
motivations of mass murderers and show
to others who might consider doing these
kinds of things that there is a
community that will celebrate them in
their deaths yeah so you know it's a
hard it's a hard conversation because
you know we have to fight white
supremacy we have to fight white
nationalism we have to fight it even if
it is not causing mass shootings across
the
because it is distorting and hurting our
country in society and politics in
countless ways all the time it is the
way in which Donald Trump and and those
who support him maintain power because
their policies actually don't help
people so they turn issues into matters
of identity and they still fear and hate
in people in an effort to hold on to
power that would be true even if it
wasn't now causing there to be mass
shootings right I just wanna make one
point just on the NSE side like what
we're seeing from these white
nationalists is is kind of the horror
scenario we always worried about about
al-qaeda or Isis in this country because
the people that are committing these
acts are already here right we're not
gonna be able to catch them coming to
America or catch them traveling to Syria
or Afghanistan or Pakistan and going to
some training camps oh yeah so that
ability to disrupt the plot is gone
they've already figured out an effective
tactic you don't need to learn how to
fly a jumbo jet and crash into a
building you need an air 15 and you need
to walk into a mall and you can commit
it's the easiest horrific act of terror
so like the good news is what's needed
is not drone strikes or some foreign
policy initiative you need effective
policing in communities you need to work
with people who know folks like this
shooter or follow them online and get a
tip that this is happening before it
becomes an act in real life I mean so
like that's that's the good news but
it's we are a long way away from
effectively man well my problem and the
president United States is making it
incredibly difficult because he's part
of that problem I think one of the most
chilling things I read over the weekend
is a story in The Washington Post about
this and there was a former FBI agent
who said there's some reluctance among
agents to bring forth an investigation
that targets what the president
perceives as his base it's a no-win
situation for the FBI agent or
supervisor horrible this is sort of
where you know the Moller Russia drama
it becomes like you know Matt sorry
really starts mattering to people's
lives and and becomes very dangerous
because you know Trump tweeting about oh
I hate the FBI and their deep state and
all this right like you can all
laugh about it on Twitter sometimes but
this
we have FBI agents who because the
president has targeted law enforcement
and uh and criticized law enforcement
and and accuse them of treason and all
kinds of other things in a deep state
plot and coos and all that they don't
want to now and they're afraid to
investigate white nationalism because
they think it's the president's base and
are they that wrong well and you well
you also remember when the Obama
administration tried to point out that
there was a rising to the 2009 that
there was a that that that there was a
rising threat posed by white nationalist
groups they were chastised for
politicizing investigations of terror
for even having the audacity to suggest
that there had been evidence of a rise
in right-wing extremism with the
potential for right-wing violence yeah
so I want talk about the Republican
reaction to all this and Trump's
reaction you know first one out of the
box from the administration was Mick
Mulvaney he was on Meet the Press over
the weekend he compared the el paso
terrorists to the Bernie Sanders
supporter who shot Congressman Steve
Scalise saying quote was Bernie Sanders
responsible for when my friends got shot
playing baseball I don't think so I
bring that up because that is the most
common online refrain from the as you
call them the intellectual Zamboni some
of the the conservatives were don't
really like Trump but want to defend
them and they say oh there's you know
how are you making this political right
there's Bernie Sanders supporters that
you people just so everyone knows why is
this different well you know no good
yeah I would say two things about this
one it is different that in the sense
that Donald Trump is actively promoting
the ideology that is causing extremists
to latch onto it and use it as a reason
to cause murder it is not simply someone
that is identifying with Donald Trump it
is someone who is using his logic his
rhetoric and his worldview as a
justification for murder one Donald
Trump has winked at through the entirety
of his presidency that's the first thing
I'd say the second thing I'd say is okay
you know what
we'll take you at your word there is a
massive white supremacist violence
crisis in this country but you're right
you're right
mass shooters will latch on to a bunch
of different ideologies right what does
bring them together
what does the research say brings them
together it's one finding communities
online that encourage them to kill it's
to having trauma and and crisis in their
lives but three it is access to weapons
if so if you're gonna come at us and say
we can't point to white supremacy then
great we'll go to the only other thing
that could possibly make a difference
which is taking these weapons away from
people who want to kill each other yeah
I think also like Donald Trump's out
there talking about an invasion of
immigrants calm and rapists and and
criminals and all kinds of other stuff
Bernie Sanders is righteous anger stops
at higher marginal tax rates for billing
yeah like give me the break
you're not alright taking a gun
somewhere because of Medicare for all
right I mean this is it's such a bad
faith I know it's all over the place
these people it is it is so despicable
to to deflect and spin like that in the
face of what we just saw this weekend I
don't know how you live with yourself
making these kind of bad faith
arguments I truly don't well so let's
talk about Trump himself after sending a
few condolence tweets while hunkering
down at his golf course over this
weekend Trump proposed some kind of
background check legislation paired with
immigration restrictions in a series of
tweets this morning where he also blamed
the media in language that echoed the
terrorist manifesto he then delivered
short remarks that sounded like he was
reading a hostage statement where he did
in fact condemn racism and white
supremacy but then blamed video games
and mental health issues for the
violence saying quote mental illness
pulled the trigger not the gun that is
this the the video game thing was said
by a number of Republican politicians
over the weekend including House
Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy in Texas
lieutenant governor Dan Patrick Trump
ended his speech this morning by saying
may God bless the memory of those who
perished in Toledo you know can I just
kind of take a couple these okay let us
first start with video games you know
hey there do we have video games in
other countries yeah there's that we do
there's a popular shootings there
they're video games there's no evidence
there's no they've never been able to
there's there's no proven sorry music
again there's no proven link between
video games and violence as Tommy said
there are video games in other countries
that managed to avoid these kinds of
crimes also there's actually it's it's
just a myth it's a pure myth
in fact there was a study in 2015 that
found that when a violent video game a
popular video game is released violent
crime actually is correlated in a
reduction they don't know why it could
be that people stay home and play video
games instead of going out and
committing crimes could be that it's
cathartic they don't know but the the
research does not find any link and find
it effects the opposite now on this
matter of first of all mental I have the
quote mental illness pulls the trigger
not the gun first of all that's it
doesn't matter it's beside the point
that is insanely terrible right just
deal with that the sense of it doesn't
make sense
anytime it but just take it on it's
forget the writing it's not true there
is a lot of evidence and a lot of
studies that have found again and again
that the mere presence of a weapon
increases aggression it is 8 it is a
it's called the weapon effect or it's
called I'm sorry it's called the weapons
effect it is the finger pulls the
trigger but the trigger pulls the finger
- that has been shown again and again
and again it is it is an NRA talking
point and it is just not true it's also
I mean a few facts about this people
with mental health issues are more
likely to be victims of crimes than
perpetrators
if Trump suddenly had this change of
heart about mental health issues well he
repealed the gun regulation early on in
his term that was put in place by Barack
Obama that prevents certain individuals
with mental health conditions from
buying firearms repealed that and he
also spends every day trying to repeal
the Affordable Care Act which provides
coverage for people with mental health
issues so the idea that he suddenly
pretends that he gives a about
mental health issues is and
also by the way we should not skip over
the fact that in the middle of that he
also talked about involuntary
confinement for people with mental
health issues who might be a threat so
not willing to take the guns
away but he wants to imprison the people
against their will who have mental
health issues he is prioritizing the
Second Amendment above life liberty and
the pursuit of happiness for individuals
I mean so there's a 2015 study that
estimated only 4% of American gun deaths
could be attributed to mental health
issues so it's a good total red herring
it's also notable that the gun used in
El Paso is designed to kill people as
efficiently and brutally as possible the
manifesto talked about why he chose that
gun right in Dayton the
guy used a let me find the thing hold on
one second um sorry in the Dayton
shooter used a 100-round drum magazine
it looks like one of those old like
tommy guns from the 20s III I saw a
photo of this thing I can't understand
how something like that is sold to
civilians in the United States no one
needs a hundred rounds unless you were
going into an army or shooting up a huge
group of people it's insane yeah
should we be heartened by the fact that
Ted Cruz and a few other Republicans you
know we're out there calling this white
supremacism and domestic terror or is
this just okay well then what the
are you gonna do about it
I'm not particularly I'm not
particularly hardened by it I mean I
suppose it's better than them not saying
that but of course simply saying that is
literally the absolute least that you
can do yeah you need to follow that to
its logical conclusion you need to
identify it and call it out you need to
call out Donald Trump by name h√± is a
Chan may have been briefly
certainly saying it h√± may have briefly
lost its hosting services but HN is
still hosted in the White House and so
if you're gonna say that we have a white
supremacist problem it's not it's not a
it's not a crime without criminals it's
not a it's not an it it's it's not a sin
without sinners Donald Trump is the
global head of a white nationalist
movement that has gained traction
because of what he spews every single
day Ted Cruz knows that because he used
to say it and by the way this is this
goes back to the the famous Andrew
Gilliam lion in the debate right the
Christchurch shooter and his manifesto
said that he sees Donald Trump is a
renewed symbol of white identity in the
world right so it's like the racists
know he's a racist yeah they call him
that has been saying it for his I mean
look what Ted Cruz's statement tells me
is that he's not the worst politician in
Texas because Texas lieutenant governor
Dan Patrick blamed violent video games
John Cornyn yes who is you know a senior
leader in the Senate in his up for
reelection in 2020 tweeted he recently
tweeted he's concerned about the rapid
growth of his state's hispanic
population which is racist and
disgusting in any context but
particularly up now but on sunday
he tweeted quote focusing on law-abiding
citizens exercising their constitutional
rights solves nothing we need to treat
these crimes as problems to be solved
rather than one be exploited for
partisan political gain so he is going
back to the same infuriating we can't do
anything to get guns off the streets
line and nothing's gonna get solved
people like that literally the only as
far as I've seen elected Republican in
the country who handled this correctly
is a guy by the name of State Senator
John McCauley ster of Nebraska who
decided to tweet over the weekend a long
thread you should read the whole thing
but it starts with the Republican Party
is enabling white supremacy in our
country as a lifelong Republican it
pains me to say this but it's the truth
and you wonder why can't more
Republicans say that you know I mean I
like will heard was talking you know who
just retired instead of run again that's
you know it's another bit of news that
the the only black Republican in the
house decided to retire yeah and I think
he called out divisive language and
stuff like that but I think the only the
only good comment from a couple
Republican now is like McAllister said
is acknowledging that your party is
enabling this right now because of the
president that you have yeah sorry
I just like I have I think had a sort of
naive hope that as an older generation
exited the political scene and the
younger generation took more power in
the voting booths that we would become
more welcoming and open to diversity as
a country and now I think I'm realizing
that that is a totally naive belief
because every generation learns from
media and culture and things can get
worse I mean if you look at the south
after reconstruction and the impact of
propaganda like birth of a nation right
so that's why rhetoric from the White
House is so shitty kids that are so
dienes radicalizing a sixteen-year-old
yeah I also did I actually think the
failure is deeper to yes they are they
are failed so there I feel like they're
failing they're failing in three ways
they're failing on this matter of
confronting white nationalism and and
that the damage it is doing every single
day including and in fomenting these
mass shootings they are failing on guns
just fully failing on guns they want to
blame video games even there
no evidence when you know there's plenty
of evidence that shows that that guns
are causing these mass shootings and
certainly causing them to be vastly more
deadly and then third they are failing
on this question about what's causing
mass shootings right I mean these are
these are distinct crises that are
happening all at once we have a gun
crisis you know there was I believe you
know there are dozens of people shot in
Chicago over the weekend right while
this was going on right there is a gun
crisis that is that it connects mass
shooting suicides and whatever quotidian
murder and then there is this question
of what is happening to young men and
they're failing on that question too and
that adds to the massive failure that
they are showing every single day to
confront the racism as well so let's
let's get to the gun problem let's talk
about we can do about all these guns the
house-passed gun safety legislation back
in February that has been sitting in the
Senate for months without any action
taken by Mitch McConnell Democrats are
now calling on McConnell who apparently
is home in Kentucky with a broken
shoulder to bring senators back to DC
from their August recess is for an
emergency session to consider the
background check legislation no Senate
votes are currently scheduled until
September also last night the Murdoch
own New York Post came out for a ban on
assault weapons which was somewhat
surprising is it worth pushing McConnell
to take up the House bill what should be
happening right now
yes yes yes I think that we have a a
political awareness
yes because we are only able to focus on
things politically for a few days at a
time and we should focus maximum
attention on this issue and the fact
that the house has passed some
legislation that would help I mean I'd
like to see them go a lot farther I
would like to see reinstating the
assault weapons ban a gun buyback
program the there's no reason these
high-capacity magazines should ever be
sold we should have universal background
checks we could raise the age where you
can buy a gun from 18 to 21 and then
maybe a law that says you can't own a
gun if you're convicted of domestic
violence these are all things that I
think would help us make progress and I
think Sheldon licensing too I would add
to the court of absolutely hosel and we
should but like we have to focus the
nation's attention on the problem and
the solutions at the same time or else
we're all just
gonna feel like nihilistic yeah I mean
look I I also saw some people yeah David
Plouffe said this on Twitter but he was
saying you know the house I know the
House already passed the legislation but
go back in session bring the house back
in session make a big show of it on the
floor you'd get I mean and you know I
saw that House Democrats don't
necessarily want to do that because they
want to make sure the focus is on the
Senate and whatever you can think
yourself in some circles do the pass the
bill but I well Democrats need to
understand and I think this is our
problem with impeachment to write that
90% of this is performance here is is is
taking a moment like this and showing up
and saying I'm going to fight
even if you know there's not a path do
we think that there's a world where
Mitch McConnell and Donald Trump are
gonna sign on to gun safety legislation
probably not
but fight show that you're
fighting deuced do some things that seem
out of the ordinary if you think this is
a national crisis act like this is a
national crisis bring the house back
protest outside Senate offices do it all
and and and do it at a moment when we
see Republicans believing that they have
a political problem they are a group of
people Donald Trump talked about gun
safety legislation today Donald Trump
repeatedly over the past few months
specifically has has accidentally said
he was for various kinds of gun control
before apparently being told behind the
scenes that that was not palatable to
the people who support him so in in
Congress so there is a they recognize
that they have a political problem on
their hands they don't like the
political position that they are in on
guns this is this is a moment to to push
them even if it may not ultimately lead
to passing of a bill there's a moment to
move the issue forward we have we have
seen a few moments where that has
happened it happened after Parkland and
it seems as though it could happen now
that we could move the issue forward
make these senators take the votes or at
least or at least put the pressure on
them Cory Gardner is up senator from
Colorado in 2020 Colorado has very
strict gun laws Cory Gardner does not
want to take a vote against gun safety
legislation when he's up in 2020 Susan
Collins is up in 2020 make her take the
vote right there there are senators up
there's places what we can apply
pressure right now
yeah look I was very dark and depressed
this weekend and it is easy to feel like
we've been through this before
and nothing will change but if we
approach the problem with that mentality
we're guaranteeing it the country as a
whole
supports these policies the problem is
gerrymandered districts a Senate that's
messed up and in terrible Republican
senators we need to put maximum
political pressure on them and we all
have agency in this fight we all can
call members of Congress donate money to
organizations raise awareness about
Senate candidates we have to start
fighting for this stuff yeah and and the
fight is not futile here I mean you know
Shannon watts of moms demand action
always reminds us you know gun control
advocates have had a lot of victories on
state level local level over the last
few years they've not only stopped a lot
of really bad bills from becoming law
like concealed carry but they've
also passed gun safety laws and states
all across the country the problem is at
the federal level level and it starts
with getting Donald Trump out of office
and then it goes to flipping the Senate
and you know go to vote save America
calm slash get Mitch as Brian Schatz
says in Hawaii you know adopt a Senate
race that's your favorite race we
Colorado Arizona Maine those were the
big 3 help Doug Jones standoffs in
Alabama
hopefully North Carolina and Iowa and
then maybe Texas and Georgia those are
the I mean those are the states that
people should be focusing on right now
so I want to talk about sorry so I want
to end by talking about the response
from the Democratic presidential
candidates and how these incidents
should factor into the campaign most if
not all the candidates tied the
shootings to Trump's rhetoric while
calling for gun control better or Roarke
I'm going to be talking to in a second
traveled back to his hometown in El Paso
and said that he believes Trump is a
white nationalist Buddha judge said
quote at best he's condoning an
encouraging white nationalism Cory
Booker said Donald Trump is responsible
for this because he stoking fears and
hatred bigotry Kamala Harris said he's
embolden in white nationalism Elizabeth
Warren said we need to call it white
nationalism Ford it is domestic
terrorism and Joe Biden tweeted we can't
fix a problem if we Furr used to name it
white nationalism what did you guys
think of the response from the
Democratic candidates are they are they
meeting this moment I think so I mean I
think that there was a sense in Wash
that it was uncivil maybe to blame
politicians in the wake of these sorts
of incidents and I'm glad we have done
away with that absurd belief I mean it's
time to call out what Trump is doing
it's time to state as as fact that he is
a white nationalist and that he is
inciting people like this individual who
shot up of the Walmart in El Paso to
take action and so good for them
call them out like these are facts and
we need to make an argument and convince
people because that is part of how we're
gonna beat him yeah our friend Cornell
Belcher who was one of President Obama's
pollsters
tweeted this over the weekend 2020
election shouldn't be about health care
it must be about the heart and soul of
this country who we are as a people
morally and who we want to be going
forward all the Democratic candidates
must get bigger in this moment not
narrower the candidate with the biggest
moral vision wins what do you think
about that advice I think it is valuable
in this moment to recognize the scale of
the crisis that we are in as a country
and it is always a good reminder that
when presidential candidates go big when
they speak to the broad grand challenge
facing the country and their vision of
how we can actually meet it it tends to
be what we respond to as leadership it's
what we see as someone rising to the
occasion you know I am glad that they
are calling out white nationalism in the
president I am glad that they are doing
that I do believe it is both the right
thing to do
it is also clearly what their politics
dictate that they should do but I do
view there is a kind of deeper crisis
that is hard to talk about in these
moments you know we're talking about
what happened in El Paso we don't know
the motivation of what happened in
Dayton right so we are we are we have
these competing and overlapping enormous
crises in front of us one of them is
white nationalism one of them is the
availability the accessibility of
weapons of mass destruction where people
can kill dozens of people in a few
moments but there is this other virus in
our culture which is a poisonous idea
that has grabbed hold in the minds of
young men
that is spread online that is spread
through sensationalistic media coverage
that has taught boys and men that they
can go out in a blaze of glory and we
need to speak to that crisis and it is
is in some ways independent from white
nationalism and in some ways independent
from the gun crisis when they look at
the research over the last decades of
mass shootings that have erupted in this
country there these are people that have
experienced trauma in their lives your
people at an identifiable crisis point
in their lives and these are people who
have studied the motivations and sought
validations based on what other mass
shooters have done that is an area that
we need to be talking about more because
it speaks to a deeper a deeper turmoil
in our society so I agree so when we
talk about going big it's not just about
talking about Trump it's about talking
about these larger forces that are
playing out every single day yeah and
look I got to be honest I don't know if
it's a deeper like moral problem in our
society or if it's there was one mass
shooting and a bunch of kids shot and
now they're just copycatting it forever
which to me it speaks to why we need to
move quickly to get these guns
out of their hands is if these kids
don't have access to a ar-15s in 100
round magazines this doesn't happen it
doesn't happen I mean III saw that from
Cornell and I started thinking about the
feeling that we had after the last
Democratic primary debate you know and
it was a feeling that maybe these were
arguing over issues everything seems
very small and there's this very much
larger looming threat out there and you
know we saw this when Trump told those
for congresswoman to go back home and
then he attacked Elijah Cummings and
every time this happens you get some
group of Democratic strategists and
pundits who say okay but he wants the
race to be about race and immigration
and white identity and we needed to MIT
we need to pivot to talk about economic
issues and I'll be honest like as long
as as long as I've been in politics I
understand the value of trying to build
a winning coalition that is a majority
by focusing on a lot of these economic
issues because that's how you build a
bigger coalition there's a reason
Elizabeth Warren's wealth tax poll
at 70% and even as a majority of
Republicans who agree there's a reason
that in 2018 Democrats could win because
they focused on health care because the
Affordable Care Act was so popular and
taking away pre-existing conditions was
something that was unpopular even with
Republicans right like it is tempting to
look at the polls to look at the data
and to hear from people who are
struggling and to make this whole thing
about economic issues but that is not
the fight that we're facing right now
fundamentally yes we're facing like deep
economic inequality and that plays into
a lot of the stuff that we're talking
about as well but because Donald Trump
is president we are faced with a
different kind of existential crisis in
this country and it is a threat to the
existence of our democracy itself and so
I do think like whether or not it's the
politically popular fight to have it's
the fight that we need to wage at this
point I really believe it I mean I just
I would and I've never been someone who
thought that you know I just yeah I also
do think one one facet of how these as
these mass shootings unfold that I think
is tied into this larger question of our
democracy is there's a real sense of
powerlessness you see this happening and
you think I'm voting for the people that
they're gonna try to stop it you know
and these Republicans are able to impart
my fomenting racism itself maintain the
power that allows them to stop the laws
that might keep the guns out of the
hands doing these very murders it is
heartbreaking and exhausting and so just
I the other the other the other thing I
think we do need to keep in mind is you
know mash we it is not it is not
inevitable that mass shootings happen
week after week after week there is
research that has looked at what is
causing this we can tackle each of the
causes and and reduce the author and
reduce the frequency of mass violence in
this country it is a genuinely solvable
crisis and I think sometimes I want
presidential candidates to say that as
well to not just attack Trump as
important that is not even just to speak
to the crisis of white nationalism but
say to Americans that feel heartbroken
and hopeless that like we can solve this
yeah when it comes to the gun issue it's
definitely not a trump problem it's a
Republican Party that's right
right I mean there
there was a period there was a moment in
the White House when we were all there
where there was a military exercise
going on called Jade helm and it led to
these sort of paranoid fever dreams that
the military was gonna invade Texas and
like I guess take people's guns away or
do whatever people think is gonna happen
in these paranoid fever dreams and the
Republican governor of Texas gave
credence to these insane conspiracy
theories and and that kind of political
cowardice and the inability to stand up
to a bunch of base voters in your own
state and say of course the
federal government is going to invade
you of course the US military isn't here
to invade your community you don't have
to stockpile guns and become your own
mini militia to prevent against this
thing that is a massive failing on their
part of the Republican Party in part
because they're working in concert with
a bunch of gun manufacturers who know
that the reason they make money is
because one guy buys 25 guns not because
25 people buy one gun so they need to
fix that look I mean last thing
I'll say and then we can and then we'll
go to the beto interview but you know
the way things go
this will sadly fade from the headlines
in a couple weeks but people should
remember like how you feel right now and
inevitably when there's another round of
Democratic infighting or the next
primary debate and everyone's upset and
everyone's yelling each other on Twitter
about something stupid you know
what happens in this election in 2020
you
