governor Bullock welcome to pod save
America it's good to have you here John
it's great to be here for sure I'll
start with a simple question in 2020
you'll have served two terms of for
governor Montana you could go into the
private sector you could retire you
could possibly be the next senator from
Montana why do you want to be President
of the United States right now yeah and
I want to be President the United States
because I think this is dangerous time
in this 243 year experiment called
represent democracy I mean I have young
kids I see us more divided as a nation
than ever before certainly not a people
in my lifetime you know I ended up
running for governor I was Attorney
General before that a job I loved but
ran for governor because it really was
what am i handing off to my kids and I
think it's even that much more important
today what got you into politics in the
first place what made you run for Ag
well it's sort of a twisted so I
actually went to college down here small
College Claremont McKenna yeah
when sight-unseen the idea of family
visits our College visits was beyond my
family's financial means worked my way
through college I borrowed my way
through law school at Columbia and had
this idea that I was gonna stay in New
York pay off what would be a hundred
seventy-five thousand dollars in loans
today and then maybe move home but my
father and my parents divorced in grade
school got Stage four lung cancer so
decided you know if I was ever gonna get
everything right from that time to move
home yeah the only place that I could
work in Montana with the debt load that
big was in public service because then
Columbia would help pay my loans so I
started in cubical in the attorney
general's office yeah
only way that I got an actual office was
my voice was so loud we got to get him
out of there and I'll never forget so I
was in federal court on a case James
Watt had this group that was suing to
get rid of our stream access laws and we
have some of the best stream access laws
in the country and I'm like three years
out of Law School my name is Steve
Bullock
I represent the people of Montana these
streams and rivers belong to all of us
no matter how wealthy we are I'm like
this Attorney General stuffs the coolest
job in the world
so I ran for it and I'm not sure my
whole family even though yeah I got
killed what year was this this would
have been in 2000 okay yeah and just
said I will never want to do that again
went on to practice both some in private
practice those Union side labor lawyer
for a little while did a minimum wage
campaign as we got close to the 2008
election I was like but I really loved
doing that when I worked in the attorney
general's office yeah so I decided to
run for it wasn't a favorite I was in a
threeway
primary and somehow it worked out so
you've talked about how you're the only
candidate in the race who's won a trump
state but right now like the top five
polling Democrats all of whom one in
pretty blue areas are still they have
about 70 percent of the vote between all
sure so how do you make the case to
primary voters that you know a candidate
who is won in a trump state has
experience that's more valuable and even
necessary than the you know the top five
or six candidates no you bet and only
got into this about a month ago my
legislature was still going on so I had
a lot to do if some ways we look at it
like and I get the excitement and the
need to get on to going against Trump
but you know four years ago I think Ben
Carson was polling number one and so I
think that there's some time along the
way ya know I think I make the case that
as you note was the only one to win a
reelect and a statewide race with Trump
on the ballot he took Montana by 20 I
won by four twenty five or thirty
percent of my voters voted for Donald
Trump if we can't bring back both some
of the places that we lost in 16 in
addition turnout our base this guy could
well win but more than that to that like
there is a hunger to get things done
that in
act real people's lives and being a
governor and a governor of a state that
that's best my legislatures been about
60% Republican we've been able to get
progressive things done from health care
to kicking dark money out of our
elections to high-risk medical pools to
investments in education and I've done
more on dark money than anybody else so
I think how you break through at the end
of the day when people look at all of
this is that we've got to beat Donald
Trump but we also have to make sure the
government can work yeah and so many of
the issues that we'll be hearing about
through this primary to me it's been
more than speeches it's been actually
having to get things done on the ground
that impacts people's lives so what what
are we missing about these Montana
Republicans you're working for you're
working with in the state legislature
but that's they're different than the
Republicans that you know we all know in
DC what what's the secret there - yeah
certainly I think DC could learn a lot
from Montana I'm not gonna say that it
would be easy because I also have more
vetoes than any governor in the history
right now that did I think the way that
I've had some success is there in
governing are twofold one of which is
sure I try to find common ground I work
with individuals but I also will then go
to their districts and try to say you
know most people's lives I hate to tell
you this or even too busy with real life
to listen to pod save America no believe
me no reach all those people yeah and
most people don't live for politics but
they want a safe community a decent job
a roof over there good public schools
clean air and clean water the belief you
can do better for your kids and
grandkids and yourself so I think how
I've been able to have success is
certainly showing up listening trying to
engage folks along the way going to
their districts and what do you say when
you show up because I feel like well it
is a great argument for Democrats that
we you know we've got to compete
everywhere if we're gonna win everywhere
I think everyone and you know pundits
everyone else I was looking for what
the secret message that really breaks
through to these voters well well and
two different things I'll give you an
example of how I've showed up when it
comes to trying to govern and then also
to yours what do we say to these voters
along the way 2015 and when I was trying
to get Medicaid expansion through like
this was the heart of anti Obamacare
time yeah
and I'll never forget I go to this town
called Shoto it's population 1700 on the
Rocky Mountain Front literally everyone
in town knew why I was coming because
the Koch brothers were nice enough to
send the picture of me and Barack Obama
saying Bullock and Obama are coming to
destroy your health care right very
subtle message yeah I showed up and
everybody in town got that flyer so I
showed up and instead of just telling
them what they need
I listened first person that spoke was
hospital administrator he said 43% of
people who walked through those doors
don't have health insurance couple
speakers down and yeah some people
yelled and said Oh Bullock and Obama are
horrible but was the chair of the County
Commission and the chair of the County
Commission was deemed Shoto he's from
Bynum it's a suburb population 50 so
rancher you know he goes I was born in
suburb ER 50 and he said I was born in
this hospital this hospital saved my
life a couple years ago when I had our
attack if we lose this hospital we've
lost this town and I think them telling
me what they needed more than me telling
them that I had all the answers that's
what gave that a Republican legislature
the courage defied the Koch brothers
defy party leadership when really what
you know every single vote mattered and
as a result we haven't lost rural
hospital now when we go to places to
that you know we got to recognize right
that when I was growing up in the early
70s ninety percent of 30 year olds doing
better than their parents were at age 30
today it's only half or that in real
terms in the last 40 years people
haven't had a pay increase right so part
of it is saying you know this isn't
working out to this economy is not
working out too well and it's Democrats
that have traditionally fought for your
economic interests
your healthcare interests your education
interests and the elected DC and it's
not working either yeah so broken
economy in a broken political system if
we're not showing up and telling them
here's how we will work in partnership
to make your life better I think we're
missing something so there's a study
last month out of the University of Iowa
that said most of the voters in that
state that switched from Republican to
Democrat in 2016 I'm sorry Democrat to
Republican in 2016 who voted for Donald
Trump did not do so because of economic
distress but because of nativist appeals
from Donald Trump and that your
proclivity to change from Democrat to
Republican in 2016 was it was much more
likely if you responded to the nativist
appeals woody and there's been a whole
bunch of studies like this right because
look I'm someone who thought work for
Barack Obama and I think oh it's it's
always economics time a Democrat needs
an Democrats need an economic message
that's more populist and then we can
break through and then you see all these
studies and you're like I don't know
what do you think about that you buy
those studies well I do in as much as
yeah third of the counties went Obama
Obama Trump right in Iowa or you go to
where Dubuque is yet hadn't voted
Republican since Eisenhower and then
somehow that we lost it I think the
feeling that the economy and the
political system aren't really working
for you in part leads to the same
nativist that the University of Iowa
study provided right that did I think
that he in part was the result not the
cause of folks saying things aren't
working instead of doing what President
Obama did is saying we can actually
bring people up yeah he poured gasoline
on that fire what is a what does a trump
Bullock voter sound like because they
were like what tens of thousands of em
right in Montana yeah come to Montana
sometime look look look I think that
many of them certainly they don't agree
with all my policy positions or what I
everything that I stand for but they
thought that the end of the day I was
gonna put them above the politics and
I'd be fighting for their education
interests their healthcare interests
there are and I do show up I don't just
go to the pockets of blue now I'm not
one of my favorite examples was from
your old boss you know I'm not naive
enough to say that you can just go door
to door across America all right he
wanted to but I'll never forget so so
when he was running in the primary in
2008 I remember I was there with him
yeah were you there in Buda yes yes
because that to me so for if not
everyone's followed all the saga of
Montana politics we have a June primary
so I was in that three-way race for AG
and I got the point where the Obamas and
Clintons were there so much I just
worked the lines and I'm like I don't
need to hear that yeah yeah so he wraps
up the nomination and come fourth of
July it could have been anywhere in this
country could have been in Martha's
Vineyard raising money could have been
with his family somewhere he took his
family to Butte America I think is
Malia's birthday it was yeah and Butte
is a town that at one time around the
turn of century these wealthy copper
barons basically controlled all of
Montana through this as largest open pit
copper mine and now it's the largest
Superfund site now on the one hand there
was zero electoral advantage for him to
come to Butte but it spoke to places
like Butte all over this country that
this guy gives a damn about me yeah
what is the first piece of legislation
you'd want to pass as president so the
first thing I would get done is even by
executive order I would do and I did
this executive order in the state of
Montana is said that if you want a
contract for services with the state not
even if you get it I can't tell you not
to spend in our system but you have to
disclose every single dollar that you've
been trying to influence our elections
so that way if nothing else in this post
citizens united world you're gonna add
transparency along the way and think the
federal government country
with dang near every company in the
world yeah certainly in the United
States so at least we'd add the sunshine
and transparency I mean I think sort of
the HR one like for so many of the
issues that we're talking about and will
be talked about through this primary and
into the general election until we
address what's happened since citizens
united until we address the fact now a
billion dollars of undisclosed spending
has even occurred since then it's gonna
be that much harder to address anything
else would you consider passing HR 1 is
your first piece of legislation is that
I know Elizabeth Warren said she's
wanted to do that what do you think yeah
I would do the executive order in a
couple other executive actions along the
way I try to blow up the filibuster when
it came to legislation both on some
campaign finance or disclosure stuff I
think that we need to do some overall
tax reform and I think we got to start
addressing climate on the on the money
and politics thing you know Elizabeth
Warren has sworn off high-dollar
fundraisers as one way to sort of reduce
the influence of money at least on on
her on her campaign would you consider
something like that what do you think
about that well I didn't start with like
10 million bucks either so now like no
corporate PACs no super PACs are you
taking money from lobbyists I am taking
money from anyone as long as it's
disclose disclose disclose yeah um so
you recently expanded Medicaid in
Montana it's about a hundred thousand
people we got it reauthorized
interestingly after so I started in 2015
right
we're trying to reauthorize it by ballot
initiative tobacco companies spent
twenty six million dollars killing it by
at the initiative so stripping real care
away from a hundred thousand folks
tobacco companies yeah so but we did
then I got it reauthorized through my
legislative session um so I imagine if
you become president you know you'll do
everything you can you know with your
executive power to sort of shore up the
Affordable Care Act what do you then do
for the other 30 million people who
still don't have health insurance right
now
and in addition to that all the people
who you know even people who have
Obamacare said you know bought insurance
on the exchanges have said my
deductibles are too high I can't find a
plan that I can really afford so what do
you do to cover the rest of the country
and bring costumes yeah and first of all
let's recognize that you know what
seventy percent of America is covered by
employer sponsored health insurance and
by and large they're happy with it
they're not always have with the cost of
the coverage so we have to get to the
point of both access and affordability
for everyone with access I would do a
public option mm-hmm if you look at
there's 2530 million people that aren't
covered so you could buy in certainly
you could also if you could auto enroll
Medicaid expansion right and we could
get the rest of the states in the
country to pass it well that would be
about fourteen of the ten million that
have zero coverage so automatic
enrollment for everyone who qualifies
for Medicaid that's for Medicaid
eligible and you know the idea that drug
companies invest how much in our
political system and we can't negotiate
prescription drug costs we pay more for
drugs and care than any country in the
world and then I think you do have to
and you brought up this the next piece
of this is turning around and saying
out-of-network charges surprise medical
billing how do we address that how do we
bring down overall costs I mean even
with that legislature in Montana right
we passed a reinsurance program
essentially a high-risk pool
for folks on the exchange that should
drop what they're paying eight or nine
percent yeah have you heard of this
program Medicare for America this
legislation that was that that's been
offered in the and it would basically
allow everyone to enroll automatically
in Medicare and will allow employers to
choose that I mean how do you because I
know there's a do you see the public
option how much how much would you have
to pay in could you just enroll in a
public option yeah the way I look at it
would be something to compete against so
sort of like what Obama originally
opposed for the ACA yeah an individual
that doesn't otherwise have insurance
you could go to the private market or
you can turn around and
by into a public option medicare-for-all
you you were just speaking about how you
had a lot of student loans when you come
out of law school what do you think we
should do about this enormous burden
that you know student debt is facing so
many people in this country yeah when
you look at student debt doubling in the
last decade yeah yeah and I noted I had
$175,000 in today's terms that I had to
pay off
I mean first what I've done and then
what I think that you could do mm-hmm
I've frozen college tuition six of the
last eight years in Montana and that's
not by starving our universities that's
by investing more money at the state
level into the system if you look from
the recession until today 46 states have
decreased their state investment in
higher ed by almost 20% yeah Montana is
one of four that's increased so we have
a fourth lowest tuition and fees in the
country student debt load ends up well
over 10 grand less than the average for
our country so we have to make
meaningful contributions at our level
now when you look at literally 100 and
what's the overall student debt burden
right yeah out of their billions that I
think that there are things that you can
do without going down the absolute free
college for all think about so free
college is on the front end but would
you like you know Warren's got this
proposal to wipe out the debt for
something like ninety six percent of
Americans pays for with you know a
welcome what do you think about that I
think that there are things that you can
do without wiping out the dead for every
and why don't you want to wipe out the
debt why two things one of which you
said like yeah an ideal world no one
would have student dad right but as long
as a we could figure out how to pay for
it let's also recognize that 68% of
America doesn't have a college degree
right so how do you make it more
affordable long the way now sixty years
ago in this country we said wouldn't it
be great if employers sponsored and
carried health insurance so what did we
do we actually incentivize saying
lawyer you can write off the cost of
health yeah coverage an employee you
don't have to pay it taxes off of this
yeah think about what we do for student
loans now if an employer turns around
and says John I'm gonna cover your
student loans I don't think it's
business expensed and then you as the
employee have to pay taxes on it like
this is a benefit so we need to actually
make it so first employers can cover a
part of it if you look at it we have a
beaten to 90% of all of the student
loans out there are controlled by owned
by the federal government yeah you could
lower the points along the way you could
not dismantle the public service and
loan repayment programs I think there
are a number of steps that you could do
without just saying alright we're gonna
wipe all this away
is there a solution on the federal level
to sort of slow the rising cost of
tuition because as you say like as a
governor you can invest more in state
education and freeze tuition like you
did but what I keep wondering what we do
on the federal level because otherwise
it feels like we're just subsidizing no
youngins in college and yeah cost a lot
too yeah and you look at it I mean where
the federal government's always been
most effective at least in the past with
when it comes to education education
funding is using its purse as sort of
either the carrot or the stick right the
Obama administration did more for
publicly funded preschool by putting out
opportunities for states to invest along
the way yeah well you look at what we've
seen in the last two and a half years
when it comes to tuition issues that
what this administration is doing is
essentially dismantling any consumer
finance protection side of this and the
fly-by-nights will get more and more
money along the way I'm not sure that
other than using the power of your purse
you're going to be able to limit every
public university from increasing costs
on tuition but we also got to recognize
that it's got to be a partnership
like I think that you could turn around
and and I think we should a high school
degree is no longer enough
recognising that what you could do is
you could cover to your college last
dollars in at the federal level yeah and
at least for the tuition fees part not
to live in expenses it'd be relatively
affordable on immigration
what does enforcement look like in a
bollock administration who gets deported
who gets detained who gets to stay yeah
and first like let's recognize that this
president has taken humanitarian issues
and made it to try to divide people all
the way across there are some systemic
things like you have a broken
bureaucracy when you have 400 judges in
a caseload of almost 800,000 yeah right
but you turn around and say that as far
as who gets to stay the idea that
individuals here and elsewhere have no
no other country but ours and are now at
risk of deportation
yeah the dreamers immediately we've got
to figure out a way to take care of them
it's 3 million another 8 million folks
undocumented immigrants 2/3 of them have
lived in this country for over a decade
yeah and just even what we would get you
know when you talk about here's how do
we pay for things just what we'd get for
tax from actually getting them in a path
to citizenship yeah could be a
meaningful meaningful way along the way
now I don't what was the rest who gets
detained I mean I mean I guess I guess
what I think is you know looking back at
the Obama administration we obviously
want a comprehensive immigration reform
we push for it very hard we couldn't get
it done in the absence of comprehensive
immigration reform we had a Department
of Homeland Security and specifically
ice within Homeland Security that sort
of ran wild on its own at least in the
first term and you know rounded up
deported a whole lot of people that
probably shouldn't have been deported
Andrew who weren't dangerous criminals
by the end of the administration we had
the priorities changed a little bit but
you know I think there's been in some
interesting proposals in the field so
far
Castro said he would change it so that
crossing the border illegally would be a
civil infraction and not a criminal
penalty anymore
Beto has talked about from an executive
standpoint he would only deport the most
dangerous criminals where do you come to
sort of weigh in what O'Rourke's is
right is that now you really do have
sitting outside at the end of a plant
gait shift as opposed to finding the
most dangerous criminals right I mean
this makes zero zero sense yeah I would
still keep it a criminal infraction
across the border right and I think that
it is and you know some folks say all
right we got to get rid of ice now
you've as you know you and the
administration struggled with us for
eight years not the priorities
presumably by then where you thought it
was I don't think it's about getting rid
of ice I think it's about doing the
reform to make sure that enforcement
priorities are the heart are the bad
criminals not the right individual
that's just hanging out with her family
trying to make a better life yeah um so
a growing number of Democratic
presidential candidates as well as Nancy
Pelosi about sixty House Democrats now
now support the creation of a commission
that would develop reparation proposals
and issue a formal apology to African
Americans in this country for slavery do
you support that you know I support the
concept of saying that there have been
historical injustice that continued
until today
you know they're having meaningful
impacts in our communities I mean by
definition right reparations is
remedying past wrong by giving providing
assistance to those who've been wronged
and certainly the promise of this
country for a lot of folks isn't it
hasn't ever been realized and it's been
a different path and URI ever had so
where I take that is well if we know
that an African American family makes 58
percent of what a white family makes
yeah part of that's historical and that
goes all the way to today if you look at
in a separate context like in my state
the lifespan of a Native American is
twenty years less than someone else well
we've got to address what's held us back
along the way and I think that is where
I'd go or say that there are systemic
inequities today that it didn't just
start today but that's probably
different than a payment for every
individual or how would you address some
of the systemic inequities you know as
you mentioned there's both a very large
and growing wealth gap between white
Americans and other Americans and also
you know infant mortality it goes
through all going up economic issues
housing there's also of course
inequities in our justice system how do
you start approaching some of those yeah
and it really is looking at each of the
inequities and saying what resources can
we bring to bear like even in a state
like mine we got eight or nine bills
through with looked at sort of criminal
justice reform yeah if you look at
health disparities you know an
african-american woman is four times
more likely to die in childbirth or as
far as maternal care prior to having a
child Hispanic families substantially
different access to care now part of
that things like Medicaid part of that
availability along the way but I think
for each of the issues each of this
serve where there's systemic differences
we have to take them one by one and say
how do we meaningfully address either a
community that's been wronged I'm going
to climate change so I know you've
talked about rejoining
the Paris Accords I think aside from
Paris probably the most consequential
step Obama took to reduce carbon
pollution was his clean power plan
obviously power plants are the number
one source of carbon pollution in the
United States when we first announced
that plan you said you were very
disappointed in it
why so it was two different step right
right so step number one came out and
said here's the Montana's mass
reductions we need to do huh we actually
went around the entire state and said we
could actually do this let's figure out
how to it so we went to coal communities
and others and then when you rolled out
the final rule it actually doubled the
mass the reductions expect out of
Montana yeah so after working with EPA
and others said look you move the
goalposts on us along the way I mean I
guess the question is there's so many
issues where you can say alright well
this is this as best as we can do and
we're compromising and compromises
importance the only way to get things
done climate is this issue where it's
like okay we're given a deadline we got
to do something yep and absolute it's
almost like the usual politics of
compromise and let's do a bit here and a
bit there seem like they don't quite we
can't do that anyway we cannot do that
and and I look at yeah at one point
three million acres burned two years ago
yeah wood buyers what do you think we
should do fire fire seasons are 78 years
are 78 days longer now than it was 30
years ago so I do think that you turn
around and say write IPCC says we've got
to be at Net Zero by 2050 yeah I think
we can do it a lot sooner 2040 or
earlier certainly yeah some of the easy
steps is not only rejoining Paris but
also funding our commitments along the
way
not even the auto industry was asking
for repeal of the fuel efficiency
standards you know they were along the
path looking at probably the most
antiquated piece of machinery that we
have in this country is electrical grid
yeah because it's really been cobbled
together so investments along the way
into that to make more both wind and
solar available investing in technology
as we get battery storage along the way
energy conservation I mean that's about
30 percent of what you could change just
by higher
people to make things better more
efficient along the way so I think that
we need to take do you think we need a
price on carbon I think that that should
certainly be on the table I think that
could be part of it and think about
though and it's funny as you said like
not will not funny it's tragic you know
think back to the first George Bush yeah
so he said his president we got address
the greenhouse effect with the White
House effect yeah me as a Republican
president I am gonna lead from the White
House now a Republican can't even
knowledge climate changes human caused
because of what outside spending is done
so I think that this is a crisis that we
have to address and we have to take it
seriously not only our role but our role
in an international leadership
perspective because we can't do it alone
it makes no sense that yes China is
emitting twice as much as we are when it
comes to greenhouse gas but they're also
investing a lot more into even the
science and technology and opportunities
for what a NetZero economy can look like
your old Secretary Vilsack Tom Vilsack
yeah he said I can get the whole dairy
industry to net zero but they can't do
it alone there has to be federal
investment along the way I know you've
only been raised for a month are you
gonna come up with like a big climate
plan that's all detailed or what's your
thoughts on that
we will yeah we will do you think Donald
Trump deserves to be impeached what do
you think I think it's a moving target I
mean from the perspective of what he is
normalizing and what this administration
is normalizing is absolutely it's
dangerous for the institution that we
have and we shouldn't just take this
sitting down you know where I say it's a
moving target and I know that you don't
think well these investigations may not
be the way now
there is a constitutional obligation of
oversight in Congress and I'll be darned
if the executive branch doesn't have a
constitutional obligation respond to
that right so that's where from my
perspective if it continues to stonewall
on every investigation then I think we
have to look at it so that's why I say
it's a moving target it's also
interesting though because you say you
know you don't want this election to be
a referendum on Donald Trump yeah
now I'm interviewing you do you think
this election should be a referendum on
Donald Trump I mean look I I actually
think that in this election we do have
to offer people a choice right like I
think it's insufficient to just bash
Trump from now until Election Day but I
also think because we are in a media
environment where that man can grab the
microphone and command so much attention
that it's always gonna be about Ron 2018
yeah our candidates talked about health
care all the time all the ads are about
health care but opposition to Donald
Trump drove that vote right I mean
that's what people wanted a check on
Donald Trump in 2018 health care was
part of that right people I think
because they were about to lose their
health care he's trying to strip it away
but I think it's just it's it's always
it to some extent especially when
there's an incumbent running for
reelection this is the case when we ran
against george w bush this was the case
yeah when Mitt Romney ran against Obama
he tried to make it a referendum on
Obama it's always it's the the its
gravitates towards a referendum on the
president so I just think I mean I guess
though my question was you know I don't
I don't get asked you question there's
an honest debate to be had whether the
house should move forward and actually
go do this but I'm wondering if you
having have you read them all a report
read most of it okay skimmed it do you
think reading that and knowing what you
know publicly that he deserves
impeachment whether they go down that
path or not whether it's wise to go down
that path or not I think reading the
first half and I mean we should have a
real acknowledgement that write a
foreign government interfered and
invaded our country and to allow the
normalization of him standing next to
Putin insane
I take him at his word is pretty damn
problematic for looking backward it's
also what we look at going forward yeah
now you look at here are the number of
issues who were brought out in the
second half of it mm-hmm and whether
that would be cause for impeachment
I think that's anybody's yeah that or
it's anybody's discussion to have but
but if you can't even if Congress can't
fulfill its oversight duty along the way
of saying all right I want to unpack
some of these suitcases it was brought
up in this Miller report yeah and other
things then I think that's where you
would get to the point where you have to
impeach now I would turn around and say
and then also last the week for last
seven meet-and-greets or town halls
throughout Iowa no one's asking people
talked about their health care right
they talked about what these tariffs are
doing they this isn't what their
discussion was right and I think that
there is the potential for turning
around and by moving from Pietschmann
it's the Senate locks up like hopefully
what would happen right is additional
information comes out it gets any sane
person to say for the sake of our
represent democracy we got to do
something about it right but I would so
much rather have the next year and a
half talking about the fact that the guy
who will clean up the studio tonight
paid more in taxes than 60 fortune 500
companies last year or we're now 50
years the lowest corporate tax
collection ever in the last 50 years
what trillion dollars the stock buybacks
didn't go to me what do you wanna do
about taxes would you repeal all of the
Trump tax cuts I would do look even the
corporation's weren't asking for 21
percent right and and then add on to
that where you know when you have 60
companies that not only didn't pay taxes
that they got credits I think you could
look at it 28% still be competitive and
closed loopholes and turn around
especially on the first top four
brackets take it up another three points
you'd make some good money and I think
at some point you know somebody that
again that cleans this place when
they're getting taxed a higher rate than
somebody living off their trust fund
when you look at the passive income
we've got it should be taxes ordinary
income so the truck ministration is now
arguing or at least it's reported that
they're arguing behind closed doors that
the 2001 authorization for use of
military force that Congress passed
after 9/11 for Afghanistan gives them
the authority to go to war in Iran
potentially do you agree that the AUMF
gives them authority to go you know so
to tell you this you John I haven't read
the AUMF lately they're gonna turn
around now we have the authority to go
to war in Iran do you think it should be
repealed the House Democrats voted today
to actually repeal the AUMF because they
said that we need a new one to you right
to be Canada I should look into it more
but but even look at like right America
first has become America alone yeah and
this Trump reflect seems to be we're
gonna treat our allies as adversaries
and our adversaries as allies if you
look what's happening with Iran is of
his own making yeah yeah you've said we
need to campaign and legislate like our
kids are watching what do you mean by
that I and I've shared this church so
when I got elected my kids were six
eight and ten mm-hmm
it had been 40 years since kids that age
a bit living into Montana governor's
residence I'll never forget my son moves
in we kicks a soccer ball and somebody
goes you know that pay means worth
hundreds that was dollops I'm gonna give
her the damn painting it's it right
because we have to live here and first
day of the state I said you're gonna
hear different sounds from both the
governor's residence and my office and
it'll be the sounds of children's
laughter and that our kids learn from
our words and our deeds yeah and we as
leaders have an obligation to act like
our kids are watching
they are so what does that mean both and
how I present myself and in a way that
now that I have teenage daughters
unbearable
but there's got to be ways to call out
honestly be honest and call out the BS
when it's there but do it in a way that
elevates the system not further tears it
down and I mean what we've seen and
that's this is where you started this
interview like what got you into this I
mean the lies the misstatements the
dividing us by race gender geography the
temper tantrums and it is no
exaggeration to say we now expect more
out of our preschoolers than we do of
our president yeah and that's causing
further and further divisions in this
country I can be in Montana the
legislators that I work with I can
fundamentally philosophically disagree
with them but that doesn't mean that I
don't have some obligation to show them
respect what's your best bad joke I know
you're known for they're all good dad
during my launch
I was asked out as one of the questions
and maybe what's what does the momma
Buffalo say to the baby Buffalo when you
drop it off at school bye son
what are the two different sections of a
Montana library have you heard this one
no fishin and non fishing fishin and non
fishin that is what a is in the office
today
who knew you would come and say I have a
great dad joke that's Montana mission
and nonfiction please pass this on and
so I did well I appreciate that job
governor Bullock thank you so much for
joining us really appreciate it in that
good luck on the trail thanks for having
me the hard shot
you
