I'm honored to have in the studio and
crooked media HQ congressman Eric SWA
well
California's 15th district and a
candidate for president United States
welcome yeah thanks for having on TV
show did you get enough doodle time on
your way in did you see any of the dogs
I did not see any of the dogs but we
have a black lab who would just
absolutely really hit it around here
what how how bake about 70 pounds
her name is penny and you know we got
her and it was just kind of a typical
get a dog get engaged get married have
kids and now like when someone asks for
a picture of your dog you're like oh
I haven't taken a picture of my dog in
two years this is the ghost of Christmas
future we're still on the dog and there
are 7,000 photos of Lucca if you ever
want to see one but we have bareback at
home with my mom who's a 90 pound black
lab who likes to sit on your lap so make
some of your favorites just so you can
have them like right at the top when
people ask this is this is good advice
but I digress um hard pivot here you
said the focus of your campaign is gun
control uh so I mean you've called for a
mandatory federal buyback and ban of
semi-automatic weapons like the ar-15
there's a shooting at a school this week
I actually don't know a weapon was used
but regardless like I think your policy
is bold I think it's the right it's the
right approach but I'm also ground down
by how difficult it's been in my
experience say it even modest gun
control policies like mandatory
background checks through Congress so
how do you think that as president you
can build a movement and get this done
well it'll it's taking advantage of the
momentum that has shifted in this debate
and not negotiating down you know after
Sandy Hook you know during my
congressional orientation that happened
we saw background checks Republicans
won't go for that
after Orlando crazy idea that if you're
on the terrorist watch list maybe
shouldn't be able to buy a gun right
they won't go for that after Vegas guy
took a semi-automatic rifle converted it
into a fully automatic rifle and we just
said hey let's ban bump stocks and they
won't go for that then parkland changed
I think the dialogue in the country
started to change when you saw again you
know kids slaughtered in their schools
and the moms and the Brady group and the
Giffords group and every town have
started to converge I think there's this
gun safety majority now
is you know more powerful and more of
them than a very vocal tweeting Bolling
minority that wants us to do nothing so
it's really just seizing the opportunity
and doing something but what if those
vocal tweeting bullies make up a huge
percentage of the Senate what do we do
about them beat him you got a deal yeah
there's opportunities now right Arizona
Maine those are two of the top targets
Colorado coming up you gotta beat them
or you know also the senators I think
should be pushing to pass the background
check bill they're you know we worked
our asses off to win the house right we
beat 17 NRA endorsed candidates to pass
background checks we got people like
Lucy Macbeth and Georgia who lost her
son and was one of the leaders you know
on the Judiciary Committee with me and
others to pass it now we should at least
be forcing them to have a vote you know
whether it's filibustering or you know
what have you in the Senate to get a
vote there but you know it's really just
building on that momentum or making cory
gardner explain to his constituents in
colorado where they just had a shooting
you know why he isn't you know pushing
for background yes um
senator como harris california said that
she would sign an executive order
mandating background checks for firearms
dealers who sell more than 5 guns a year
she wants to close the loophole that
allows some domestic abusers to buy guns
do you support those policies and do you
think we can accomplish those things
with executive action well I do you
think gun violence is a you know
national crisis right now what I would
hope to do is nominee would be to you
know support Senate candidates who you
know could win and give us you know a
governing majority in the house in the
Senate so you have the force of you know
the article 1 and an executive passing
these laws that that is ideal but I will
do anything it takes to prevent you know
more and more loss in our communities
but in that spirit of negotiating up you
know not just background checks I I
believe that just as Australia did and
just as New Zealand has done that we can
take you know assault rifles out of our
communities by banning them and buying
them back I'm the only you know
candidate right now that's calling for
you know a mandatory buyback and it's
not
because I you know don't value the
Second Amendment I say keep your pistols
your long rifles or shotguns but these
weapons I saw when I was a prosecutor
are just different they leave no chance
and even if they are a smaller
percentage of the deaths in America from
assault rifles and it's a hundred
percent of the fear that a student has
in their classroom is that they're gonna
be victim of an assault rifle you can't
measure what that does to the psyche of
a student who's sitting in fear in the
class today would that buyback plan were
require congressional action and
significant funding to pay for the
buyback you know the number I put out
there it's yes the number I put out
there was a thousand dollars in assault
rifle essentially it would be market
rate that's that's what Australia did
we're not gonna get off as cheaply they
bought back about seven hundred thousand
they haven't had a mass shooting since
we have by estimate about 15 million
assault rifles in America now that does
not mean 15 million people own assault
rifles and if you watch the news you
know this week you saw that there's a
Bel Air family what was thousands you
know a thousand guns in a house in Bel
Air what the is going on a lot of
people you know they collect a number of
assault rifles and so you're not talking
about 15 million people have to saw them
that could be significantly less but
again the part of the problem here is we
don't even know who owns them because
there's no federal you know gun registry
like we have a you know we have
information about you know when you get
a driver license we know who has a
driver license who does not we don't
know who owns a gun right in America
yeah so cory booker's talked about
proposing that all gun owners be
licensed by the federal government do
you think that makes sense yeah I do
this yeah I support that so your
campaign mantra has been go big
be bold do good so besides the gun
control policies we just talked about
what do you think the boldest thing you
put forward is or the biggest idea you'd
want to implement as president yes so
and I hope people see that boldness on
gun safety can also be projected on
education on health care on even
governing so for example on health care
like we're gonna have a coverage debate
I mean absolutely we have to get away
from this free market coverage plan
we're you know more and more paychecks
are being being eaten up by prescription
drug costs or you know premiums and I
a father of two kids under two like
you'd become like a healthcare expert
when you're in and out of the ER and I
know not to call my wife after she's
been fighting an insurance company ya
know all afternoon so we live it
stay off WebMD ya Yin's well for me I
know what this is sir so I hope the
debate also in the boldness that I would
offer would be cures in our lifetime you
know I I see this generation that is
very collaborative and inventive in the
private sector but have lost faith that
government could be a partners it
battles disease and wants to believe
that we can invest in genomics research
targeted therapies data sharing and
using innovation as a way to bring down
the cost I'll give you an example a
friend of mine Brian Wallach I don't
know if you know him yeah not Brian
worked on the Obama campaign was a
federal prosecutor
last year he called me and told me he
has ALS he's 38 two beautiful girls and
he represents a generation that is gonna
do this on his own he started a
foundation to take the fight you know to
ALS and find research but he also wants
to believe that his government you know
can be a partner and also invest in
cures and I want to be a leader you know
for the ALS patient the Parkinson's
patient the Alzheimer's patient to
believe that their government is up to
the job and that we're gonna challenge
the country to invest in find cures yes
Brian is doing heroic work and anyone
who wants to support that work should
check out I am ALS org because he
inspired all of us who worked with him
and you know it could be anybody yeah
but we're living through this like
GoFundMe generation where yeah the hope
is someone reads your story clicks a
link and gives you a chance and I just
think the government should be someone
you can count on I agree um so there's
some other ideas that have been proposed
by other folks that some would call bold
others would call unrealistic yeah I'm
curious what you think about Medicare
for all debt free college legalizing
marijuana are those things you're
interested in talking about Medicare for
anyone who wants it so for me it's a
public option recognizing that we're
such a large country that
you know in some places you know say a
you have a large steel working
population or you have you know a lot of
electricians you know in a community or
you know a lot of people who have the
Union plan and they want to keep their
union plan because that's what's most
affordable for them I want them to be
able to keep it I just think the
government has a bigger responsibility
to invest in a public option so Medicare
for anyone who wants it that that would
bring down the costs for private
insurers but also that in a public
option we would be able to negotiate for
the costs of prescription drugs that we
could import prescription drugs if we
could make them safe and also make sure
that any of the manufacturers could be
held liable if something goes wrong but
ya know me that that to me is doable we
almost did that as you know yeah you
know when President Obama was in office
but the Senate you know had you know
obviously there was other ideas other
ideas on education ya know I'm the first
of my family to go to college came with
the cost and paying off just under a
hundred thousand dollars now in student
debt and I see this generation that is
deferring the dreams of buying their
first home taking a good idea and
starting a business or you know starting
a family it's like a first date
conversation now you know how much
student debt right what's your rate yeah
that's like a tinder category now and so
what I want to do is put more money in
more pockets to realize those dreams I
think you can do two things that
actually you can get past and it's
bipartisan one would be to bring the
interest rate to zero so that you know
you're the government's not making 1.6
billion dollars a year on student loans
but yeah 2 would be to allow employers
to contribute tax-free to their
employees student loan debt just like a
401k contribution that's an incentive
for the employer to do that when it
comes to college you know and you know
this free college debate I support free
Community College but for a four-year
university our College bargain is if you
work through college you do work-study
mm-hmm you work and you learn and when
you come out and take your first job if
you do community service hours for
people or communities that need it that
adds up to a debt-free education so you
work for college college works for you
yeah I think it just represents that you
know in the end nothing is truly free
but if you're giving back to a community
that that adds up to a depth free
universe debt-free college and I think I
could pass that in the house and I'll
just tell you Tommy that challenge I've
seen being someone who went to Congress
when I was 31 was that one over half the
Congress is made up of millionaires
right and to most of those folks most of
people in Congress went to college at a
time when it was affordable so they're
completely or doubly disconnected from
the problem because their kids aren't
taken on student debt or they went to
college at a time when it was affordable
so they just don't see this issue now we
have now and I've led a group called
Future Forum in the Congress for the
last five years we have over 50 members
on the Democratic side and our 40s and
under a large chunk of us have student
loan debt so I think this issue is just
ripe for action were you one of those
members who had to sleep in your office
and cost me a lot to rent but I was not
you know Association less to do that
know that I don't think anyone should
sleep in a government building it's just
a weird it's just weird yeah it's not
ideal I guess you have staff you have
people trying to get in and out and do
their jobs yeah yeah that's good advice
um speaking of Congress the president
United States has been giving Congress
the finger repeatedly recently this
morning this is Thursday speaker Pelosi
has declared that we're in a
constitutional crisis she echoing cars
been dead ler congressman shift
subpoenaed the film all the report and
related evidence it sounds like the
house is about to hold Attorney General
Bill Bar in contempt
like how do you think Democrats can
fight back against this obstinance and
this utter refusal to put up people like
Tom McGann or others to provide
testimony yeah you know I think the best
way out you know is through like we you
just have to meet them with force and
consequence like we we can't be on our
heels with them because that's where
they want us and so you know I start
with you know the president's own words
he said he's not going to cooperate at
all okay take him at his word start
showing that there's consequences for
this behavior I think bars should be
impeached
you know we held him in contempt
yesterday that will come to the fold
house in probably two weeks but
you know this report is not about red
jerseys versus blue jerseys it's about a
country that attacked us it lays out the
contacts between the president's team
and this country and if he's not willing
to be a part of letting us see what that
country did and how we can defend our
country then he's got to be removed and
show that there's consequences for
lawlessness I think Steve minuchin is
probably on the same track like the law
is pretty clear you have to turn over
the tax returns he's not going to do
that okay hold him in contempt seek to
impeach him and I don't care what the
Senate's gonna do we should send it over
to them anyway and let them deal with it
and let them explain to their
constituents why they think this person
doesn't have to follow the law but again
I did pardon all the parenting metaphors
but we've got a two-year-old right now
who like loves to just throw his toys
all the time so I'm doing the
one-two-three method my wife is really
you know where it's harder for her to do
it because he's so cute
but I count to three if he's still
throwing stuff I take a toy put it on
the fridge and like if I don't do that
he's not gonna get better he's gonna get
worse and his little sister the six
month old is gonna see that and she's
gonna be bad and so I think one I want
to stop the president from getting worse
- I don't want future presidents - look
at what this Congress did and say oh
well I can conduct myself at that low
standard because President Trump got
away with it
and even a majority of Democrats in the
Congress let him get away with it so you
have to think about you know present and
future and that means force and
consequence so we we've had a spirited
debate here on positive america over
whether not really whether impeachment
is the right thing to do because I think
that 10 11 counts of obstruction of
justice make clear that you know those
are pretty impeachable offenses and
probably should be in beach but whether
it's a politically advantageous thing to
do for Democrats so if we move to
impeachment do you think that would help
force Trump's hand in terms of allowing
people to testify and in forcing him to
turn over documents I don't know if it
helped force Trump's hand I think there
are people who don't want to be a part
of that and I thought that's why I think
bill Barr
you know he needs a wake-up call he's
broken the law he thinks he can get away
with it but I think he's actually a
serious lawyer and if we started to move
on
bill bar I think it might give him pause
and I think you might get him to do what
you want him to do or he would resign or
be fired by President Trump but I think
you have to start sending messages to
these you know underlings that we're not
going to let them get away with it and
see if that shakes them up a little bit
to either comply or let Trump fire them
but you know what the president
obviously I don't know I couldn't tell
you if it's politically advantageous for
us to move on impeachment with him or
not I don't think we should think about
it that way and I also think that it's a
chicken in the egg problem because if
you don't hold them accountable and you
just go on with the public opinion is
right now you may think well it's not
popular but if you did hold him
accountable and the public saw through
hearings and testimony all the stuff
he's done all the walls he's broken you
may see the public dramatically change
as far as what they think about it well
if you think about it just politically I
think you're getting it wrong sure but
so there's sort of two options right you
can impeach or not impeach if you don't
impeach you you know we think we should
have been able to hold a series of
hearings to bring to life the Muller
report to get more testimony to to have
people testify on camera under oath but
he's blocking all those efforts if you
begin impeachment proceedings do you
think that makes it easier to compel
those individuals to come forward I
think he will still try and block them I
mean and again what's so crazy about
this and so maddening is the guy claims
he's 100% exonerated right he's 100%
blocking yeah no I think he he still
figures that he can just you know try
and stand on these privileges he's gonna
assert tied up in the courts he does he
seems to know it's funny he doesn't know
much about civics but it do you member
when he was talking about you know I'm
gonna do this they're gonna sue me here
drank it overturned is gonna go here
like he knows that judicial so he does
he's been in a lot so he knows that like
he could probably you know try and drag
this on for a little while and maybe run
out the clock but I just think we were
left with really no options and and so I
mean you're you think we should I think
we're on the road to impeachment okay
I'm willing to exhaust you know these
final remedies but I
I think that's where we're going and
it's unavoidable it's not a road any of
us really wanted to go down but I mean
he's he's taking us there
um you you're on the Intelligence
Committee you get top-secret briefings
all the time on on various intelligence
programs on countries on issues are
there things you hear or areas you've
been briefed on that were you the most
that you'd want to focus on as president
yes I mean it's certainly one I want to
make sure that you know we put a hard
stop to what Russia is doing and that
means not just in the United States but
just trying to you know really undermine
democracies around the globe and the
only way to do that is one to stand you
know strong with NATO you know continue
to see NATO grow and you know counter
you know what Russia's doing in the
region I will say this I first thought
like most people did when Russia did
this that they were doing it to get a
transactional benefit to put a guy in
place who would reduce sanctions pull us
out of Syria diminished the role of NATO
and they certainly that was part of the
collateral benefit but the real reason
that I've come to learn just seen and
the classified and unclassified you know
briefings what Russia has done they're
doing this so that Russians don't ask
for democracy because they want Russians
to look at our democracy and think well
that's a show like third we've
turned them against each other they have
appointed yeah in the last couple years
yeah they have a point so the best way
to beat this idea that no matter who you
are where you're from what your parents
did who you love who you worship if you
work hard you can become anything
because if that idea could be true in
America it could be true anywhere the
best way to beat that idea from coming
to Russia is to beat it at its origin
and so what they did was they you know
used our freedom of speech they
weaponized social media they've turned
us against ourselves they have us
questioning just exactly what they did
to help the person who won and so
Russians you know in Moscow we're not
going to say we don't want that and then
when we call them out you know on the
world stage you know for human rights
violations are encroaching and - you
know Ukraine we have less standing
because we've got a mess at home so that
that's
why they did it and I think you need a
president who understands that can
counter that what's you know so
frustrating for me I think ten years
from now we're gonna look at this the
molar report came out last month laid
out 200 pages of Russian contacts and
that Russia attacked us and our
president called the guy who
attacked us I mean that I mean that is
just insane to me like he at the
President's request
it wasn't like Putin's called five times
sorry I gotta call him back no he
requested to call Putin talk to him for
90 minutes and describe the call as
Putin was smiling and then he was asked
well did you tell Putin not to do this
again he said no no that didn't come up
like what didn't have time for it to
come up it was a 90 minute call and
that's that's where our president is I
think people you know is this passes are
just gonna say that is nutty that is
absolutely nutty that the president
United States the way he defended his
country when this report came out was he
called the guy and described the
conversation as Putin was smiling yeah
it was also not a video conference for
yeah so it was it a FaceTime yeah who
knows how they talk um your analysis of
why the Russians did that it makes
perfect sense to me and something I've
heard from other Russia experts it's
particularly worrisome when you see an
adversary cutting down the idea of
democracy and then the next week the
White House invites someone like Viktor
Orban who's probably done more to
unravel democracy in Europe and anyone
in the last decade for an oval office
meeting I mean I when you when you hear
about things like that happening what's
your how do you respond that this
president would rather be an
authoritative leader than rule in a
democracy and you're Michael Cohen
pulled me aside when he testified a
couple months ago to the Intelligence
Committee we're both walking back into
the skiff the secured compartmentalized
information facility that we meet in
right there's no phones no cameras you
go into this facility and we had a
bathroom break and you know he and I
just happened to walk in at the same
time and he said to me he said you know
what really worries me about this guy is
that he won't leave office that he he's
not going to accept the result of an
election and you know that is
guy that has worked as a fixture fixer
knows him best and he's Indians Cohen
said he said this guy wants to be a
dictator and he said that's why he likes
Kim that's why he likes her Diwan that's
why he likes Putin and that really
worries me that do you think it's why
speaker Pelosi echoed that sentiment
reason yeah yeah in it's it's because
just as Trump is setting up well the
elections may be rigged right he did
that in 16 he did that a little bit in
18 I think you're gonna see him start to
do that again I think we have to seed
for the American people what this guy's
instincts really are so that they're
prepared if he tries to do it I mean he
it wasn't a coincidence that you know
Jerry Falwell Jr a couple days ago
tweets Donald Trump is owed two more
years of his presidency because of the
Russia investigation the president
retweets it and then starts to say
almost the same thing I mean I think you
know he would love to try and do that
and so we just have we can't be on our
heels this time like we need to make
sure that under no circumstances is that
even discussed and yes she's right
overwhelmed the ballot box to make sure
that you can't deny the result but your
other question I just wanna say yeah
countering China economically is is
gonna be one of the biggest challenges
also for the next president you know
they're they're an economic force they
don't really respect intellectual
property we see that you know through
economic espionage we see that you know
through intellectual property theft they
continue to you know again is we're
dealing with democracy challenges at
home you know they continue to grow you
know and expand their military presence
in the South China Seas and I think the
best way to take them on is not to go
one on one as this president has done I
I think he's correct I will give him
credit that China especially when it
comes to trade is a bad actor but if you
think about this like a lawsuit like
when the little guy gets screwed by the
big guy it's and right now we're getting
it when it comes to trade like the trade
deficit is so big between China we can't
really take them on you know tit for tat
but there are a lot of other countries
who are victims of China's trade so you
form a class-action you form a class and
go at China you
with Australia with Japan you know what
Southie creepy was supposed to do yeah I
mean it with better labor standards in
Vietnam right insurance some of the
environmental issues but you did get to
form a class and and he is alienate he's
insulted the Australian you know leader
he is told the Japanese in the South
Koreans that they should get their own
nuclear weapons okay us more for our
presence there so yeah I do I do see you
know countering China is a challenge
yeah man
telling the Japanese and South Koreans
to get nuclear weapons it's just one of
those crazy which was unbelievably
insane things he says on a regular basis
that just doesn't even get really
covered yeah and I don't understand why
like if we could have non double their a
troop presence over there like that's a
good thing for us to have a window into
China look at what's going on in North
Korea like they are good partners yeah
for us there there's a lot of concern
about the Russians
you know the analysis you just walked us
through they they probably look at the
impact of their interference and think
that was unbelievably effective this
worked out well for us maybe they'll do
it again or maybe the Chinese will do it
there's been a lot you know I guess the
question is what has been done to
protect the integrity of our election
systems that you've seen and what in
your opinion still needs to be done I
think the most important thing we can do
is have awareness as American people of
like how our social media platforms have
been weaponized and I think that sadly
comes from the top like you need a
president to unite the country explain
what they did challenge social media
companies to not let this happen on our
platforms so that when we see you know
these types of you know divisive posts
coming from foreign intelligence
services we recognize it and we dismiss
it and it doesn't come into our
political ether that takes leadership
from a president right now it's even
with the majority in the house like it's
gonna be hard to like lead that dialogue
if the president isn't acknowledging
what they did so we can fund election
security he defunded the Republicans
defunded the three hundred fifty million
dollars that had had gone to election
security and was supposed to go to it in
the last cycle we can put that back in
place as we go into this budget battle
you know in September I've read
legislation called duty to report
senator Blumenthal and I have introduced
it it would require any candidate
campaign family member if you're
approached with dirt on your opponent by
a foreign agent you have to tell the FBI
about to introduce legislation same
thing for social media companies if you
see foreign interference on your
platform you have to tell the FBI so
just so that we see it and that they
have a responsibility not to take or if
they are taking money in rubles as we
saw last time that the FBI knows about
it yeah and can counter it but I really
think it's awareness more than anything
the hardest part about this is biting
your tongue and not talking about it too
much because Republicans would love for
us to say that the Russians might
influence the next elections because
they want that single mom who's picking
up her little girl from daycare has to
get her bathe have to get her fed on
Election Day to think you know what I
can go to the polls wait for a half hour
but if the results are gonna be rigged
like why does it matter like that so
they they would love for us to come you
know scream about you know the voting
the ballot box not being secure so we
have to be careful yeah you know how you
talked about agreed this morning
Chris hue is one of the original
cofounders of Facebook wrote quote the
government needs to do two things break
up Facebook's monopoly and regulate the
company to make it more accountable to
the American people just breaking up
Facebook is not enough we need a new
agency it powered by Congress to
regulate tech companies its first
mandate should be to protect privacy do
you agree with those proposals I think
we need to pry a national privacy law
like the endeavor that you know Europe
just underwent and now has the you know
different disclosures that you know are
made to consumers and if any of your
listeners you know go to you know any
European website or any website that
goes through a European server there you
have to opt in as to how you know your
information is being used I think we can
do that in the United States I also
think we need a federal breach
notification law right now there's you
know 49 different breach notification
laws you know in our country and so when
you have like the Equifax breach or the
target breach I think we should have one
standard you know so what we know but
the challenge here I really believe is
you know our laws around our antitrust
laws
you know largely written around you know
whether you know monopolies were causing
the price of goods to go up right and
here it's almost the opposite right so
it's really about how do you value data
and you know what are we giving up as
far as our data because Google and
Facebook are free but we're giving up a
lot you know as far as the data they
have on us and second you know they are
gobbling up you know their competitors
and their questions about whether they
are using you know the data they have to
gobble up the competitors I think the
best example is with like Amazon like it
you know there's fair questions about if
you know like diapers.com which was on
Amazon and might you know we buy a lot
of diapers and in our household if
Amazon is using the data of people who
buy diapers docu if people were going on
Amazon and buying diapers from diapers
comm and Amazon is using that data and
then they manufacture their own diapers
and sell their own wrappers based on the
data that they were getting from people
buying from diapers calm like that may
not technically violate our laws but
like it raises the question like do we
need to rethink like how data is used
yeah you know so you're not putting
businesses you know out create um quick
foreign policy grab bag here I'm not
quick necessarily but on Iran
so Trump recently deployed an aircraft
carrier and a bomber task force to the
Middle East reportedly in response to
some intelligence passed to us by the
Israelis about threats from Iran have
you seen that intelligence and do you
think that the response was proportional
or appropriate well what I can say is
that I think the president is being
unnecessarily provocative with Iran I
think Congress should demand that every
person in Congress gets briefed on this
and that you know we very carefully set
limits as to what this president can do
because I see this and just a few you
know steps leading us into you know a
war in the Middle East and I think the
president is spoiling for a war with
Iran I mean pulled us out of the Iran
nuclear deal has now you know
it's gonna punish you know other
countries and companies for doing
business with Iran which is going to
reduce money flowing into Iran and I
think is it's really spoiling for a
fight and in trying to almost provoke
Iran to do something so we can take a
strike now all that's it
Iran is a really bad actor they fund you
know terrorism in the Middle East
they're constantly targeting our ally
and Israel they have a ballistic
missiles program that you know is not in
compliance with any weapons treaty they
need to be punished that's why I
supported the Iran nuclear deal I
thought the best way to deal with the
country that funded terrorism and had
you know ballistic missiles was to take
away their ability to have a nuclear
weapon we took them from three months to
a year now they're saying that they're
not gonna follow all parts of the
agreement we're not going to be able to
you know monitor them and verify what
they're doing and so they're gonna get
closer to having the nuclear weapon and
by the way continue to do that other
stuff which is going to force us you
know to have to do something I I think
we may have to in Congress set some
limitations on what the president can do
that was something that you know Speaker
Boehner and speaker Ryan were unwilling
to do you know whether it was through
President Obama or you know President
Trump as it related to Syria or the
authorization for use of force you know
in Iraq yeah in Afghanistan I think we
need to update all of those agreed in
China the the Chinese have put up to
three million members of a weaker Muslim
minority group in to what Trump's own
Assistant Secretary of Defense called
concentration camps it seems to me that
this is a crime against humanity and
given the scale one of the most under
discussed under covered under acted upon
things I've heard of in the world today
what do you think we can do to stop them
yeah it is a crime against humanity and
the president should include you know
human rights when he discussed his trade
with China and I don't want to be
trading with the country that is
treating you know millions of people
like that or at least trading with them
and not bringing it up and telling them
that we're watching you know this is
something where the United States
typically would show leadership on
especially in the United Nations but
instead you know this president is
having us pull out of you know human
rights
conventions in the United Nations and
again this goes back to a president who
is alienating us
you know from the world and when I you
know you'd mentioned earlier our mantra
for the campaign go big on the issues be
bold with solutions do good in the way
that we govern and this is to me a part
of like the doing good
next president's gonna have to go on a
global affirmation tour take the oath
catch a plane assure our allies we're
still with them start to hold up again
you know the principles that make us so
special you know human rights you know
freedom of the freedom of press freedom
of worship you know getting rid of the
Muslim ban ourselves but I think it's
hard you know for us to have moral
leadership and and call out the Chinese
for the way that they're treating ethnic
and religious minorities when we have a
Muslim ban in place and we are
separating women and children at our own
border yeah um you said on the the
Intelligence Committee as we've talked
about you guys provide oversight of the
Intel community somehow our most
closely-held highly classified secrets
and programs keep leaking it started
with WikiLeaks and there was snowed in
then there were the so-called volt seven
documents that detail the CIA's global
cyber espionage programs it's like a
two-part question for you
how do you think or how is it possible
that this kind of material keeps getting
out into do you think it's time for us
to develop some clear public rules of
the road that put limits and guardrails
around cyber activities to include what
the US is doing via the NSA or CIA yeah
so one I I have supported expanding the
scope of the it's called peak law but
it's the public's civil liberties
oversight board is that right Roback I
love yeah so peak lob used to have
access to classified and covert actions
yeah then their access to covert actions
was taken away when did that happen I
think it was in the last five years so I
want the public to have you know an
independent authority to look at what
the intelligence communities are doing
to look at any abuses now some of these
leaks that you talked about exposed
abuses now
that to me is not you know a reason to
leak but I would rather that you have an
independent you know watchdog guru sure
who people could go to and express you
know concerns and Pete Club lost a lot
of its ability to do that when they
didn't have access to covert programs
second I am concerned in the
intelligence community that we may be
relying too much on independent
contractors and I would rather and I get
it you know there may be some jobs where
you know people don't want to commit to
a career with the federal government and
they want to be an independent
contractor and to get the best person to
fill that skill you need an independent
contractor but you also give up
something when you don't have that
fidelity to the government and so I
think we have to look at that and then
you know I I chair the intelligence
modernization subcommittee on the Intel
committee I'm very interested in getting
an intelligence community that looks
like America you know it's not a very
diverse group
you know the briefers come in they're
widely and you've seen this it's white
males you know in a white male briefing
me on like what's going on you know in
Africa or a white male briefing me about
you know different you know Muslim
terrorism groups like maybe we could get
you know people of color or you know
just different you know religious
minorities to talk to us about these
issues because one they would just
culturally better understand them and
into it's just I think it's better for
us to defend the country with you know
people with it with an Intel community
that looks like the country so
diversifying the intelligence community
is one of my highest priorities I think
that would also just frankly you know
make us safer pivot to politics here
yeah so you your parents and I believe
your brothers or Trump supporters my my
parents have a trump pence magnet on the
fridge I hope that's coupled down since
I've announced I was gonna say but so
you're a member of Congress you're a
member of the intelligence community you
are probably better versed in the facts
and arguments against Donald Trump than
anyone else in the country
are you able to sway them at all and if
not should that depress the hell out of
the rest of us I'm still going to want
to see their ballots okay before they
mail them back um you know
my parents I think are the of the
swayable type they are there Ronald
Reagan Republicans they like someone who
you know tough and represents America
well you know they like that Reagan
stood up you know to the Russians they
like someone who keeps their taxes low
and doesn't you know waste their money
they always would tell me yo Democrats
you guys just want to tax and spend all
of our money so I think one like a
president who recognizes a strength that
we have in the world is with our
alliances and that means you know fewer
Wars and like less dollars get to spend
on defense at home and to calls out this
president for the deficit spending you
know especially in his tax cuts and the
debt that's racking up I think you can
appeal to a lot of Republicans if you
you know offer a vision that will keep
us safe in the world but also you know
be more prudent with the taxpayers
dollar than this president is being
we're not going to get all of him I'm
realistic about that but I go on Fox
News a lot to make my case I mean it is
probably the only way my parents could
see me on TV but I don't want to dismiss
people who were counting on someone who
said he was gonna raise their wages
lower their health care costs and
brighten their kids future but I do want
to dismiss the guy that's utterly failed
to do that and I've seen the payoff of
that I've seen people who probably never
vote for me but come up to me and say
hey I respect that you go on there and I
think that's that's the first step is
just getting like a mutual respect for
some of the viewers second the people
who come up to me and say hey I'm not a
Republican I watch you on Fox News but
my husband you know is a Republican and
that's all he watches so I have to watch
it I'm getting that person I'm
connecting with that person or the
bartender who doesn't have a choice and
what's on the TV and Fox News is on so I
think going into some of these
uncomfortable places serves us well and
it doesn't mean I have to sign up to
agree at all with you know some of the
crazy views of the hosts but I don't
want to dismiss the viewers are you
seeing any indication that those people
are peeling off because you know I I do
feel like there has to be a lot of
people who feel like that tax cut didn't
help me at all
who are worried about their healthcare
premiums going up who feel like a lot of
the promises are being broken but I'm
never seeing his approval breakthrough
you know a floor of 39 40 percent so I
have a theory on that my theory is that
his approval may stay the same or
slightly go up but the number of people
who are Republicans is probably going
down and so and I actually call me crazy
but I think we've already done the hard
work I think the hard work was the
midterms like if we had not won the
midterms we would be fine yeah we would
be in the realest real trouble the hard
work was winning the midterms and is if
you just look at where we won right we
added two seats in Iowa almost won a
third in western Iowa where I was born
we added a seat in Oklahoma we added a
seat in Kansas almost out of the second
seat in Kansas added two seats in Texas
and then statewide we won Michigan
Wisconsin Pennsylvania those are the
three seats three states we need so when
I think about the next two years like
Donald Trump's not gonna get better like
he's not gonna fulfill the promises that
have already been broken he had two
years with a Republican governing
majority and he failed to pass the
health care repeal right he tried to
build a wall and it shut down the
government and he passed a tax cut that
added to the deficit and saw his
majority wiped out so he's not things
aren't gonna get easier or better for
Donald Trump so I actually think the
sun's beginning to rise we just haven't
really noticed it yet because we're
still just weathering the day-to-day
drama of President Trump I think the
hard work was done in the midterms and a
lot of them were those Republicans are
talking came came over and right to do
it again and those sort of moderate
districts you have talked about the
importance of representation and knowing
when you can speak to someone else's
experience and you cannot you've also
talked about how you would ask a woman
to be your vice president so I asked
this in the least trolli way possible
but like some might argue that the most
you know since your form of promoting
representation and and equal rights
would be to say support one of the great
women running for office how do you
respond to that pretty you know what I
may end up you know at that point and I
look forward to doing that I happen to
believe that you know I have an
experience of
the first of the family to go to college
seeing why my parents worked really hard
and what they expected it to add up to
and that when you go on a journey like
that and you have your eyes open you see
all the other people who work hard and
they're not benefiting from a good
economy or a good stock market they're
just running in place and so I feel a
responsibility to fight for them I'm
still generationally optimistic that we
could solve a lot of these problems I
bring experience of being in Congress
for seven years and on the Intelligence
Committee to know who our enemies are
and I think that's a combination that
can make sure that you know this country
is one where if you work hard it adds up
it's one where we can defend ourselves
against the enemies that are attacking
us and I'm not gonna be able to speak to
everyone's experience but as I said I I
know where to look I see other
identities and I would put together a
diverse cabinet to lead the country and
I would ask woman to be vice president
and if my candidacy does not develop out
the way I hope it does then yes you know
I there are plenty of women who would
make great presidents that we have on
the debate stage
um last question for I mean what I think
is it's particularly interesting and
stark about your candidacy versus some
of the other is a generational gap that
is widened Eve talked about how you
still have student loan debt you're not
40 you know you're 38 you're the same
age do you think it's time for some of
the leaders in the Democratic Party who
are from that previous generation to
move aside and let younger politicians
get a shot well I think when you think
about that when you think about that
debate stage who's gonna be standing
next to Donald Trump we want our
candidates ideas to be fresher than his
if they think that's really really
important is that our candidate is one
of new ideas new energy and offers new
leadership I think you're gonna need
that contrast now that's a mindset I
don't think that's an 8 a specific age
or era I think it's a mindset so you but
that means you have to understand
automation and what it's doing to the
workforce and the anxiety it's causing
it means that you have to understand
this generation that's in student debt
it means you have to understand like how
scared kids are in their classroom today
because
they don't think anything's being done
about gun violence if you have that
mindset then you can have that contrast
with the president but if if the
president has the freshest ideas on the
debate stage he's gonna be reelected
yeah yeah
congressman swallow thank you so much
for coming by it's great you can you
save you a salami thanks
you
