on the line is Ben Rhodes spin where are
you you're a Colgate I'm at Colgate
University Tommy we're what we're doing
that it's in Hamilton New York quaint
beautiful 19th century town in upstate
New York awesome
well that's great I hope you're talking
to students and getting them pumped up
about foreign policy so it's been you
know it's been obviously a brutal week
in the wake of the New Zealand shooting
you know we've been talking a lot about
right-wing extremist groups so wouldn't
that made me think of was back on the
white house days so before you started
attending the PDB the president's daily
intelligence briefing with Obama in the
Oval Office they would bring you the
book and then a briefer would brief it
to you so you could learn about that
day's intelligence the guy you had
briefing you for a while who I will not
name was actually I believe an expert in
in white supremacist groups right and
he'd actually I think infiltrated one um
was he telling you things about the rise
of these right-wing extremist groups
then that are foretold the events were
seeing now yeah he was and Tommy you'll
remember you know I found this guy so
interesting that I said talk to you
about this he'd come into briefed me and
usually the PDB would be filled with you
know reports of terrorist plots from al
Qaeda and other groups overseas but this
guy had worked to kind of help penetrate
and understand the white supremacist
movement in the United States and this
is back in 2009-2010 mm-hmm and his
message to me consistently was always
you know we got to be worrying more
about these guys that that if you look
at the actual threats of violence the
United States there was a growing threat
that he saw emanating from white
supremacist that some of the legacy
organizations of like the Ku Klux Klan
for instance and other you know white
separatist movements we're gaining new
momentum because of the combination of
social media and some of the you know
antagonism
towards a black president in the United
States mm-hmm
and you might remember Tommy early in
the Obama years there was a shooting at
the Holocaust Museum right from a white
supremacist who tragically shot a guard
at the Holocaust Museum and they when
they found in his you know among his
media like a list of people that he
wanted to target you know and it really
foreshadowed a lot of the you know plots
that we've seen disrupted in last year
to you know we did try to sound the
alarm on this and consistently for
instance to the Obama administration we
would refer to violent extremism
generally as a threat because we thought
it had to encompass both Isis and
al-qaeda but also white supremacists and
this is something that we were kind of
relentlessly mocked for you know for not
naming the enemy as radical Islam yeah
and it's kind of ironic to see Trump
refusing to label the enemy of white
supremacist you know and it goes show
you know but why these labels are
important I mean I don't think anyone
would want us to be referring to kind of
radical white terrorism
you know casting a broad brush on people
is not the way to go after them it's
it's to focus on them and understand
them and pull the threads on them yeah
so like when you think about how one
would disrupt breakup deal with these
white supremacist groups is it the same
tools that you would use with al-qaeda I
mean like imagine there be signals
intelligence collection to figure out
what they're doing
there would be a law enforcement
component you know efforts to penetrate
the organizations with undercover agents
and then you know what like we're
dealing with groups that might certainly
say this but what in one like critical
component of dealing with you know in
potentially radicalize young people is a
community engagement element that helps
you identify at-risk individuals before
it's too late by getting a tip from like
their friend their sister their whatever
it might be because we won't necessarily
be able to to hear them before it's too
late right is it
the same toolkit applied to white
supremacist groups yes I mean it's a
little different if you're dealing with
American citizens obviously yeah deploy
higher bar then in dealing with the
terrorist organization based overseas in
particularly for intelligence collection
right I mean we can't spy on American
yeah but you know if we see this as a
national security threat which I think
we should I mean just think of it this
way if you compare the numbers of
Americans killed by white supremacists
versus the number of Americans killed by
terrorists who represent an Islamic
ideology of some sort or another by far
the greater threat over the last several
years has been from white supremacist
terrorism and you know if you want to do
that in a security threat there
multi-dimensions to that if there are
people who have already crossed the line
into plotting acts of violence then you
can aggressively pursue them and try to
penetrate their organizations and try to
detain their leaders who are plotting
and to try to understand more about them
and you would want to deploy those law
enforcement resources as aggressively as
you would against any other terrorist
organization and that is a matter of
resourcing and prioritization yeah and
then secondly yes the the threat of
radicalization
you know people who've studied this find
that it's quite similar you know the
same pattern that could lead a young
Muslim to be radicalized to the ideology
of Isis you may be finding online
content at first then maybe being
contacted by someone who has been
radicalized in his community and then
plotting on his own or with a small
group some act of violence well that's
the same thing that happens among these
white supremacist groups people
consumers consuming poisonous online
content people joining vitriolic hate
filled online networks then maybe
meeting a like-minded person and and
switching a gear to wanting to actually
carry out an act of violence and you do
need engagement inside of these
communities to prevent that process of
radicalization but the uncomfortable
truth is that we need to treat
as a threat to our national security and
that means devoting resources to
understanding the problem and disrupting
people who want to commit acts of
violence and trying to spend the rising
tide of radicalization which is harder
when the president knighted States is
one of the sources of that
radicalization I mean it you may not
like people saying it but there's a
common thread among a number of these
people who've been detained here and
even among the New Zealand shooter that
they you know they are identifying and
Trump someone who they're taking some
degree of inspiration from and that's
you know that's a reality that's just
staring us in the face yeah and the I I
think the debate is over whether these
xenophobic National List right-wing
parties in the rhetoric they use or
actually you know driving people to to
be more violent and but what's
frightening is that these nationalist
parties are ascending all across Europe
I mean Italy us Austria Germany Sweden
like the list goes on and on that you
know members of these parties are
winning more and more seats what role do
you think the US should play and trying
to deal with these parties or mitigate
the impact they could have in in
politics in Europe well again you're
absolutely right there's a transnational
threat and and again we can learn from
the threat of al Qaeda and Isis yes and
the way in which that ideology with
social media and and other mechanisms
spread across borders we're seeing the
same pattern here of social networks and
propaganda and disinformation and common
themes and grievances spreading among
disaffected white people across borders
so in a strange way we should be
somewhat familiar with how this cancer
is spreading because we've seen it
spread in other communities yeah I think
to begin with there has to be from the
political leadership of countries in the
West just a complete rejection of this
ideology and unfortunately we don't have
that yet yeah
so first part of this is frankly not to
involve kind of winning elections and
beating back this ideology at the ballot
box I think beyond that there really
does need to be a reckoning with how
social media platforms are used by these
groups and here again we did this Tommy
in the Obama administration we had years
of dialogue with Silicon Valley about
Isis content and you know we got to a
point where the government wasn't
directing them to do anything but
through sharing of information and
education they began to take down a
certain verified Isis content that was
calling upon people that commit acts of
violence and I think it just raises the
question you know why can you take down
that content if it's from an Isis member
and and why not apply the same standard
to other groups who are propagating
hateful ideologies that are calling upon
people that come acts of violence I mean
either you want these platforms that
have such awesome reach to not be a form
that motivate people to kill other
people you know or you don't and so
again I think we have to apply the same
standard here terrorism is terrorism no
matter who commits the act and there has
to be in our politics and in our media a
recognition that this type of content
this type of ideology gets people killed
yeah one last question on New Zealand I
mean I think takeaway for me I think
takeaway for a lot of people have been
watching the story unfold I was a
reaction by new New Zealand's Prime
Minister just into art and she was you
know engaged and pathetic really
substantive and just seemed decent and
it was a reminder what a real leader
acts like in a crisis Ben I think you
spent some time with her what was your
impression when when you guys have
spoken I mean I met with her with a
Obama like a little less than a year ago
and you know she's younger than than me
Tommy
so maybe
feel old but Jesus senator she's
incredibly she reminded me a lot of
Justin Trudeau
she's just an incredibly competent
empathetic and real person and and she
was many months pregnant when we met was
focused on having her baby but also
focused on you know how could she create
a you know Senator left politics and New
Zealand that could be resilient and
could be responsive to people and that
could be tolerant and inclusive but also
focused on solving problems and you know
I think you see in in in the aftermath
of this attack she's doing things you
know she's not she yes he's giving very
powerful speeches but she's getting
ready to try to crack down on guns and
she's starting a real and necessary
effort to root out this type of white
supremists extremism and so when we talk
about what how we how political
leadership should respond in the West I
think if you look at what what she has
done in recent days if you look at a
speech at Justin Trudeau gave in House
of Commons the other day just
categorically rejecting this as as the
opposite of what our society stand for
you know that's the type of political
leadership that we need to see
replicated and and I think in in just a
nadir and who's you know obviously it's
a small country but it's an example that
there is progressive leadership that is
unifying and is successful and that can
be responsive to people and so I think
people should take note of her because
again small country but she's setting a
really powerful example yeah I agree
um changing gears a bit so a story that
you and I've been tracking pretty
closely is the ongoing us struggle
against Huawei Huawei for those
unfamiliar is the Chinese
telecommunications giant that has ties
to the Chinese military and intelligence
services and so our intelligence
agencies worried that if Huawei is
allowed to build out communications
infrastructure in the US or around the
around the globe in particular the 5g
wireless networks that it would allow
Chinese intelligence to build backdoors
into the software that would let them
spy on basically anyone using them so
it's a pretty big deal pretty big
security threat according to the New
York Times the u.s. effort to pressure
other countries into rejecting Huawei
infrastructure is faltering including
with really closed key allies like
Germany which was surprising to me um do
you think that this was inevitable since
a lot of these countries probably you
know here are concerns on Huawei and
then say we're hypocrites given what
they learned about us spying in these
Snowden disclosures or is this the
result of bad diplomacy some combination
like what did you make of that story
well I I think there are two elements
that are consistent with Trump's broader
foreign policy and this is a really
important issue that doesn't necessarily
a lot of tension but what we're really
talking about is how the world's
technological supply chain works you
know and essentially whether or not the
US can go around and try to freeze out
Chinese technology from other markets
and this affects everything you know
from the technology you use in your
daily lives to you know what we rely on
for our national security to problems
they are number one like a lot of things
at trump including the trade issue with
china he's articulating a goal that is
no longer achievable you know if you
wanted to to create a wall between any
technology emanating from China and and
technological supply chains emanate from
United States you would need a time
machine to go back in time you know 20
years and so part of the problem here is
with a lot of things that Trump is
demanding that other countries do
whether it's on you know trade or other
security policies or climate change
these countries you know live in a real
world and they're like look we can't we
can't just cleanse our entire market of
technologies that are already embedded
in the supply chain and so I you know I
think it it just shows an overreach in
terms of the the Trump administration's
rhetoric going beyond what it's possible
but secondly even if you wanted to try
to do that even if you did want to try
to at least figure out where to draw
certain lines which is probably
necessary
well they've been beating the out
of his allies for two years right and
you know it should come as a surprise to
nobody that there's a cost to
relentlessly insulting these countries
and their leaders and then you go ask
them to do something hard and they say
no of course they do yeah you make em
Twitter troll the ambassador to Germany
you wonder why they're not going to take
your meeting and do what you want when
it comes to you know intelligence
questions yeah you crap on Angela Merkel
you appointed trolls your ambassador you
threaten them with tariffs whenever you
feel like you need a good rise on
Twitter and then you say oh by the way
we need you to change the entire way in
which your country use this technology
well it shouldn't be a surprise me buddy
that that's not gonna work last question
Brazil's far-right president J your bull
scenario is in Washington today to meet
with President tromped he did an
interview with Fox News in advance of
the meeting and had dinner with Steve
Bannon because of course bohlson Rose
Sun is in business with Bannon so that's
weird too
like he's terrible he is misogynistic
he's anti-immigrant he's homophobic to
the point where he's created a climate
that drove a gay lawmaker out of the
country because that lawmaker feared for
his life Bolton aras family is suspected
of being linked to the execution of
another British politician so I mean
that's crazy
Trump brought him to the to the Oval
Office anyway and they did a the press
availability after where they continue
to hammer on Venezuela to float the idea
of a military intervention or a US
military base in Brazil so I mean my
question is I don't know what do you do
with this guy
given how important the relationship is
in the country of Brazil is but how
absolutely terrifying he is I mean this
guy is a fascist he's a strong man he's
always the worst kind of individual to
lead a country that's important well you
know you don't need to roll out the red
carpet for him you know that's for sure
but Trump seems to be much more
comfortable with these people then then
angle amiracle or Justin Trudeau or
other leaders who are allies look that
part of the part of what happened in
Brazil is
you did have a deep-rooted corruption
disaffection among the public people
turn to this guy one of the only
heartening things is that by all
indications you know his popularity in
Brazil is plummeting you know and you
don't need to throw the guy life raft I
mean and look it's an important partner
but we can engage the things that we
engage Brazil on we can do without
hugging this guy I mean we have
commercial ties you know we have
cooperation in different fields
ironically one of the better is the
cooperation recent years is on climate
change but there's no need to have this
close political relationship with the
leader of Brazil to keep that moving
forward
and so I would not be I'd be keeping
somebody like this a character like this
at arm's length and and not you know on
Venezuela let's just again take a step
back everything has gotten worse yes the
Trump administration launched their
their big play here of recognizing
opposition of Saint more sanctions of
trying to force an aid so they could
bluster all they want but they haven't
put forward a plan B and in some
hypothetical military base in Brazil
it's not the plan B that anybody is
looking for at this point
no they you know look we all want Maduro
to not be in power and not starving
those people but you're right I mean
they made this big bold play and they
you know we read all this
sabre-rattling and you know I think it's
time to be honest that it hasn't worked
and I think we also need to downgrade
general Rubio to Colonel Rubio because
you know I don't think he's earned those
stripes but a good colonel
maybe sergeant I mean the fact that
matter is sergeant Rubio charged up the
hill and like nobody you know following
him on Twitter
no maybe German damn you know but I just
took the issue with this too is it they
keep threatening this military option
but nobody has any idea what they're
talking about you know I mean if you
heard anybody Tommy articulate what that
even mean no the closes I've seen is
5,000 troops to Colombia on a scribbled
note on John Bolton so
you know if they're serious about it you
know what are they talking about here
yeah
and and and and who's going to support
it and and how is it going to work
you know III worry about it yeah I'm
with you like I don't mean to be glib
about this I've worried about this and
thought about it and tried to do
interviews on it for a long time because
I don't know what else to do it's my
only thing I could do in this post white
house life but their plan is not serious
nor is it credible and it is not that
effective and the fact that we're still
focused on you know the military
discussions and all these options that
he floated today with Boston ro in
instead of a real diplomatic effort that
unites the world and actually does
something diplomatically that would help
people you know it's it's problematic
it's not it's not helping and that's the
point is are you actually trying to get
something done or is this just kind of
that posture you know yeah if you
actually want to help the Venezuelan
people what they are doing has made
things worse and in the military
intervention I think would make things
even worse yeah agreed and you know they
are sitting on a easy no-brainer policy
decision to provide protected status for
Venezuelans who have come to the United
States fleeing this and they're refusing
to do even that which just shows that
this does not seem to be about helping
actual Venezuelans it seems to be about
a political agenda of Trump and in
private Rubio yeah agreed
been travel safe please grab every
student's phone and smash that subscribe
button when you find pod se of the world
you know every every little stat matters
they all add up life is a game of inches
podcasting is a game of inches as they
say I've already met one friend of the
pod Tommy alright was coming to my hotel
he said she heard I was talking about
this last week there yeah I expect
connected to you some friends of the pod
tonight and I've got some more colleges
and universities coming up in the spring
because my books coming on paperback oh
cool you know college kids can afford it
more info on that uh next week fantastic
man alright buddy great talking to you
see you soon and that's all I got cool
Ivan I didn't
you
