our February swing in New Orleans
Charleston and Durham at crooked calm
slash events those are only the February
tour dates there will be plenty more
plenty of other cities in the months
ahead
good times here's my question for you
what is someone I II love it
overlaying our days off with the NBA
schedule to make sure that no everywhere
we go wherever we are alarm is not an
NBA game on the night were there look
I'm just like oh we're gonna be in New
Orleans for a night we'll check out
Anthony Davis now they're on the road
it's happened for two years now we did
not we did not look at the NBA schedule
basically what I just tried to do is
make sure that the really fun city in
each swing is our day off yeah I
appreciate that don't get me wrong I'd
like to have a little bit of my cake and
eat it too so we do have our day off in
New Orleans on Saturday which is great
also our holiday schedule you and I have
a great mailbag episode that will be out
on Christmas Eve December 24th John
Tommy and I host a special New Year's
resolutions episode that'll be out on
December 27th and then we will be back
to our regular schedule on Thursday
January 3rd finally over the holidays
catch up on some crooked podcasts and
may I especially recommend the
wilderness which now you can listen to
realizing that it has a pretty happy
ending or at least a happy 2018 and more
importantly some great lessons for
Democrats in 2020 that they listen to in
2018 so check out the wilderness while
you're home trying to catch up on on
podcasts okay to the news in a segment
that you have titled and crime after
crime that's very good very good on
Tuesday thank you on Tuesday a federal
judge delayed sentencing for former
Trump national security adviser Michael
Flynn whose pleaded guilty to lying to
the FBI about his contacts with Russia's
former ambassador to the United States
and has been cooperating with Robert
Mueller's investigation so in the days
leading up to the hearing the right-wing
media had peddled a conspiracy theory
that the FBI had tricked Flynn into
lying to them and many predicted the
judge Emmett Sullivan would take it easy
on Flynn
Fox News's judge Jeanine praise Sullivan
as a quote jurist unafraid of the swamp
a judge who has a track record of
calling out prosecutor sorry
prosecutorial misconduct a man who does
not tolerate injustice or abuse of power
and she went on to suggest that he might
throw out Flynn's guilty plea altogether
then we got this tweet from Donald Trump
quote good luck today in court to
General Michael Flynn will be
interesting to see what he has to say
despite tremendous pressure being put on
him about Russian collusion in our great
and obviously highly successful
political campaign dan do you think our
Maggie friends were a bit disappointed
by the outcome yes and no I mean if they
contained a modicum of pride or shame
then they would be extremely embarrassed
and disappointed by the outcome but
because they can find a conspiracy
theory and anything they have somehow
taken this set of facts that was very
written very counter to the right-wing
wish casting that they had put forward
for the last few days and somehow held
it up as evidence that they were
actually right so I mean also it seems
like a president under federal
investigation using Twitter to send
messages to his former national security
adviser on the day he's being sentenced
for his crimes might be a bit of an
ethical gray area no I mean like we say
this all the time but if Trump emailed
the things he tweeted he would be
brought up on obstruction of justice
charges tomorrow like if he sent an
email to Jeff Sessions pressuring him to
investigate his political opponents if
he sent messages threatening might send
an email threatening Michael Cohen you
know all these things because he does
them in the in public we don't really as
a political legal culture understand how
to deal with someone who does their
crimes out in the open it was I know it
just happened so often that we're sort
of just like oh yeah okay another crazy
tweet but it's like no dude you're
you're under investigation yourself what
do you it'll be interesting to see what
he has to say he sounds like a
mob boss you know that's sort of what he
is like dumbest mob boss yeah so let's
talk about how this went down
because it's a pretty extraordinary
story so Muller submits a sentencing
memo to the judge proposing little to no
jail time for Flynn because he was such
a good cooperating witness then Flynn's
lawyers submit a sentencing memo that
basically parrots the right wing
conspiracy that the FBI tricked Flynn
into lying because you know I guess the
FBI doesn't have anything better to do
than go to the White House and trick the
National Security Adviser into
committing perjury they do that all the
time I mean don't you think the end of
this defense strategy was a bit flawed
from the start like like you have Muller
saying he's been a great cooperating
witness and I wouldn't give him much
jail time so then why do you get a memo
from Flynn's people sort of saying oh
you know it's not his fault it was the
FBI's fault for tricking him into lying
well it's it's also Jim Comey's fault
for deciding to once again unburden
himself with unhelpful information at
the absolute worst time by saying that
by indicating that they are intended to
trick Flynn because it was an you know
not trick him but it was a in a normal
well-functioning administration if you
called up and said the FBI called him
said I need to speak the now secured
advisor they would have come with an
attorney but because the Trump family
were there were I'm sorry the Trump
administration were a bunch of
knuckleheads they just sat down without
without the White House Counsel and lied
repeatedly but the what I think was
going on here nice I can't take credit
for this there because you've seen it
for much of the sort of best legal mall
or Twitter accounts is that floon is
trying to do two things at the same time
he is trying to cut the best deal he
possibly can with Muller and Stan and
she offers FERS stay out of jail for as
much as possible but also continue to
raise money for his legal-defense fund
from trumps base and so he's trying to
on one hand I get the best deal I can
from all the other hand feed into the
right-wing FoxNews conspiracy theories
that went to this moment in this odd
moment our politics right so so he tries
to do this as defense lawyers try to do
this and then here's what happens next
before the hearing starts the judge
orders the government to release the FBI
summary of the agents interview with
Flynn which makes it free
be clear that they weren't
trying to trick Flynn and that Flynn
knew exactly what the situation was and
that every time Flynn said something
that wasn't true the FBI agents
basically gave him the opportunity to
correct himself which he chose not to
take so it's a pretty damning summary of
the interview so then when the hearing
starts judge Sullivan says you know he's
concerned about Flynn's allegations in
his defense memo and then he calmly
asked Flynn if he wants to consider his
guilty plea and of course Flynn says no
and then the judge starts asking Flynn's
lawyers questions like do you believe
the FBI had a legal obligation to warn
mr. Flynn that lying to the FBI was a
federal crime is it your contention that
mr. Flynn was entrapped by the FBI and
of course the attorneys say no because
it's a conspiracy theory and
that's when Sullivan gets pretty pissed
and says that he can't hide his disgust
for Flynn's actions here's the quote
this is a very serious offense arguably
you sold your country out and he pointed
to the American flag behind his bench he
also as prosecutors whether Flynn could
have been charged with treason for
interfering in the Russian sanctions
imposed by the Obama administration
later the judge says he was not accusing
Flynn of treason but he was actually
wondering if there had been other
charges that Muller's team had
considered because he believed these
tribes were so serious Dan what was your
reaction to all of this do you agree or
disagree with some of the legal folks
who thought that the judge might have
gone too far well he definitely got the
timeline wrong as I understand it by
saying that Trump was I'm sorry that by
saying that Flynn was acting as an agent
of the turn unregistered agent for the
Turkish government while he was now
secured advisor in that the evidence I
believe does not support that he was
actually just acting as an unregistered
agent for the Turkish government while
serving as the chief foreign policy
advisor for the Republican nominee for
president States yeah but yes he got it
rock so yeah and it's interesting Marcy
wheeler he pointed out that she said
there was some problem with the with the
verbiage there right but what's
interesting is that yes he absolutely
wasn't doing work for the Turkish
government while he was a national
security adviser but he became national
security adviser without the world
knowing that he was an unregistered
agent for the four
for the Turkish government because he
had never registered her ever never
disclosed it ever so that information
was out there while he was being hired
as a natural security adviser and he
just didn't disclose it but anyway yeah
it was in the turkey the being an
unregistered agent of the Turkish
government is a very important backdrop
to all of this as Trump is tweeting
about him and Republicans are saying
that you know Eli Lake of Bloomberg is
writing why we all owe Michael Flynn an
apology which is right at this time
based we believe on information that
Michael Flynn gave the FBI
Michael Flynn's business partner was
indicted for serving as an unregistered
agent for the Turkish government
involved in discussions around a plot to
kidnap a u.s. resident and return them
to Turkey because they are a political
opponent of Iran and so like they were
very serious very serious backs up here
the other important point which Marcy
wheeler also made is that judge Sullivan
knows a lot more than we do about what
Robert Muller knows that's a really
important point it's this tirade came
after being briefed on the unredacted
parts of Muller's investigation
involving Flint and so there are like it
is worth being curious even if he got
the timeline wrong about what led to the
outrage yeah I mean that's that's very
important and as Marcy pointed out
Sullivan is now the only person not on
Muller's team which has not leaked who
has read about who has read the full
story of the crimes and wrongdoing that
Flint has committed and well you know
how Trump is connected to them as well
and after having read all those redacted
parts and there was also by the way
another memo that the judge got about
what flynn about Flint's cooperation
that Flint himself hasn't even read or
Flynn's lawyers hasn't read he was so
angry that he came out there and started
saying all this stuff so clearly the
judge read something that was that
didn't sit with him well so Dan how big
of a blow was this to all the Muller
conspiracy theorists and and Flynn
stands out there we had Kim stress all
over the Wall Street Journal had praised
Sullivan as a judge who was wise to the
tricks of prosecutors as he mentioned
Eli Lake published a column that said
the FBI was Flynn an apology
neither of them back down after the
hearing neither did any of the other
baller conspiracy theorists what's up
with these people they and are they do
they really just not understand this are
they just willfully obtuse with what's
going on I think that everything that's
happening here is like a meta commentary
on the right-wing media bubble and
politics in the era of Trump which are
sort of all the same conversation in a
lot of ways yeah and like some of these
people are absolute charlatans right
they are theory they have access to the
Internet they are theoretically smart
enough to know that what they are saying
is unadulterated but they have
found a role they have found a way to
monetize their flaker trumpism they have
they get access from it they get
retweets and so there is this incentive
structure that has in be full of
but there are also a lot of people who
believe it because they are only talking
to each other right they are reading the
same stories they are watching the same
shows on Fox they are following the same
Twitter accounts and they're living in
this unpenetrated bubble where you are
forced there's a psychological exercise
at place to try to justify your support
of Trump and like in it it's as
constantly the sliding scale where
original was collusions there
are no crimes now there are then there
were there were crimes but they weren't
you know collusion related so this is
 and then it's like oh well
there was a lot of potential collusion
so the only way that we're gonna have
like the most specific like defense
lawyer from the wire strategy of we're
gonna argue that it's all fruit from a
poison tree so that yes we discovered
these crimes but we never even should
have been looking because what led to
the investigation was somehow wrong even
though that is complete and
there was this term that exists that was
used to describe the media bubble which
is called Kip kale ism like named after
Pauline Kael who was a New Yorker film
critic who wants a squint exclaimed
after Nixon won that she how was that
possible she had she did meet a single
person who voted for Nixon and that is
sort of how the Republic that is that
the Republicans constantly live
pauline kael style right-wing media
bubble where they the actual facts that
would contradict their arguments are not
put before them and therefore they can
only continue that even the proof of the
the inaccuracy of their arguments can
only be seen as actual proof of the
accuracy of their arguments because they
to do otherwise to either admit that
they are wrong would either cause them
to just melt into the ground or you know
be evicted from Magga island yeah and
and you saw this the other day in a poll
that showed like an alarming percentage
of Republicans who believe that the
Republicans won the midterms I mean just
because that's what Trump said that's
what the right-wing media said they're
not seeing any soul-searching on Fox I
mean it it is an impenetrable bubble
that a lot of these people are living in
which also says something by the way to
Democrats because it's like you know is
it really worth trying to penetrate this
bubble and argue with these people on
Twitter or go as I saw you know some
Democrats suggest and like a daily B's
story from a couple weeks ago
you know Democrats should go on fox more
and and and debate these people like
none of that is gonna work
I mean it's certain and I'm a believer
that yes Democratic politicians should
like go out into the country talk to
Republican and you know Republican
leaning voters independent Republican
voters and try to bring them over to our
side like I think you know we obviously
had a lot of success with that in 2018
but as far as the pundits themselves and
the Republican politicians themselves it
is not worth it not worth arguing with
them yeah I think that the problem we
have is that there are a lot of there's
some people at least it's not a majority
of people it's not a plurality of people
there are some people who are trapped in
the Fox News Facebook fueled filter
bubble yeah who are reachable and we
just we have to find ways to to get P
get information into that bubble to at
least some set of people doesn't mean we
have to try to convince Kim
stressful that she's not full of we
have to but there are some good people
in there and I agree with you that going
on Fox is basically a massive waste of
time you might as well do a video with
the art you know hosted by the RNC but
like there there it is met it it is a
high priority of my imaginary super PAC
to find ways to get to those voters
through digital advertising yeah that I
completely agree with so what happens
next for Flynn he chose to delay
sentencing presumably so he could
potentially cooperate more either on the
larger Russia conspiracy or in the case
against his former business partners but
even then judge Sullivan said he can't
guarantee that Flynn won't get jail time
when he finally sentences imprisonment
March so clearly this is about more than
the fact that Flynn lied to the FBI it's
about the content of those lies that
make it so serious that got judge
Sullivan so upset he lied to the FBI
about what he said to the Russian
ambassador after an election where
Russia attacked us he lied about working
as an unregistered foreign agent on
behalf of the Turkish government while
he was you know he was Trump's foreign
policy adviser during the campaign and
also a foreign agent on behalf of the
Turkish government and isn't the broader
question what did Donald Trump know
about all of this and was he also doing
the bidding of countries like Russia
either for financial gain or to repay
them for helping him win the
presidential campaign like isn't that
the heart of what's at stake here yeah a
hundred percent like Flynn's conduct was
absolutely shameful and there is a lot
of smoke around Trump in his associates
doing very similar activity either for
as you point out political benefit in
the form of the strategic release of
hacked DNC and John Podesta emails or
the as we'll discuss the building of a
massive Trump property in Moscow yeah or
or just you know investments in jared
krishna's real estate like we just don't
know and we have to get to the bottom of
it and the argument that flynn's crimes
are this
I guess this is an important thing that
has come become crystal clear in the
last few weeks and we've gone through
the Flint process and the mana for
process is the argument for a long time
believed by a lot of people was that
mana fort was a crook in Flint was a
crook but their crimes were separate
than Trump Trump just hung out with a
lot of crooks but he but they were not
being crooks on his behalf and what we
have learned is there was a lot the dots
between what Manta fort did and when
Flynn did are much more connected to
what is what was going on with Trump his
family his campaign his organization
then we were led to believe you know
last year or so and here's one way you
really know this is it's at some point
in that hearing judge Sullivan's asking
the prosecutors the government you know
isn't doesn't it seem like you could
have charged Flynn with more serious
crimes and basically the prosecutors
like say yes they obviously don't say
yes to treason or anything like that but
it's clear that you know he never got
charged with not registering as a
foreign agent he never got charged for a
lot of other things that clearly you
know crimes the judge Sullivan has seen
that he potentially committed and so if
Muller chose to only charge Flynn with a
single count of lying to the FBI it is
very clear that he must have cooperated
a lot and given them some substantial
information and it's not just on his
business partners either it has to be
Donald Trump or it has to be someone in
the Trump orbit right yeah someone who
is higher up on the food chain than
Michael Flynn yeah so also CNN this week
obtained a copy of a letter of intent
that Donald Trump signed in October 2015
to move forward with talks to build a
Trump Tower in Russia contradicting
claims made by Trump TV lawyer Rudy
Giuliani who just days ago said Trump
never sign such a document do you think
this is a big deal I mean yes obviously
I'm 100 percent a big deal because it
Trump like we immediately ignore Trump's
lies because he just pretends like he
never told them and he said over and
over and over again that he had no
business dealings with Russia and you
could theoretically make an argument
that his organization despite the fact
that's like eight people or his son
despite the fact that his son wants
nothing more than approval from his
father could have engaged down this path
without ever involving Trump in or maybe
he was too busy spouting racist bromides
on the campaign trail to engage in this
but now we've discovered he actually
signed the document so it is like it is
the smoking gun that Trump was lying to
everyone to the voters you know maybe
possibly someone's a conspira-con spy
I'm sorry maybe some you would even say
conspiring to defraud the American
people as part of the electoral process
of actual information about what he was
doing as related to Russia and again the
problem with this is and of course Rudy
let this slip during his interview last
Sunday like if if they were in talks
with Russia about a financial deal but a
deal to build Trump Tower in Moscow
through November of 2016 which is
possible based on rudy giuliani's
comments on Sunday that means that any
of the foreign policy moves that Trump
made any of the proposals to you know
lift sanctions on Russia to have
friendly relations with Russia you don't
know if he's making those moves because
he thought they were the right thing to
do or because it would politically or
financially benefit him personally you
know it's also worth mentioning that
Trump gave Vladimir Putin two big wins
yesterday the president surprised his
entire national security team by
announcing via tweet that he'd been with
he'd be withdrawing US forces from Syria
immediately declaring wrongly that we've
defeated Isis in Syria
Vladimir Putin welcomed this move said
the Trump did the right thing
Trump's administration also announced on
Wednesday that even though they were
imposing new sanctions on certain
Russian actors who meddled in the
election they were lifting sanctions on
two Russian firms run by an oligarch
friend of Putin who used to work with
Paul Manafort
so isn't the real problem I was gonna
ask like we're either of these actions
because of Russian influence on Trump we
don't know but isn't the real problem
that we aren't totally sure of that
question and we should be sure when it
has to do with the President of the
United States yes we are const
asking we live it's actually worth
noting we never assume that Trump is
doing something for the right reasons
because he has never done anything for
the right reasons we we always wonder
whether there's like two paths image in
the horrible choose-your-own-adventure
that is the Trump era isn't he doing it
to enrich himself or is he doing it to
out of loyalty to some off there sorry
out of loyalty to some authoritarian
despot somewhere else in the world like
those those are the only two options
there's not like a considered view of
the policy or a call to patriotism or
something larger than himself it's is he
lining his right pocket right now or is
he lining his left pocket down the line
by kissing up to oligarchs in in rich
people richer authoritarians yeah it's
either financial benefit or political
benefit because there's a whole slew of
things he does because he thinks it's
gonna keep them in power to like make
yourself money keep yourself in power
those those are basically the two
options with most of the things um so
Russia aside what do you think of his
decision to withdraw from Syria so
precipitously I mean it's just it's hard
to say like if you were being fair you
would say he has talked about this a lot
over the months in fact he randomly
announced it at a rally like a year ago
I think was just like ignore it it's
just the president spouting off again
the other reason is he's he is in he's
having a shitty month among so many
things right the economy is hit a lot of
turbulence you know in the Dow which has
been his measuring stick for the economy
from the beginning is way down in recent
months but basically ever since Paul
Ryan's massive tax cut to corporations
the I was like every day is another bit
of bad Muller news and he's getting beat
about the head by the write over having
to theoretically back down from his
promise to fund the wall and so I think
maybe in his simplistic mind it's like
well here is a promise I made
a promise I can keep but it always sort
of comes back to just lashing out
because of some segment he saw on Fox
News at some point yeah look I think
there is a way to have made this
decision that whether you agreed with
the ultimate decision or not you could
at least say oh it was thoughtful and
that and that and that process is
I don't know consulting with anyone in
the Defense Department the State
Department your national security team
you know Chris Murphy tweeted this
morning
you know both things can be true one the
way Trump is pulling out of Syria with
no notice and no new plan is dangerous
and makes America weaker to the neo cons
vastly oversold the impact of 2,000
troops and pretended it was an actual
strategy but of course like pulling out
so fast without consulting anyone you
know there's like there's kurdish
fighters that we're fighting alongside
who learned that we were withdrawing
from Twitter and according to the New
York Times they're now considering
releasing 3,200 Isis prisoners because
the United States is just gonna pick up
and leave so like you can very easily
say yeah this was never an authorized
intervention into Syria and US troops
weren't gonna make a difference in that
war anyway but you sort of have to show
your work you have to consult with
people you have to in in just doing it
via tweet you have senior administration
officials all over the place on
background of course cuz all they can do
is talk on background saying that like
everyone in the administration on the
national security team is pissed with
Trump for doing this without warning
yeah I mean it like you're exactly right
I probably agreed this is the right
thing to do he's just doing it in the
most ass-backwards way possible like
there at you there is a process to run
there is a world in which you work to
get the your government the military
your your allies around the world on the
same page for this announcement you try
to do it in the most orderly way
possible
but when you're sowing chaos by doing
policymaking by tweet and so you can
disagree on the merits of the decision
but it is impossible to agree that this
was done with any measure of basic
competence so just when you thought we
were done with all the crimes for the
week we forgot to talk about the
Foundation New York Attorney General
Barbara Underwood announce that the
Trump foundation will be dissolving this
week she said the investigation her
offices leading has found quote a
shocking pattern of illegality involving
the Trump foundation including unlawful
coordination with the Trump presidential
campaign repeated in willful
self-dealing and much more Underwood is
still seeking more than 2.8 million
dollars in restitution her lawsuit
targets the charity Trump's three oldest
children and Trump himself dan how
important is this one and why it's it
you know when I write the outline every
week there is some new episode of hot
sub crime machine and I always write how
big a deal is this and the answer sort
of always the same which is in a normal
world to be a gigantic deal and Trump
would be run out of office in the next
five minutes but we live in a world
where he continues to have immunity by
Republican majority in the Senate at
least now but I do think for the public
that you know collusion this becomes
sort of this just this issue of either
you care passionately you believe it's
 or you think Trump probably did
something but you don't care that much
as long as he doesn't with the
investigation too much that's sort of
how you divide Democrats Republicans and
independents on this yeah but I do think
that there is something a little more
tangible about using a charity to line
your own pockets that it just seems a
little more real than some of this other
stuff which is pretty absent some
smoking gun that says Trump and the
Russians hatched a plan to steal Hillary
Clinton's emails and steal the election
a lot of it is esoteric it's
circumstantial and it's like a
wide-ranging conspiracy that maybe hurt
people in understand but this is a more
at least potentially more simple concept
if messaged correctly to the right
number of the right people yeah I mean
look the guy obviously funded a lot of
the charity in the foundation himself
with his own money still doing that and
then using it to like as a slush fund is
a big no-no but also the regular people
also donated to this foundation all
kinds of people donate to the foundation
and then he used the money to pay legal
settlements for his for-profit
businesses by portraits of himself
and boost his presidential campaign by
paying for giveaways at his Iowa rallies
these are also things that the New York
Attorney General accused the foundation
of doing so it is a pretty simple
picture to draw of Donald Trump just
like raising money for a charity and
then using it to just as we've said line
his pockets and vials and then and you
know settle his legal disputes
when it say it's tax fraud yeah he's
giving money to get a tattoo is he's
particularly of his right pocket and
putting in his left pocket to avoid
paying taxes on it then using the money
in his left pocket to solve all of us
political nickel problems that is a that
should be much more easy to explain to
people than a lot of the other things
like the you know the famous was
actually not famous cuz no one remembers
it near our time story that a huge Trump
of tax fraud those are complicated tax
avoidance schemes that I think a lot of
Americans assume all rich people do and
they're sort of right about that Trump
this goes a lot further and cry goes
from gray area to obviously illegal but
this is a much more it is easier to
understand and so there is some
potential for it to have some political
impact that some of the other stuff may
not have just potential one might think
okay let's talk about the shutdown that
I thought we for certain avoided before
I drove into the studio today and now
who knows we're recording this Thursday
10:00 a.m. Pacific time and I was sort
of monitoring Twitter to see what's
happening here but so on Wednesday
senator Majority Leader Mitch McConnell
announced a deal for a stopgap spending
bill that will keep the government open
until February 8th that bill would not
include does not include the five
billion dollars that Trump has demanded
for his wall and people thought okay
that's what's gonna happen you know
everyone just wants to go home and then
it seemed like the White House you know
was gonna be like alright we'll live to
fight this again in February but now
this morning you know we're told that
Trump is I don't know he's upset he's
angry I forget the words they used one
of the insiders in the White House is in
a tailspin Hale Trump is a telltale
there we go Trump's in a tailspin
because he's so angry that he's not
 mall and now he might not sign
the bill and the House Republicans had a
press conference scheduled to talk about
how they've avoided the shutdown they
canceled that
and now Paul Ryan is dragging his sad
face to the White House along with Jim
Jim Jordan and Mark Meadows the two
freedom caucus loonies and they are and
now I guess they're talking to Donald
Trump and they're probably all spinning
each other up and who knows what's gonna
happen now what do you think is gonna
happen no idea I mean we do this almost
all the time which is there's about to
be a deal there's a fox news segment or
a Drudge headline Trump sends word
through Twitter or some of his minions
to a reporter that he's not gonna sign
the bill the people who at least play
the role of adults in the publican party
call him and he eventually signs the
bill so I think what Paul Ryan says is
gonna be irrelevant to Trump because
Trump is an American as far as I know
and therefore it's episo-- facto
irrelevant the what will matter is what
McConnell tells him I think my god I
think McConnell's gonna tell him like
it's this or the shutdown there you're
not getting five billion dollars or
anything for either a wall or this steel
slats that he seems to think is a favor
for rebranding of the wall which is the
weirdest thing that's happened in a long
time when did that happen I saw him
tweet about the steel slats today that a
new thing now he's a steel slats he did
it he did it like I mean times a flat
circle but if sometime this week he sent
some tweet basically saying arguing in
some way that Democrats think the wall
is made of ugly brick these are not his
words but like that sort of the
supposition is it's not an ugly brick
wall it's actually gonna have beautiful
steel slats that you can see through and
like the see-through nature of the wall
it's been this weird hobbyhorse of
trumps for years now and I don't he
doesn't really get what he opposed they
oppose the wall and then it's not an
aesthetic point of view it's like
Weena's get a pretty wall we'd be for it
and so now like he even said this
morning I think it was like steel slats
parens wall just think it's we you were
not following the thread
on the rebranding I mean it's it is
really bizarre and then Sarah heavy
Sanders in her statement today I think
announcing this meeting had to use the
term steel slats to describe the wall
everything is so stupid all the time yes
that is exactly right like we per usual
in a within a time of very serious
challenges we are talking about the
dumbest aspect of it in the dumbest way
possible I mean I guess here's what
happens either Trump caves and signs the
stopgap spending government stays open
and then I guess he fights this again on
February 8th or Trump says it I'm
staying I'm standing firm I won't sign
this I want my steel slats and so we
have a partial government shutdown
either way
Congress comes back in January Democrats
control the house you gotta imagine at
the site at that point the first thing
Nancy Pelosi does is pass a spending
bill it's just a continuing resolution
that funds all these agencies at the
same level that goes to the Senate Chuck
Schumer tries to bring it up Mitch
McConnell says no I won't bring it up
and then isn't it still on Republicans
and Trump to open the government at that
point like I don't see how they win this
one I mean no they don't and I think the
way this this may end is when McConnell
or someone tells Trump that if the
government shuts down he can't go
tomorrow logo right he's got like a 16
day vacation anyway he doesn't
care I think if he I think if he does
that the Republicans will just past the
continuing resolution yeah like I would
you know I work for Obama and we had a
government shutdown and we had a very
important trip to Asia that was planned
and the Democrats were like we are with
you on the shutdown we will stand to
fight Obamacare but if you get on that
 plane we're opening the
government back up and that was for like
an actual jump he wasn't going on
vacation that was for an actual
diplomatic purpose so if he wants to go
play golf and hang out with the rich
billionaires he's letting run the VA I
you could I think you will see a world
in the ranks quickly for these members
who all lost their jobs have nowhere to
stay because they lived in their offices
and just want to begin their lobbying
career so how do you think the Democrats
have have played this so far Schumer and
Pelosi specifically I mean it does seem
like they are at least so far standing
firm you know at one point McConnell
gave them some kind of compromise where
he said okay well if you give us just a
billion dollars for immigration
priorities for Trump that can't be used
for the wall itself but could be used
for other stuff like maybe we can call
it a day and you know I was happy that
Schumer employee said no no you get
nothing yeah I think they've done it
they've done a great job and they know
they have leverage and they're using it
and it made it's this is this is how you
do this right was we have we have power
now we can we have it we have a say in
what happens in Washington and we need
to use that for all we possibly can and
so good for them like this is a slightly
easier fight in the sense that other
than the freedom caucus types the
overwhelming majority of Republican
senators and House members think the
wall concrete steel slats brick is
stupid and don't really care about it so
that sort of help when you have when
Trump is most isolated on this issue
it'll be a different question when we
get into battles around attempts to cut
Medicare or you know more tax cuts or
things like that but on this one the
Democrats have I believe have a strong
hand both in Congress and politically
with the public and are playing it very
well and we should give them credit for
that okay let's talk about criminal
justice reform which we're going to talk
about with van as well the Senate on
Tuesday passed a criminal justice reform
bill backed by a bipartisan coalition
that including everyone from Jared
Kushner to the ACLU to the Koch brothers
the first step act would relax mandatory
minimum sentences reduce some
three-strike clause from life sentence
to 25 years and require inmates to be
located within 500 miles of their
families it will also expand early
release programs and allow the 2010 law
that reduced the sentencing disparity
between crack and powder cocaine apply
retroactively Lee
it's important to note that this
legislation affects the federal prison
system which only includes a fraction of
the country's prison population about a
hundred and eighty thousand people out
of two million incarcerated total
justice reform advocates have been
careful to know how even if they're
happy about it being a good first step
it's very much as the name suggests only
a first step
dan we're gonna talk to Van Jones about
all this in a bit but what do you think
good first step
yeah absolutely if it's good you know
congratulations to everyone involved for
making progress on an important issue
that has been lingering for way too long
so just a couple of general takeaways on
this it you're I mean we can stop with
the puns if you will but it's a variant
is is it's a very important first step
but it is just a first step the vast
majority of America's person population
are at the state level and so this goes
to the importance of similar bipartisan
coalition's passing criminal justice
reform measures at the state level as
well as electing progressive district
attorneys and attorney generals who will
have a progressive view of how to deal
with crime in this country as opposed
are just locking everyone up for even
the smallest offense I would also say
while we can be glad that Jared Kushner
supported this and fought for it maybe
just for a second take a pause on the
messianic profiles of him because it's
like the most classic white Savior trope
in all of writing which is if you know
there were all these people who were
like van for instance who have been
working on this issue for decades to get
it done and then we are required to give
credit to the dilettante son of a rich
person who happened to go to jail and
it's so I think that that has been
frustrating to me in the coverage is he
gets credit for it but the idea that he
somehow is single handily responsible
for criminal justice reform is a pretty
structurally prejudiced notion that
ignores the history of the battles on
this from a lot of grassroots activists
all across this country yes that that is
annoying in the coverage and the other
thing that's annoying the coverage is I
do think some of the coverage is going
little bit overboard and describing how
sweeping this is because yes it's it's a
pretty it's it's it's a step but you
know it's a small step I think Vox some
of the German Lopes at Vox called it
meaningful tweaks to the criminal
justice system yeah and you know what
they estimate Vox estimates that six to
seven thousand of the hundred and eighty
thousand federally incarcerated
Americans could be released early so
even of the federal population they
think it's early release could happen
with for six to seven thousand I think
the CBO scored something like fifty
thousand would get out over the however
many years but that's not just early
release that's other other stuff as well
what the bill doesn't do it doesn't end
the war on drugs or mass incarceration
it won't stop law enforcement from
locking up nonviolent drug offenders
it doesn't legalize marijuana and it
doesn't even end mandatory minimums or
reduced prison sentences across the
board two things that a 2015 bill that
was also bipartisan called the
sentencing reform and Corrections Act
would have done so as important to know
that had a bunch of Republican support
in the Senate as well Mike Lee Chuck
Grassley people like that so this bill
is a sort of a bit of a watered down
version of that bill and the reason it
is probably is because Donald Trump is
in the White House so as much as Jared
Kushner had pull on Donald Trump to
finally get this signed he didn't quite
have the pole to put a bipartisan bill
on his desk that would have been
stronger that had been introduced in in
the last Congress yeah I mean all of
that is true
I think we should at least be grateful
that remember we had former attorney
General Eric Holder on the podcast last
year earlier this year commemoration we
talked a little bit on karma trust
reform because that was a big part of
what he wanted his legacy to be as
Attorney General and you were in this
world where we like you had the you had
this comprehensive bill that could have
passed you know UE and efforts around
the country around a bipartisan
coalition former on criminal justice
reform
you included everyone from black lives
matter to the Koch brothers then Donald
Trump wins Jeff Sessions is Attorney
General and it feels like all those laws
so we haven't gotten back to where we
were prior to the national tragedy that
is Donald Trump's election but at least
we can grass
on to some glimmers of hope that we can
continue moving in the right direction
yeah
what is it important and hopefully
bipartisan issue as our old boss always
says better is good and this is better I
think you know as long as we understand
that it is it's progress it's small
progress and this isn't something to
just celebrate and then say okay work is
done here there is a ton more work to do
on criminal justice reform it is work
that is unlikely to succeed under this
president even though he's signing this
small step and so and and a lot of that
work has to happen on the state level
because that's where most people are
incarcerated and you know but it's a
it's a good first step and it's good to
see that there is a bipartisan coalition
that exists in Congress even in this
Congress to get something done and
hopefully that moves the debate towards
bolder proposals for criminal justice
reform but we will talk about all of
this with our next guest CNN's van Jones
who had a big role to play in this
legislation and we'll talk to van right
after the break
you
