we can't talk about the details of your
movie yeah you're doing a rom-com he's
right all right all right co-writer next
oh you're doing so much yes in the rock
in the romantic world well I'm more than
off well you know you're dating the
bachelor cult ha ha ha ha that Colton's
a funny one
he is really savvy about social media I
was just gonna say I'm not a bachelor
superfan or anything I'm not either but
uh I've watched clips of him and on the
show he seems kind of like any of the
bachelors yeah and then on Twitter
during his exchanges with you he seems
to know things and have kind of like a
cutesy sauciness yes he is my take away
from Colton by the way I liked him and I
don't know if he's gay everyone's like
he's gay I honestly have no idea if he's
gay I can tell you this he likes to be
on television right which so do I
he loves the whole bachelor culture and
he's very savvy about it about all
angles of it and that he's very media
savvy very social media savvy and is
smarter than people might give him
credit for we haven't had a Savi virgin
since Kevin Jonas it's exciting right we
add a new entry on that way but I find
it so exciting that you will be involved
in a gay rom-com just feel like we have
spent so much time watching them we have
ourselves right and there's so many that
we love but we haven't seen ourselves I
know and we've been good paying
customers for the like rom-coms all
these years
[Music]
