welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm John Lovett and Tommy Vitor
later in the pod
Tommy talks to Stacey Abrams is campaign
manager Lauren grower go about what is
happening in Georgia they're not at a
recount yet they're just counting
provisional ballots trying to stop Brian
Kemp from you know just sort of fighting
the elections is stealing the thing yeah
love it is back on love it or leave it
I'm back love it or leave it it was
great we had a great show with Emily
Heller Langston Herrmann and Kieran deal
from hysteria did an election
post-election special we talked about
the Blue Wave talked about sessions
talked about ayahuasca Wow
we covered it all that part of the news
Tommy what about our parts of the world
we talked about ayahuasca this week
talks about ayahuasca all for like an
hour last week what if this is all weird
what if we're all in his ayahuasca
experience for the last two years it's
not about that a lot and he wakes up and
Hillary Clinton is introducing a climate
bill that doesn't go far enough just
napping anyway yeah last week we talked
about what Democrats winning in the
house means for foreign policy and then
this week in the talk some North Korean
news turns out surprise surprise they're
cheating in building all kinds of new
websites all over the country in the
Trump administration is pretending it's
not happening so good stuff so much for
the so much for the love affair great
success well guys it seems as though
Democrats should have done a bit more
gloating last week because we've won a
ton of we want a lot more races
have been called since last week
as of Monday night it's looking like
Democrats could expand their gain of
House seats to more than 40 and limit
the Republican gain in the Senate to two
seats or one depending on how the
recount in Florida shakes out that's
because Jon Tester won in Montana and on
Monday night
Kyrsten Sinema was declared the winner
in Arizona the first female senator from
that state first openly bisexual US
senator
it also looks as though we may end up
defeating six of the original crooked
seven over here in California beautiful
fingers crossed we're still waiting on
vote count
for Katie Porter to take the lead she's
down about a thousand votes now but we
got Democratic officials filling out
fake votes left and right trying to get
that out get us over the guys why do we
keep waiting these races what kind of a
deep state plot is this winning races a
week after because they're counting
votes it's so stupid
I don't know how the media isn't
structurally prepared to just sort of
contextualize the fact that some votes
come in later
like if you're in the military and you
live overseas you get to mail your
ballot and it gets to show up a little
bit later because it takes time to mail
stuff yeah and I will say like the media
did a horrible horrible job of this on
Tuesday night and we fell victim to it
we sat here on Wednesday and we're like
oh poor Kyrsten Sinema she hasn't
conceded yet but she's probably gonna
lose because I mean we paid a lot of
attention to news on Wednesday night
many different outlets oh and there were
too many people who are like like we
knew because we live in California that
the California votes would come in late
yeah but didn't know that you know
Maricopa County in Arizona had like four
hundred thousand ballots left to cut
yeah I should also probably better at
counting faster yeah well so I think the
big issue on why some of these votes
came in late were a lot of states going
to vote by mail right and at least in
California as long as you post mark your
ballot on Election Day right it still
counts so think of how long that takes
to count in Florida at least I think you
had to post mark your ballot if you did
mail in by like a couple week a couple
days before the election so it was
different but in an Arizona there's a
lot of mail-in ballot to and again like
there are just patterns right early
mail-in ballots usually favorite
Republicans early in-person voting
favors Democrats Election Day voting
favors Republicans later mail-in ballots
there maybe was Democrats and these
patterns have been the same for years
yeah we only care about the after
election counting when it can determine
the outcome of the election I remember
after 2016 some of the narratives around
turnout had to be adjusted because there
were so many california votes I think
I've counted so late but because they
didn't we didn't they didn't affect the
outcome they didn't any close races
nobody cared
Florida to their credit the Arizona
Secretary of State put out a long blog
post explaining why it takes so long to
vote part of it is uh there's a whole
bunch of people who drop off their early
ballots at the polls on election day
they said it's 320,000 so that means you
need to verify all those signatures and
then make sure they didn't also vote in
person when they drop that off by
accident no one's alleging fraud here
but you could see why that's sort of an
onerous process and takes a while it
means like we need to remember that
we're probably not gonna get a whole
bunch of results during midterms on
election night and we should just tell
people that in advance like you can't
judge the blue wave on Tuesday night no
never again and many people did right
many people said it's certainly not a
blue wave James Carville well and many
people made fools of themselves
days later Bret Stevens you get a little
bit of excuse on election night you
don't get mixed I love when Bret Stevens
decides to fight back to defend himself
because it always means he's gonna get a
second round of people pointing out the
ways in which his first column was so
bad dunk done by Nico I mean over - it
wasn't just like conservative columnist
Bret Stevens last night Monday night
there was an AP headline no blue wave
but Democrats midterm success sinking in
about all of these developments in the
piece it says Democrats had their party
had their best midterm performance since
Watergate since 1971 and yet the
headline was no blue wave just like I
mean to some extent this whole
debate is stupid but I blew it to a to
the to all JP all this time it's like
we're we're debating whether or not an
abstraction used to describe this elect
like a metaphor yeah we're doing we
should use the wave metaphor the wave
metaphor applies goddamnit what kind of
mainstream media nonsense is this it was
it had the crest on top and it killed
the server you in sync as tsunamis is
clearly what like what come on everyone
we were gonna win like 40 seats in the
house that is astounding and then all
these governorships and state
legislators it's a huge night for
Democrats
yeah I mean once again you know there's
so much focus on
personalities and individual races and
ideology and like not enough focus on
just the way the demographics are in the
country and if you look and a couple of
posters did this basically on the entire
electorate just moved six points more
democratic and if you go race by race
throughout the country it's like that's
that was enough to put cinema over the
top in Arizona because Hillary Clinton
only lost that race by three points that
was enough to get better very close
because Hillary Clinton only long that
race by nine points she lost that race
so like if you go through the country
it's a pretty easy explanation for what
happened okay John yeah what do you call
a video file of the bear from Jungle
Book talking about the election what a
Balu dot wave to the point about the
narrative like yeah it doesn't matter
but it does yeah because it does it
matter it like it informs how Democrats
run on policy it informs how we run in
elections the next time but it informs
how the media treats Democrats taking
power like I do think some of the
stupidity of the Democratic overreach
thing is built on this idea that we
didn't have the success we should have
had so maybe the strategy has been wrong
yep and also Margaret Sullavan in the
Washington Post media critic wrote a
piece that was very good about this and
she said you know some of this and we're
gonna get to this you know Donald Trump
in the Republicans refusing to believe
in the election results instead it
certainly didn't help that the media
basically said you had a great night
Republicans went everywhere like it sort
of fed the narrative in their mind like
well we were told like you know dumb
people like Donald Trump we were told
that we won everywhere and that we
dominated what is this all this about
Democrats winning it must be phony
it must be fraud you know and so there
there is this narrative that sets in
because the media said it was such a
good night for Republicans that you know
just sort of feeds conspiracy theories
to anyway so everyone should wait a lot
wait next time us too
so what do we think about we should talk
a little about this what do we think
about cinema's when
um you know she ran a pretty centrist
campaign the early mentioned Donald
Trump supported him sending troops to
the border and yet she you know is in
the lead by about thirty five thirty six
thousand votes right now yeah it's just
a good example that there's no one
narrative or yeah conclusion you can
draw from the way Democrats around
across the country you know you had
Democrats running on Medicare for all
across the country and doing really well
on that liberal idea you had bet about
performing in Texas by running an
unabashedly progressive campaign you
have joe Manchin winning in West
Virginia by doing the exact opposite
right so I think I think Ezra Klein
wrote a great piece about this that that
that the that you just can't make a
simple conclusion based on this that
there's a big it's a big complicated
country and you can't run the same way
in West Virginia that you do in Texas
that you do in Georgia that you do in
Arizona that you do in California yeah
one thing about cinema too is she I was
reading some of the coverage of that
Arizona campaign
she ran almost basically a one-issue
campaign and she ran on health care and
she ran on Mick Sally's vote on
repealing Obamacare she ran on
pre-existing conditions and also even
though she ran as a centrist mcsalley
ran against her as former Green Party
Act anti-war activist case yeah but it
didn't work mcsalley ran against Kyrsten
Sinema
at circa 2000 railing she called her
like a terrorist sympathizer they'd
written those negative election they
could possibly think of and it failed I
mean I think gather the most interesting
contrast to me is the way officials in
Arizona writ large have handled the
election results in the uncertainty
around them as compared to Florida I
mean they that you've had Nick Sally
doing this classy video with an adorable
dog where she conceded you have this the
you know governor of the state election
officials saying let's all take a deep
breath like voting takes a while
counting them all it takes a while and
then you have Marco Rubio going
full Infowars well he's like he's like a
dumb fratty version of Inc Awards open
doors over in Florida and like really
potentially creating a dangerous
situation yeah I mean let's talk about
Florida races for governor senator and
Agriculture Commissioner all face
recounts that were triggered
the margins in all 3 contests are under
0.5% Rick Scott leads bill Nelson right
now by more than 12,500 votes
De Santis leads Gilliam by 34 thousand
votes and Democratic Agriculture
Commissioner candidate Nikki freed is
now winning by five thousand votes a
little more and yet as you said Tommy
somehow Republicans from Rick Scott to
Marco Rubio to Donald Trump are accusing
Democrats of committing voter fraud and
trying to steal an election
Rubio's phrase was actually the
Democrats lawyers are there to try and
steal races that was from Marc Olivia
Trump said that they should stop
counting votes end quote
must go with election night imagine like
Bob Ballard Marc Elias like coming out
with like pockets just ballots falling
out of their pockets in their coats it's
such a laughable stupid trope it's not
even about the recount yet it's must go
with election night which means that all
of the oversees all the military ballots
would not be counted must go and as
always trump is not hasn't thought about
this very deeply at all he's just
thinking ahead and he's thinking about
being up in Florida on election night in
2020 and wanting to declare victory so
that if he does end up losing a close
election in a place like Florida in
votes that are counted after we end up
you know in in the nightmare scenario of
Donald Trump refusing to accept the
results Marco Rubio tweeted someone
posted a photo of a box it said
provisional ballots on it and Marco
Rubio tweeted about it and fanned the
flames of paranoia about this box -
somehow it was like stolen votes it was
full of envelopes and pens and signs
that said he is such an he's an
he's an idiot and he's creating problems
he's no better than Matt Gaetz who said
for all I know they're still counting
ballots for Al Gore back there like okay
you're state humiliated itself in 2000
there was an election that was stolen
from Al Gore in this awful way why would
you raise the specter of that right and
here's Trump is Trump Rick Scott is very
Trump II as well Marco Rubio while
acting very Trump II in this situation
still craves the approval of the
establishment in Washington stuff like
that and so someone anyone out there
people reporters anyone please get Marco
Rubio on the record as to what
evidence he has for the claim the
Democrats are trying to steal the
election because he hasn't repeated it
since the first week he note he
definitely knows he went too far because
now he's trying to no no it's about
Broward County as a disaster there's
corruption and the election person
there's you know Bobo he's trying to
he's trying to deflect all these things
though but originally he said that
they're trying to steal the election and
he has not walked it back I want him on
the record it's a Marco Rubio goes to
great lengths to not actually take a
position when he makes these kinds of
little little kind of uh points to
appease the Republican base and he's
never more indignant as well as when
someone suggests he actually took a
position yes how dare you suggest I said
don't count the votes
I actually was merely making a bunch of
implications that you were supposed to
read in the subtext of what I said well
not actually be able to find any actual
principle inside of my words and would
also say if any reporters do manage to
get to Marco Rubio and ask him a
question about his crazy vote
allegations can you also ask him about
some of the biggest issues facing the
country from the past year because he
has been avoiding taking a position on
virtually everything I mean you got
Katherine Harris out there being like
everyone needs to calm down but I think
Marco Rubio also tweeted about this and
if he did not I apologize but a bunch of
people were tweeting about a video of an
elections worker using his personal car
to drive provisional ballots to the
headquarters everyone was freaking out
like the manga I think the tweet is like
let this sink in some men's car election
workers are expected to use their cars
for that purpose they don't have a fleet
of Election Day cars that they get to
use and then Trump was out there saying
how come they never find Republican
votes in Broward County Rick Scott's
vote count went up seventy thousand
votes they found a lot of votes for him
they just found more for the Democratic
is that's the demographic of the county
well and also we should say and the
media was late to this to Florida law
enforcement election observers and now
judges have all said there's absolutely
no evidence of widespread fraud or
forged ballots in the state so don't
take our word for word don't take
Democrats word for it's like we got law
enforcement we got judges we can Florida
election officials it's appointed by
George Jeb Bush yeah what else it's
funny if you examine it the connection
between the votes
late and the fraud is one that Donald
Trump is implying somehow that once
Democrats in in in these Democratic
strongholds in these Democratic
strongholds
saw that Republicans might get out they
went to work to start filling out the
fake ballots like like there was this
group of people quietly watching the
returns and then the second it looked
like Democrat Bill Nelson and Andrew
Gilliam might be in trouble
all of a sudden somewhere they're just
feverishly filling out ballots as fast
as they can but not so fast as to not
draw suspicion because they're all
coming in after election day I mean the
New York Times story last night all
about how this has been a Republican
strategy this wasn't anyone actually
believing that there's election fraud
GOP strategy according to Republican
lawyer strategist and advisors this is
the New York Times to quote treat the
recount as the next phase of a campaign
to secure the party's majority agenda in
the Senate I mean it's just like the
cabinet it's all about power they don't
care about the story I don't care about
the argument they don't care about
anything it's just about power but also
in Broward like if there were some surge
of votes for Nelson and Gilliam and
Broward you might look at that and
thinking that seems a regular in fact
they underperformed in the county they
got fewer votes out of the county than
they do historically so not great fraud
guys but it's it is it's it's important
for and you know a lot of be outlets
sort of like repeated in their social
media accounts we can talk about this
when we get to Trump Trump's claim
Republicans claim that there was voter
fraud even though there's no evidence of
that but it's so media organizations
need to fact-check and some of them do
this very well CNN does this very well
the next thing they need to do is
actually talk about the motivation
behind this strategy right like the
Republicans are not alleging vote fraud
because they think there's vote fraud
they want Scott to win so they can have
more power in the Senate the NR SC
wasn't mad at mcsalley because they
believed she was the victim of vote
fraud they were like hey we're supposed
to be lying like us so we can try to
take the seat you should get that dog
back onto that couch and you look at
that camera and you say if I don't win
this election
Kirstin Center was gonna put this dog to
sleep meanwhile in Florida like you have
a former Democratic congressman named
Patrick Murphy who tweeted that his
ballot wasn't counted because if the
signatures didn't match so god only know
how many real votes are not being
counted that to me is a real scandal not
22 votes in Broward getting miss sorted
and that's and we're gonna talk about
that too when you talk to Stacey Abrams
campaign manager in Georgia there's
still a big issue of provisional ballots
not being counted and on Monday night a
federal judge delayed the certification
of the results and that state wants the
provisional ballots to be counted and
even demanded that a hotline be set up
for people to call in and find out if
their ballot was gotten well just one
more point on this to you know as we're
talking about these bad faith efforts to
make this about voter fraud we're
talking about built what bill Nelson is
down by 15,000 votes under the previous
governor over four years about a hundred
and forty thousand people or Rhian
franchised because they were felons who
then got that right to vote back under
Rick Scott over eight years only three
thousand felons were giving their right
to vote back now that's gonna change
because Florida passed amendment four
but one thing to always one thing to
keep in mind is as they're alleging
voter fraud regardless of what happens
in this recount they have done
everything they could to suppress the
vote and make the result ultimately
illegitimate because there are hundreds
of thousands of people in Florida that
Rick Scott prevented from voting because
he thought there would be democratic
lows that's right so how is Trump
handling the blue wave thoughtful
statesmen like sober with his usual
grace on Friday he blamed California's
Forest Management and threatened to
withhold federal funding as the state
was burning from the most destructive
fire in history one that has killed
dozens of people destroyed hundreds of
homes and forced hundreds of thousands
of people to evacuate then Trump flew
all the way to France only to cancel a
visit to an American military cemetery
to mark the anniversary of the end of
World War one because it was raining and
then yesterday on Veterans Day Trump
cancelled the unofficial presidential
trip to Arlington National Cemetery also
because it was raining what what the
 is wrong with this man I mean just
on the fires real quick I mean he's such
a scumbag for like 3% of California
forests are actually managed by state
and local officials the rest of the
federal government and logging interests
and individuals so like he's just so
on the merits but the morality of
attacking people while firefighters are
literally dying to try to keep this
blaze from like consuming big parts of
California it is it's insane I don't
care if a California state officials
started the fire you don't
 senator tweet saying I'm Jerry
Brown's out there with a Zippo you still
don't say don't you don't say
that you're withholding federal funding
into a state where people are dying as
he was tweeting that the most
destructive fire in state history
raging I have to say to it it's like it
is something different when you're
actually like in the place where Trump
is attacking you know like what's like
an air bomb we're always about a million
things he does all the time all over the
country but when you're sitting there
and you're driving around and like you
see the smoke and you know people who
have acted on sky stuff it's just like
it's just so deeply up on like a
human level yeah
knotti all politics aside just like I am
this is our president right now
he's he just he's no sense of decency so
let's talk about Trump and the troops
respecting our troops by going to first
of all Tommy was that a valid excuse
that so they said that marine one
couldn't fly in the rain and then Secret
Service basically Trump blamed it on
Secret Service this morning said that uh
it was too far to travel but via
motorcade that Secret Service said it
wasn't possible I believe we have the
technology now to predict weather in
particular rain or fog so it may be it's
probably true that Secret Service said
no you cannot helo in this weather fine
get in the car man it's fifty five miles
like the notion that Secret Service
doesn't tell you not to do something
they advise you on safety but like if
the president says you know what I'm
landing in Kabul and I'm visiting the
troops in Afghanistan they do it because
the commander-in-chief so I think we can
motorcade an hour outside of Paris one
to the notion that he was like really
concerned about in fluently though
disrupting in the commute of various
Parisians as he lands in the US the next
day and fires off five tweets attacking
McCrone in the cause traffic by the dark
to cheer up my friend
I care about the people of the world he
just wanted to sit on his fat ass and
tweet and then like what the not going
to Arlington on Monday is astounding now
if a Democrat did this we all know it
would be the biggest story in the
history of Fox News they'd have an all
day special report there's a structural
imbalance that is making that not happen
right now but also you know anyway I
don't like I'm torn here because one I I
like am deeply offended that he wouldn't
think it's important to go honor US
service members when he's sending them
to war two on the politics of it like it
this should be a career-ending thing and
I don't know why it isn't also I mean we
complained about optics debates when we
were in the Obama White House and Obama
was hit by not just foxnews but you know
the morning joe set for not doing
everything perfectly optics wise right
saluting with a cup one time let's
remember this didn't just defend the
right wing this offended all the
people in Washington for Trump it's not
just about the optics when it comes to
the troops the New York Times also
reported over the weekend that the 5,600
troops he sent to the border for an
election stunt to stop the caravan have
nothing to do right now but will miss
Thanksgiving with their families because
Trump needed to juice the base in
advance of the midterms and this is from
the New York Times story quote Pentagon
officials privately derided the
deployment as an expensive waste of time
and resources and a morale killer to
boot they're there with little
electricity and they'll be receiving no
combat pay while spending time away from
their families during the holidays
they're literally sitting around eating
MREs just wanna this is a this is a real
bang shot but I just want to remind
everybody that
Axios went into the Oval and let Trump
tell a long story about saving
money on a Sharpie pen because he's such
a fan of being a good steward of tax
dollars they shot it like the end of
veep but still he did make that point
while they're wasting like 200 million
dollars on this dumb thing and
that's all these are human beings 5600
human beings are sent to the border
they're sleeping in tents they can see
the Whataburger but they're not allowed
go there they got Eva the MREs
they have no mission they're passing out
from heat exhaustion they're not gonna
see their families on Thanksgiving I
mean this is a big deal yeah he's using
them as a political prop and remember
the reason he was in France was because
he wanted to have a big military parade
pray because he was jealous of macarons
parade they convinced him that was gonna
cost a hundred mil so to fly over to
France to honor the service members
there and then just to leave the hotel
the guy is a pathetic human being and
someone ran the numbers too and if the
entire Caravan shows up at once on the
border it would be only about double the
daily load of people that they deal with
that the Border Patrol deals with on a
daily basis coming to this country like
a 3 2 1 fight like unless a bunch of
junk loud Van Dam's I think we got this
covered right so it would be a little
more work maybe maybe a maybe add some
Border Patrol agents from somewhere else
for that day when the caravan shows up
it would be handled fine
you could process the asylum claims it
could be a very orderly process fine but
instead we have 5,000 troops there
remember he's at 15,000 before the
election and everyone just ran it
15,000 now okay meanwhile I just again I
want to focus a little bit on the reason
Donald Trump can't be in the rain so so
he wakes up and I do believe his hair is
about down to his shoulders maybe a
little bit further and what you see has
to do is he has to and because of that
the surgery that removed part of his
scalp he has a big gap in the back so
basically what happens is he takes from
one side and he goes up and over kind of
a I you know on the let's call it the
x-axis okay and then he has to bring the
other side let's say the right side
forward him back along the y-axis okay
so it creates a kind of latticework a
delicate loudest work which he brushes
back using a hairdryer so then he
creates the wave both on the left side
and the right side of his face then he
creates the lattice on top then he hits
it with the hairspray and he
hits it with the hairspray if you
remember long before Donald Trump was
president he did have an issue which is
he did believe the CFC version of
hairspray was far better than the ozone
safe version because there was that
brief period of time before they figured
out how to make an aerosol without the
CFCs or he had the pump spray uh-huh and
that was deal-breaker for him
because his life depends his ability to
leave his
depends on good hairspray anyway he hits
it and hits it for a while okay now that
is impervious to wind basically except
her at the end of the day where you see
those videos of it blowing off of space
but rain that's his kryptonite all right
this is we're in an unbreakable
situation he is not safe in the rain and
he knows that all his power all of his
base everything goes away if we see what
happens when that hair is not held
together by hairspray if it comes down
and he looks like a fat Merlin people
will freak the out he's weak he's a
weak small petty man and like you you've
got McCrone and Merkel out there
honoring the legacy of these men and
women you have Putin showing up
and he's giving him a big how do you do
but then Trump like McCrone went out and
gave this big speech condemning
nationalism and and you know like
putting a stake in the ground for how he
wants the the global world order to go
from here and Trump doesn't do anything
about it until he gets home and sends
off a bunch of tweets yes I mean
that's his whole deal the truth is
Donald Trump doesn't care about anyone
but Donald Trump yep said this for a
long time and I think that every
incident like this it just feeds into a
larger narrative the message that we
have to push ahead of 2020 because we
all remember ahead of 2004 when we all
thought we could be george w bush no one
knew what the message against bush was
he's stupid he's too far to the right w
stands for wrong answer ah hey there's
like ten different attacks against
George Bush cuz everyone hated him so
much no one knew everyone was so angry
they didn't know what to land on I do
think especially if you look at some of
the results of Tuesday night to this
idea that Trump only cares about himself
he doesn't care about America doesn't
care about the troops he doesn't care
about working people in the heartland he
doesn't care about anyone California
California California Forest Management
he just views California as a place of
non Trump people in the same way he
viewed Puerto Rico as being not for him
he attacks the places where he thinks
people are not with him to send a
message it's corrupt because he only
cares about his own finances he
everything goes through the lens of
Trump only cares about himself and I
just but what's a challenge about all of
their many challenges of all this but
like we all know the game the game is
very obvious identify he lobs some lye
out there and the media reports it but
we solvent learned the lessons from two
years ago like okay so the caravan
mentions the weekly D&C election there
were 40,000 mentions on TV in the week
following there's been 11 thousand what
a surprise right but Trump goes out
there and he tweets the stock market is
down because of Democrats and the best
you get out of that is like a fact show
CNBC tweets it the quote right so that's
great could work there CNBC but then the
best you're gonna get is an article it's
like is it true that the stock market is
down because Democrats well the markets
are not the economy in a couple it's a
lie the stock market is down these Apple
and Goldman Sachs are down because
apples supplier tanked and an earnings
report and Goldman Sachs is getting sued
and its price weighted index like look
there's a very clear answer to why this
is and we need to lead with the
light when we're reporting this stuff
and again it's it's hard to just fight
with the media because we're we're gonna
change very little about it but
Democrats in 2018 in their elections
learn the lesson that they don't have to
jump at everything Trump does and every
Democrat whether you were further to the
left center left you know whatever
they've ran laser-like focus on health
care and pre-existing conditions they
did not take the bait they did not talk
about every single Trump tweet the media
has not learned about that when you
challenged the media about that they
will say well he's the president United
States we have to cover him yes
of course you do but you also can learn
to cover him with the proper context and
proportionality yep right and so yes of
course the caravan is a story of course
people should cover they'll Caravan
right like summer why shouldn't we
course you should cover it but does it
warrant being mentioned every day over
and over again 24 hours a day images on
the news for a month
same as Hillary's a measly same as
Hillary's emails same as Hitler but of
course you know two years later however
many years later how much how much self
reflection has been done about the
Hillary email coverage how much will be
done about the caravan coverage how much
will be done about Trump saying that the
election is not valid its vote it's a
legitimate
advance of 2020 how much reflection are
we gonna finally do about how we
cover this me none John then we got to
go I mean the answer for Democrats
because that's what we care about is to
go around the traditional media and do
it in 2020
don't don't give them the interviews
don't just go get your message out
however you can through your own outlets
through your own methods of
communication don't worry about the
media and we got a spot mark 2020
candidate right here at this desk I'm
just gonna spend the day talking about
Jim Acosta's hard pass oh yeah we forgot
to mention that see no we didn't forget
[Laughter]
he's not a good enough reporter to talk
about him suing Trump over Acosta's
persecuted give his heart pass back
stand up for the press but stop the pre
news hello things I just put in another
bucket before we like Trump's also
reportedly about to fire Kirsten Nielsen
the homeland security secretary I think
we put Manhattan gonna protest that do
what you know and and also the Maryland
Attorney General is suing Donald Trump
over the appointment of Matthew Whitaker
that's cool I'm saying that no you can't
just just stick someone off the street
who hasn't been cited can point said it
confirmed sorry into the a job of
attorney general right well
interestingly though a DHS it means the
third biggest agency in the government
and there's no deputy
they've even nominated one little
unconfirmed one so they're gonna have a
similar problem there it's gonna have to
be like the undersecretary for
management as somebody who never heard
of or you know brick from the wall
construction or he just like he knows
just like warms up the desk for Joe
Arpaio and everyone freaks out he's like
no he's I'm putting him in here alright
let's talk about our friends the
Democrats yeah they're winners Blue Wave
party leaders say that the first
legislative vote in the new house will
be on a bill that includes automatic
voter registration restoration of the
Voting Rights Act public financing of
elections and end to gerrymandering and
a constitutional amendment to overturn
citizens united what do we think good
idea that's a good one week messaging
bill yeah I love it I think it's it's a
it's a great way to start because it's a
it's a place where the caucus can be
unified
it's important message after the
shenanigans from Republicans around this
election and I do think right it's but
we're gonna end up with kind of two big
baskets of things
talk about for the next few years one
will be corruption reform chaos kind of
the Trump show and what's broken about
it and what it tells us about
Republicans and the other will be policy
and so I don't mind starting with this
kind of reform piece of it especially
while it's in the news no one's gonna
give a about this six months from
now right and I think press I mean I
think it's a fantastic idea we like
obviously we need to do all these things
and look they range from you know all of
these are about what happens when
Democrats are finally in power again in
all three branches right I mean I'm
sorry in the house in the Senate and in
the presidency and some of them can
probably easily get done the first month
of a new Democratic president like
automatic voter registration stuff like
that
some of them like an amendment to
citizens united probably aren't gonna
happen for quite some time it's gonna be
a battle but again so these are these
are messaging bills these where
Democrats can say this is what we're
fighting for
Mitch McConnell will not bring this up
for a vote Donald Trump will not sign
this you give us a Democratic Senate
Democratic president this becomes law
which is a great message yeah I like it
but as you as you guys both alluded to
the challenge here with all of these
bills is keeping them in the news
there's also been a debate that's popped
up now about how Democratic sorry
there's also been a debate that's popped
up now about democratic strategy when it
comes to oversight and investigation
Tommy you pointed us on this out on
Twitter the CNN Chiron yesterday was
quote fears of overreach Cloud Democrats
new strategy
the argument here is that if the
investigations seem unfair I guess or if
Democrats bring impeachment charges
against Trump that will turn the public
against us and make people sympathetic
to Trump know what are we nervous that's
not true on any level the the
Republicans investigated Benghazi for
four years that is the only reason we
know about Hillary's private server it
did an enormous damage to her that
enormous damage in the presidential
campaign it's damage to Obama and our
ability to get stuff done no one gave a
 about the overreach we need to
hammer him hammer him with subpoenas for
four years tears yeah see things not for
you I do think I think there is a risk
you know Newt Gingrich's
Congress was viewed as basically just
harassing Bill Clinton and there was a
backlash there some of
some Romney strategists Stuart Stevens
will tell you that the focus on Benghazi
in 2012 actually hurt Romney a little
bit like they should have well that's
cuz he completely screwed up he he
attacked people in an embassy in Cairo
who were being attacked by the
extremists inside like that's how we
fight was because these subpoenaed
people my view on this is it's not if
this was a normal president who had
normal scandals we can have this debate
and maybe there'd be good arguments on
both sides of it no this is a man donald
trump has is an unindicted
co-conspirator to multiple felonies yeah
you know there's like I get the
Democrats want to be on message I get
that they want to talk about health care
and we're gonna talk about jobs and
wages we have to like that has to be the
message going it's 2020 that's why we
did well on 2018 but we can't just let
constitutional crises go by we can't
just sit there and be like oh the
president has committed impeachable
offenses but we don't want to go after
those impeachable offenses because
there's a narrative that if we do people
think that we're being mean to the
president and his base doesn't agree
because Fox News is a propaganda machine
that's brainwash them like we can't we
can't do that but it's this it can it
can it uh it combines two things one is
is it actual overreach on the merits of
what's at stake here yeah and and and I
would love to see what someone believes
it's like I would love to hear you see
an example of what it means to go too
far in investigating the crimes mistakes
debacles Krait tragedies horrors of the
Trump administration what what is what
is it that Adam Schiff can do that you
think is on policy grounds going too far
fascinating then there's this political
question about overreach and again you
know I feel we will know it when we get
there but why don't we do an
investigation first what I do one let's
take one investigation out for a spin
before we claim that we've done too many
and then the other piece of this is this
question about how do you know a scandal
investigation our investigations they're
sexier than hearings on how to make
Medicare for all possible hearings on
education hearings on jobs and I think
that's a reasonable concern right we're
going to spend a lot of time talking
about investigations Donald Trump is
going to choose to
you probably on that territory because
it's where he feels most comfortable so
to me one thing I would like to see
House Democrats thinking about is how do
you do policy investigations
you know we had hearings about Wells
Fargo they got the focus on what the
banks had done and what Wells Fargo had
done to abuse consumers I would like to
see House Democrats do investigations
around abuses by corporate interest as a
means to get to a sexy version of a
policy agenda I think that is a good
route to go so that that don't just
think about it as policy versus
investigations because that is a false
choice other thing I'd say is this is a
bit of a silly debate because for the
last two years the Democrats in the
House and the Senate were the message of
the party because there were no leaders
to the party and they were the so they
were both you know they were the message
that was it for the next two years House
Democrats I can be able to investigate
whatever they want there's gonna be a
separate conversation happening among
all people running for president in 2020
right so there's a difference between
what Democrats do and what other
Democrats say right like the House
Democrats they can subpoena who you need
to subpoena do the investigation the
message of the party is gonna come from
the men and women who run for the
nomination and they're not going to be
talking about investigations the whole
time nor should they be they should be
talking about the bigger message about
policy in the direction of the country
in the vision stuff like that
let the House Democrats investigate till
the cows come up the Republicans
were manufacturing scandals but they're
they they did not find any evidence of
wrongdoing in Benghazi except for the
fact that that the facility was not
guarded well enough and that was a huge
tragedy and a problem they need to be
remedied we like the Republican crime
sir hiding in plain sight really Tom
Price Ryan Ziggy you have like cabinet
official after official we can subpoena
documents and records and figure out all
the ways they were abusing their power
and and taking government planes on
junkets to like their son's wedding and
all the these guys were doing to
make stuff up we are gonna find a lot of
that that shows the culture of
corruption the Trump administration the
failure to drain the swamp in any way
shape or form we're about to also see
how I do it Adam Schiff now has the
ability to with this with the Democrats
on each committee to start
releasing documentation of their
investigation which Devon noonas has
been sitting on because that's how he
reaches the wheel of the car what one
other thing about 2020 though I am a
little worried that we're about to see
is a bunch of potential Democratic 2020
candidates trying to audition for who's
the right person to argue with Trump and
it's bait and that is coming and I
understand why we're gonna do that and
it's gonna be quite grueling like
everyone kind of doing there there I
have their zinger the one their one-act
play but to me like right now I'm so
much more interested in the policy side
about debate and that's what this time I
hope is for and I hope that the
candidates thinking about running are
thinking less about how do I make sure
that I'm able to throw a punch and prove
to the Democratic base that I'm a
fighter versus actually thinking about
the underlying structural problems that
made it possible for someone like Donald
Trump to get even within shouting
distance of the White House to begin
with 100% I want to just subpoena him
and do as much damage to his approval
rating as humanly possible over the next
two years that is my that's your job
that's our job like I think that is not
the job of a 20/20 candidate I do not
think the Twitter can buttress Manzo
where you are I mean if you're in the
Senate now if you're that oh no I think
usually spending time on talking about
the cut like I think most a lot of
people have made up their minds about
Donald Trump I am interested
investigating subpoenas not just for his
approval rating or primarily not because
it was a program because he may have
committed crimes mm-hmm may have what
are we doing I'm trying to be I'm try
probably he's an unindicted
co-conspirator and he abused his power
and so we should do something like that
The Wall Street Journal published his
blockbuster story that he is the unnamed
Trump official who was colluding with
Michael Cohen on the hush payments to
women he had been having affairs with
and it just sort of goes away with the
whisper
yeah well hurry up Bob Muller yeah let's
go buddy okay you get Whittaker guy to
the to the I don't know place where
indictments are signed there you go
the indictment and some knowledge and
expertise to be able get to that
indictment pen before that my Twitter
Gigan hi
it's a sharpie now it's a Sharpie all
right
when we come back Tommy talks to Lauren
grower go campaign manager for Stacey
you
