they were pod queueing America pod save
America live and we're back I'm John
Lovett
this is the game of Thrones one right no
we're done talking about Game of Thrones
it's in the past be polite you watch the
end of it I am behind on veep I've got
two episodes I don't want to say goodbye
to veep so I'm not letting myself watch
the last two no I'm treating myself each
evening to a little dose of Chernobyl
let's just say I feel blown away by the
the content and the show is really
heating up wanna break some news oh the
brick news we might get a chance to
interview Julia louis-dreyfus
I have no authorization to say this oh
yeah that's a that's a you live
streamers you guys are right or die and
I wanna know stuff it's like an IRS leak
Julia Louie Julia Louie Dreyfus maybe
Dave Mandel - yeah two of the most
talented people in show business I just
saw their names in an email so I don't
even know I don't even know I don't know
what that confirmed but we're trying
Priyanka's on the Q's and A's stars on
the ones and twos Mylo on the
boom-and-bust okay so we want to kick it
off with the news of the day
so today Trump stormed out of a White
House infrastructure meeting Nancy
Pelosi a truck Schumer and he went
immediately to the Rose Garden where he
had this poster setup and he basically
did a press conference saying he will
not work with them what do we make of
this what's going on so first of all
I've stormed out of a room before all
right I don't want to sit here and
pretend I haven't stormed out of her
shock and I will tell you when I have
stormed out of a room I did not walk
into a second room that had a premade
graphics package to explain the reason I
stormed out so I don't even think it's
right to call it storming out of a room
I think it is a planned exit to a
preconceived anti Pelosi press
conference
I imagine the episode in Game of Thrones
when the hounds lugged a box to the PTA
meeting and put it
and they unleashed a white that's how I
imagined Trump entering that room just
raging screaming with a with a chain
around his neck yeah I mean the thing is
first of all being down internet guy you
know Donald Trump as far as archers go
doesn't have a lot of arrows in his
quiver you know and storming out of a
room is to him it is the the ultimate
chess move it is the hit is his go-to
move he talks about it all the time he
talked about in the campaign like if I
was gonna renegotiate a deal with the
Chinese here's what I would do I'd walk
in I'd say you and then walk out he
did it when he got divorced when he got
divorced he walked out on a judge to
claim to be angry in January which was
five months ago five months and six
thousand years ago he did the exact same
thing with the exact same people he
walked in remember that's when he went
bye-bye
he said bye bye it's right he said
bye-bye so Donald Trump's move is to
storm out and he's getting everything he
wants out of this little storm out
because instead of what it was which was
a doomed meeting about infrastructure he
decided to make it about the fact that
Nancy Pelosi said is engaging in a
cover-up and then when when when yelled
about the mobile report and it's the
same show we've seen a million its
performative it's acting and it's
annoying to see it get reported straight
like this is Trump's position this was
Pelosi said because the position that
Congress shouldn't exercise any
oversight over you is a non-starter it's
ridiculous it's not what the
Constitution requires the divided the
multiple branches of government to do so
I hope that people reject this
stunt for what it is it's the ludicrous
right you just take it every level of it
okay so he's angry yeah
pundits scratching at the door so first
of all all right he's angry that sheet
that Pelosi said it's a cover-up
well he's refusing to release his tax
returns he's refusing to release his tax
returns he's not letting Don McGann
speak he's come
hurry up what they would say he is
engaged in a cover-up he's been engaged
in a cover-up this entire time then he's
saying now I can't do a deal about
infrastructure until you stop saying
things that are true which is of course
absurd first of all that's like I won't
build roads until you're nice to me is
pathetic and then on top of that that's
not even true because that's not the
reason we're not gonna have an
infrastructure deal we're not gonna have
an infrastructure deal because Donald
Trump Mick Mulvaney and Mitch McConnell
are not gonna raise taxes for the rich
to pay for a bunch of roads cuz they
don't give a they look the world
crumble around them as long as they can
build magnificent forts around their
mansion so it's all the guy who
paid 150 grand to his mistress to cover
up the affair before the election is
blood her because he's accused of a
cover-up it's ridiculous what else we
got alright so we touched a little bit
on listen it's um it's Hazzard work here
here and here in the studio someone's
gotta do it anyway impeachment so we've
talked a little bit about this before
and yesterday I think you started to see
more House Democrats sort of breaking
with leadership breaking with Pelosi and
calling for impeachment where does this
stand now what do you think it would
take for Nancy Pelosi to get on the same
side with people should she do it what
do you guys think my guess is that she
has a better whip count than anyone on
this and probably still knows that a lot
of her caucus is divided it does feel
like there's significant momentum in the
direction of impeachment we've heard
this from a bunch of folks publicly and
privately that even moderate Democrats
who were totally opposed to it before
feel like you can't just completely
Stonewall Congress on any document
request oversight request hear inquest
and that is pulling them in the
direction of impeachment and forcing
their hand the question I have is is
that what Trump wants I don't know I
don't know that he has a great plan for
what he's gonna do tomorrow let alone
impeachment but um yeah I bet
Pelosi yz+ he moves slowly she brings a
caucus with her she's very smart I have
faith in her yeah the point that Dan
makes all the time which is a good one
is Nancy Pelosi sees greatest trick is
convincing people that they're the
reason they got where she wanted them to
go someone also made an analogy to a
character on Game of Thrones I'm not
gonna say the character name in case
this would be a spoiler so I'm gonna
avoid saying it as a spoiler but it
basically Nancy Pelosi seems to be doing
somebody tweeted this at us and was a
good analogy which is something like I
don't want to I don't want to I don't
want to I came all this way so we'll see
I you know I think that there is I think
they're sort of their suspicions that I
think on the one hand there's a lot of
people that I think respect policies
inherent strategic thinking and there's
other people who are starting to
question that and saying hold on you
know we gave you the benefit of the
doubt but it doesn't seem like you
understand where the base is and that we
are inexorably moving towards
impeachment I don't really know it does
seem though that the more Trump
obstructs and I think this move today
will contribute to that the more it's
becoming clear that all roads lead
they're something that we've been saying
for a while even if we're not totally
sure what the right thing to do is so
what do you do when the president's
refusing to comply with any form of
oversight well you start to run out of
tools and one of the last tool at the
bottom of that little tool box is gonna
be impeachment got it second last tool
minuchin a manuka maneuver oh yeah I was
gonna ask you guys just in general we
keep these McGann
a bunch of people keep refusing
subpoenas and documents aren't being
given to these House committees that are
requesting them are we ever gonna see
these like do we know what the outcome
of that is or is that just kind of the
impetus for whether or not they decide
to pursue I don't think we know the
outcome I think a lot of it is gonna get
thrown into court battles
ouch could take a very long time I mean
there there were fights over document
requests during the Obama administration
in like 2010 that were just resolved a
few months ago these things can go a
very long time so that has the net
effect of rendering oversight irrelevant
because if it's after the reelection
campaign it doesn't matter anymore if
it's after you're out of office it
doesn't matter anymore we can't beat you
so um I don't know the timeframe I think
a lot of his can get bottle up in the
courts it's incredibly frustrating
I hope they figure out some way to do an
end run around what Trump is doing like
this New York state effort to get his
tax returns
that way yeah yeah it's actually next up
on the list it's tax return so there's
this article yesterday in The Washington
Post about a draft legal memo from the
IRS that basically says that the IRS
must comply with requests for taxes
Trump's tax returns from Congress and
they basically lack the power to say no
which is the opposite of what manukan
was saying and the Trump administration
has been pushing so what are you guys's
thoughts on the latest that leaked from
Washington Post and what does it mean
for all of this right so there's the
state efforts in New York to get Trump's
tax returns that's one aspect of this
so this memo is interesting insofar as
it just makes it just States what's
plain in the law like this isn't a the
law doesn't sit so the Trump
administration being all kinds of claims
about why they don't why the Treasury
Department need to turn over Trump's tax
returns they don't really make sense the
law is like actually pretty crystal
clear it says shall you know they have
to give it there's no it doesn't even
say they need a legislative purpose
which is what the witch what minuchin is
claimed so this memo seems to just sort
of describe what the law says which is
what Democrats have been saying what
nonpartisan experts have been saying and
then the people they've been covering
this I go the only thing that he could
say as he could invoke executive
privilege that's the only way they
wouldn't necessarily need to comply I
find that annoying because I do think
it's giving him the idea there is no
logical reason why they could assert
executive privilege over Donald Trump's
tax return from before he's president
crazy it doesn't mean they won't try but
to me the the only interpretation of the
memo is there is no legal basis to stop
Congress from getting them and I don't
know where it goes from here but I do
think that's important in that it's kind
of resetting where if people are on this
topic that said you know as has always
been the case similar to the Moller
report it's very important that we get
the tax returns it's very important that
we see them it will expose a lot it will
be a terrible story for Donald Trump
there's no world in which it's not a
terrible story for Donald Trump however
it isn't a silver bullet it's not going
to change everything to get them it will
just be another part of our case against
him so I think it's really important we
do everything we can to get them but I
again it's this other it's a gift
because he would has prevented us from
holding seeing them for so long it's a
little bit like Game of Thrones and that
the longer we waited to see them the
bigger we're expecting the outcome and
in the end every single answer to I need
a new set of analogies I need a new set
of things to think about you want to do
Chernobyl because I can make everything
about Chernobyl that's okay cuz I'm in
it on tour noble I am watching the
episodes I am listening to the
after-show podcast with Peter sagal and
Craig Mazin there have been three
episodes out six of six it is hard to
watch but worth watching happy ending
you know I don't know I feel people
people they look like they're glowing
frankly so in that sense I'm glad you've
filled the void in your life all right
we'll move on to where the worldö
question we got some more don't worry
I've even working with friends into this
too I'll do a game of Thrones ology
after okay world our question what are
your thoughts on the new brexit vote
happening in the UK today what do you
think is the way forward and for me
personally what does this mean so I
don't know the way forward this is one
in a series of bumbling efforts by
Theresa May and the Tories to get
through brexit this new plan they put
forward gives Parliament more of a say
in shaping the brexit plan it would also
give lawmakers a vote on whether they
should have a second referendum I think
that unfortunately didn't land very well
among the various MPs who were voting so
it feels like a bit of a last gasp for
Theresa May as she tries to Shepherd
this process no one wants to step in and
take over for her because the politics
are fraught and there's no obvious way
to fix it but it's just an ongoing mess
I have no idea what they're gonna do or
when they're gonna fix it it's a
disaster
who is Theresa May is a game of Thrones
character I think ed Myrtle II probably
right they're sort of that sort of the
wheelhouse were in um
kind of a little bit bumbling no one's
super interested in following his lead
so I would I would say that basically
she's gotten up and then the UK is
basically said please sit down
all right is it okay to throw milkshakes
at fascists and far-right politicians
like Nigel Faraj what's the deal with
this milkshake thing so milkshake Inge
is the UK's hottest new protests Nigel
Farage got a salted caramel milkshake
which is a waste of a delicious drink
this anti-muslim activist who's
running for the European Parliament got
milkshake twice recently others have
gotten milkshake done and I talked about
this they're now trying to figure out
ways to not sell milkshakes around
political events yeah there's doubt some
people know shake on forum approach like
one guy did it and I think it became a
thing it was like the egg boy in
Australia I remember couldn't forget I
don't think it's cool too I think that's
a violent act I think throwing something
at or on someone is if someone threw a
milkshake on me I would be fearful for
my safety I would probably hit them back
it could lead to something bad so I
think like that's a pretty bright line
physical violence that we should not
cross I'm sure people will call me like
a defender of civility politics but also
you know if you throw a milkshake on a
fascist there people are probably gonna
do something worse to you so you're not
setting yourself up for success here
yeah I mean I think you know some people
said how why do people care about
milkshakes when when the right has
engaged in such extreme violence and
we've actually deaths because of
right-wing and fascist politics both the
United States the UK and it's a
perfectly valid critique like the right
has definitely demonstrated far more
violence in our politics I mean there
was a murder of a remain politician just
days before the vote that said like this
is not about civility politics I think
it's a very clear I haven't it's an
absolute line like you wanted you see so
you see a politician you dislike at a
restaurant go tell them what you think
talk to them get angry I have no problem
with that like they should be exposed to
people who have a different point of
view and they shouldn't be protected
from opposing viewpoints just because
they wish not to be confronted by their
heinous positions I have no problem with
that
um even though it looks silly I just
think when you throw something at
somebody it is violent it's also in some
sense a way of saying look how close I
got to you it is
despite being silly and looking silly in
some ways a mock assassination and as
much as that sounds extreme for
something like throwing a milkshake I
think that's the point and I just think
I hate these people
I hate these right-wing people but when
I saw someone throw up high in Ann
Coulter's face she looked very scared
and now you can say maybe she deserves
to be scared and you can say that maybe
that she doesn't serve to just walk
around given how much heinous and terror
heinous she says and which terror
she's inflicted on people who are
powerless ok I understand that but like
that's a person who's thinks that
something really scary and dangerous is
happening to them and that's something
that I don't think our politics should
participate in and I don't think it does
anything good for us yeah she's the
original white Walker I wouldn't
with her and maybe your best arguments
bring all the boys to the yard
milkshakes
Wow ok that took a turn and I did not
expect that yeah anyways a bunch of
people are asking about Iran so in the
last week and a half a ton of
things have happened sure have I would
love if you could recap for us where
we're at and where we started like two
Sundays ago so two Sundays ago there was
allegedly intelligence of threats to US
service members in the region John
Bolton and Trump sent an aircraft
carrier over there that ratcheted up a
series of escalating ly caustic
statements from the White House
responses from the Iranians you know it
got diffused a little bit we then you
know there were reports that Trump was
considering sending 120,000 troops to
the region to deal with this so-called
threat things have been sort of
ratcheting up and down like my blood
pressure so there was a report that
Trump was pissed off at his team for
being too caustic in war monger II but
then Trump tweeted something like oh
yeah he was like I will eradicate Iran
because of a segment on Fox News yes
which was incorrect so like
things are not good it does feel like I
don't know hopefully there's no real
appetite for a war but does it change
the status of Iran's nuclear program
they've started they've done some small
things like they don't have a nuclear
program per se they don't have any
nuclear weapons they do enrich uranium
to very low levels they have announced
that they will increase their enriched
and activity within the confines of the
deal but if it goes on long enough they
could break a component of the Iran deal
it seems like a way for them to be able
to say you pulled out of this deal so
we're gonna start to incrementally break
the rules without actually doing it in a
way that would get a big international
response so it's not on a good
trajectory there's not like a diplomatic
path as an off-ramp that I've seen
publicly so look my blood pressure is
down on it but um it's it's not great
yeah is it the kind of thing where other
countries have reacted or like publicly
made statements about the u.s. is
interactions with Iran and a hard
changing how they deal with us or deal
with Iran based on what's happened in
the past few weeks or where to other
countries fell on this well there's sort
of a couple components like in terms of
economic the the economic component a
bunch of countries are dealing with the
fact that we're increasing sanctions on
Iran and making it harder for them to do
any business with Iran because they
could end up getting sanctions or
purchase oil from Iran so other
countries are having to feel their way
around us you've seen yook the UK came
out and they said that this intelligence
that the u.s. allegedly saw and then
sent that a aircraft carrier over to the
Gulf was overstated so that was
interesting to get fact checked by our
closest ally you're also seeing other
Europeans tell the Iranians not to
with us because they think Trump and
Bolton are crazy so you know I think
people are probably generally just more
concerned but there's not just hasn't
been like a big change in policy or
posture okay got it
all right we're gonna shift back home
for 2020 and some state races this next
question is about the Senate which I
think
you've been talking about a lot and the
people want to know why has there been
almost zero talk of taking back the
Senate from the Republicans the house
keeps passing bills they die in the
Senate
how can Democrats take control of a
Senate without hurting themselves in
2020 race for president and keeping the
house what can we do here I don't think
that's true I think it's plenty of
people talking about the Senate it's
early right there's still people are
still deciding even whether they're
gonna run there's some places where
there's a bunch of candidates vying for
a nomination there's some places where
we need to do some more recruiting I
think the Senate is a really uphill
battle we've got to hold some seats
you've got to take some seats in order
to win it's going to be a real challenge
but I think part of yeah we're gonna you
know I crooked we're gonna be and to
vote save America we're gonna be doing
we've done a we've announced our unify
fund for the presidential we've
announced our local fun folk cherry
there's gonna be more from us on the
house side on keeping the house and on
taking the Senate but that said you know
you're right to be concerned about it
you're right to be thinking about it if
we can win the presidency obviously
winning the Senate will make it possible
for Democrats to legislate and will
dramatically shift the trajectory of the
next administration so it's incredibly
important I do think we'll be talking
about it plenty but right now we're
still in the getting good people to run
phase of this thing totally what do you
said all right so for 2020 what do you
guys think about these debates
especially now that they are going to
include like a baseline of 20 people do
you think they'll actually help narrow
the field or will there be so many
candidates that like no one really has a
chance to make a point or stand out or
screw up enough to pull them out I think
those are both true statements I think
they will be difficult for people to
break through and they will also help
narrow the field I think there's a
number of candidates who have a
preternatural confidence in their
capacity to make America love them via
the debate stage and they will discover
that that was not as true as they
thought so
I think that the debate stage will
winnow insofar as there are people
counting on the debate to change their
place in the race and when it doesn't
they will start to look toward Iowa and
think I should leave now with a backpack
full of dignity instead of spreading it
along the fields
and Cedar Rapids yeah it does make the
whole thing so unpredictable
I mean because I assume they're just
gonna draw lots to see who's on what
stage at what time no no it's not like
an a-team and a B team it's not all over
the Republican debates last night I
don't think that was the case you could
have one debate that is just clearly the
more likely to be nominated candidates
that gets all the focus and or you could
have an instance I mean look you'd have
an infinite number of combinations so it
it makes it harder for me to visualize
what these nights are gonna be like and
how they're gonna play and how
candidates can break through I do think
that it makes it seem likely that some
random person is gonna have a moment
every time there's the debate create a
little boomlet all of a sudden were
really pumped about insert candidate
polling it one percent in Iowa and you
know maybe that's a good thing yeah I
also I do think that the chaos of the
divide of where candidates end up each
night is really important and
unfortunate given that obviously debates
are about who's the best but they're
also about ideas and there are general
and there are genuine rifts that have
been emerging through this primary that
are part of the primary purpose that are
part of the primary process you know Joe
Biden's assertion of Trump as
potentially being an aberration and his
what he said in his speech is about
anger
Bernie's critique and his view of what
change requires Elizabeth Warren's
policy focused campaign you know these
are things that describe not just what
they got just a candidate but a
worldview and I want to see those
worldviews go up against each other and
I do think Democrats would be given
would have a real weari it will be a
real disservice to Democrats if those
candidates don't get to talk to each
other in the early debate it's like I'm
sorry but especially like we all should
just be honest about this like if
there's a debate and we got Joe Biden on
one night and Bernie and Warren on
another night that's a huge and
and it sucks so I don't know how you
prevent that with while being fair and I
don't know but um I do worry about it
got it okay this is a question for Tommy
who you have been called by this person
Iowa's unofficial tourism board
a friend and I are considering a butter
cow
what was that butter cow what is butter
cow it's what it sounds like it's a cow
me out of butter sculpted from butter at
the State Fair anyway sorry
okay it's keto okay a friend and I are
considering a trip to Iowa to canvass
for candidate TBD in January first is
that productive or what Iowans be
repelled at the thought of people from a
different state coming in and like doing
a bunch of canvassing and second who on
a campaign do you contact if this is
something that you think you're
interested in doing uh first part first
great idea if there's a candidate you
really like go volunteer in Iowa no I
mean look you have to be thoughtful and
how you talk to people and approach them
you can't be like you know wearing all
your Dodgers gear and go out and act
like you're gonna fit in but I think
like people are Iowans are very used to
out-of-state people knocking on their
doors making calls it's good especially
Chicagoans for Obama yes there will be
like a National Volunteer Coordinator
for whatever candidate you choose I
can't tell you how to find that person
because we don't know who they are but
it'll be it won't be hard
website and like what do you are you
essentially canvassing like if you
volunteer to do that what types of
things are you generally you will be
asked to make calls knock on doors
random tasks EBD most likely canvassing
because it's ultimately the most
important thing you can do but there
will be all sorts of volunteer tasks
that need to be done and you can do them
you will just have to figure out a place
to stay how to get around will
necessarily be Des Moines it might be
more the far-flung regions but it's cool
it's fun I do it and in your experience
because you've done this before how
receptive would you say people are in
general to like being canvassed depends
on how many people knocked on your door
that day yeah I'd say January 2020 in
Iowa will be like hey I've talked to
eight eight eight creeps like you're
right yeah yeah hey yeah
Eric's wall was staying at my house or
anyway yeah can you please leave it's
gonna be like that all right
oh that's overstated you know it's worth
doing I look it gets people to go caucus
cool okay and then what did you guys
think about Pete Buddha judge doing his
box town-hall I know there's been like a
lot of debate and a lot of talk about
Democrats going on Fox News should they
shouldn't they a lot of taken sides what
did you think about how it ended up
turning out and hazel approach I think
it is an exact I think it's a great
proof point of the fact that is a hard
conversation that doesn't have a clear
correct answer I can I see an argument
that it benefited him in the short term
personally while also benefiting Fox
News as an institution which is to
Elizabeth Warren's point and the point
that we've made something that is
dangerous for Democrats in the long term
I also think it wasn't an unalloyed win
for him I think he had good moments in
that that and he did reach that audience
and I would think it was smart that he
criticized by name some of the more
rancid hosts of that network however the
next day a lot of its words were taking
out taking out of context on that very
Network so you know how much did he
benefit from benefit from it in the
primary I'm not sure what a Democratic
benefit more in the general probably is
it the right thing to do
I still think the answer to that
question is no because if it was
obviously it if it was both bad for your
campaign and bad for the country it
wouldn't be a hard call there is a
chance that it is bad for the country
and good for your campaign and the short
term that's what makes it maybe the
wrong thing to do and a decision that's
hard to make I I think he did the best
that you can in that setting but I still
think Fox News is one of the great
threats to our politics it's one of the
most divisive and destructive forces in
our culture anything you do to stabilize
it regularize it normalize it helped
them with advertisers is morally wrong
and even if there are some benefits I
have trouble getting past that I just do
yeah I think it sucks I don't think you
should have done it I think any
candidate can go in there and have a
decent day I think you probably reached
exactly zero voters
there's no Democratic primary
voters sitting around watching Fox News
unless they turn in tune in to your town
hall to watch it I should stipulate I
have not watched the Pete townhall yet
but I think I don't think it matters if
you as an individual have a good day or
answer questions well if you are on a
work that's set up as a right-wing
propaganda arm the Republican Party
there's a whole bunch of people at Media
Matters and sleeping giants who have
spent years of their life watching Fox
News chronicling it's disgusting race
racism and misogyny and like xenophobia
and using those words against them with
advertisers and when executives at Fox
can go to these advertisers and say look
it's fixed we did a town hall with
insert these Democrats and when they
build events around Democrats going on
their network to some more ads and make
money to fund their hate I think it's a
real problem so it might be a short-term
win I don't even know that it was that
because I don't think you reached a lot
of Democrats and you get on the
next day by Steve Doocy in the unalloyed
morons who they allow to host their
morning show and then long term it is
just they're not gonna be on your side
we went we were schizophrenic on this
with a Brock Obama we engaged Fox we
shut them out engage them again it's you
don't ever win by going on that network
long-term their goal is to take down a
Democratic Party got it okay so I was
just thinking about this as you're
answering this question and people
you're judging a font a Town Hall on Fox
he's done one on CNN all of these
candidates I think are doing them on CNN
and a bunch of other places there are
tons of these things to watch so if
you're like a regular voter who wants to
keep up and be informed and know who
these candidates are maybe before they
get on a debate stage just to get a good
idea do you need to be watching every
single one of these what should you be
doing like how should you get acquainted
with candidates if you care but don't
necessarily have 40 hours to watch town
halls I'm every single one yeah I mean I
I think I pretty well I think it's worth
praising CNN specifically for some of
the substantive coverage that they've
done I think these town halls are great
like I think it's a great and positive
thing I think that they started doing it
when they had the Bernie Sanders he was
it was a debate with Ted Cruz over
Medicare oh yeah yeah like I think that
CNN has really done something like Noble
in in in in providing these subsidy
forms and as people that are critical of
very often I think it's worth pausing to
praise them because the town halls I've
been also really substantive town halls
are a great way to learn about
candidates figure out there's a lot of
great ways to learn about these
candidates I don't know that you need to
invest a full hour and watching every
single one but if there's somebody
you're not sure about it's a great way
to find out more about them and it's
interesting you know in a situation in
which politics is has so much bad faith
in it there's much less of that
intra-party than inter-party right like
arguments between democrats and
republicans have become really
performative especially on those cable
networks but because I think there's
more good faith inside of a party than
outside of it we're one group the
conversations are much better on
television on Twitter elsewhere so for
the most part I think it's a really
great way to learn about the Union yeah
I even watched all of them by any means
I don't feel I don't feel like you have
an obligation to if you're interested
watch them but like the cool thing is
you can find all kinds of video of town
hall events that wasn't put on CNN for
the world to watch on YouTube you know I
watched a bunch of warn events on
YouTube I've seen others like that's as
good a window into what they're saying
and talking about it on the trail as the
CNN Town Hall's although you know some
of the CNN CNN has done an amazing job
of curating the questions so that
they're sensitive in policy focused and
not annoying yeah totally and then small
plug before we get into the fun stuff
but we just got out of a meeting with
our politics team here at crooked and
for about both save America's stuff and
I think you guys are gonna have one too
but about debate coverage and we have a
bunch of like really cool ideas on how
to do this if you're a person who feels
this way like I don't necessarily have
time to watch every single minute of all
twelve debates like I don't know what to
do there are a lot of great ideas on how
to get you up to speed and we know that
you still care so yeah stay tuned we're
on it yeah okay thank you for all your
your electoral needs totally okay from
soup to nuts cool we're gonna move to
the fun questions first one who the
would buy a book by Don jr.
a bunch of right-wing zealots
yeah I don't know how many actual
legitimate human fans he has I do have a
feeling that there will be several 5,000
copy purchases yeah
book buyers not a lot of book readers
yeah I think it'll be a lot of I think
that they'll be brokering favor they're
gonna make it known to the Trump's that
they got a couple crates of those things
sitting in there I don't know yeah oil
their oil conglomerate fill very much
from a hotel with shitty books no an
open my god instead of the Bible that's
gonna be in our hotel yeah open Gideon's
Bible that is the Bible now yeah I don't
know it's also just sort of these people
don't behave like billionaires like it's
gonna be a chintzy dumb book and it's
maybe some kind of a money grab like
Trump borrowing a couple million dollars
from some Floridian Don jr. are gonna go
Hawking books that these people do not
behave like billionaires true okay a lot
of people on the stream right now are
asking about BTS did you guys get to
meet them were there any interactions
were they like I almost walked into one
of them as he was leaving the bathroom
same but then loved it made fun of their
fan base so I want to be clear that
expansion big an audience development
but I want to be clear about something
I was not mocking the BTS army when I
referred to them with a mediocre joke
and I'll concede that right now at best
a dad joke maybe an uncle joke a
terrible joke referring to them in
passing as blt it was not a denigration
of the great and wonderful fans of all
ages of the hit global phenomenon BTS it
was mocking myself as someone who's not
familiar with them and who is out of
touch when I said that there may be
teens watching The Colbert show because
of BTS I was in no way suggesting that
all fans of BTS or teens but only that a
segment of them might be tuning in and
these are the very people we need to get
out and vote and so to the BTS army I
just want you to know that you have been
relentless in my maintenance
but up over a week and I want you to
know that I have heard you loud and
clear
alright and I only hope to love
something one day as much as you love
the seven truly extraordinary young men
who have touched hearts and minds all
over the world you know that answer
really touched Hill pundit alright can
you please just just free me free me
from the mention hell in which I
currently live thank you thank you
I got a follow-up about oh great how do
you pick your shoes when you go on to TV
like how do you how do I pick my shoes
yeah thank you what a great question so
I like going just to sneaker stores and
I go to the ones in LA where there's
often like a big line for people waiting
for a specific show no I have a ironclad
unbreakable rule never wait on line to
give anybody money it's an easy rule
just never do it but you know what my
taste is not as cool as the taste of the
people waiting in line so I go into
those stores and I say hey what do you
got that's not six hundred dollars that
you have to wait on line for do you have
anything in the eighty dollar range for
a pair of sneakers and turns out
that they do and I like to buy them in
bright colors I like a pink but I like a
yellow all right and that's it that's
all that happens that's the story like
this is like a trend report for what
we're into now there are a lot of hip
sneaker stores in LA there's you know
supreme drops on Fairfax that's the kind
of place we're talking about now I won't
wait for that I have never seen a longer
line ever in Los Angeles than when it
was a Travis Scott sneaker drop on a
Saturday on La Brea it was like 500
people I'm amazed that you knew like
know what the I Drive by it sometimes
I'm like I have no idea what's going on
I asked Neil Oh Neil our finance guy has
like cool gear you know he has good
shoes he's well dressed yeah okay cool
um I guess we've talked a little bit
about this but do you guys have any
replacement ideas aside from Chernobyl
about what you're gonna feel like a gap
in your life that game of thrones' laugh
with what's that new HBO series it looks
pretty cool there's His Dark Materials
I'm interested in that there's the
Watchmen I'm interested in that on HBO
I'm gonna try flea bag because we bag
flea bag I'm seeing so the kind of
praise for a show
I didn't mean haven't really heard
anything about it because we live in an
era of
a million shows but people are praising
it in a way that gets me very excited
like this is like people are freaking
out over how the flea bag and gas shoe
seasons right god I love gone I love
when there's multiple seasons of a great
show I still have to finish my crazy
ex-girlfriend I never watched the final
season I love that show so I'm excited
to watch the rest of that too
it's a delight have you seen dairy girls
I have not seen dairy girls yet that's
that's something that's in the I think
that's possibly in a rotation very good
yeah look here's the thing it's 2019
you're never gonna run out of TV no
never never
amazing okay that's it that's it for
this week all right thanks everybody the
BTS army for all the tweets keep it up
please yeah hey Ari my heart bring that
camera back over here you heard me right
we're good we're okay now
please thank you end of stream bye
