welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy V Thor later
in the pod Lovitz interview with
pulitzer prize-winning reporter Ronan
Farrow the author of the new book catch
and kill Jordan when I was introducing
Rowan and I was like how should I
introduce you and I and I couldn't
figure out what to say and Jordan
Hampshire was like he won a Pulitzer say
that but I didn't but you didn't but I'm
glad you brought it up
okay well of course I'm always there for
you running we have a lot of news to
talk about first from the latest on
impeachment to the disaster Donald Trump
has caused in Syria to a preview of this
week's Democratic presidential debate
what's going on guys lots going on
speaking of the debate it's gonna change
our schedule a bit this week we'll have
a post debate pod on Wednesday with all
four of us instead of our usual Thursday
pod and during the debate itself you can
follow along with us on our next edition
of group thread which you can find at
youtube.com slash crooked media I'll
love it how was your how was your show
this week great love it or leave it
Emily Heller chase Toronto two returning
champions plus better work
stop by and played queen for a day one
of my favorite episodes ever Wow
you don't say that too often well you
know we've been the biggest lie you've
ever told on the show we've been slowly
shifting the format trying new things
the show is uh it's it's it felt very
good very good excellent finally if you
haven't yet already you need to
subscribe to Cricut media's newest
podcast America dissected hosted by the
brilliant Abdul el sad
each episode goes far beyond the
headlines to explore different issues
important to our health and the one
coming this week goes very deep on
superbugs and the growing resistance to
antibiotics fear you know I know it
sounds scary his size of a Chevy Nova
but duels like funny and he is empathy
for people in these situations it's just
really well done he's a great host hang
about it's good because you know our
healthcare discussion in politics is all
about insurance and coverage and there's
a million other topics in health that
that deserve attention so he does that
which is great
all right onto the news multiple
officials who've worked in the Trump
administration have chosen to defy the
White
obstruction of Congress by agreeing to
testify as part of the houses
impeachment inquiry into President Trump
on Friday the former US ambassador to
Ukraine Murray Ivanovich told lawmakers
that there was a concerted campaign to
remove her from her post that was based
on quote unfounded and false claims by
people with clearly questionable motives
yeah no today Monday Fiona Hill
Trump's former top Russia adviser will
testify that Rudy Giuliani in the US
ambassador to the European Union Gordon
Sandlin conducted secret diplomacy to
carry out trumps scheme in Ukraine that
included trying to oust Ivanovich and
over the weekend The Washington Post
reported that Sandlin himself will now
offer testimony that's expected to
confirm that Donald Trump traded a White
House meeting for politically motivated
investigations of his political opponent
and add weight to the allegation that he
also traded taxpayer-funded military
assistance for those investigations as
well can I just say that something's
occurred to me and I just want to say it
now before we move on because I just
want to say it and you want to say it
one time you Voinovich hunt title there
we go right down I just wanted to say it
one time my curves said Michael's too
busy laughing the type guys get it
together get it together
everybody's inconsolable tell me what's
the significance of these Trump
officials offering testimony in defiance
of the White House well I mean Trump
himself has been hanging a lot on Gordon
sunland's texts that there was no quid
pro quo how dare you suggest that what
are you talking about I'm summarizing
like shifted at the hearing but now
after chef Emmalee shift you shifted now
Gordon solid is telling Congress that
the no quid pro quo line was just
relaying what Trump told him that he
doesn't know the truth and that clearly
there was a quid pro quo but there was
not a corrupt one which you know kind of
undercuts their main argument it's it's
um it's fascinating philosophically to
decide what what you know the different
corrupt quid pro quo and an non corrupt
quid pro quo just one other thing that's
baked into this that I haven't seen many
people note that that what someone said
is look and again I am paraphrasing
which is a treasonous offensive everyone
just be careful be careful out there
paraphrasing is a crime but uh
paraphrasing get you the guillotine this
bit yeah
yeah but what Sunland said is basically
I don't know if it's true it's just
something Donald Trump told me right and
baked into that is the assumption that
Donald Trump just doesn't tell the truth
and and in any other administration if a
a hey hack who worked for you said
something like that it would be a big
story because what do you mean you're
saying the president's not telling the
truth yeah I mean what I got from this
on the song one thing is Salman is
neither a Trump loyalist at this point
nor is he some kind of a hero he is just
a guy who got a pretty good lawyer who's
giving him good advice and he's trying
to save his own ass so like he's a guy
in it know in addition to what Lovett
just said about I don't know if
President Trump was telling the truth
the other thing he said about I don't
know if it was a corrupt pretty quid pro
quo he's saying that because he's like
yeah no I know that there was definitely
a trade of a White House meeting for a
statement from Ukraine that they were
going to investigate burry smih but I
didn't make the connection between Bruce
and hunter Biden even though those
reports were public come on so fine if
if Salman wants to pretend that he was
just you know in the dark this whole
time that's fine for him but he has
implicated Trump through this test what
were it's expected to implicate Trump
through this testament Rudy Giuliani is
running around the world with a folder
full of depositions and clips that he
pitched to his personal journalists
what's his name John Solomon over at the
the hill or whatever garbage publication
you worked for now alleging this quid
pro quo the hill being the second most
popular newspaper on Capitol Hill to
bring to the toilet but like it's not
number one as well called it's not
credible that Sunland had not heard of
these allegations about hunter Biden in
Purisima like in the way they're gonna
try to muddy this up I think is like
quid pro quos are at the heart of
diplomacy right right you trade you get
a deliverable from some other country
all the time to get a White House
meeting the problem here is the
deliverable was a political favor for
Donald Trump to attack his potential
opponent Joe Biden well that is the
definition of a corrupt put quid pro quo
well that's the point we were when we
when we when we first were slowly
learning about what it happened here one
of the first cautions being offered by
those who were expert in this looking at
this was to say don't
fall in the quid-pro-quo trap it's wrong
to solicit foreign interference even if
you don't have a quid to the pro quo
right it's just soliciting foreign
interference is wrong regardless of
whether or not that there's a quid pro
quo so the the whether it's you know
this idea that it there's some non
corrupt version of a quid pro quo in
which the thing you are getting is
foreign interference it's just not
possible yeah and they're still ducking
the issue of the hundreds of million
dollars of military aid to Ukraine we
know that was being delayed it doesn't
seem like it's a coincidence that it was
right around this attempted extortion
attempt of Ukraine so no and in some and
someone's expected to say that it was
possible that it was withheld for that
reason he's not he's very at least in
the reports of what his testimony might
be he is not going to say there was no
withholding military assistance for with
whole time
he wasn't he's not going to say that
that there was no withholding military
assistance for the political
investigations he's gonna leave open the
possibility to your point John Gurdon
sunland is not a writer died Trump guy
he he was a Jeb Bush supporter who
bought his way into this administration
with a 1 million dollar donation to the
inauguration via four count them for
anonymous LLC let's yeah I mean this is
I think I think a lot of times we we use
as a shorthand of Trump loyalists and
and maybe there are some people who
would be willing to go down for Donald
Trump but Donald Trump is a skivvy know
right well there's no but this is this
is like it's worth thinking about like
dumb terms a toxic noxious human being
that is known to everyone even his most
ardent defenders so Sandlin scavino I
don't know what I don't know we don't
know where historians ultimately we're
like Michael Cohen right considered to
be one of the great Trump lowest Trump
goons and turns why because if you're
the kind of person who will didn't
demonstrate loyalty to Donald Trump
means you're the kind of person who will
demonstrate loyalty to anyone
Soglin is not a Trump guy he's a Salomon
guy Michael Cohen was not a Trump guy he
was a Michael Cohen guy and the second
these people no longer saw Donald Trump
as a meal ticket as it means to prestige
as a means to getting far beyond where
their talents and skills ought to have
allowed them to achieve they they're
there right off of that ship they're
pushing they're pushing women and
children out of the way to get right on
that boat with the other guy on you
look at what I've listed muchas they're
tweeting away right another perfect
example he was never a Trump guy he was
a mooch guy someday there's going to be
an interview with Kelly and Conway where
she says what White House yeah right
I do think to that point the other
significance of the testimony this week
of these current and former Trump
officials is that despite the White
House's best efforts to obstruct
Congress their own people who either
work there now or used to work there are
just not gonna listen and I think a
couple people fiona hill ivanovitch
salomon coming forward could lead many
others to come forward and cooperate
with this impeachment probe and we also
saw news over the weekend that there are
more whistleblowers out there now too
and of course you know we don't know
what they're gonna say yet we don't even
know if it's about Ukraine or about
something else and of course Congress
has to vet these people because you know
you have to make sure that it's credible
but a lot of people coming forward now
people are playing ball here yeah
credits Adam Schiff for not like writing
ten stern letters before getting to the
subpoena there is no downside to
aggressive oversight and in
investigating Donald Trump you know
everywhere you possibly can it's already
paying dividends yeah how do you think
the the testimony this week from what
we've heard is strengthening the overall
case for impeachment that's such a good
question because the truth is we aren't
really I mean I'm trying to think of
anything that we've learned so far what
we could learn that would be sort of
surprising I feel like what we're
learning is confirming our understanding
about the breadth of this corruption I'm
interested breath yeah I was gonna say I
think that's that that to me is what
were kind of understanding that this
wasn't this wasn't about one phone call
that we still have more than about that
one call this was a concerted effort
across our government to use the tools
of American foreign policy and diplomacy
for the purpose of Donald Trump's
political ends and and he enlisted many
figures in many parts of the government
to do this and with each passing day the
scandal becomes less and less spinnable
for those trying to coordinate off blame
it on a paraphrase from Schiff or a
whistleblower
who was didn't have first-hand knowledge
despite the fact that the the the the
rough transcript confirms it there it's
getting harder and harder for them to
find a a boogeyman to attach as that as
the source of all of the problems
because the problems are so broad
touching so many different parts of the
government it was a conspiracy right it
started Trump said and Giuliani how do
we get the Ukraine to help us slime the
Biden's number one we're gonna fire the
ambassador because she doesn't want any
part of this number two we're gonna have
Rudy and his goons conduct secret
diplomacy so that the rest of the
government doesn't find out number three
we're gonna hold out the promise of a
White House meeting as a carrot and then
we're gonna withhold security assistance
as the stick it's a whole plan right way
bigger than a phone call and it's also
important to note that it was personally
directed by Donald Trump
you know Gordon Sandlin didn't call Rudy
Giuliani before texting back hey no no
quid pro quo what are you talking about
he called Donald Trump he called the
president in United States we also now
know that two Associates of Rudy
Giuliani are gonna get work illegally
funneling Russian money to get a hack
named Pete sessions one of the worst
former members of Congress that you can
imagine to write a letter attacking our
ambassador so yeah so let's get to that
three of the people who helped the
president carry out his Ukraine scheme
are already in a bit of trouble the New
York Times has reported that Rudy
Giuliani is under investigation by SD NY
the attorney's office he once led sorry
the district attorney's office he once
led for potentially breaking foreign
lobbying laws when he lobbied to get
ambassador Jovanovic fired
The Times also notes that their
investigation of Giuliani is quote tied
to the case against two of his
associates who were arrested this week
on campaign finance related charges
ie as Tommy mentioned illegally
funneling money to former Republican
congressman Pete sessions in exchange
for his help getting Ivanovich fired the
two goons named Lev Parnas and Igor
Fuhrman once paid Giuliani through a
business called not making this up fraud
guarantee and we're finally irate
that's fraud you can you can take it to
the bank fraud guarantee is what we're
working not like these other fraud
companies all right they'll leave you
leave you high and dry but not us is a
fantastic name it's too perfect
if it says Igor you know it's guaranteed
you turn in the script with that
business name and it gets sent back like
give me a break no one's believing that
and the reason that they were arrested
before
the full investigation of Giuliani and
the rest of them are complete is because
they were trying to flee the country at
Dulles Airport one-way tickets to Vienna
I don't know why Vienna makes it more
corrupt ich sounding there's something
about there's something just it's very
it's very 90s action movie yes to go to
Vienna right it's just like not it's
just a little bit it's not Rome you know
it's not Paris
it's Vienna so I a little a little off
the beaten trail also we found out that
Rudy was supposed to go to Vienna as
well maybe they wanted to take in a yeah
and then last minute decided not to not
to join his pals in Vienna taking a
quick walk they were very droll I mean
these Google Opera or something these
goons set up an energy company just to
funnel money to Republican political
candidates they fired over three hundred
and twenty five thousand dollars to
approach from super PAC they made six
hundred and thirty thousand dollars
worth of donations to Federal Republican
candidates in packs in 2016 I mean these
guys were just plowing massive amounts
of money into the GOP establishment and
what a surprise it opened every door
imaginable including the got
them access to George HW Bush's funeral
with Rudy Giuliani yeah what a weird
thing
it was a brave thing to do weird thing
to debry a corruptions to a funeral I
gotta say again it's not the most
important piece of this story but a
great deal of what's going on in this
country does have to do with the fact
that Rudy Giuliani is a lonely man
struggling with getting older and
divorce and the fact that he brought
these two I don't know what you call
them friends accomplices the fact that
he brought his two friends / accomplices
to a state funeral I think is a pretty
interesting interesting interesting
choice but they also went to an
eight-person dinner with Trump where
they talked about the 2018 midterms and
Ukraine u.s. relationship
he was like all up in the Trump business
we just which is amazing because when
Trump was asked about it he did the you
know Keke Palmer sorry to this man I
don't know who I don't know who these
people are
maybe I any he did him maybe I took a
picture with him but I take a picture
with everyone no no nobody he did way
more than take a picture with him you
had dinner with him and you
talked about Ukraine policy I mean
obviously it's satisfying to watch
potentially get in trouble to watch
these goons go down how does this
connect if at all just sort of this
larger impeachment inquiry well first of
all I think we're still learning
actually what exactly i mean i this is
approaching a kind of a is approaching a
point after which things start to get
complicated and hard to understand right
now it's pretty simple you laid
it out like this is the corruption that
we're talking about this is the abuse of
power we're talking about but of course
as with all things Trump there are
tangled webs of connection to other
goons other attempts to subvert our
democracy other criminal enterprise
trying to get their beak wet around
Trump right so it's like there's oh
there's there's stuff like we're trying
to fire the ambassador and change policy
and beat Joe Biden but there's also like
but I got wants to make money yeah but I
got an oil thing going on over here that
I can write everyone's got their side
hustle but yeah complicates the story
right and so you know you know wolf I
think find out more I mean Rudy
Giuliani's involved in all this a
strange like who's paying Rudy Giuliani
is I think is an important question we
don't know the answer to yet so the the
so these two guys getting arrested at
Dulles I don't think it made Donald
Trump's life better when we didn't make
Rudy's life better but I honestly think
we're still watching the facts of that
on sort of become revealed to us right I
mean look I don't want to do what about
ISM but those who are saying that it was
inappropriate for Hunter Biden to seek
foreign deals because he was politically
connected should also ask themselves why
are you hiring Rudy Giuliani to do
literally anything for you he doesn't
appear to be a great lawyer we know he's
not a good spokesman he peddles himself
as a cyber security expert while texting
in like forty eight point font I know
like with anyone within again to my
lonliness point you can text Rudy you
can do it Brian boiler was sucking with
him over the weekend I believe yeah
Brian Brooks make some news couple other
reporters were texting with him it was
and some of them were making jokes like
telling 11 was saying like hey Rudy tell
me about the crimes the big crimes the
little crimes all the crimes and he's
like I didn't do any crimes
yeah I'm glad Brian Brian texted Rudy
and what a world
Brian texted Rudy saying hey have you as
Trump ever raised the issue as have you
ever discussed a pardon with Trump or
anyone related to him which I'm glad he
asked because I do
think that um Trump pardons Rudy was a
really cool bet you could have made in
the pool in like 2017 that would have
been like giving you really good odds
they probably should have taken well let
me ask you guys
so Trump was first asked about Rudy when
the news broke that his goons were
pinched and he's under investigation on
Friday and they asked if Rudy still
works for him
and Trump said quote I don't know I
haven't spoken to Rudy he has been my
attorney David a few days later he's
eating lunch with Rudy and tweeting his
support for him why why do you think
he's sticking with them what are you
what are your theories on this it's
interesting I don't know first of all
who knows what's rattling around in that
 Swiss cheese
crime at old narcissism addled rotunda
of a brain but the you know empty but
this was Swiss I'm sorry but let me say
the gangs are so stupid this incredibly
dumb
who knows what Trump thinks he means I
do think a lot of times when Trump is
asked a question his his uh his sort of
um it kicks in and I imagine there's a
part of him that's thinking I've never
paid Rudy so he's just a guy I get
advice from he's going around calling me
his lawyer I am not in charge of that so
there's a little bit of like keeping
Rudy at arm's length I do think it will
not be surprising to me if a couple
months from now he's like yeah Rudy I
love the guy but I mean my lawyer I mean
I don't know we went on TV on Fox News
made some trouble I don't know why
everyone's getting it you know I don't
talk to the guy once in a long while so
I think he's leaving himself some an
exit strategy with when Rudy gets hauled
off to the clink yeah I think that Trump
would throw Don junior under the bus if
it got him out of trouble but you have
to assume that Rudy knows an awful lot
of information yeah that would be
problematic in the long run for mr.
Trump so keep him inside the tent that's
my guess
all right I want to turn to the Middle
East where Trump's decision to give his
authoritarian counterpart in Turkey the
green light to invade northern Syria has
already led to the deaths of innocent
civilians executions of our Kurdish
allies and the escape of Isis fighters
and their families who raised the Isis
flag again over parts of northern Syria
meanwhile SEC defense secretary Mark
espera
announced on Sunday that the US would be
worth drawing nearly all of its forces
from northern Syria while Kurdish forces
sorry well Kurdish forces reached a deal
to get troop support from a Syrian
government backed by Russia and Iran on
Sunday Donald Trump tweeted quote the
Kurds in Turkey have been fighting for
many years others may want to come in
and fight for one side or the other
let them Tommy can you talk about the
consequences of Trump's decision here
sure I mean it is true that the Kurds
and the Turks have been fighting for
many years but I think the important
point is they were not for several years
in that region of Syria because we were
working with them to take out Isis and
they the the SDF the Syrian democratic
forces of which this Kurdish militia
makes up the bulk of the main fighters
have been our partner working
hand-in-glove to take out Isis in
northern Syria for several years the the
campaign started under Obama and
president Trump carried it on to his
credit I would say and it was incredibly
effective the Kurds are good fighters
and we have supported them there was an
international coalition of about 80
countries I believe also working with
them to try to ensure that the people
fighting Isis were not just Kurdish so
it's more multi-sectarian their Arab
fighters as well and now we have pulled
our guys from that region it sounds like
we're gonna pull all 1000 US troops in
northern Syria from the country maybe
put them in Iraq and now they're gonna
have to fight on two fronts they're
gonna have Isis on one side and they're
gonna have the second-biggest
military and NATO turkey fighting them
from the other side and you have these
Turkish backed militia groups that at
times are full of extremists who are
just literally indiscriminately
murdering people on the side of the road
and we know that because they're
releasing cell phone videos of it so our
closest allies in the region are getting
slaughtered one of the excuses that
seems to be emerging from the White
House and from Donald Trump is Burdwan
was gonna do this no matter what and we
really couldn't have stopped him all we
could have done is just get out of his
way can you talk about why that is
 or do you think it's
it's it's true that her dawuan views a
lot of these Kurdish fighters as
associated with a group in Turkey called
the PKK and the PKK has been fighting
for an autonomy
Kurdish state for several decades the
Kurds there's like 30 or 40 million
Kurds in the world most of them live in
Iraq Syria Turkey and they were promised
a Kurdish state after World War one they
never got it and they want one
so everyone views them as an enemy
they're designated as a terrorist group
in Turkey and I believe in the US but
our presence in that region was holding
off a Turkish offensive to take out
these guys and what Trump basically did
was he let himself get browbeaten fired
one over and over again I mean Axios
reported that he would sort of listen to
air21 talk about how he wanted to
conduct this military operation and be
like well if trump would say well if you
do you now own it you own Isis you and
all the problems and he assumed that
that was enough to convince air21 not to
do it and then this time air21 called
his bluff and just roll this guys in but
it seems like the US president right and
and turkeys a you know theoretically a
NATO ally could have said to her - Juan
don't do this yeah I want to be clear
but right it's an excuse yeah this a lot
of people are drawing comparisons to
Obama pulling all troops out of Iraq or
various other points in history and it's
like fine if you want to criticize those
things but what happened here is error
once said I want to conduct a military
option to take these guys out Trump
didn't just say no there will be massive
consequences for you if you do so he
just let him do it right he just cave to
the guy can you talk about the effects
on our soldiers too because we're
getting some reports of that yeah I mean
you're seeing a lot of reports that the
special forces guys in particular who
are fighting hand in glove with them
feel just horrible about this I mean
imagine working with some Kurdish
fighters one day to enable it ain't kind
of Rice's campaign you I'm sure they
were friends with them and then the next
day you are not you were literally not
allowed under the rules of engagement to
help them as they come under attack by
the way you have artillery rounds
landing like a couple hundred yards from
our guys in an effort to intimidate us
further out of the region unbelievable
what what are the options now what's uh
what like what can we do to is that can
you put this back in a box probably not
I know that some stuffs going on in
Congress
it sounds like Lindsey Graham is leading
the charge for sanctions on Turkey I
hope that happens but I don't know how
sanctions now
prevents us from continuing and we still
look and I think the the one way this
connects to sort of this larger
impeachment inquiry and Trump's abuse of
power is once again we are left
wondering whether Trump's foreign policy
decision decision about our national
security was made because he thought it
was in the best interest of the country
or was made for personal political
financial reasons
you know he's talked before about how he
has a conflict of interest in Turkey
because there's Trump Towers there or
that you know that's one financial
possible reason there's also political
reasons right like Trump in his mind
somehow thinks this is a you know he
Pete he equates getting out of the way
with ending endless wars right he thinks
that's a political talking point which
is since our troops aren't
actually coming home as a result of this
decision they're just being moved
elsewhere and in like you said Tom you
may be put in harm's way so it does fit
a pattern of Trump's abuse of power yeah
well we you know we're once again left
in the situation where we don't know
what was said on the column but it's
hard to come up with an understanding of
what's been happening without corruption
as being one of the explanations
especially when he's you know when when
there are those when he's trying to make
this argument on Twitter and elsewhere
that oh he he was against endless wars
as as part of his his uh his his
strategy from the beginning while the
same time promising in a really kind of
ugly way vulgar way American protection
via our armed forces for Saudi Arabia so
there's this contradiction baked into
all of this that there's any any claim
to an ideology is immediately refuted
any claim to a strategy is immediately
refuted the only thing that is left is a
deeply strange phone call that caused
this about-face in which Donald Trump
has personal vested financial interests
in what happens in Turkey yeah
all right let's talk about 2020 on
Tuesday the New York Times and CNN will
host the fourth Democratic primary
debate in Westerville Ohio it will be
the most crowded presidential primary
debate stage in history with twelve
candidates facing off in one night
everyone who was there at the last
debate plus Tulsi
gabbard and for the first time Tom
Steyer not since dick gephardt dined
alone
have so many I don't know I never cut it
I try to make a joke about doesn't
matter in advance of the debate CBS
released a series of early state polls
that show a three-way tie for first in
Iowa between Biden Warren and Sanders at
21 22 percent with pete Budaj and fourth
at 14 percent in New Hampshire at
Warren's ahead of Biden by 32 to 24
percent and Biden is ahead of Warren in
South Carolina by 43 to 18 percent guys
the debate is three hours was twelve
candidates only three of whom are
polling in double digits in the early
contests for in Iowa how does that
change the dynamic first of all one
thing people are not paying enough
attention to is that the stage does
slowly get smaller as the night
progresses and so you have to not only
do you have to debate you have to slowly
build a bit of a bit of a buttress to
protect yourself keep yourself on the
dais there's a moat right yeah he's
falling out a lot of people think that
beto
might try to throw a Buddha judge in the
moat as his move to create some more
relevance but again we don't know what
was the question the judge is like how
does this change the dynamic with this
many candidates and there's and there's
three who are you know there's three who
are polling in double digits right now
and but there's nine more on stage or
not I guess Pete is in Iowa what do you
do in a 12-person to it I just think it
sort of makes the strategy a little more
unpredictable I mean it seems like so
there's some reporting obviously we
spent like a couple weeks talking about
Joe Biden his family what he did or
didn't do in Ukraine it seems like the
other candidates so far have taken
attack where they think that it helps
them politically to defend Joe Biden
from unfair attacks from the president I
think that's probably true for the main
candidates I don't know if that's true
for Tom Steyer or Tulsi Gabbard Tulsi
Gabbard was planning to boycott the
debate that she had made like a couple
told the season yeah so I don't really
know what these guys are gonna do it
also it probably makes it less likely
that there's a focused discussion about
Elizabeth Warren you know some people
are starting to obliquely criticize her
right Pete kalter evasive about how to
pay
health care plan in an interview with
snapshots Peter Hamby he criticized her
campaign fundraising strategy Biden's
been out there saying oh we don't need
just plans we need a president but you
know I don't know if they will make
those attacks on stage because one you
don't know if they'll get the chance to
or if they'll see it as politically
advantageous yeah it's you know it's
hard to see a debate with 12 human being
standing all side-by-side as having
really much of an opportunity for anyone
to change the fundamental dynamics of
the race one in which they're kind of
three steady frontrunners I mean there's
been pulls out showing that Elizabeth
Warren's been grabbing a little bit not
from Biden from Bernie but from a little
bit from some of the other candidates
right so I think one you know I don't
know what's gonna happen we have to see
what actually plays out but you know you
go into this thinking hard to imagine
how this changes the dynamic which means
it rewards the frontrunner and not those
who are trying to vie for a little bit
more attention because it'll be hard to
get the other piece of this you know
I've been thinking about actually since
we talked to Cyrus Abebe in in Seattle
which is he made the point that this is
going to be the first debate we'll have
had since impeachment really began in
earnest and I am just it's such it's
going to be such a big part of the race
in 2020 how we deal with how the
relationship of these campaigns to
Donald Trump to the investigations take
it taking place in Congress so I'm
really interested in how they strike
that balance how they offer a positive
case set against the negative case being
currently crafted in Congress I think
that speaking time is is such a
challenge here and I don't I don't think
this setup is good for any of the
candidates that maybe they'll front
maybe Elizabeth Warren because like
we're gonna talk about the all the
different attacks that are being
previewed upon her and maybe Biden too
but like I think you know for some of
these candidates who haven't made who
haven't qualified for the November
debate yet who at this point on the
stage are beto Klobuchar Castro and
Tulsi Gabbard it becomes a you know this
is it moment like you've got a if you
don't start getting better polling
between now and when the deadline is to
qualify for the November debate you know
then you're like Michael Bennett and and
Steve Bullock and some of these people
we haven't been talking about for weeks
because they didn't make the last debate
and so I think it's really hard so we
you know we had a debate two debates ago
that was fairly nasty
then the last debate was a pretty
collegial affair and I'm wondering now
even though there's a lot of candidates
on that stage
if either people who haven't made the
November debate or people who are sort
of struggling in that second tier and
sort of in danger of falling into a
third tier like a Kamala Harris doesn't
start getting a little feisty with the
other candidates to try to break out it
so I'm not being critical I you know
look at the DNC is taking plenty of
for all these debate decisions and I
don't envy them because I don't think
there's any decision that would have
satisfied everybody though I'm not super
happy about twelve people on a stage I
will say one of the unintended
consequences of this kind of objective
slow winnowing through these debates is
it's I don't really remember from
previous primaries feeling as though
each debate was like a level in a game
to try to get to the next debate big
boss you know like we're now at debate
4-3 and then you know the next debate is
the water one you know and I just think
it's it's unfortunate that that's where
we're at and what that there are so many
candidates that a few of them are just
viewing this as a place like in like in
uh tremors where you had to use a little
stick to get from big rock to big Reich
to avoid the monster movie and like this
is like they're just trying to get to
the next rock it was a good movie it's a
great movie so let's let's talk a little
bit about and Tommy you started to do
this some of the lines of attack that
the other kids have been previewing
against Warren right now it does seem a
little kitchen sink like that doesn't
seem to be I think I think you're in
danger as a candidate when everyone else
is sort of cold and the media to a sort
of coalescing around one major weakness
in your in your campaign I think the
issue right now for everyone testing
lines of attack on Warren is it's a
little bit all over the place so you've
seen the Medicare one come up a bunch
Pete has been doing that like you said
he she said she's been evasive on the
taxes answer Biden obviously hit her for
that but then you know as you said Pete
said to Hamby in that snapchat interview
we're going up against the sitting
president United States we're not going
to beat him with pocket change this is
in response to Elizabeth Warren's
decision or announcement that she's not
going to do these high-dollar
fundraisers in the general election
which I don't know about that one guy hi
imagine an attack Elizabeth Warren is
not like it's not more likely to absorb
into her suit and then fire back out
yeah I mean that that is John Delaney
level bad because it's like I I can
write that sentence right now now there
are people on this stage who think we
need to go to the millionaires and
billionaires to defeat Donald Trump but
I'm not gonna rely on them I'm gonna
rely on you applause applause applause
nomination well it's like what are we
doing but there's even I mean you can
make that you can make the moral case
right for like we shouldn't be relying
on billionaires and millionaires we
should be relying on grassroots
donations and then you'll get some
Democrats and some voters to say yeah
but you know we don't want to
unilaterally disarm we've got a beat
Trump and so whatever it takes to beat
him and even then though Elizabeth
Warren can turn to Pete Budaj and be
like you know what I out raised you and
I only relied on grassroots wonder and I
raised more money than you and so did
Bernie Sanders yeah I mean she can say
hey I raised twenty four point six
million Bernie raise twenty five I mean
think I think Pete's strength and his
weakness is that he's able to provide
political analysis and a very
interesting away but in in a very
interesting way but it can make you
sound like a pundit and I doubt this was
a prepared line like I don't think if
you were looking at a bunch of polling
about potential attacks on Elizabeth
Warren her inability to get big checks
from big donors is very high on the list
in the Democratic primary but it's like
when you step back and you do you know
analysis of a race when you're a
candidate you always get into trouble it
happened to Obama it's happened to
countless candidate it's also worth
remembering too that some of the worst
some of the comments that have gotten
candidates into the most trouble whether
it's deplorable
we all remember that wait what was that
it was always a basket of deplorable
she's very bad
Mitt Romney 47% Barack Obama cling to
guns and religion those were all things
said at fundraisers wealthy donors
always look it's it's it's weird to me
Pete's strategy over the last couple
weeks he's clearly trying to stake out
territory as a more as his people have
telegraphed reporters the more electable
progressive right and so you know in a
way I understand that but I I think if
that's going to be your move
it has to have been your move from the
get-go and not once you fell behind in
the polls and then you feel like you
need to catch up because it looks a
little it it risks looking a little bit
more calculated and here's the thing
Pete started off this campaign as a very
bold generational candidate which I
liked you know he talked about the
electoral college he talked about the
Supreme Court reform right like he's
talking he was talking about democracy
reform that's what got people to like
Pete that's why I think he was such an
attractive candidate and and frankly
still can be but you know I worry for
him sort of like I know someone's told
him look at some point you've got a draw
contrast if you're gonna you know if
you're gonna get ahead of these people
and I think like I think the Medicare
argument is totally fair you can
disagree with them or not but going you
know challenging other candidates on
policy it's completely fair completely
fair some of the other stuff is either
seemed a bit more vague or a little off
like the fund raising that I would you
say the counterpoint to that is that CBS
tracking poll that you mentioned early
on has Pete now at 14% in Iowa which is
a pretty decent place to be I would
argue right about now like yeah look
there's almost can pain is going very
well for her right I don't think anyone
could argue that but there is maybe some
concern in the back of people's heads
like did she is she surging too early
yeah do you want to be shot at this
early Pete in 14th place with a ton of
money
it's hon of organizing he's building a
big strong smart team in Iowa like you
could argue he's very well positioned I
do think one of the challenges for all
the candidates trying to create a
contrast with Elizabeth Warren is that
it is hard to it is hard to do two
things create a contrast with Elizabeth
Warren and do it while you look good
yeah I think it is not it is a tough
balance it is easier actually to do it
with some of the other candidates it is
I think easier to do it with Joe Biden
honestly because I think he's taken some
more moderate positions so you can kind
of argue you're bolder and you can argue
for generational change you can you can
make all kinds of arguments in which you
are making a case against Washington
right but with Elizabeth Warren I think
look there's the conversation that
happens on television there's a
conversation that people say you know
when when there aren't cameras and I do
think that there's this the the
conversation is issue too far to the
left is
electable right that is undergirding so
much of this conversation but when but
for people to judge who wants to say I
don't think she's electable and I think
she's too far left but he can't say it
because it makes you sound very small
and it makes you sound negative and like
you're trimming your sails and so well
the other thing is if you're gonna say
she's too left you have to say okay well
which which policies do you disagree and
he's got them and like I said I think
the medicare-for-all argument for him is
totally fair he can say she's further to
left and me on Medicare for all
I believe in this plan and that's that
you know I think that's a totally fair
argument I think when you start when you
start getting into more vague things
right like he said he also said I worry
about a tone being set up where it
almost seems like fighting is the point
we need to find a way to bring Americans
back together I do think there is a
hunger out there in the electorate right
he's going to tap into something where
there's a lot of people who are sick of
political warfare and do want the
country to come back together but the
challenge there is someone who said what
do you mean by that what specifically do
you mean by that and then you have to
then you have to what and and again like
I just think of if I was a speechwriter
and trying to deal with that in context
I would relish the opportunity to write
a riff about like they think you don't
they think they think we shouldn't fight
so hard well I think we should fight
against this and I think we should fight
against I just these are the the the the
crux of the argument I think is not very
it's not conducive to looking good while
you're conveying it and also by the way
like the other pieces you know all right
that's it I just think the mood of the
electorate is clearly they want someone
who can beat Donald Trump that is their
first second and third concern I'm not
sure we're at the come on everybody
let's get along part of the campaign we
might get there when things get actually
vicious but right now like people are
framing Bernie saying Elizabeth Warren
is a capitalist through and through and
I'm not as an attack it is such a attack
it is so ridiculous right everyone's
desperate for Bernie to attack her and
he's not he doesn't want to do it I also
by the way don't know if Bernie Sanders
saying all right I'm gonna finally draw
a contrast with Elizabeth Warren and
it's that she's a capitalist and I'm not
is gonna work for him that well again
for Bernie this is all about like you
know you saw this in the CBS tracking
polls Bernie Sanders supporters are
probably more enthusiastic
they are more enthusiastic according to
the poll these polls than almost any
other candidate they're sticking with
them so when you ask people like are you
definitely going to vote for this person
his numbers are higher than either
Warren's or Biden's so he's got his base
the question for Bernie though has
always been can you expand on that based
and I don't know if saying well she said
she's a capitalist and I'm not is gonna
get you there well I also just think it
was the answer to the question you know
named and and I think it's an honest
it's an honest view of it which is that
yeah I know some people think we're the
two left were the were the lefties was
actually an important distinction here I
am a Democratic Socialist she has
embraced capitalism and wants to make
her solutions fit within capitalism I
think that makes her that that
ultimately we're down store benefit to
have that be a contrast that's made but
I think Bernie views it as just an
honest rendering of his politics yeah I
mean I think the other big thing for
Bernie at this debate is simple as sort
of how's he look writing me Ned pretty
serious how scary the heart attack he's
clearly recovered he's doing interviews
he's out you know like skyping into
events and things but we know that
concern about age has shown up in some
of these polls normally it's more often
been in a discussion about Joe Biden I
think probably in part because Bernie
Sanders had such a vigorous schedule and
was doing four rallies a day and was
like constantly out there and it seems
like he's gonna scale that back a little
bit although what that means is seems to
be in debate but you know I think at the
last debate he didn't look well and I
think they said he had a cold or he was
feeling sick you know I I wonder if that
was the whole story you know and maybe
some of these health concerns were were
bubbling up for longer and he seemed to
suggest as much so I do think that's
gonna be a big question at this debate
is like is he recovered can you get back
out there do people look at him and
think alright that guy's gonna kick
Donald Trump's ass because that's all
they want yeah I imagine in debate prep
right now the only thing they're trying
to drill into Bernie is energy
I bet he's you know Bernie can be quite
funny he has a dry sense of humor times
you know get I was I bet he'll try to do
that I bet he won't be as Yeley right
because we look I think he'll I don't
know I think I think energy and I think
they'll be the best thing you could do
is probably put Helene catcher on her
shoulders you know just to send the
right signal
you know maybe grab get globish are up
there too but yeah we're also seeing
like you know you worry about to go to
this bed Oh Pete
good oh sorry no you're also seeing like
some of the candidates ranking lower in
the polls start to go after each other a
bit I mean you know in that same
interview with Peter Hamby on snapchat
mayor Pete criticized better O'Rourke
yeah that O'Rourke has fired back this
morning saying Pete can belittle the
grass roots he can call buybacks a shiny
object this is a debate about gun
buybacks as a policy you could say
whatever he wants to put guns kill
40,000 people a year those people
deserve action I'll be fighting for them
so like that's a pretty hard shot for
this primary and Booker jumped into that
Cory Booker did to him he's cared about
the gun issues for a long time
yeah because Pete called buybacks
confiscation which is what actually
reminds me a little bit of like 2008
there was this moment where even think
of 2004 I'm old but that uh when it was
out John Edwards and there was a series
of stories of saying John Edwards is
annoying all the other candidates he's
the other candidates least favorite
candidate you remember this no and and
they pointed to a bunch of these kinds
of things and I do think Pete is uh like
you know when when when Beto was asked
about the about Pete at first he he just
started I'm trying to say this when
better was asked about Pete like we've
made fun of it all the time but
candidates tend to not invoke each
other's name in the response when the
candidates name has been made clear
before so that doesn't sound as harsh
but nobody's stopping Beto from saying
when mayor Pete says this here's why
it's wrong you know yeah I'm I guess I'm
most interested in this debate to see
whether Pete is as feisty on stage as
he's been about the other candidates to
reporters and and in some speeches how
Warren you know Dan may at this point
last week how Warren handles these
attacks if they come because she has led
a fairly charmed raise for last couple
months in terms of you know every debate
you think okay this is the debate where
they're gonna chat one's gonna challenge
Warren and it doesn't happen and and she
just moves on and I think it's gonna I
think if I was the Warren campaign I'd
almost want the challenge because I mean
I think people who support Warren should
want the challenge too like if she's
going to go up against Trump it's gonna
be the most miserable dirty
campaign we've ever seen and people are
gonna need to see can she take a punch
and and and you know the Democratic
primary is a good place to do that the
other thing I wanted in is
you know this is that what you mentioned
this Tommy this is Biden's first debate
since Ukraine and I wonder and of course
you know it's CNN the New York Times
like I wouldn't be surprised we were
saying this love it if like the first
question is gonna be about hunter Biden
how does because hunter did is gonna
have done the injury that day right is
gonna be how does Biden handle hunter
how should he handle hunter do you guys
think and do you think the other
candidates will stay you know away from
this topic or if they're asked about or
at least they'll continue to defend Joe
Biden well I mean it seems like the
campaign has started to roll out tools
for Biden to use to handle this right so
we know that hunter Biden is stepping
down from the Purisima board he promised
not to do any foreign work of his dad as
president and then Biden is gave a
speech recently in rolled out a policy
where he said no one in his family or
anyone associated with him will be
involved in any foreign operation
whatsoever period in the story it's a
quote so they are trying to lay out sort
of an ethics lobbying reform policy that
is attempted to I think kind of
cauterize the wound and undo the damage
going forward what I'd love to see by
didn't do and maybe this is a bridge too
far for a candidate it's say hey if
you're worried about the families of
presidential candidates making money off
of their dad why don't we look at Ivanka
Trump's trademarks from China why don't
we look at Jared Kushner sister
Hakan visas for 500 grand a pop why
don't we look at Tweedledum and
tweedledumber Don and Eric flying around
the world taking meetings going to major
rallies with their dad and running the
business that was supposed to be walled
off like everything remember that press
conference around the emoluments clause
early on before took office where they
had like a stack of blank paper and they
pretended this is a real policy it's all
 and we've just moved on because
the Secretary of the Department
of Homeland Security resigned on Friday
and it's the 20th biggest story I think
about know what I mean it's like we're
living in la-la land here where there's
lots of like ready-made attacks per
button I do think that's true that's
exactly what I think he should say I do
also think if I were I think the other
candidates I don't think there's very
much equity in trying to make hay out of
this because I think the damage to Joe
Biden is kind of doing itself honestly
and you adding to it won't help I do
think though that if
I were thinking about what kind of
question to ask I would question I would
ask is does the fact that you've
announced this policy tell you that
there was something wrong with the
conduct that happened before and whether
or not at now I do have do I believe
that it's fair that that's become the
focus of the campaign of course not but
I do think that that is the kind of
question Joe Biden has to dispense with
and I wouldn't be surprised if he has to
dispense with it in this game in the in
this debate I have to imagine they're
prepping for that very question right
right now I have to I think Tommy I mean
he should absolutely do the Trump
children attack as in response to this
because if he doesn't I think it is a
fantastic opportunity for one of the
other candidates and and and Pete
actually did this Pete on Jake Tapper
show Sunday defended Biden by then going
after the Trump children and it was a
fantastic answer by people to judge and
if you're one of the other candidates
and you defend Joe Biden and then go
after the Trump children you get points
for defending Joe Budden and you get
points for being tough on Trump
yes the worst thing that could happen to
Joe Biden in this debate if somebody
says don't worry Joe I'll take care of
it and push though behind him to like to
have Joe behind him while they do the
fight I think that is the worst thing
that happens okay I mean I thought you
know you and Dan talked about this at
length on a recent episode and you were
you guys accurately described how
sensitive this clearly is for Joe Biden
it's not just an attack on his son he
saw news had some challenges over the
years some of them very public but also
you know it's a family that has dealt
with just enormous grief in losing Beau
Biden and a host of other things
throughout his career so like god knows
what kind of mental state he is is in to
be able to deal with these things at a
debate or you know throw more kids into
the political arena as punching bags but
I do think that Jared and Ivanka are
different because they work in the White
House and they're still making tons of
money like 82 million last year I think
was one report I saw yeah and then Don
and Eric are clearly part of the
campaign yeah I mean they're they're
just 11e we're waiting to happen but the
UH but yeah I mean you know and you're
you're exactly right about that Tommy
and about that kind of like whatever the
the there's a human story behind this
but it almost is beside the point
because we don't look brought look
Donald Trump is going to gin up a set of
attacks on whoever on
whoever it is but we don't know what the
Biden one is yeah right and if Joe Biden
wants to be the nominee of this party he
needs to win this argument and it's
gonna be tomorrow night
I will say I watched I hadn't seen it
some clips of the speech Biden gave last
week where he finally called for
impeachment and it was Joe Biden was
quite good in that speech he was he was
sharp and if he brings that kind of
argument to the debate then I think he
will do himself some good but he has to
glad they got there I mean the the
argument you were hearing from Team
Biden was that Trump deserved due
process around impeachment and he wasn't
gonna call for him to be a piece which I
just think is not great sort of a miss
Reid of the impeachment process
generally right it's not it's not a
court of law
just this political decision you're not
voting that in holidays bad politics
also just I don't actually agree like
yeah I don't you uphold our standards by
upholding our standards it's also just
one other small point about this which
is yeah like I want to see Biden do that
in the debate and and crush this issue
because if he's gonna be the nominee he
has to but it's also I think to our
larger point like this debate may not
change the dynamic of this race and I
think one of the challenges we've seen
for Joe Biden is that did take him so
long and to come to the microphone and
do deal with this issue and I think so
it's not just about this debate it's
about moving forward do they understand
that Donald Trump is it for all his
idiocy and chaos he is relentless
creative and will continue to be so all
right when we come back we will have
Lovitz interview with Ronan Farrow
thanks to Ronan for joining us
