welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vitor later in
the pod Tommy interviews with sorry
later in the pod
Tommy's interview with Nobel Peace Prize
nominee Amanda when who's behind a new
effort to train young people to build
social movements we've got a lot of news
to talk about first from the resignation
of Donald Trump Secretary of Homeland
Security and the Republican strategy to
court Jewish voters to Nancy Pelosi
strategy for keeping the house and the
ever-expanding
20/20 field quick programming note will
be out on the road again this week so
our Thursday night show in Boston will
be will be released
Liuba so our thursday night show in
boston will or be released as a pod on
Friday and our Sunday night show in New
Hampshire will be released as next
Monday's pod also a reminder that we
dropped a bonus episode right before the
weekend started Tommy talked with hooli
and Castro about his presidential
campaign on Friday right here in Los
Angeles and that entire interview is
available now you can also watch it at
youtube.com slash crooked media Wow
smash that subscribe button why you can
you can see it too you can listen to
Tommy
you can watch Tommy radio on TV it's
great all right let's get to the news
during a meeting at the White House
Sunday evening Donald Trump asked for
and then accepted the resignation of
Homeland Security Secretary Kirsten
Neilson is the great Dairyland wrote
over at Vox Neilson has arguably been
the most aggressive a secretary in the
department short history and cracking
down on immigration with her legacy
likely to be defined by the
zero-tolerance prosecution policy of
late spring and early summer 2018 that
resulted in the separation of thousands
of families at the us-mexico border
none of it appears to have been enough
for Donald Trump
so Nielsen's resignation came shortly
after Trump decided to withdraw his
nominee to run ice because Stephen
Miller and others wanted to go in a
quote tougher direction replacing the L
Center on an acting basis will be Kevin
McHale Enon who currently runs Customs
and Border Protection Trump's cabinet is
now operating without permanent
secretaries in charge of Homeland
Security Interior and defense and in
acting chief of staff and in acting
which is that kind of the funniest one
because Trump could make Mulvaney
permanent chief of staff today he just
doesn't do it because he wants him to
feel small that's right
there's no I was actually wondering
about that because it's the only one
where because he doesn't need to
actually get confirmation he could just
do it are there any I wonder if there
are legal implications because he also
is running OMB he has Mulvaney running
three quarters of this government at any
given moment I mean there's you don't
have a lot of choice these days and the
Trump White House if you're if you're
looking for staffers there's not that
many people there this tumbleweeds in
the hallway maker Jared it's it I mean
it really is jared Ivanka Steven Miller
and a bunch of random people who they
just found yeah and you know Steve Jobs
Steve batten bats Steve Baden's a couple
empty Chinese food containers still
still lying around a couple Pepe memes
so guys what do we know about why Trump
fired nielsen and what he's looking for
in his next Homeland Security Secretary
the reports are that she wasn't mean
enough John a woman who oversaw the
family separation policy that ripped
kids away from their parents and
separated them for months at a time
doing permanent damage to these children
was not mean enough for Donald Trump
according to background quotes and
everything you read it also seems like
in recent weeks Donald Trump has said
NBC's first reported this that he wants
to reinstate the family separation
policy and she resisted that now it's
not really up to Donald Trump to
reinstate it or her to resist it the
reason it ended is because one he signed
an executive order ending it and two the
court stepped in and said he couldn't do
it right so it does seem like I mean you
know we always focus on personalities
and we could talk about Nielsen all we
want but this is more of Donald Trump is
facing an intractable policy problem
that he cannot fix right in the legal
problem that you cannot yeah getting rid
of her saying he's gonna shut the border
saying he's gonna reinstate family
separation it's um it's what he's
frustrated with is that his cabinet
secretaries aren't magical they're not
magical cruelty beasts who can like use
cruelty to implement his vision I mean
you know Dan tweeted about this over the
weekend but there was a tweet that I'd
won Donald J Trump that captures his
attitude about immigration which is I'm
doing such a good job at the border
everything at the border is really good
also it's a total catastrophe it's an
emergency they're coming droves and we
need to shut the border and so he's
trapped in this place where
it's a signature issue he's been
president for he'll ha you know he's
running for reelection this is the
signature issue of his presidency it's
not a success right he's at the cruelty
is not redounded to policy benefits that
he was hoping would happen and it's
clear he doesn't know what to do so he's
firing people he's yelling he's calling
for crazy things he's trying to he likes
the attention on the issue but he's
clearly angry about about what's been
happening and I don't think he has an
answer yeah yeah I mean I think it's as
the I alone can fix it presidency yeah
the coming to fruition here right like
you Trump promised that he could fix
everything he thinks he can fix
everything he thinks he can just fire
people and get his way all the time and
he has never realized and never learned
that to solve a problem as complicated
as immigration and look there is an
influx of asylum seekers at the border
right now and you know any president
whether it's and Donald Trump policies
helped fuel that influx of asylum
seekers but any president democrat or
republican would be dealing with a lot
of asylum seekers right now and have to
figure out well what do I do about that
most presidents would learn that you
have to work within the bureaucracy you
have to work with Congress maybe you
need some support from the other party
maybe you know like you have lawyers
telling you what's the most legal you
know they accept that it's complicated
it's hard right and that there are
reasons to not be so strident because
even if you have a view about how the
immigration system could work it's gonna
take time to get there there they're
just complications to governing he's
never shown any interest in on top of
being a racist who's pursuing you know
nativist nationalists revanchist
policies in order to rile up his base
it's also clear that he just doesn't he
doesn't understand immigration policy
and fundamentally fundamentally in any
way shape or form despite it being the
thing that he focuses on the most like
he referred to the Flores court
settlement which bars the federal
government from detaining minors for
more than 20 days and blamed it on judge
Flores whoever you may be and quote
knows a little girl with the last name
Flores that led to this agreement and I
believe in the eighties yeah years ago
in 97 he doesn't seem to understand or
he doesn't care that building a wall
doesn't stop people from seeking asylum
and in fact so like what do we do about
we're stuck
in this place where he says and does the
same things over and over and over again
I'm an immigration policy and he just
gets increasingly Craven sounding
talking about doing away with asylum
entirely talking about closing down the
border to Mexico talking about
eliminating all aid for Latin American
or Central American countries and the
press covers it because it's crazy you
knew in like completely
counterproductive but I don't know what
else to do
we're stuck in this cycle and it is
alarming because it seems like even
since the midterms he he has sort of
attacked the rule of law even more yeah
than he has or you know he's as we've
all have you said many times loved it
he's the wraptor tense of testing the
fence here and what he's looking for is
another homeland security secretary and
other personnel who will help him
essentially break the law yeah because
he's now studying he also said the other
day what we need to do is get rid of the
judges
he's just it's just like its
authoritarian riffing like he doesn't
thought very deeply he has no discipline
right there's no plan here I mean it is
I think part of the reason why it's
important to the media does cover what
he says about immigration is it's
actually one of the few places where
he's followed through on some of his
more outlandish promises right the zero
tolerance policy resulting a family
separation that began as this kind of
frenetic
off-the-cuff riffing and then all of a
sudden its policy you know but usually
he's had to step back from those be
great the courts and is one including
this one and I don't blame them for
covering when covering him he says all
these outlandish things but it does
reinforce this notion that there is a
massive like unprecedented crisis at the
border which just simply isn't true
there's a huge problem at the border
there's a there's a growing number of
people coming up from Central America
and seeking asylum and the the system is
being stressed to the point of breaking
but he's doing things to make that
situation worse not better I also think
I think there is legitimately a
humanitarian crisis at the border
absolutely because you know I think
we've had triple the number of asylum
seekers this month that we had last
month and they've been metering them so
they're not hearing their cases so
they're all stuck in camps in in Mexico
well that's it and it's so it's a
humanitarian crisis it is not a national
security crisis which is how the
administration is talking about it these
are not people who are criminals these
are not people who are coming to our
to our country and cosmic crime these
are mostly women and children and
families who are seeking asylum and what
has happened is there is this huge
backlog of cases right now while they're
seeking asylum law about whether their
asylum application will be processed we
don't have enough judges there's a
backlog of cases and Trump this whole
time is focusing on building a
wall which will do nothing about this he
has some some events that like he has
only repaired some miles of fencing
since coming to office he has built zero
miles of new fence well this is the
thing that's so strange right now I
imagine I mean this is partly why he's
sort of raging about this is that he's
trapped here because on the one hand he
does I think correctly see this as one
of the few things he can successfully
talk about with his base and on the
other hand he's not a candidate he's not
a candidate he's the president right so
he has a record here so I think a lot of
this venting at Neilson venting at the
fact that these people weren't tough
enough is looking for someone to be to
be able to run against basically to say
like this is what has prevented me from
actually implemented my vision and I
think it comes back to I think it's it's
worth looking at what Nielsen represents
because I think it's important that
she's leaving and it's important that
we're having this conversation about her
legacy because she is what happens when
you tried to like put a layer of
seriousness a layer of adulthood like
icing on this Trump cake of sort of
bigotry and chaos and frenetic you know
she's the icing I think she's the I
think icing is the wrong word
I mean that she's like she is some
pretty horrible of course she's horrible
and I'm saying is she tried to do what
Trump wanted to do while looking like a
traditional serious cabinet secretary I
see I don't agree with that she
went to the press for briefing room and
lied like crazy like that's not serious
that's just being a that's just being a
polished looking liar that's what I mean
she's a Paula she is a Polish
representative of trumpism presidential
trying to do but presenting well is a
very different thing in my opinion than
like acting like an adult in the room
and trying to calm his worst instincts
which she never ever did well that's
that's what they're claiming right
that's what they claim but they want to
spin it I mean we've had so many
conversations about personnel in this
White House right and I think what we've
learned is
some of these people resist him for time
most don't
some people resist him sometimes and
then end up giving in to him anyway
right the personalities in this
administration whether it's a Gary
whether it was a Gary cone or a John
Kelly or a Kirsten Nielsen or a Stephen
Miller like whether they're with him all
the time with him sometimes not wasn't
sometimes he gets his way in the end
because he's bulldozing people left and
right the present that's all the way
norms he's trying to break the law he's
doing all the that's the point she
thought she could come in and be
respectable you know be a be a serious
Republican inside the Trump
administration it turns out that's
impossible you become you you become the
representative of what requires lies in
order to execute and you leave tarnished
by Trump and having succeeded in in in
in and having failed to do anything to
mitigate his worse impulses I think we
have to worry about now is you know so
magdalenian reportedly has said they
when they're talking about bringing back
family separation that he might present
families with a binary option which is
either you can be separated from your
children or you can all go into
detention together indefinitely and
they're contemplating was ballsy yeah
yeah illegal per the Flores agreement
which says you cannot hold kids for a
longer than twenty days so I guess we're
reaching another breaking point where
we're gonna have to decide maybe
Republicans in the Senate will have to
decide if we're gonna just allow the
Trump administration to brazenly break
the law maybe a court will jump in right
stop them from doing this but we saw
this with the magnet see sanctions about
Jamal khashoggi they were required under
law to present their findings to
Congress and they said nope not gonna do
it and no one said anything and again we
should remember that back when
Republicans controlled the House and the
Senate Donald Trump had a chance to pass
some kind of immigration policy where he
got more border security maybe even some
money for his wall you know a lot of
money for a lot of money for his wall
right you know held recipients and and
dreamers and even you know ended family
migration Paul or five times the amount
of money well for what he shut the
government down over for border security
right there was 25 billion was on the
table he shut the government down over
five billion he turned down 25 billion I
mean from whether you're looking at it
from the right or the left his
immigration policy has been a failure an
abject failure I mean you look at what's
happening right now right all of this
you need to step back and like all this
Asylum conversation shutting down the
border the judge is trying to blame say
you know trying to foment in front of a
 group of American Jews of the
country's full saying the asylum seekers
are faking and saying it's all about
trying to ferret out the share of asylum
seekers who might not deserve asylum
that is the primary focus of the Donald
Trump administration at the border
finding the group of asylum but kinda
trying to let it try to convince
everyone that that small group that
doesn't is it the way everyone is
everyone is everyone of course it's
everyone but even but even just the idea
that like even if you accept that a
share of the asylum seekers don't
deserve asylum this is not a crisis is
not a national security crisis it's not
a national security threat it's not
worthy of an endless and like debate
over and over and over again it's not
the most important issue issue facing
the country is not the most important
issue at the border but it's going to be
the issue in the 2020 election
because he's going to make it the issue
every day now so as you mentioned love
it we did hear some of the president's
xenophobic rage over immigration during
a speech to the Republican Jewish
coalition in Las Vegas on Saturday
where he said that our current Asylum
system is a quote scam and that families
and children seeking asylum should turn
back because the United States is full
first of all is the Republican Jewish
coalition not an odd place to declare
that the United States will no longer
provide refuge to groups of people for
you know you'd like to think it wouldn't
be you'd like to think it wouldn't be
but I thought the thing that would think
it was most chilling is the fact that
him saying America is full that they're
faking it works in front of this
audience now and it's like come on
people shame on you yeah I mean Trump
telling a group of Jewish voters that
America is full it to a room that
included an audience with Holocaust
survivors in it is one of the most
historically ignorant insulting things
you could ever imagine him saying to
that audience but he did I can't imagine
the Holocaust survivors in that audience
hearing that especially with America's
history of theirs there you know there
was a time when we turn back we
Holocaust survivor boats full of
individuals who later died in
concentration camps we drastically
restricted immigration quotas and
enforcement in
made it almost impossible to immigrate
to the United States in the 30s and 40s
your 20s 30s so Trump also made an
appeal to Jewish Republicans in his
speech by saying that the Democrats are
pushing an extreme anti-semitic agenda
quote an attacking representative Ilan
Omar just a few days after federal
agents arrested a trump supporter who
threatened to quote put a bullet in her
head and to show the audience what a
good friend he is to American Jews Trump
referred to Benjamin Netanyahu as quote
your prime minister and said the
Democrats could quote leave Israel out
there all by yourselves
in response the anti-defamation league
and the American Jewish Committee both
criticized the president statement for
quote feeding bigotry and quote leading
people to believe that Jews aren't loyal
Americans guys do you think all the
Republicans and DC pundits who accused
Elon omma or feeding the dual loyalty
trope or busy writing their takes about
Trump today I think those op-eds are
getting printed it's so frustrating you
know look he's done he some of the most
you know he's he's bought into
anti-semitic tropes in front of Jewish
audiences again and again and again that
is what he does he thinks it's charming
and if you listen to the way the crowd
reacts sometimes the crowd finds it
charming too and it's very frustrating
because it's a they don't it's I think
the biggest reminder of it is that that
this is a bad faith attack on Democrats
obviously and just a reminder that he
can go in front of these crowds and use
these tropes himself while attacking
Democrats for being anti-semitic yeah in
the next breath while right-wing
anti-semitism is on the rise I mean you
couldn't you couldn't write down a more
clear-cut example of accusing someone of
dual loyalty than telling them your
Prime Minister was write it but you know
in 2015 he told the same group you're
not gonna support me even though you
know I'm the best thing that could ever
happen to Israel because I don't want
your money you don't want to give me
money you want to control your own
politician you said that to them that is
the most anti-semitic thing I've ever
heard and the reason that doesn't get
replayed on Fox News and Breitbart and
loops is P is Trump's a Republican and
because you'll hon Omar is an
african-american Muslim who wears a
hijab that is the reason they play her
 over and over and over in her
comments now there are reasonable people
who could hear those comments and think
that's offensive that's unfair I don't
like that I complete
respect them for feeling that way and
certainly certainly she received near
universal condemnation but what Trump
doesn't says is worse we're not even
talking about all the literary artists
who love him barely a blip hit these
comments and you know it's it's funny
because it's it's um you know Trump does
it like we're all in on the joke yeah
you know your policy I negotiate your
rich Jews you know Jews you love your
money but but it's not a joke to a lot
of people who want who are watching it
and Donald Trump does not only practice
this anti-semitic doesn't know doesn't
Donald Trump doesn't just engage in this
kind of anti-semitic rhetoric in front
of Jews he has done it before he's
famously done it in private it's been
reported on many times you go back look
it's a small thing but when Jon Stewart
made fun of Donald Trump John Donald
Trump referred to him as Jon Leibowitz
over and over again why because it was
his Jewish name and he would put Stewart
in question marks and he would call him
use all I don't even remember the muffin
top of my head but he would use all
kinds of anti-semitic words about Jon
Stewart it is his nature it's what he's
using to appeal to people and it is
shameful for Jewish people to smile and
smirk at this kind of rhetoric
that America's full that you're rich
Jews who just try to buyer politicians
because you think that he's in on the
joke did a lot of people who aren't it's
also important to understand that these
are not just bad faith attacks coming
from Donald Trump this isn't just like
Trump spouting off the Republican Jewish
coalition and Sheldon Adelson are
reportedly planning a ten million dollar
campaign in 2020 to convince Jewish
Americans who traditionally vote
overwhelmingly Democratic to vote for
Donald Trump the man who just called the
Prime Minister of Israel their leader
and I prayed and I I can and I don't
think it's directed I think it's gonna
be directed at Jewish Americans but I
think it's particularly directed at
older Jewish Americans and I you know
and if my personal experience in my
family what I hear I think it's working
I mean so for a certain subset of older
Jews I think it's working yeah I think
look I don't disagree I mean there's
they're ten million bucks to reach two
percent of the US population but
obviously if you're trying to swing a
couple thousand voters in Florida or
pencil vein
this matters a lot that said like exit
polling data since like the 90s has
shown that the Jewish voters pretty
overwhelmingly go to Democrats but also
J Street has done a bunch of polling
because you know hawkish Republicans
always claim that the Jewish vote is
could be swung by just talking about
Israel but in fact when they ask J
streets pollster asked American Jews
like what are your top two voting issues
they usually say the economy health care
terrorism gun violence about 10 percent
or less in these polls say Israel also
eighty percent of American Jews support
a two-state solution so it may be the
case that this is a a threshold issue
for a lot of older Jewish voters would
they think if the Democrat is
insufficiently pro-israel they then can
look to the Republican Party and that's
probably the argument they're trying to
make but just stepping back a bit the
the the unflinching Republican support
for everything Israel does has nothing
to do with Jewish voters it has
everything to do with evangelical voters
yes who the the furthest right wing of
which think that israel needs to be
completely controlled to have the
rapture come and then all the Jews will
later be converted to Christianity or
they'll go to hell like they're talking
to John Hagee and Jerry Falwell Jr
and those crazy creeps far more than
they're actually talking to Jewish
voters I believe yeah I still want to
find the Democratic Jewish voters who
are democratic in every way but because
of Trump's position on Israel are now
moving over as opposed to older Jewish
voters who were already sort of Trump
off' ID and then are thus are more
willing to listen to the right message I
don't and I don't know the answer but I
don't think we know either but I do
think it's this kind of thing where it's
just this it's just that it's showing
this little bit of doubt in the minds of
a subset of American Jews say like okay
you know you can't trust these Democrats
maybe you'll stay home maybe you'll vote
for Trump maybe you'll just maybe it'll
just become a bigger issue for you but
it's just there to kind of just stoke
that little bit of fear say that's what
that's what the Omar stuff - it's it
just leaves a little bit of a mark I
totally I mean one of my neighbors is a
Holocaust survivor and I went over to
her house once she's incredibly old but
Fox News is on all day every day blaring
and she's probably seeing the story
after story about Leno mark and yes it
works and also just one more thing I
know we'll get to
it's also about equating supporting
Israel with supporting right-wing
American politics and supporting
right-wing Israel politics right that
that that that's that's like the biggest
that's the most important long-term
project that they've been again well
speaking of that just days before the
elections coming up in Israel this week
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said
in an interview that he'd start an Xing
settlements in the West Bank if he's
re-elected Netanyahu says who's the
subject of multiple investigations is
fighting for his political life Tommy
why is he saying this and how bad is it
so just a little context so you know the
Bibi called early elections because he
thought it would prevent the Attorney
General in Israel who he hand-picked who
is a total right winger as well from
bringing forward mints about him on or
bringing starting the process of
indicted him on corruption charges that
did not work so no he's cut how did we
get that fun William bar well their
legal system takes even longer than ours
so it's frustrating so basically you
know this election is on Tuesday and
Bibi is he that it's not just that the
like cooed would win his party would win
outright like the Democrat Republican
Party wins out right there's like 40
different parties running and they each
to get a seat in the Knesset you need to
reach 3.25%
because it's a proportional system so
what he's trying to do is get support
from the furthest right-wing political
parties and to get out like cooed
members by doing these drastic
last-minute things in the 2016 election
the day before the election day or the
day of the election day he released the
wildly racist video that said Arab
voters were going to the polls in droves
because they wanted to take him out and
that was how he inched over the line and
he is attacking get-out-the-vote efforts
among non-jews and so this is this is
very similar I mean it's actually in a
lot of ways equivalent to Donald Trump
sort of caravans stuff right before the
election and Yahoo's been in power for a
decade days days before the election he
announces a new rightward right-wing
policy on the West Bank first of all
like do people why wouldn't people see
through that but also the only reason
Netanyahu faces a threat right now is
that there's been a
kind of a new coalition formed in the
center of Israel but everyone kind of
recognizes that Israel has moved to the
right why look what explains what
explains this power that he has um he's
been a survivor for a long time he's had
personal corruption charges against him
since the very beginning he's running a
guy named Benny gaunts in a coalition of
former Israeli generals who I think
frankly if they win we will not be close
to happy with their politics either so I
mean with regard to the the need to
annex West Bank settlements basically
every member of the like who'd policy
has already come out in support of this
policy it's just that no Prime Minister
ever has a Netanyahu ever has so do you
think it's a popular policy with the
Israeli people um I think it's growing
more popular and it's certainly probably
very popular in the like cooed Party
which is his you know the the
Conservative Party and in parties to the
right so what he's trying to do because
of their weird system is he needs to
forge coalitions with these super far
right-wing policies including one that
was so racist that they were compared to
Nazis literally and and to get out all
his people because you could have a you
can have a scenario where a more
moderate party wins more votes than the
like who party but if they can't form a
coalition to form a government then it
falls back to you know whoever else can
can pull it off so back that's what is
play is here now I mean the problem with
this policy is most people view it as a
nail in the coffin of a two-state
solution yeah you know I mean these are
the it's an apartheid state if you they
do that there are there are there's
always been an assumption that in a
negotiated two-state solution there are
Israeli settlements that are right along
the border that would be swapped in
terms of territorial swaps so that it
would remain part of Israel what's
happened is the settlement construction
has gotten so far into Israel that to
carve out all of those events in to
respect what's happened is the
settlement construction has gotten so
far into the West Bank that to carve out
all of those areas and bring them into
Israel you basically would make it so
you just have these little islands of
territory that become the West Bank
there's no continuous data a little dot
it there's a little yeah it looks by
design huh well yeah I mean yeah and so
Israel now faces this existential choice
where they
can continue to go for a two-state
solution or they can essentially annex
the West Bank and have a one state
solution but then you know you you will
then incorporate 2.8 million
Palestinians into Israel and the
question becomes is this at our
democratic state do they have the right
to vote and if they don't it's no longer
a democratic state and presumably one of
the obstacles to a prime minister
annexing the West Bank was that they'd
face international rebuke including from
the United States but Donald Trump won't
do that that's exactly right I mean
every other you know BB may have wanted
to do this for a very long time Obama
had to force him to say he supported a
two-state solution back in 2009 they
know that Trump will not say a damn word
because they hand it over the Golan
Heights and they move the Jerusalem
embassy which you know in fairness to
Trump every other president has promised
to do and not done but but Trump never
questioned this trouble never questioned
us uh all right let's talk about the
Democrats in a new wide-ranging
interview with The Washington Post
Speaker Nancy Pelosi predicted that her
party will hold on to the house in 2020
saying that she's quote going to have
our races won by this November he's such
a boss just look that's a year early
Nancy then she's got the next year to
just sort of chill out yeah I got
meditation tick back Paul Cain of the
post wrote that Pelosi rejected the idea
that today's Democrats are further to
the left and a decade ago she said it
was just a few high-profile people in
Congress and then a few presidentials
and his instead charted a course of
again appealing to moderate suburban
nights and some rural voters frustrated
frustrated by Trump's reality TV style
presidency she doesn't want to focus on
impeaching Trump or on far-fetched
legislation that has no hope of passing
and divided government this is all from
Kane she promises not to repeat the
mistakes leading up to 2010 saying quote
you cannot let your opponents
characterize mischaracterize what you're
about so what was missing from that
election was a strong messaging piece
and that's what we had in this last
election in 2018 what do you think about
Pelosi strategy here I don't
particularly understand the 2010 point
right because the other thing I don't
think was a messaging problem well I
think even if there is a messaging
problem there's a big difference between
running to take power and running to
keep power so especially by the way we
should just lay out the context running
to keep power
after you have passed a massive
government program the Affordable Care
Act and the economy has not even started
recovering from the worst recession
since the Great Depression and we're in
this wearing this right was 2010 we're
in this this a word I constantly regret
using this liminal space between
Obamacare pass a middle space yeah
between Obamacare passing and being
vilified and Obamacare actually becoming
something as a part of people's lives
right it's open like yesterday yeah
which man that a long time looking in
right before 2018 we stood up Geocities
at healthcare.gov and that didn't work
so it was a it was a no-no now they
can't get enough of it nearly one more
but yeah I mean what do you what are we
sorry what else do we think about her
her strategy they're saying you know
it's moderate suburban eighths you know
rural voters she's worried about them I
mean it seems like they're she's trying
to give cover to a lot of moderate
Democrats who won in 2018 in districts
where impeachment might not be popular
in in districts where some of the more
progressive legislation that we've all
talked about ad nauseam might not be as
popular she's trying to take some slings
and arrows for them in advance of them
having to talk about it yeah I mean one
thing we have to understand is that
Nancy Pelosi's job is different from any
of these Democratic presidential
candidates they are trying to put
together a coalition national coalition
that adds up to 270 electoral votes in
doing so we have often said that you
need a candidate who can rally and
inspire the base of the party including
people who haven't felt like they wanted
to vote before of non voters and still
appeal to sort of these
middle-of-the-road
independents swing voters whatever you
want to call them and that's what you
that's what we need in the presidential
level on the house level there are a lot
of districts where there's not a lot of
base voters yeah there's not a lot of
like trying to get and that is and we
have to remember and recognize that in
2018 we did not win the house because
there was this sort of like liberal
surge among the base we won the house
because in a lot of these districts
there were a lot of Republic
voters who decided to vote Democrat for
the first time independent voters and
that's what son Nancy Pelosi's mind and
that is a different task than what the
presidential candidates have to do I
also just think you know we talked about
this before - there are no really grand
conclusions you can draw from 2018 in in
the sense of saying this is the way you
need to run to win a House seat right
there are there were California
districts that we won even with very
liberal candidates but still won by
pulling pulling in independence and
pulling in Republicans there are more
liberal districts where people like AOC
could mount a campaign that not only
helps them win the district but kind of
creates a new benchmark for how far the
left can be inside the Democratic Party
and that has value so like you know
they're gonna be places where Democrats
can run on Medicare for all can run on
can run can can call for impeachment can
can can put a marker down for the green
New Deal and then they're gonna be
districts where people have to run a
more moderate race that's that's the
game that's okay right that's all I mean
and we should say it's not to say that
if you are in one of these purple
reddish districts you have to run some
moderate centrist campaign we've made
this point a million times but Katie
Porter one suburban I was down here that
was very Republican she's for Medicare
for all J if Elizabeth Warren still won
that race but it's not like there's a
lot of Democrats who were in some of
these reddish purple districts who won
their seats by talking about abolishing
nice yeah I mean there's also just a lot
of jockeying going on you see it every
day on Twitter to define who is a
progressive what progressivism is a lot
of it has involved
discussion about Medicare for all or a
buy-in plan or legislation Pelosi put
forward - sure up
Obamacare and the interim right like
that's a conversation that's happened a
lot it was interesting talking to who
then Castro because he has an
immigration policy that is way to the
left of anyone else and that's not seen
as the same sort of litmus test so you
know it's a question of how will he
start to define his policy as the litmus
test for what it means to be progressive
or will he at all he's like that's how
you're gonna get to left some of these
people in this campaign
it's also worth remembering - like I I
can understand being fresh there's a
there's this balance that someone like
Nancy Pelosi has to strike right because
on the one hand she's setting the agenda
right she's gonna decide what it does
mean to be progressive in a way that's
practical right she is going to help set
that boundary and the same time she's
also gonna share this kind of like what
what does amount to kind of a form of
punditry and saying here's what I
believe some candidates have to do
here's what I believe other candidates
have to do but the thing to remember is
the right bound of the the the may just
have it again what we have seen
repeatedly is that Nancy Pelosi is not
going to be the obstacle to how far left
democratic politics can go the House
version of Obamacare was further to left
than the Senate version of of Obamacare
anything we end up passing if we are so
lucky as to take the Senate the the
bound will be determined by the debates
that take place inside of the Senate her
job is to just retain retain her job is
just to retain the house try to build
that majority right well yeah and it's
also it's a question of you know let's
fight about what version of health care
legislation we pass once we actually
have the power to pass it yeah yeah as
opposed to fighting about it now because
you can vote for Medicare for all you
can go for Bernie Sanders bill and you
know representative Jay Apelles bill in
the house right now on single-payer or
you could vote for Nancy Pelosi's ACA
legislation that would show up the ACA
either of those votes right now they
ain't going anywhere after they leave
the house right but in notably
Congressman Jay Paul supports Pelosi is
Bill too sure basically yes right now
the one exception I think to what Lovett
was saying is that Pelosi is trying to
support efforts by the d-triple-c to
prevent people from helping out primary
challengers to the Democratic Party so
the exempt she is she is protecting
incumbents I guess you could argue that
that prevents the party from moving to
the less but it's also completely
understandable from her point of view to
not want to spend money on primary
that's the kind of thing McConnell would
do we would all you know sort of
grudgingly admire how cynical and awful
he is I personally think if you want to
primary someone in a safe district go
for it but you're great buddy it's it's
a notable exception that's where I
disagreed with her and in this interview
is her decision to support the the D
triple C's blacklist so like you said
the D Triple C is basically saying we
will blacklist any firm any consulting
firm that works for anyone who's
mounting a primary challenge to a
sitting House Democrat
and look I think primaries are healthy
for this party now I think look it's
interesting ro Cana who's one of the
more liberal members of the House he
seems to have flirted a compromise and
he said well why don't we say that if
you're mounting a primary challenge to
someone in a safe blue seat you know we
won't blacklist your consulting firm and
you should be able to do it everyone
about that primary challenge but you
shouldn't mount a primary challenge to
someone who's sitting in a reddish
purple seat that could flip I think
that's a pretty sensible compromise but
look we have to understand that primary
challenges in the Democrat Party be
within the depsite primary challenges
within the Democratic Party and house
challenges have happened for such a long
time right like then Barack Obama ran
against Bobby Rush for his first
congressional race you know that's how
better O'Rourke won his seat mounted a
primary challenge right like this has
happened for a long long time now I also
don't think this is gonna dissuade
anyone from running it is going to
create a debate a debate we're having
right now that basically says that a
portion of the party's opinion isn't
wanted or isn't welcome it's also gonna
mean that there's firms that are gonna
then become primary own like I don't
even know how this shakes out but you
end up in a situation where you're
literally dividing the party between
people who work for incumbents and
people who work for primary challengers
and there's a lot of places where there
should be primary challengers because
these are very blue districts with you
know members that have been there for a
long time who don't represent the best
interest of their district and are far
to the right of where the Democratic
mainstream has become or if you think
that they do represent the district then
they make that case to voters and you
know and whoever wins wins right why do
you want the scales like that they're
trying to mount a primary challenge to
Richard Neal in Massachusetts you know
because he won't hold a hearing on
Medicare for all in the Ways and Means
Committee now they're gonna hold a
hearing for Medicare for all
in the House Nancy Pelosi he's already
promised that he doesn't want to do so
in his committee he's also the guy
that's now going after Trump's tax
returns you could make an argument that
he's pretty liberal but if you say that
he's not liberal enough run the primary
challenge if he's liberal enough he wins
the seat if not he doesn't because I
also think there might just be a
practical problem here for the
d-triple-c if you have a pollster who's
working on ten races for you and they're
on calls with your paid media team your
research team your comms team all the
time then that person is also working on
a primary challenger against some of
your uncommon
just creates some weird Emily
they're probably getting ahead of you
can have like an inspector general like
you know running around run the numbers
okay it's it's it all feels like um it
feels like a lot of work so in to
prevent someone from doing some polling
and running some ads also kind of
elevates the role that consultants play
it's just the whole thing is much it's
already way too elevated in people's
minds right cuz of all these stories
right like it's actually not as big of a
deal
you're you know nine the consultants
don't care either way
they just don't you're gonna take away
the lifeblood of these campaigns well
you know everyone everyone thinks like
you know you hire high-priced
consultants and they wouldn't your
campaign for you like it's just not what
happens you need a good candidate a good
message that's the fundamentals
someone come out there and be like
remember middle class so you know
speaking of all this our old boss Barack
Obama was talking to young leaders in
Berlin over the weekend and he said that
he worries that sometimes progressives
create a circular firing squad because
our allies stray from purity on the
issues is he right to worry I think it
is he on Twitter does he have a secret
Twitter accused which is which is good
for him I think he just probably here's
here's the fights he might be right it
might be totally fine that there is a
constant roiling conversation about
democratic policy ideas that consumes
the media narrative the way the
Trump show did in 2016 I have no idea I
do think I do think look it dries to be
crazy personally when I see people
running down for example the Affordable
Care Act because I think it's the height
of privilege to say that Medicare
expansion or twenty million people
getting health insurance is not somehow
significant for those individuals right
it's like that's you might think I'm
wrong and that's just fine but I think
it's an absurd argument yeah my view on
this has always been we should
absolutely have fierce policy debates
over the direction of the party and
everyone should be free to participate
in those two in those debates but what I
start worrying about is challenging each
other's motivations right when you pick
a specific policy saying that you're you
know you're a corporate shill or you're
doing this for this reason or that
reason like
that's when it starts to get bad because
though that's when you know we start
when we start telling each other that
this Democrat is not worthy because
they're like a little bit to the right
on this policy or that policy you know
that's a problem you it's completely
fine to say my candidate supports this
policy the other candidate supports this
policy I don't think it work goes far
enough and so that's why I'm that's why
I'm for my great then fight that out
yeah it's also I think part of it too
much nastier than that on Twitter yeah I
mean I think part of it is that so much
of our debate around candidates around
politics or ideology is about what we'll
do when we get power yeah that ends up
being an argument about who's who's
really gonna do what they say gonna do
who can you really count on who's really
progressive when the evidence the
records are going on is mostly words
mostly proposals mostly uh how they how
strongly they talk about certain issues
and I think then when debates I guess
it's like circling fires well it's like
well what's in the chamber you know like
what are we firing at each other and
it's like when when a debate boils down
to see this is why you can't trust this
person see this is why you shouldn't
ever listen to this person see this is
why you should disabuse yourself of this
entire wing of the party I think that is
when you have crossed a line yeah also
I'm totally fine with with elections
being really contentious I think vetting
candidates is a good thing you should
dig into their record we should do it
now before that person wins and it
happens in the general election yeah
like that should be our operating
assumption I don't care if it's nasty
and contentious I just think it's an
argument that you should think about
whether the way you attack someone's
motives or criticize them personally
might turn someone off from your
candidate permanently yeah that's
a--that's a thing that people should
consider and I'll say I saw people
pointing out that you know Barack Obama
and Hillary Clinton ran quite a
contentious race against each other in
2008 maybe more contentious than the
Bernie Hillary race in 2016 I think
there's a lot of evidence for that but
you know what all of us on both
campaigns the Obama campaign in the
Clinton campaign will look back at some
of those debates and some of those
attacks and we're not super proud of all
of it you know like that that debate
where she's saying you're slumlord res
Co and Obama saying you sat on the
corporate board of Walmart like I don't
think that was a great moment for either
of
and I don't think that was very
constructive and I don't think that
helped the helped either them and help
the party at all well part of the
problem of those debates at the time
what they had been debating for such a
long time
their policy differences were minimal
yeah it was right it was just the it was
the the mandate the man to healthcare
mandate we're in some and some vote on
Iran well there was the whole Iraq war
thing right but of course but by but
that by then these fights had been
litigated so much and mostly what
they've been proposing to do as
president aligned so much that they were
left with like so little to actually
yell with each other about it
Iraq was the big one and then Iraq was
in the past so then it was like going
forward it was too similar though to it
was the IRGC designation which attracted
today that was I was just thinking about
all right let's talk about 2020 over the
last few days I think something like 40
additional Democrats and that's they're
running for president Ohio congressman
Tim Ryan announced on Thursday the 45
year old sorry the 45 year old Ryan
who's been in Congress since 2003 is
perhaps best known for running
unsuccessfully against Nancy Pelosi from
Minority Leader back in 2016 he pitched
himself on the view as quote a
progressive who knows how to talk to
working-class people and get elected in
working class districts California
Congressman Eric's wall well is
announcing his bid on Colbert tonight
Monday night and he'll be hosting a town
hall this week on gun safety with our
friend Cameron kaske one of the
survivors of the shooting last year in
parkland Florida because he wants to
focus his campaign on gun violence
Colorado Senator Michael Bennet said
last week that despite a recent prostate
cancer diagnosis he's committed to
running for president once he's healthy
others still considering a run include
former Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe
New York City Mayor Bill DeBlasio
Montana Governor Steve Bullock and
Stacey Abrams so outside of Stacey
Abrams I'm gonna put aside because she
is fantastic and has a national profile
I've seen a lot of complaining and
mocking on Twitter about all of these
prospective candidacies let's take the
other side just for shits and giggles
here what's the argument for running if
you're one of these candidates what are
they seeing when they look at the
political environment and the current
field that's telling them I should do
this it's hard I don't know I honestly
don't mean look like Eric swallow is an
easier example it seems like he wants to
run a campaign that's primarily focused
on stopping gun violence right that is
admirable that's sort of like the James
it's interesting
approach but I also think it's an open
question for me if that approach where
you say I'm the I'm the the climate
change candidate like jay Inslee did is
the best way to elevate that issue I
would argue that Alexander C did a hell
of a lot more to elevate the issue of
climate change or the people who
protested dianne feinstein's office then
jay Inslee has so far now it's early
maybe that will change but like god
that's my honest take on it so maybe I
don't know maybe they're gonna bring
something to this race that we can't see
yet and so we should by no means rule
them out it's just when you enter this
late it's hard to fundraise it's hard to
get staff it's hard to meet the
threshold to get into debates I'm not
sure I get the strategy I don't know I
like so if you think about running on an
issue you know there's two reasons to
run on the issue one is because you want
to make the issue central to politics or
two you want to use the issue as a
launching pad for your own legitimate
full-throated presidential race I I
don't know in the case of swallow or
Inslee what the goal is but in either
case you know you look at this field
right now you see better work who is no
longer in Congress who has raised
millions of dollars you see mayor Pete
Budaj edge who turned and I'm this is
not a criticism at all who who turned a
few key moments on television where he
was thoughtful and interesting and new
into enough of a base of support to get
on the debate stage you look at it that
you say all right I have one one
persuasive powerful moment about the
climate I have one persuasive powerful
moment about gun control in a CNN Town
Hall
maybe I can get the 65,000 donors maybe
I get on the debate stage and I and the
debate sage is a chance to reach the
people that you can't reach when you
don't have a national profile and so
maybe a lot of people are saying the
debate stage is the threshold if I make
it I make a shot at it if I don't I'm
out I think it's exactly right I think I
have a few thoughts on this I mean I
think this all started with it might
have started with Barack Obama winning
the presidency right he was a state
senator who was then a senator for a
year and then became president eight
states it accelerated in a huge
way with Donald Trump winning the
presidency because he was just we know
we know this whole story I would have to
repeat it again but thank you for
skipping
previously on America so you see that
and then you think okay well you know
anyone can really do this now right if
if Donald Trump's president anyone can
do this now and then you think the way
that the media has changed right where
you can get all this national attention
for a couple viral moments right and the
way that raising money in the Democratic
Party has changed you used to have to
like know a bunch of rich donors and sit
with them and suck up to them and get
money that way now
you can raise a ton of money online and
so they look at all this kind of stuff
and I think you're right especially it
started with Beto in this race but
especially Budaj edge right where are
these people these are people our
congressman or Bill de Blasio's case you
know the largest city in the country
yeah and they're saying like he is a
mayor of a pretty small college town and
and has held no other elected office and
this guy has raised seven million
dollars and is now this sort of national
candidate who's really has a chance in
the race and who benefits from running
even if he doesn't become a nominee
right that's the more cynical version of
this which is you run for office to get
a cabinet appointment or worse you run
to get a book deal or if you're Herman
Cain you get a book deal and you get
named to the Fed later right just cuz
you run for president you raise your
profile and I'll tell you now I don't
I'm not making that accusation about the
Democrats but certainly that was the
case for most of the Republicans who ran
for president for sure they did it to
make money down the road I'm not making
these that accusation either I do I
really hope that's not true because I do
not have I do not respect as much I will
just say people who are running who
thinking I'm not gonna win but I'm just
running because I want to raise my
profile like and I don't and look I
think like Pete Budaj is not running
because he wants to raise the profile I
think he really wants to do this you
know but I think if you're if you're
running for president if you do this you
really have to think that there is a
path for you and that you want to run
and maybe all these people do and I
think the reason they do is for all
these reasons wait up they're like all I
need is a couple big moments you know
where I take off and then if I can just
get to that debate stage and show people
you know what I am and what my message
is and want my story is then there
as you're looking at a field to by the
way and they're saying we have to
frontrunner Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders
won in the race well not the race yet
and they're not like traditionally super
strong frontrunners like Hillary was in
2015-2016 you know they are they're both
pulling it like between 25 and 30
percent you know Biden's support is tick
down a little bit Bernie's has stayed
solid but they're not so strong and no
one else and then after that you've got
Kamala Warren Beto and now Buddha judge
all sort of in the mix at around 8 to 10
percent and then a whole bunch of you
looking at that field and you're like
nothing is scaring me away right and I
also just they're human beings and I
just think we don't know how loud the
applause was in their minds in the
shower while giving their inaugural I
think they must be extraordinary
speeches that these people are giving to
themselves I mean it look I think Howard
Schultz is a good example of someone it
was practicing running for president in
his mind for a very very long time and
only discovered it only discovered how
hard it was when he started saying words
out loud to other human beings Howard
all other garbage can of coffee grounds
Howard Joyce who got his candidacy
unraveled in one interview with Ali
Velshi thinks that he's belonged on the
world stage what a clone Ali Velshi
wasn't who was interviewing him in the
shower but yeah I mean just to but
everyone everyone should run and we'll
see what I have this claimer we have no
blame er me and honestly like I have no
 idea what's going to happen in
this primary I don't know about you guys
but like every single guy got it locked
I'm pretty every single day I read the
news I'm like I would be nothing would
surprise me in this primary some say
cast as a pit I think has is a ladder
John when we come back it's office
interview with Nobel Peace Prize nominee
Amanda went
you
