now it's time for okay stop full roll
equip in the panel can say okay stop at
any point to comment Piers Morgan he's
like the British Ryan Seacrest if Ryan's
seeker has hacked a bunch of people's
phones and then still got to host
Eurovision or whatever Pierre sat down
with Donald Trump on his trip to the UK
and the two got on great take a look
[Laughter]
[Applause]
I'm the child of two preachers and I try
really hard not to do two things in
public cuss and drink but if I have to
look at these two ugly mugs and listen
to this complete and utter
[Applause]
that is pure rat poison restored britain
as your number one special relationship
i have a good relationship with many of
the leaders prime minister robbie very
special just got by he invited me as the
only country he invited me as
representative of the United States and
the first lady to be the only people at
a special ceremony for the new emperor
which okay stop
I have one friend these little symbolic
things like inviting a president to be
at a special thing for the
Emperor like those are not supposed to
affect policy like you're supposed to be
like this is why they're doing this to
get in your good favor over a set of
issues that are really important far
more important than where you sit at a
dinner you broken narcissus
you know a 3,000 year bloodline and as
you like to have a 3,000 year bloodline
I think would be great I don't know what
I'd be doing for the listen don't worry
honestly he cannot have a 3,000 year
bloodline he's like two generations in
and they've already got Habsburg
happening some branches don't flower you
feel being here in this center of power
this is the generator of power the
waters I think it's incredible because
I'm a big fan of Winston Churchill and I
studied Winston Churchill and this feels
like the day that he talked about
Frederick Douglass being a guy who did
really great
like it just feels like he just learned
Winston Churchill's name he's like two
minutes before you got on camera he's
like I'm trying to say hi to him before
I leave look everyone has a tell for
when they're lying it Trump's us when he
says I studied I like there are things
that that we deserve that we won't ever
get and one of them is just hey okay
tell us everything you know about
Winston Churchill all the time you need
I would pay like I would pay boxing
heavyweight championship pay-per-view
prices for Donald Trump is like getting
a question all right everything you know
about Japan go make all the phone calls
to FDR to Roosevelt and President
Roosevelt and they were showing me
here's where he made that call he was
you know they have everything definitely
make you feel to think that could have
been you
well it's just an awesome responsibility
a little gift for you because we're in
the Churchill Warren right this is where
Britain's greatest leader and you still
get for people listening someone is
brought in a hatbox and removed I had
now gentleman's hat I'm not gonna say
that I'm not sympathetic to Donald Trump
but I am sympathetic to being surprised
with a hat as the rule politicians when
they're surprised with the hat don't
wear the hat it's a mistake it's gonna
end poorly you're in a tank and you're
losing to George HW Bush famous from the
Hat maker lock on behalf of good morning
Britain and ITV we would like to present
you with a chucklehead okay sorry did he
present it on behalf of the people of
Britain he does not have that authority
you can tell from Donald Trump's face
because he gets politics a little bit
he's looking at that hat like I don't
know what I should
but he really understands his own hair
yeah he knows three things he knows how
to avoid accountability in the American
legal system
he knows his hair and he knows TV and
those those two out of three are about
to come
you want to try I'll try it you know
right because it one thing I proved by
being a politician it is my hair oh it's
a little big
[Laughter]
[Applause]
that guy gets shot first it of Chicago
gangster movie oh my god
my takeaway said this was the worst
version of the deadwood movie I don't
say I'm gonna say that like Kevin
Costner was in The Untouchables but this
is a movie called the unfuckable
[Applause]
[Music]
