welcome to I'd save America live stream
ya weekly stream Sunday we're gonna
figure out what to call this pot save
America live streaming into your hearts
hello streamers Elijah and at least on
the ones and twos we're gonna take some
questions from all of you today at least
no Gutierrez is here hello to throw out
some questions for you we miss Priyanka
we do cool get started let's take some
questions alright Alex wants to know
what is your reaction to Pelosi asking
Trump to delay the State of the Union
will it have any impact on the shutdown
or does he not care enough good for in
this day and age can't we extend an arm
to those with whom we disagree even
though if we do reach out with that arm
he'll chop it off and turn it into a big
[Laughter]
I'm happy she did it we were yeah we
really did it we all had it we all had a
meeting here and we're like she should
she should not invite him she should
uninvite him here's the deal is it is
the Speaker of the House is prerogative
whether to invite the president for the
State of the Union this is something in
the Constitution that basically you know
the president has to deliver a report to
Congress it used to be in writing the
State of the Union the president would
just deliver a long boring report to
Congress boats been going on now they
decided to read it aloud then at one
point along the I said sometime sometime
they decided to read it aloud and have
the president come and give a speech so
it's entirely up to the house and the
speaker to invite the presidents always
been a tradition but look the reason it
posed he gave for not doing it is not
just because she's like pissed at Donald
Trump it really requires a ton of
security to protect the President to
protect members of Congress and so you
have a whole bunch of different agencies
in the government that have to work
together for weeks to make sure that the
State of the Union is secured and it's
like one of these events where you know
they have one cabinet secretary who
doesn't attend in case something
horrible should happen to everyone else
the State of the Union which I believe
is
the premise for designated survivor
starring Cowpens exciting Kal Penn
but anyway so and you can't agencies
can't work together and figure out that
security with the government shutdown
like this yeah and also first of all
there hasn't been a government shutdown
during a state every Union in the modern
era era era era near any era and look I
think it would be a reasonable thing to
not invite Trump to speak in front of
Congress even if there weren't security
concerns I mean look this is he deserves
special treatment this is a president
who's gonna use he would if we are in
the middle of a shutdown that he has
caused he would obviously use it as an
opportunity to bash Democrats lie about
the cause lie about immigrants lie about
the media and in fact Caitlin Collins
from CNN reported that Stephen Miller
was Stephen Miller was writing the
speech so that the entire purpose of the
speech was to blame Democrats for shut
down John interesting fact about Stephen
Miller you know I think you famously
like to write speeches at a Starbucks
near the White House he's recreated one
of the pillboxes that was on the beaches
of Normandy that he writes inside of
it's very quiet I don't know what those
things are called are they called that
okay thanks guys
and obviously I fact check familiar
obviously obviously he doesn't write
them there he writes them in a hole he
dug back in high school I don't know who
cares move on end up joke I think there
was another part of the question would
have an effect on Trump yes who knows
but if there's anything that would have
an effect on trumpets telling him he
can't be on the TV he was looking for an
opportunity to you know talk to the
whole country and so maybe that'll piss
him off but who knows I actually don't
think it was a strategy necessarily to
you know reopen the government but I
think that overall anything that
Democrats can do to show people that
this is an unusual moment the government
has shut down
800,000 people aren't getting paid
there's people hurting all over the
country so this is not business
as usual and business as usual would be
I mean
I think it would have been very odd for
a whole bunch of members of Congress and
Donald Trump speaking to the whole
country as if nothing was going on while
the government shutdown and like 800,000
people don't have their paychecks I
think that's weird everyone
working into the night for weeks on end
unpaid with half their salary it's not a
state of a union like yeah I mean yeah
the you know we're in this moment where
I think that for like a very long time
because we've been dealing with such a
radicalized Republican party there's
been very little conversation other than
in like the early years of the Obama
administration about like what we can do
to make government better you know we're
so we're constantly trapped in this
fight just trying to save government
from ridiculous cuts to Medicare to
Medicaid even just keeping the
government open has been a problem that
you know we we are now in a position I
think we're part of our job here
obviously it's just to get the
government open but I think we just show
people why the government is important
the government is a really important
part of our lives you're right airplanes
are not being inspected food is not
being inspected people are not gonna be
able to get their tax refunds Native
Americans are gonna be able to get
services people are gonna still are
gonna be unable to get their food stamps
and so like the idea of having a big
pomp and circumstance while pretending
everything is normal I think is just
morally reprehensible on top of
everything else so along those lines L
beam PDS asks some federal workers have
been ordered to return to work without
pay can they refuse I think they can
yeah I don't know I don't I mean it's
certainly territory that we haven't been
in many times before yeah I'm not a
lawyer I did get a very good LSAT score
I did not even taking the LSAT but do
you have the prep book in like that
somewhere and I'm pretty confident I
would have been a truly great lawyer no
no for sure is why I think she would
speak to this now I don't know I mean
there are there are some government
workers who are legally barred from
striking there are others who are not
there there have been in our history
wildcat strikes which when people break
the rules to strike you know I think we
don't know where this is going to end
but one of the places it could end is it
becoming incumbent upon federal
employees just
stop working for out for no pay and
making making the pain of this shutdown
spread a little further I mean that's
one that's one way that this could
happen and look it doesn't it doesn't
even necessarily have to be a strategy
on behalf of these workers put yourself
in the shoes of some of these folks who
have now not been paid they missed a
paycheck even when they were working a
lot of times they need every last
paycheck to pay the rent to pay for you
know medical bills to just survive and
if you've been out of work for 25 days
and you know you're missing paychecks
eventually to feed your family to
survive you're going to have to take
another job you're going to have to make
money somewhere it's like it's becoming
life or death for people so like yeah if
I was a worker and I know I wasn't and I
wasn't getting any money and I didn't
have like a whole lot of savings to dip
into at some point I'd say yeah I need
to take another job I'm not gonna show
up for work and work without pay not
many people work without pay in this
country for weeks so Donald Trump could
like sit around and ask for five
billion dollars in steel slats on the
southern border because he didn't like a
OC getting a headline and Ann Coulter
called him on the blower anyway
final question on the shutdown what
would you say to people affected by the
shutdown who are beginning to get
desperate and may even want Democrats to
concede well funding because they just
need their paychecks yeah this is it's a
great question and it's a tough one too
because you know I think as Democrats as
people who believe that government can
make a difference in people's live who
in my people's lives and who don't and
who hate the fact that these services
are being cut off and that people aren't
getting paid you might think okay well
like I just said it's five billion
dollars in steals let's maybe we should
just give in but basically Democrats
giving in to this is saying we actually
didn't win the election in 2018 we don't
control the House of Representatives we
have no power and basically we will
allow this government to continue so
that any time Donald Trump on something
he can just say oh well if I don't get
it passed through legislation I'll just
shut down the government and starve
people of their paychecks until I get my
wet and you know maybe maybe you given
this
time but like next time maybe he wants
to I don't know maybe other crazy well
look I mean this is a rare case where
Republicans are trying to fund something
we've been in plenty of fights in which
Republicans have been trying to
drastically cut Medicare and Medicaid or
write drastically cut food stamps or
privatize whole parts of the government
if we give in on this the the goal here
is not just to end this shutdown the
goal is to make sure that this kind of
governing isn't accepted as a routine if
we give in now we are inviting more
shutdowns endless shutdowns again and
again and again so our goal has to be to
not only reopen the government but set
down a marker that this government that
if you shut it down you're the one
that's gonna have to reopen it you
cannot use you cannot use 800,000 people
or all Native Americans or people's
refund checks as a cudgel to get across
your latest agenda item yeah
next time it's uh oh this worked for me
I won this one so now I'm gonna say
alright unless we repeal Obamacare and
get Obamacare shedding it again turning
down it again what about Medicare I'll
do that one great yeah so it's it's the
policy as abhorrent but also the fact
that this is a shutdown on a lark the
Republicans passed a budget to keep the
government open Donald Trump got in a
fit we can't if we allow Donald Trump to
shut the government down every time he
gets in a fit it'll it'll never end
it'll just never end Wow Emerson wants
to know about William bar how reliable
is he to actually protect the Justice
Department is he just saying what
Senators want to hear if it's not what
Trump wants to hear could you
theoretically stop his nomination the
bar thing is very interesting so William
Bar was Attorney General once before in
the first George Bush's administration
and he is clearly qualified for the job
and under you know standard
qualifications people think folks need
to be Attorney General one of the
qualifications being having had that job
I think had the job yeah there you go
and so he has some you know bipartisan
approval among the
you know DC legal crowd which you know
so needed bread Cavanaugh so there's
that and the good thing was like you
know he did say what a lot of senators
wanted to hear basically that hearing
could have gone worse
so Barr and Muller are old friends Barr
said he would follow the special counsel
regulation scrupulously said that
Moeller would be able to finish the job
he said this is not a witch-hunt
so they did leave little caveats in
there for his judgment to supersede
caveats here and there he said it's very
important that the public in Congress be
informed with the special counsels work
when he's finished so he said the right
things there you're right that he let he
had a bunch of caveats the bad on the
bad side of the ledger you know before
he took the job he wrote a memo to
senior White House and DOJ officials
they called it to question molars
authority and the whole investigation so
yeah so that wasn't good yeah I mean I
would also just say you know the Venn
diagram of should be Attorney General
willing to be Donald Trump's Attorney
General does not overlap it just doesn't
overlap I mean you you know there's
there's really two possibilities given
that he's had private conversations with
Donald Trump before receiving this
nomination either he has given Donald
Trump assurances of one sort or another
either explicitly or implicitly to give
Donald Trump confidence which would mean
that he is disqualified or he didn't do
that seems unlikely
or I suppose he did that and doesn't
mean it and that he'll show up and be
you know we've we've all been listening
to bagman the Rachel Maddow podcast on
Spiro Agnew and one of the most moving
parts of that show is the integrity of
Republicans inside of the Department of
Justice including the Attorney General
under Richard Nixon and how much of our
system depended on these individuals in
a moment of great crisis and intense
public pressure intense private pressure
adhering to a set of values even though
they would pay a personal price for it
and we need that now we need that and
and we need it at a time in which there
has been so precious little of it on the
part of Republicans so
the Republicans in the Senate can
confirm this guy Democrats can jump on
board if they want or not nobody knows
what's going to happen but we are
looking for integrity from people that
have agreed to work on behalf of Donald
Trump and that to me is instantly
frightening yeah we're we're very used
to Trump nominating openly corrupt
buffoons for very important jobs in the
government and he has not done that in
this case and there is an upside to that
and then he's definitely grew up a foon
but the downside to that is perhaps this
is the first person he nominates to a
very important position that the public
facing side of William bar could be like
oh well he makes you know the DC
establishment feel okay and he's not as
bad so like that but then behind the
scenes you know he knows how to sort of
you know the question is not you know
some people where they're Trump on the
outside the question is how much Trump
does he carry in his heart you know this
room wants to know what could we expect
from bar versus sessions like how would
they differ Oh on policy yeah it's a
good question Travis after we'd yeah he
said he wouldn't go after weed bar in
states that have legalized marijuana
he's not going to do that a sigh of
relief emanated from crooked media that
could be heard at the Hollywood sign
[Laughter]
what else are they gonna say about
borrow I don't you know he's pretty
standard Republican in standard trumpian
most of the other policies and I don't
think we can expect to get it like
you're saying love it to have an
attorney general under Trump who is not
Trump II and their policies which is
deeply unfortunate but as the problem of
the president that
in office right now and not necessarily
the people he nominates I do think Jeff
Sessions had like a special fervor for
going after yeah drug use and hating
immigrants and a long record and against
criminal justice reform a long record of
being anti-gay and anti-trans I would
also point out that for all of that
there were literal protests in Manhattan
because Jeff Sessions left so you know
which again wild explaining that to
people in a few years is gonna be
tough anyway this this tiny anti-gay
zealot in Trump's pocket the
Manhattanites so to the streets I think
that anybody I think anybody trying to
predict the future on this is wrong and
if we could be looking at a moment a
year from now or six months from now
where Barr is the person that is the
last offensive donald trump who protects
him from the consequences of his actions
we could be sitting here in a few months
and seeing this guy bar upholding the
rule of law and protecting the
institution of the Justice Department
against Trump who's to say who is to say
no one knows and you know that's that's
one of the great parts about this season
of America it's you just don't know
where it's gonna go
what's the worst outcome if Trump
decides to leave NATO how far do you
think he is prepared to go to please
Putin what do you think thermonuclear
war I mean NATO is the most important
effective military alliance the United
States has ever entered into probably
that the world has ever seen it you know
it prevented World War three it was
created after World War two it's an
alliance between the United States and
other countries North America and Europe
specifically and it was created to you
know to sort of check Russian influence
Soviet influence after after World War
Two and also for you know prevent
Germany from becoming in getting riled
up again riled up again and it succeeded
there and look at for a long time it
checked
Soviet influence and now that we have a
Russia that has shown aggression towards
many of the former Soviet states that
are now independent in Eastern Europe
yeah NATO is really important so that
Russia doesn't around with Eastern
Europe and all of Europe and it's sort
of the cornerstone of American global
American security and global security
and you know Trump saying that he wants
to leave NATO which has been Putin's
goal has been the as been the breakup of
NATO that has been his goal for for a
long long time now because then he can
exert more influence in Europe and all
over the world and so good China Frank
and I think actually if possible it's
even more dangerous than that you know
we live under the protection of a global
order that the United States built and
helmed for more than 60 years 70 years
now it has opened the world to our
businesses it has made it possible for a
level of economic growth across planet
earth that has improved a lot of
literally billions of people and it is
not in the interest of certain countries
for that to continue and it is a luxury
for someone like Donald Trump to attack
it because none of us have ever lived in
a time in which those rules and those
systems were not in place and they're
not perfect and one of the things we
will end up discussing in the 2020
campaign is what Democratic presidents
would do to make those rules fair for
Americans fair for workers fair for
people in other countries better for the
environment etc etc etc but you know
it's really dangerous
I mean article 5 of NATO says an attack
on one is an attack on all
and that was invoked once after 9/11 by
us when we were attacked and so all of
the countries that are in NATO came to
the aid of the United States when we
went after terrorists all over the world
and what that means is you don't have as
many American troops in harm's way
because you have soldiers from other
country fighting by air
console' Jers another example NATO in
the 90s in the Balkans when there was
ethnically NZ and Muslims were being
attacked
NATO stepped in to try to protect ethnic
minorities when they're gay so like it
is there's practical effects of this
security effects all over the world and
it is a great benefit to United States
to be in this alliance and fladam here
Putin is a bad guy
he wants to tear down this order and
also it's also - it's their legitimate
critiques of NATO Donald Trump has never
issued one this idea that like oh we're
not paid
there's no dues there's no dues NATO
basically says that each member country
has to spend a certain percentage of its
own GDP on its defence budget the United
States spends four percent of its GDP on
its defense budget some countries are
only a two percent right and so there's
our criticism that other countries
should spend more of their own money on
their own defense - because that helps
all of our defense but the boy Donald
Trump talks about it is it like there's
dues that everyone like put some money
into a pot every year for NATO which is
just it's not how it works at all
shouldn't be President he shouldn't be a
president what a bad situation bad very
bad so what do you think about
Gillibrand announcement on Colbert was a
good was this a good media tactic and
then a little negative all her
connections to Hillary and Franken
Fiasco overshadow her promising
candidacy so I think that the the reason
that she chide the reason that she chose
Colbert is because you do your typical
announcement behind your podium big
crowd your hometown everyone's there you
get covered on cable news right MSNBC
CNN probably not Fox but let me see you
in CNN cover your candidacy and you know
they get what 800,000 viewers maybe
maybe you get a quick couple seconds on
Network News that night maybe not
promised you go on Colbert which has a
couple million people that watch that
now you're in a sort of a non-political
media entity announcing your candidacy
and you can reach beyond just the most
committed voters who are watching cable
news that so it is smart in the sense
that you can announce your candidacy and
reach a much larger audience and also an
audience that isn't all political which
I'm sure Gillibrand is sitting there
thinking like yeah I want to reach as
many committed activist Democrats as
possible but I also want to reach a
bunch of people who are sitting in their
homes and maybe don't even know who I am
you know now I'm gonna introduce myself
to the one thing so in that way you you
know you reach a lot of people and so I
think it's smart
I think the downsides of it are Steven
asked her a question she's able to say
why she's running she has you know you
get a couple sentences for that but you
don't get as much time to really tell
your story and why you're running and
make your case for your candidacy which
I'm sure she'll probably do in a longer
speech later but that would be probably
the downside let's take this Franken
thing uh I I've it's um this goes this
it's uh it's so frustrating and stupid
and it's also a position it's also often
and I'm not I don't begrudge the person
for racing because there's an issue that
people raise but of course it's an issue
people raised because it's an issue
people raised everyone you know there's
this there's this it's a question that's
asked well like after what happened with
Franken don't you think there's
shouldn't it's a problem that what
happened with Franken and then you kind
of you push just a little bit you just
try to so what exactly is your position
is your position that you should not
speak out against somebody accused of
sexual misconduct no no no no is your
position that we should hold Republicans
to a higher standard than we hold
Democrats cause that's what Republicans
do that's what they did for Rome or
that's what they do for Donald Trump
every day that's they did for Steve King
in terms of racist comments until five
 seconds ago
no no no that's not who we are that's
not what you want to do so what is your
position exactly your position zactly is
that you you wish that uh that uh that
we just stuck by our man no she should
have it wasn't we ret you like Al
Franken I loved Al Franken Al Franken
was a hero of mine I was dead
stated by what happened Al Franken but
never in my mind did it occurred to me
that people who said what he did was
wrong and therefore should not be a
senator ought to be held responsible for
for Al Franken's decisions and
ultimately Al Franken's decision to
resign and Al Franken's decision to not
really defend himself to go without
defending himself offering kind of a
paltry and kind of vague a policy that
elided some of them more see the the
desire of a light of the substance of
the allegations and you're gonna hold
kirsten gillibrand responsible for that
i find that ridiculous and honestly when
the question about like will it hurt
Gillibrand that she was involved in this
frankness but the fact that there's
gonna be this conversation about
Gillibrand doing something that she
received blowback inside the party for
it because she thought it was the right
thing to do is ultimately I think a
positive thing for her because uh I
don't know I don't know I don't know how
you come away from hearing I know how
you come away from this debate thinking
that Kirsten Gillibrand was wrong
and I'll just add one thing to all that
which is this is gonna come up again and
again which is there is a presidential
primary and political debate happening
among extremely online people which is
all of us all of you who send us
questions right we're all extremely
online and then there is debate the
beginnings of a debate happening with
the rest of America
so if you even if you look at early
polls Kirsten Gillibrand's name
identification the number of people who
know who Kirsten Gillibrand is is fairly
low even relative to well-known
candidates like you know Joe Biden and
Bernie Sanders even the whole rest of
the field not as many people know right
and it's only because the two of them
have run before and they've been
national figures so not a lot of people
know Kirsten Gillibrand then if you took
the people who have heard of Harris
Angelababy
and you asked them have you heard about
this Al Franken controversy then you're
probably gonna get like 0.5% of that
 card and yet like every
reporter who writes about Kirsten
Gillibrand in their epic stories is
going to bring up the Franken thing
because because you know reporters are
also extremely online people and all
they can do is every candidate who
announces they have to think what's the
thing that's the problem with this
candidate so I want to lose it with
Warren ran they're like oh we got to we
got to make this all about the native MA
American thing right we got like this
about Pocahontas Q shinzaburo we're
gonna make this about the Franken thing
and they'll find something for everyone
and usually what reporters tell you is
the problem with the candidate is not
the problem with the K because the
reporters don't actually interview the
people in the country who are going to
vote for the candidate until way further
down the road at least most of them
don't some of them really do I would say
like I'm a noise I think about all the I
think about all the information and
debates and substance and political
analysis and strategy that we're gonna
be reading about and seeing I think of
it as like a long buffet it's a very
long buffet and voters we are barely
barely pick where it's out we're at the
bread we're at the bread bowls and the
forks and the knives and the salad bowls
filled with bread soup in a bread bowl
you yokel soup in a bread bowl
no but is it so so voters I think are
just at the salad part right and the
other thing meanwhile Twitter people and
reporters are are flying down this
 buffet like Slimer from
ghostbusters just throwing whole trays
of hot dogs in their faces eating whole
banana cream pie is going through them
and hitting the ground they're
leaving a trail of slime all the way
down and now they're at the end of the
buffet and they're like I need
more is there any other any other
questions good yeah why is at Jon love
it Jon love it not releasing any new
love it or leave it
I've been disappointed every Saturday
morning since the year started pot save
American pot save the world return to
work but not Jon love it is he Laci are
you denying in support Leigh what gives
so easy lazy lazy it's you know it
depends on depends on the depends of the
day love it or leave it is coming back
on Saturday January 26 we took a few
weeks off you animals because we wanted
to think about how to make the show
better and give us a sense to rethink
some of the games and some of the ways
we do it so we're really excited but
lover to leave it's going to come back
with a new season on
twenty-sixth and i would also just point
out that uh it's a live show we do in
front of an audience once a week you go
find me another show that us 48
weeks a year
hey Lisa yeah she can but I know I'm
really excited Travis we realize that
you know a Lisa and Travis and I would
help a bunch of writers and and Lee and
others who work on love it or leave it
we've been like realizing that you know
when you're in the when you're in a show
and you're doing it week to week you
have a lot of chance to step back and
think about how to make it better so
it's been really good to think about how
to kind of refresh the show and you know
we're not gonna know we're not gonna fix
what's not broken you know it's but
anyway love it or leave it returns
January 26 Elijah I'm sorry I do not
believe this was usable as promotional
clip where the dogs in the livestream
and then um Burger King McDonald's or
Wendy's McDonald's McDonald's that's
easy
McDonald's um although we had a there's
a Wendy's at the bottom of the hill and
holding cross that was our only it was
our only fast-food option so I ended up
with all I ended up doing a lot of
Wendy's in college but it's not nothing
McDonald's I love McDonald's it's I
actually when Donald Trump was taking
credit for buying hamburgers which was
amazing I actually was thinking like I
want to make a list of my 10 favorite
fast food I think it's like an extremely
on line debates the great hamburger
debate there was this whole backlash
online people were like you know it's
classes to make fun of Donald Trump for
giving people birds like no one did that
did that they said he's a
 to shut the government down yeah
now he's serving people burgers burgers
are great McDonald's burgers are great
no one's no one's being classist about
the burgers I would just also point out
that I was on the front lines of saying
it was a cool dinner it's crazy
oh the government up it'd be
even better best fast food items that
exist and I'm gonna start with the
controversial one all right because this
is not about politics
chick-fil-a spicy chicken sandwich
delicious KFC chicken and some tweets
about that Taco Bell double decker taco
supreme McDonald's chicken nuggets
McDonald's french fries Shake Shack
cheese fries
Shack burger Domino's hand toss pan
pizza that's ate KFC chicken did I say
KFC chicken KFC chicken blah you said it
oh Megan she's an English muffin
Dunkin donut shut up that is get the
 out of here that microwave
everyday that is I would eat it every
day you do eat it every day I don't I
stop what am I missing
I've everyone shamed my breakfast
choices Popeyes biscuit thanks for the
reusable K Cup it's hot biscuit good
media yeah you should use that reusable
K Cup I mean that they will sip
the water out of it there's a tenth
there's a tenth favorite fast food item
you talk about popeyes chicken sandwich
no I'm a KFC chicken Popeyes biscuit
person okay okay love symbol of a Boston
Market
sorry Boston Market that is great man
bread stuffing that cornbread that mac
and cheese mac and cheese is great let
me tell you a little tip all right
there's an expert you take a little
Cholula hot sauce which they have it
Boston Market especially if you dine in
and huh you just add that right to the
mac and cheese you mix it up huh any
Spiro lovers I have to say the different
kinds if we haven't talked about yeah
you know what I believe I think that the
Domino's hand hand-tossed pan pizza is
the best of the fast food pizzas I do
believe that and if you know if you're
looking for a commendation 'z salami
banana peppers and spinach just gonna
throw it out there for people very
specific very specific
what about Taco Bell you know I love a
double decker taco supreme because it's
a taco supreme wrapped inside I'm a
 savant
the Taco Bell double decker taco supreme
the talkable double decker taco supreme
is one of the best it's the best one of
the best values in the business right
Taco Bell Taco
first of all fundamentally is a problem
at your Pole a there's a problem at Taco
Bell which is they put the cheese on
after though like very late in the game
and it's like get the cheese right on
that meat so that it melts what
are we doing here what kind of
corporation doesn't crack this code but
the problem to talk about taco supreme
his hub it
brakes as you eating it and so like you
actually need to lay something down
beneath it to catch you can basically if
you eat three tacos supreme when you're
done there's another taco supreme at the
bottom before that you could just eat
but with the double decker taco supreme
it is wrapped in a soft flour tortilla
and beans that keep it so contained it
is such an unmet foot it's just an
unrelated reminder William bar will not
be going after states that did legalize
marijuana
[Laughter]
