now it's time for a game called okay
stop we'll roll the clip and the panel
can say okay stop at any point to
comment last year Donald Trump's summit
with Kim jong-un was seen as one of the
many many high points of his presidency
so he's currently in Vietnam for the
first time to try to recreate the magic
and earlier this morning the globalists
at Fox and Friends were tittering with
excitement about seeing Donald Trump
play the hits once again let's roll the
clip the summit 2.0 is on and very
shortly we should see them about to sit
down for dinner right that's right guys
game on indeed for summit 2.0 we were
there on the ground in Singapore as well
that was the beginning the ice break
okay stop
I just want to point out that the
lighting of that man I have no idea it
is is is what you do when you're at like
a slumber party in the 6th grade and you
put like a flashlight under your face
and you tell the story of the hook hand
so that is actually Eddie and he used to
be a journalist he used to work for CNN
but he decided to go a different way and
now he's wearing an outfit he stole from
a deceased country club manager to do
propaganda for dummies okay there was an
agreement that was signed suggesting
that Kim jong-un was going to moot start
moving towards denuclearization in the
US Intel community suggesting he has not
followed through on that so the key here
in Hanoi is in these meetings ahead to
get some specificity from the North
Korean dictator you seize it the smiles
the handshakes that was the first part
of okay stop just want to be clear
Republicans spent eight years saying
that Barack Obama was an apologist for
dictators who didn't understand how to
stand up for American values on the
international stage
having gotten absolutely no concessions
having gotten absolutely no forward
motion on dismantling North Korea's
nuclear program Donald Trump is standing
next to a murderous totalitarian chubby
man this meeting is what you give as a
reward for some kind of achievement that
this elevates this person this elevates
kim jeong-hoon on the national stage but
right now what we have is we have
nothing we have nothing but this moment
and all we have learned so far is that
Donald Trump is prepared to offer
concessions on what North Korea is
allowed to have and Donald Trump barred
four American journalists from
participating in the dinner because they
shouted questions at this moment so
right so while Edie Henry is saying it's
all smiles of course it's all smiles kim
jeong-hoon is getting everything he
wants he gets to stand next to the
American president what did we get we
got absolutely nothing I saw the
body language Kim jong-un as he listened
to his own translator explain what
President Trump was saying looked in
that shot there early on listening to
what okay stop
to check the room how many of you who
are fans of the 1990 Bulls feel weird
about the fact that Dennis Rodman is
best friends with this guy
oh yeah it's a Chicago thing the Chicago
Bulls I don't know if you can put that
on Chicago that's a Dennis Rodman thing
saying he was looking intently as if he
wanted to listen to every word and then
started smiling a lot and laughing about
the fact that they have a strong
relationship as if he was agreeing with
the president okay stop when I smile and
laugh it's because it's like a dark room
and I'm like I don't know if you asked a
question and I'm just gonna nod along
and I believe that that he's like oh
this is Donald Trump because from the
propaganda posters America's been
putting it out he's looks a little
different like I
that he seems absolutely confused and he
doesn't know what's happening
relationship that's come together in a
short time here's what the president
said that led Kim to smile I think that
your country has tremendous economic
potential unbelievable unlimited he's
thinking I'm gonna take this guy for
everything he yeah there is there is a
certain life that we have now had to see
on the faces of people like Kim Jong
 own and Vladimir Putin and it is
the laugh that says I cannot believe my
luck holy
Vladimir Putin somebody Vladimir Putin
had a meeting at the Kremlin and a
couple nerds came in and said we think
we can hack Facebook and like maybe
it'll work and he's like I'll go for it
we'll see what happens holy they
put the he's basically politically
Vladimir Putin was walking out of the
casino on his last day at Vegas and he
put $100 on thirty four and then it
landed on thirty for did you
guys see the thing that Trump reparent
was CNN reported that the Trump
apparently said about Kim jong-un he
said he's genuinely impressed with him
because he Trump knows a lot of people
who grew up wealthy and powerful like
Kim jong-un did and Kim jong-un has done
a lot better than those other people who
end up screwed up by growing up in a
wealthy family and the first question is
compared to who mr. president what
people do you know who grew up in a
wealthy powerful family who you know
intimately who are really screwed up do
you I mean is he come in he's like you
know does he does he say to Eric Eric
look at that can you be more like so
it's like yeah I look up to this guy I
want my kids to inherit the United
States and then run it into the ground
where England has sanctions on us I
guess I mean I don't know where we're
going with this but isn't this the guy
who fed his uncle two dogs yeah I
believe all so yeah it's like first of
all here's what I like that it's again
an implicit criticism of Don junior that
a reminder that Don junior
is having the worst week he's
like look at this kid his parents were
rich but he grew up okay then to your
point he also did kill one of his
uncle's with an aircraft carrier weapon
right did he shoot him with I got air
anti-aircraft gun one of those things
that sort of blows you up yeah he just
sort of yeah look forward to watching it
happen and helping it to happen and we
will help it to happen
I've only close by saying Donald Trump
had to go all the way from DC to Vietnam
while his own personal Vietnam was
finally happening in Washington
[Applause]
[Music]
