so Dan let start with the news that
broke over the weekend on Saturday at
9:23 p.m. Eastern Donald Trump the
person occupying the job of president
tweeted something very big has just
happened exclamation point
then on Sunday President Trump announced
that abu-bakr President Trump announced
that Abu Bakr al-baghdadi the leader of
Isis died over the weekend during an
american-led operation in Syria Trump
called Baghdadi a sick and depraved man
and said that the United States brought
the world's number one terrorist leader
to justice according to the White House
Baghdadi was chased by Special Forces
into a tunnel ultimately detonated a
suicide vest that led to the death of
three children that sorry that that
killed himself and three children the
president also noted that the American
forces entered the area through airspace
controlled by Russia and did so with
permission of the Russian government I
think it's important to separate two
parts of this one is the significance of
the operation itself and what it means
for the larger fight to defeat Isis and
the other is the politics of Trump's
conduct around the raid you know Dan I'm
sure poncey of the world will talk about
this and more up
I'm sure policy of the world will talk a
lot more about the sort of geopolitical
significance of this death but Dan can
you briefly say why this operation is
important well I mean I don't think the
Sofitel thinks Trump says but he is
correct that Baghdadi is the world's
number one terrorist he is both the
operational and spiritual leader of Isis
his death as as you mentioned Ben and
Tommy will talk about in much greater
and smartie tale but his death is a huge
blow to Isis both in terms of their
ability to conduct operations but also
as a spiritual leader as someone who
claimed to be from the same town as the
Prophet Muhammad the ability of Isis to
recruit followers around the world is
most likely diminished by this so it is
a victory in a war sorry it is a victory
in the war against Isis into someone who
has been at the top of the US list since
we were in the White House in 2014 so of
course the context for this raid is
Trump's decision to withdraw troops from
northern Syria at the past of Turkey The
Times reported the following and it was
pretty stunning for months intelligence
officials had kept mr. Trump apprised of
what he had set as a top priority the
hunt for mr. al-baghdadi the world's
most wanted terrorist
I'm sorry huh but mr. Trump's abrupt
rude but mr. Trump's abrupt withdrawal
over the week but mr. Trump's abrupt
withdrawal order three weeks ago
disrupted the meticulous planning
underway and forced Pentagon officials
to speed up the plan for the risky night
raid before their ability to control
troops spies and reconnaissance aircraft
disappeared with the pullout the
official said mr. al Baghdadi's death in
the raid on Saturday they said occurred
largely in spite of and not because of
mr. Trump's actions that was a pretty
extraordinary story in The Times and it
was I think so close to when the raid
took place extraordinary to see the sea
officials from within the national
security apparatus be so explicit how
much should Trump's larger farm policy
choices erratic decision-making impact
how this event is interpreted I think it
should be play a central role in it I
mean it is like the 25th amendment
preceding that paragraph you just read
would be Exhibit one I mean here are
someone who has said privately and
publicly the getting al-baghdadi is one
of his top priorities he knows that the
military is closing in on a Baghdadi
that according to The Times there have
been two previous missions that had been
called back for for various reasons and
yet while he knows those things and he
knows he wants
Baghdadi he capriciously in fairly
crazily pulls out of Syria putting the
military in this position where either
they're gonna lose al Baghdadi's top
Trump dictated priority or be forced to
go do it with greater risk to the Troops
it is an absolutely insane decision and
I don't think you can look at this
without putting the context of the fact
that he almost screwed the whole thing
up by being the terrible president that
we know him to be and that people's
wives were at risk because of it either
because we wouldn't have gotten al
Baghdadi and Isis were to say strong or
for the for the brave troops who went in
to go do this they did it under a less
than ideal circumstances because the way
in which Trump made his decision yeah I
mean it seems like you know after the
bin Laden raid conservatives were loath
to credit
President Obama for the decision-making
and wanted to put the credit into the
hands of those that actually carried it
out in the in the leadership in the
military no one was more invested in
that denial of credit you know a respect
than Trump for Obama and yet here now we
have an example where it does seem as
though Donald Trump's decision-making
according to the people involved in that
decision-making made this raid less
likely to succeed harder to pull off it
seems that we've had a number of moments
in which Donald Trump sort of capricious
erratic decision-making has been
something Democrats say and you know
nonpartisan national security experts
say is dangerous for our security but
this does seem to be a specific
practical real-world example do you
think it's something that will linger do
you think this is the kind of thing
where this will just go down the memory
hole of an event in which I think a lot
of people didn't even know who
al-baghdadi was now he is dead Trump is
declaring victory Democrats are critical
I mean what what what actual political
impact is an event like this have well I
always bet on the memory hole in the
Trump era of it you know I mean this
happened this was announced yesterday
morning and by Monday morning we were
engaged in a national debate about the
civility of booing which I'm sure we'll
discuss and so it's very quick it is
like I sort of hate this competitions
been happening online where a Trump
wants this to be his quote unquote bin
Laden moment and then Democrats want to
explain want to fight about which
terrorist killing was more significant
and I think it's just it's a sort of a
dumb gross competition but there is
there is a fundable difference in the
political in the national consciousness
about who bin Laden was right like at
the White House a night that happened
people spontaneously converged on the
White House and started chanting USA USA
so loudly that we could hear it from our
offices when it happened and so it is
different in that sense because you were
correct my assumption is most people
have no idea who I'll bug that is now if
you tell them Trump
was responsible in some way shape or
form for a mission that led to the
killing of the leader of Isis I imagine
that would make people to live in great
concern about Isis even if that concerns
are somewhat irrational feel good about
it but they are they are two separate
things with two different things I think
the politics of this is very limited its
million by what you read from the New
York Times for sure but even bin Laden
Obama's poll numbers went up 11 points
in some polls right after bin Laden was
killed there is this talk that Obama had
just won reelection it was over and most
of that polling bump was gone within two
weeks of sorry Muslim point bump was
gone within two weeks of that's gone
within two weeks of the event and so the
idea that this is going to somehow
change the trajectory of Trump's
politics i think is pretty naive and i
also do think there's this pattern with
trump in moments where he is meant to
try to Vince the gravitas of the
presidency and fails to do it that you
know something big happens he thinks
here here's this moment where I'm gonna
get respect
then of course he mishandled it's
completely due to egotism and narcissism
he tweets something big happened like he
just got a big like he just got like he
like he just found out he got cast in
 orange cat what's a show
who cares what yeah you just got yep
I'm like a new black yeah he just he
just found out he got cast in a musical
and he's very excited to tell people the
next day then he comes up to the podium
and I'm we have a one clip of where
Trump is explicitly comparing
al-baghdadi to bin Laden hamsa a bin
Laden was a big thing but this is the
biggest there is this is the worst ever
Osama bin Laden was very big but Osama
bin Laden became big with the World
Trade Center this is a man who built a
hole as he would like to call it a
country a Caliphate and was trying to do
it again
so you know Dan I don't want to dwell
too much on this because it is
aesthetics there is something I think
deeply ugly about Trump talking about
terrorist masterminds like they're like
lounge singers in Vegas having a moment
but you know do do the aesthetic just
Trump's inability to project the
gravitas seriousness of the presidency
his inability to carry that mantle at
all is it important or is it just sort
of an obsession of kind of DC and other
political pundits who watch this
constantly like us I think Trump's lack
of presidential bearing and it's just
ability to trip over his own two feet
whenever he's on the national stage if
something sort of baked into the cake in
American politics don't think anyone was
surprised to see Trump handle it this
way in a way that sort of gross used car
salesmen II sort of thirsting for like
personal affirmation out of it like I
don't think that bothers him what I do
think this matters is outside of the US
where there are moments like this where
this is not just Trump doing a Hannity
interview we're doing one of his absurd
rallies this is a moment where the world
is watching right and it's not just our
allies around the world but it's also
people in Syria people in Turkey the
people who have been victims of Isis and
the way Trump talked about it was a way
in which I am sure no terror a terrorism
expert would ever recommend a president
talk because you know that Isis will use
this to try to recruit more followers
and when you go out there and you talk
about it like this and you just seem so
desperate and how you talk about it and
you talk about the whimpering and all of
that it I think it will become it has
potentially become part of a larger
propaganda effort and turn off the world
like when Obama gave his statement after
the death of bin Laden he spent a lot of
time thinking about how would be viewed
by the people within Pakistan right
knowing that US forces went into
Pakistan
to kill bin Laden
how would people there see his remarks
how can he do to mitigate whatever
fallout there would be from that and
Trump he had no concern about that he
was really only speaking in the mirror
right he wasn't thinking about how the
world would see it it's also you know
one other difference - between the way
President Obama handled the death of bin
Laden and how Trump handled the Ray to
take out handled the operation to take
out Baghdadi is the notification of
Congress and this is something that I
that I do think is important Trump did
not notify key members of Congress in
advance so before the 2011 bin Laden
raid the White House notifies the top
Democrat and Republican in both the
House and the Senate as well as the
bipartisan leaders of the intelligence
committees that what they call the gang
of eight traditionally understood to be
a group of people that could be trusted
with the most sensitive of information
it is a it is a nod to I think an
important reflection of congressional
responsibility congressional authority
and checks and balances Trump for gov
Trump forged that completely he notified
two Republicans he notified Richard Burr
who is the the chair of the Intelligence
Committee in the Senate and of course he
told Lindsey Graham because Lindsey
Graham sucks up to him and the golf
course dan do you think there's an
important breakdown what do you think
I think it's troubling about how that's
just in this moment but in future
interactions between Congress and the
president and it it's probably not
surprising that Trump who is so
grievance oriented would not find it
with himself to put aside his personal
grievance to notify the Speaker of the
House of a pending operation or to
communicate with Adam Schiff right like
that is the person with whom he would he
would have communicated in the house
where he did do so and even like most of
the time this sort of petty stuff is
just annoying and distracting but though
there can be a time when there when the
President and Congress are gonna have to
work together to solve a very real
problem or to avert a very real crisis
and the sort of steps from Trump are
incredibly counterproductive and they
don't speak well of
which I guess it's not surprising that
Trump would be too wrapped up in his own
head to do the right thing but it means
a warning sign for sure yeah I mean it's
also you know look we're at a moment
where we're grappling with whether or
not Congress has ceded too much
authority to the administration and
whether or not Congress has the ability
to uphold its responsibilities to check
the administration and one of the ways
in which we've seated so much authority
to the presidency and this is long long
precedes Trump is in secrecy that that
secrecy is often a tool that the
presidency has to keep information from
Congress to keep keep accountability
from the public and one of the ways we
guard against that is a custom and laws
that require the president to inform
members of Congress congressional
committees Congress writ large because
we understand that there are dangers
associated with the president's ability
to do things in secret now I know we
don't that doesn't matter went to trump
it's not his concern he's not thinking
about the prerogatives of the president
he's thinking about his ego but I do
think as we look beyond Trump or at
least think about what we would do to
restrain the presidency regardless of
who holds the office I do think thinking
about how we make sure that Congress can
protect its prerogatives I think is
really important yeah and we're
operating in this situation on the
authority by which president has been
conducting these operations in Syria
both dating back to President Obama has
there is the 2001 authorization for use
of military force something that is 18
years old now for a country that is not
Syria and ultimately whether we have a
Republican or a Democrat the hope would
be a Democratic Congress and even in
bipartisan fashion would repeal that
authorization and military force and if
necessary passed another one that would
be more narrowly Terror narrowly
tailored and speak to whatever
challenges we have in the moment and not
just essentially an 18 year old blank
cheque right especially considering that
al-baghdadi was the leader of an
organization that did not exist for Ted
for more
than ten years after the passage of that
authorization for the use of force let's
move on to impeachment last week was
perhaps one of the biggest weeks to date
in the impeachment of Donald Trump up to
that point the Trump administration had
insisted that the perfect call between
Trump and the president of Ukraine did
not reflect any kind of quid pro quo but
last week US special envoy in charge
last week US special envoy to Ukraine
Bill Taylor provided the first testimony
that you're a direct line between trumps
insistence that Ukraine's president
publicly announce an investigation into
the Biden's and the release of aid now
according to The Wall Street Journal
we've learned that former US ambassador
to the EU Gordon Sandlin is confirming
Taylor's account of the quid pro quo
telling House members that he believed
that Ukraine agreed to open
investigations into burries McGrew
because it was a condition that the
White House set for a meeting between
Trump and Solinsky it seems like
Taylor's testimony for Sandlin to admit
when he had previously denied and what
Taylor was clearly interested in getting
sahlan to admit in their text
conversations which is that he had
knowledge of trumps decision to withdraw
with which was which was that he had
knowledge of trumps decision to withhold
aid to Ukraine and the reasons why at
the very least this removes sort of a
fragile pillar of the Trump defense that
was floated last week I guess he can't
really float a pillar who gives a
Taylor you can float a defense that
Taylor's information was secondhand
right at first you saw you saw even
senators like John Thune say this is
very bad news for us and then the kind
of whatever the intellectual Zamboni's
come in to try to smooth over the ice
and one of the defenses was well how
would Taylor know it was only secondhand
it's hearsay this is in proof of
anything and now it seems like now it
seems like Sandlin is being forced to
confirm what Taylor said which we
obviously know is true based on the
conversations we read the text messages
between Sunland and Taylor I mean Dan it
feels sort of absurd to ask but this how
bad how bad is this for Trump I mean at
this point we are now there's there are
so few defenses actually substantive
defenses left against a quid pro quo now
that we're learning Sandlin is
confirming what tale
yeah I mean it is the conduct is
indefensible medicine it has been
amusing I guess would be the right word
to watch Republicans lay out basically
like drawl why and say Trump did not
cross this line and then new information
comes out and they have to draw another
line and back and forth you get to the
point where you know we went from Trump
saying The Whistleblower misconstrued
the call to putting out the college
transcript which proved it - it wasn't a
quid pro quo - it is a quid pro quo - it
was hearsay - it now at his firsthand
evidence of a quid pro quo and
eventually going to get to the point
where the only answer is the president
do whatever the hell he wants and the
thing I thought was interesting - so
soon made those comments and then he
immediately backed off the next day and
said well I've read the whole thing and
it's very there's a lot of who said this
who said that like maybe it's hearsay
and then something comes out in cut
students legs out from underneath them
and I saw today in an article about
Republicans feeling very uncomfortable
in this position that Trump has put them
in I'd like to point out they probably
they helped put Trump in that position
by enabling his every action and
defending him all the time but the new
the new sort of line for Republicans is
we can't comment on this because we're
going to be jurors in a trial which is
the sort of the new version of like
Mitch McConnell saying he doesn't read
Trump's tweets or Paul Ryan saying he
doesn't read the news and so I think
that like they can't keep doing this
because they don't know enough and Trump
is lying to them or lying to himself or
lying to someone so we're gonna get to a
point where they're just a fallback
decision their fallback position is
going to be what Trump did was bad or
wrong or not perfect but we're too close
to the election to remove the president
which is a position that is probably
sustainable with some portion of the
public right and then you add on top of
that Lindsey Graham's effort to kind of
attack the investigation itself you see
others like Hugh Hewitt floating that
the impeachment that if there is an
impeachment trial it should focus not
just on Ukraine but everything from the
Iran deal to the Muller investigation to
the steel dossier Trump also
has been launching into a attacks
against never Trump errs that Trump is
the victim of a cabal of radical
moderate never Trump errs I don't know
who that arguments for that seems like
it's just for him
it's just for him and National Review to
bicker about I suppose I don't I don't
really understand it all so Hugh Hewitt
is America's most unbeatable human I go
out of my way to not know what he has to
say because I find it to be so stupid
but he causes such outrage that you
can't afford it it is like he just you
cannot like he was this unfortunate
barnacle of American public discussion
that you cannot get rid of I I do think
he is one of the more sophisticated
intellectuals and bONIES on the Trump
side I mean he he is really out there he
is an artist when it comes to figuring
out how to give some guidance to
ostensibly or you know to some serious
Republicans for how to talk about this
and you know he's he's trying his best
you got to give him that the other point
was gonna make only as to is I can
actually see I can also actually see as
we get closer to the election the
Republicans in the Senate taking the
juror defense which by the way has also
been used by people like Amy Klobuchar
to avoid calling for impeachment earlier
in the process well at the same time I
was thinking about the the bush defense
against Swift boating so when the Swift
Boat ads are maligning John Kerry on
television Bush is avoiding talking
about it for a long time finally he
agrees to comment on these sort of
malicious smears against John Kerry and
what he says is I think all these ads
should go away I don't want to see
attack ads unfairly attacking John Kerry
via these outside groups and I don't
want to see those kinds of attacks
against me we should all swear off all
of these attacks and it was a way to
avoid actually acknowledging that there
was something unfair happening to his
opponent while ostensibly denouncing a
larger trend I can see some of these
guys going out there and saying
I think what Trump did was inappropriate
obviously I'm reserving judgment because
I'm a member of the Senate and we may
have to face a trial but at the same
time I think anyone soliciting any kind
of foreign interference whether it's
from Ukraine or whether it's Hillary
Clinton and the Democrats with the steel
dossier we're all Americans dan we've
all got to do our part to make sure that
we have free and fair elections I'm just
I'm just you know look we don't predict
anymore I'm just if I were if I were a
cynical tax cut loving regulation hating
Republican member of the Senate with
eyes on the presidency which is one
hundred percent of them that is I think
what I would be angling toward I think
the other very cynical response we're
going to hear is exactly what you said
but then also look what Trump did was
wrong but I really worry about the
precedent of proceeding with impeachment
right what happens to the next president
Republican or Democrat ever again I do
this every four years we have to protect
American institutions by allowing this
particular president to commit crimes
while in the White House and so there
will be this sort of because of the
proximity election there will be this
argument that it is bad for democracy to
hold a president accountable for obvious
and multiple crimes in office and that
is a sort of talking point that I think
will have some success in pundit world
but basically cannot survive fourteen
seconds of intellectual scrutiny you
know it's interesting there is a
parallel between that conversation and I
don't want to dwell on it too much but
this civility conversation that's been
unfolding in the wake of a truly
horrifying event which took place at the
World Series which is uh people booing
Donald Trump we do have some audio
because why the not
[Music]
all right you know boos sound like but
the so I've never experienced them
personally but I'm aware of the concept
oh well you've never you've never made a
unfortunate saint-saens reference in New
Orleans nope
so obviously the president got booed and
you have a problem with booing Donald
Trump you got a problem with me that's
easy but uh but but on the matter of
lock him up I there is a easy you know
bipartisan pundit rebuke which says it
was wrong to say lock her up when it was
Hillary Clinton and it's wrong to say
lock him up to Donald Trump now on the
one hand now a now put us at UH I
wouldn't so just do photography do you
do you agree that it's wrong that those
two things are equivalent in like this
whole conversation is stupid and I guess
we're guilty of because we're having
yeah why not it's nodes of fun let's
have fun it's um it's a Monday it speaks
to the gravitational pull of the
political conversation towards the least
relevant thing the point isn't who
chanted lock him up at Trump at a
baseball game it is that the president
is committed multiple crimes and at the
same time that he ran around accusing
office political opponents of committing
crimes like let's have some
understanding for context in nuance in
this conversation from the pundits and
this is so that's point one it's just
stupid and like some of the arguments
have around the point to it some of the
organs are on this I think it's
embarrassing on the world stage to see
people chanting lock him up at our
president well yeah you know it's really
embarrassing down some bizarre president
yeah I actually do yeah I don't actually
agree that I think is actually really
important that people around the world
understand that this that there's a that
there's a huge number of Americans that
find Donald Trump to be as repellant as
everyone else does there is a connection
to I think in a serious serious point
about this which between the the kind of
discomfort
with using the powers of impeachment the
discomfort with investigations and with
the discomfort of protests of what they
you know what they see as a kind of a
lack of manners in that you know protest
is a big part of America's traditions
not showing not being polite not being
not going along to get along is a big
part of how we protect our institutions
that that people booing Donald Trump and
shouting at Donald Trump at a baseball
game
are showing respect for the presidency
and that if it comes you know we've
talked about this in terms of you know
the enforcement of congressional
subpoenas there's this baked in
understanding that if Congress were to
use its inherent power and send out a
you know the sergeant of arms and a
deputy to go grab Rudy Giuliani and
force them to testify or go get whoever
else is on the tarmac with a one-way
ticket out of the country what have you
that that that we kind of understand
that that would be bad for Democrats it
would look bad because it looks uncivil
but civility is just a means by which
the people in that box defend themselves
and protect themselves from the very
fair accusations of criminality that
we're currently in an impeachment about
yeah it is the the fact that pundants a
certain class of pundit in Washington
and in not just pundits like there are
like my home state senator chris coons
today was very upset about this and I
just think that people within the
Washington establishment spent more time
trying to understand the anger of the
people around this country the righteous
anger around what is happening with this
president that's White House and West
I'm telling him to keep their anger to
themselves last less serious point on
this is it was fascinating that Trump
went to the World Series to begin with
and it speaks to the difference between
who Trump is and who Trump sees in the
mirror every morning because every
politician knows that you're a great
risk of being but-- if you go to an
event here you have trump going to a
baseball game and it's
city that is one of the most democratic
cities in the country and you could and
he in his mind he envisioned this NGO
envision this being a moment where
people would applaud him for what
happened with Baghdady earlier in that
day like george w bush go into the
Yankees game after 2001 and like there
is this great slow-mo video on Twitter
of him thinking it's cheering and then
slowly realizing its boos and his face
tightening up as he says he the gap
between who he is and who he thinks he
is comes together and it is I think it
was just a fascinating window into his
own self delusion that brought him to
that baseball game together because his
job is not a huge baseball fan by any
stretch of the imagination never a fan
of anything other than himself and Fox
News I guess yeah
so before yeah I don't like it's like no
the man has the man has no hobbies it's
it's golf it's golf fast food Twitter
and grievances uh it's wrapping with
think of fans or famous people too
it's very British I'm not golfing with
friends because he has no friends and
since golfing with people I couldn t
Graham Hill kiss up to him people like
Tiger Woods who he can then say he has
he call for someone famous so before we
move to 2020 there was one other
developments in the impeachment saga
this week a federal judge in Washington
DC confirmed the legality of the
Democrats impeachment probe and granted
Congress access to the secret grand jury
evidence gathered during the Moller
investigation in a 75-page decision
judge Beryl Howell undercut the
Republican argument that a formal House
Resolution is necessary to legitimize an
impeachment inquiry how also called out
the Trump administration's efforts to
stonewall Congress writing Congress
needs to access grand jury material
relevant to potential impeach evil
conduct by sorry Congress's need to
access grand jury Tet Congress's need to
access grand jury material relevant to
potential impeach able conduct by a
president is heightened when the
executive branch willfully obstructs
channels for accessing other relevant
evidence while Pelosi and not they're
both praised the ruling the Trump
administration will probably appeal the
decision
dan how big a deal is this and do we
have any sense of what we may learn from
these materials it's only big deal from
the very specific reason Newport
it out when she did say ruling from a
judge that undercuts the Republican
argument that this is not a legitimate
sorry this is not a legitimate
impeachment inquiry for some set of
completely process reasons and
it shows that that the traditional legal
obligations of an administration to
sorry the traditional legal obligations
of administration to cooperate with an
intelligent with an impeachment inquiry
are there that that witnesses are gonna
have to testify they're gonna have to
provide documents they would not
otherwise provide the ability use
executive privilege to shield those
documents and those witnesses from
Congress will be circumscribed so that's
very important I think we have any idea
what we're going to find my hope is that
Congress goes through the information
they have and lets the facts leave them
where they may right like where we don't
say well this is we've decided in
advance this is all about Ukraine so
we're just going to stick with that
let's let's see what's in there let's
see if there's information in those
files whatever they are that is relevant
to what to what we know now right that
speaks to a broader set of crimes and if
you find additional crimes additional
piece of offenses additional evidence of
abuse of power that that becomes part of
this inquiry let's just say what the
facts go where they lead us and not try
to reverse-engineer this from a from a
you know an arbitrary deadline if you
will yeah I mean it does seem to that
that there is more educating to do
whether or not the balance of
impeachment are scoped to Ukraine or
become larger based on what we learn 538
aggregate of national polling has
support for impeachment at 49% and
opposition at 43% but in in key swing
states have been a bunch of polls that
are not as strong one Wisconsin poll
found that 44 percent of voters want
Trump impeached and removed while 51
percent do not want him impeached and
removed a University of North Florida
poll released this week found support
for impeachment and removal at 46% and
an opposition at 48 percent and The
Times also did a survey of six of the
times also did a survey of six key swing
states Pennsylvania Florida Michigan
Wisconsin North Carolina and Arizona it
averaged a results from across the
states 50% of voters supported an
impeachment
while 45% opposed it however only 43
percent of voters supported impeaching
and removing Trump while 53 percent
oppose it there is Dan in this you know
first of all every poll has been phrased
a little bit differently but when you
kind of blur your eyes and try to see
the big picture you see a kind of
ambivalence around impeachment because
obviously like if you actually think
about what it means
I support I support impeaching him but
not removing him I support in other
words voting to send him to a trial for
a set of crimes but not actually
convicting him of those crimes it's a
kind of intellectually confusing
position which I think speaks to just a
kind of base level discomfort with the
stakes of impeachment dan what do you
think that suggests Democrats should do
I think it suggests that Democrats could
keep doing what they're doing right that
there is very real support for the
inquiry itself there was understandably
apprehension about removing our
president from office a year before an
election nine months before an election
like I understand why people are
apprehensive about that it's also I
think somewhat baked in the cake that
people know that that is an incredibly
unlikely event right all of the coverage
of this from the moment it happened in
the story that our own crook immediate
change research polling is shown people
are following incredibly closely all the
all the discussion around it is centered
on the fact that this is the affixing of
a Scarlet eye on Trump and not an actual
set their movement problem from office
and I think the political significance
of it in the long run right I think
there's lisps political significance to
the information people are learning
about Trump there's real political
significance to Trump's completely
insane reaction to this process this
opportunity cost for Trump for spending
these months during the middle the
height of the Democratic primary just
lashing out on Twitter like a crazy
person as opposed to trying to get
raises numbers up to you know where his
win number would be in battleground
states but ultimately I don't think it's
going to be a particularly the weather
we did in P Schmidt weather we didn't do
in peace when I think is that going to
be incredibly that mere fact it's not
going to incredibly put the certificates
- just keep doing what they're doing do
not let a arbitrary deadline for closest
I think I think if people saw that
Democrats got scared or like well we
said we get to somebody Thanksgiving we
haven't heard from all the witnesses
yeah we don't have all the documents but
we're gonna have the vote anyway I think
that would undermine the legitimacy of
the probe in the eyes of the independent
less partisan voters who now say they
support it and I think would be very
frustrating to grassroots based
Democrats who have long thought this was
the right thing to do so just let the
facts go or they may have that's get
this into 20/20 so be it but there's
enough support that Democrats should be
bold here I think one last development
this weekend we learned there's someone
who takes a great deal of personal
responsibility for the fact that Donald
Trump may face impeachment and it is a
former White House chief of staff John
Kelly at AI summit put on by the
Washington Examiner Kelly described what
he said to trump when he left the White
House he said uh he saying quote I said
whatever you do don't hire a yes-man
someone who won't tell you the truth
don't do that because if you do I
believe you will be impeached Trump
categorically denied Kelly's claims as
did the White House press secretary
Stephanie Grissom who said Kelly was
totally unequipped to handle the genius
of our great president now sadly after
she said that everyone's phones did melt
and we no longer have them which has
been sort of a tough tough thing to get
used to you know listen I don't mind
when somebody wants to take a on
Mick Mulvaney I say have at it it's part
of it's great but Dan am I forgetting
a kind of Pax Americana when John Kelly
was chief of staff and Donald Trump was
disciplined and everything was going
according to plan I mean am I am I
forgetting some some some golden era
under Kelly no you are not John at the
risk of offending the civilian police
but off John Kelly like most of the
impeachable offenses that are outlined
in the Muller report happened while John
Kelly chief
des Donald Trump raising Nazis happened
while John Kelly was chief of staff the
I mean I'm sure we all remember this
very brief moment when John Kelly took
over a nurse how there were all these
stories but I was going to bring order
and profit to the White House and be
like control who called Trump and like
managed the inbox and do the very basic
things that you would expect of an
office manager in a mid-sized paper
company to do and we treated that like
it was some sort of genius
and none of it worked Trump was just as
irresponsible just as crimey as he is
now it just happened to be that the when
when the whistleblower came forward was
when Mick Mulvaney was she was that who
is a terrible chief of staff and
seemingly just a real blight on American
government but John Kelly does not get
to clean up his reputation this way
right it wasn't it's it's while it is it
is I thought it was the only reason I
thought was worth sharing is I do think
it's not really an insight into the
Trump White House is an insight into the
mindset of someone like John Kelly who
believed himself to be some kind of a a
savior inside of the White House even as
it was operating so chaotically this
idea that that that that's the
justification he is now offering for the
reason he was a participant in this
administration and now I believe sits on
the board of a company that's
responsible for some of the detention
facilities along the border I think
tells you something important about the
kind of people that went into the
administration uh all right let's talk
2020 so we've covered some of the
fundraising troubles by in his face late
last week it seemed that Biden's team
was breaking with his previous
opposition to getting help from super
PACs Biden's deputy campaign manager
said he still wants to limit the
influence of big money in our politics
but that quote nothing changes unless we
defeat Donald Trump end quote
Biden reported at last at the Biden
report at the last filing deadline that
he had just nine million dollars in the
bank you know Dan you know besides the
obvious reason that he needs something
to buttress his fundraising from the
outside are there any other reasons he
did this I mean that is the one it is
the extent of Biden's money troubles has
dramatically understated he has a third
of the money on hand as war
in Sanders he is thus far demonstrated
no ability to quickly raise money online
nine million dollars in the bank in
October is not enough money to run the
sort of campaign that Biden claims he's
going to run to be able to run like
Bynes path to the nomination is to do
well enough to survive the first four
states and then leverage his large
national name ID and standing within the
party and his true as of yet tremendous
support from the American community to
rack up delegates in a long battle for
the nomination he does not have the
money to run serious campaigns into
early states let alone all four plus
Super Tuesday and beyond and so it's a
huge problem so this was their only
choice I think it is a it is an employ
let me say that this is his only choice
if he wants to remain viable but it
comes with real downside right I mean
one of the one of the issues I mean and
nobody's by the way Joe Biden has spoken
to those dine sides and speaking to why
he was against the help of a super PAC
to begin with it also you know one of
the downsides is what we're seeing is
the candidates that have issued big
money
Bernie Warren have been you know two of
the most prolific fundraisers Joe Biden
is now kind of doubling down on bigger
money at the expense of smaller dollars
I guess because it's a concession that
they just will not be able to compete
for small donors I also don't understand
I mean you know a super PAC coming in
and running ads to help Joe Biden you
know maybe that's has has value but
doesn't solve the problem of the kind of
organization he'll need to do on the
ground to rack up the delegates he needs
right yeah it is it's suboptimal to say
the least
he but there are certain things the
super PAC cannot do it for you right
they cannot put organizers on the ground
to organize your caucus goers in the
same way your campaign can do it it
cannot build the infrastructure and the
data and technology that you need to run
a real operation to accumulate delegates
what it can do is do your advertising
for you it can respond to a tax for
and but it's going to lead to new
attacks right because Biden has now
reversed himself on something where that
is right in Warren and Sanders's
wheelhouse and I'm sure they're going to
make great hay of that as time goes on
you know we will have some experience
with this in Obama world in 2008 B but
it was under a very different sort of
campaign finance world we said pre
citizens united said we did not want any
outside groups on our side and did not
need them in the primary John Edwards
was in a very similar situation that
Biden was it isn't now where everyone's
was unable to raise enough money he
actually was actually forced to take
federal matching funds which was a sign
of great weakness at the time and then
all of a sudden out of nowhere pops a
super PAC funded primarily by one
individual a woman named bunny Mellon I
think was like Kennedy air maybe and was
this case I remember yes well wealthy a
wealthy woman named bunny Mellon and the
super PAC was run by Nick Baltic who was
Edwards's longtime advisor and former
campaign manager on this Oh for race and
that was out that was very helpful to
Edward that got him actually to second
in Iowa and they started bombarding the
airwaves in 2012 because this issue I
had passed and we were staring down the
barrel of hundreds of millions of
dollars of ads from American Crossroads
and the Koch brothers and others Obama
reversed his stance on super PACs and
potentially invited them into the race
and parties USA was formed and ran ads
to help obama won reelection I think no
general election as long as the distance
united is on the books there is no
option right there was just absolutely
you cannot compete financially with that
I think that's an argument forgetting
what a citizens united I was very
pleased in a primary that all the
candidates had refused super PACs
because there is something particularly
problematic in a primary of these
individual candidates super PACs
so Biden now has been forced down that
path he's going to have to take some
political downside from it in the
primary it's
I think I think it'll be hard for Trump
of the Republicans to hit him on it
given the wide array of super PACs they
have but that won't obviously shame has
never been a break on Trump's had
political attacks in the past right it
is a distinction between the general and
the primary because in a primary it's
you're you know you're campaigning
against fellow Democrats and one of the
things that super PACs have often done
because they are not directly affiliated
with the candidate is they've been
incredibly negative in fact some of the
ads that Romney people are angry about
to this day are the super PAC ads that
were run in the 2012 race against Mitt
Romney so on Sunday 60 minutes aired a
rare a long-form interview with Biden
also New York magazine ran a profile by
Olivia nutsy that I thought was actually
very poignant in examining both the
strengths and weaknesses that Biden is
bringing to the table in the 60 Minutes
interview he spoke about his Biden spoke
about his confidence in his ability to
sort of to to finance his campaign he he
talked about you know Trump's attacks
against him and in the in the in the New
York Magazine profile it was really kind
of what what struck me about it is so
much of the coverage about Biden
nationally has been around his
challenges as a campaign and yet his
support has remained pretty robust right
the the race hasn't moved that much you
know he announced he was higher right
you know whatever low 40s
he's now let's say high 20s but that has
been relatively stable in fact it's been
stable despite you know people saying
that oh this hunter Biden news was gonna
hurt him these batteries mediocre debate
performances we're gonna gonna hurt him
and yet the race has been relatively
stable and what you see in that profile
even though I think the Obama Biden
campaign was pretty surprisingly
critical of it is you see some of his
appeal and why certain people like him
and the kind of the the kind of genial
relatable persona somebody who said have
been through a lot in his life Dan what
were your takeaways from both the kind
of the 60 Minutes interview and the
profile
I thought the Olivia I was sorry I
thought the Olivia knows a New York
profile was a phenomenal piece of
campaign journalism that really got at
the core of the campaign itself the
Biden campaign specifically and who Joe
Biden is in a way that I thought was
nuanced and deep and very fair right and
I think it did speak to a thing that I
mean you're right that we have sort of
forgotten in this discussion about bias
weaknesses is here's a tremendous retail
politician and that sounds I don't mean
that in the like you know shake hands
and kiss babies although he does that
very well it's that Biden has a
tremendous ability to connect with
humans with sorry to connect with people
in a very human level he is this
unending well of empathy for humans and
this ability to take the tremendous
tragedy that he's experienced in his
life and use it as a as a rock of
strength for people who have suffered
similar tragedy my office in the West
Wing was basically right past where West
Wing tours end ended and was basically
in the pathway to Biden's office so many
times I'd be in my office at night and I
would hear Biden running into tourists
and hear them crying as their talk to
him about stories about cancer in their
lives about losing a family relative and
Biden consoling them in a way that it's
hard to imagine any politician doing and
I think that part of who Biden is has
gotten lost in this campaign and that
part of his political strength has
gotten lost is to when he is in Iowa
he's campaigning differently than others
have all of the critiques about the
nature of their campaign or it being too
old school or you know him making
mistakes on the campaign trail are all
fair and legitimate but there is it it
is worth understanding also where that
reservoir of strength that has been is
you're right it's been very consistent
Nate Silver points this out all the time
but Biden is the week people have been
predicting Biden's demise for a year now
and he is remade while others have risen
he has remained quite strong and that
that should be noted particularly in the
midst of a closely watched natural
national discussion about his son's
business ties and that is not effective
and I think that is as notable at least
yeah I mean one of the most critical
voices in in the the sorry one of the
most critical voices
in the New York Magazine profile was
actually from you know our friend David
Axelrod who worries about the way in
which Joe Biden is not out there as much
they are you know keep trying to keep
him focused on prepared remarks even as
he does retail politics and acts called
it a candidate protection program but
yet you know we kind of understand where
that's coming from right because
famously Joe Biden is somebody who has
made mistakes when he is speaking
off-the-cuff
dan would it you know we talked about I
think the strengths that come through
the piece that come through when you're
not talking about the financing and the
polling and what have you if you were
inside of the Biden campaign trying to
kind of highlight those strengths what
would be your advice
now other than immediately putting them
on positive America well that's that
goes without saying
I know I think that's not that's not
advice that's just that's a no-brainer
that's I think they got a let loose wall
but I am incredibly sympathetic to the
cautious the Crim sympathetic to some of
the instincts of his campaign staff in
that it's like it is circular it's very
easy when you're a front-runner to play
prevent plus re play prevent defense but
they don't I don't think they have that
option because we can talk about Biden's
strength right now that he has lasted
longer in a stronger position and I
think most political pundit types
ourselves included in some cases
predicted but Ann Axelrod points this
out in the piece his path to the
nomination is incredibly precarious
right he part of his strength is on
electability in winning and he is
currently in real risk of losing three
of the first four states and the classes
what happens to someone who is
succeeding with this patina of
electability if you keep if you start
losing races and so the true I think the
president is good the trajectory is very
concerning and therefore you got to take
the take the reins off and when I'm out
there and let him make the case because
otherwise if you don't really get out
there and campaign in an aggressive way
and alleged concern
that some halves as some of these voters
and you know very dialed in caucus goers
others have about his ability to stand
on stage with Trump is going to navigate
an incredibly tough campaign a very
complicated media environment then
you're not if you don't knowwe those
concerns you're not going to succeed so
you got to get out there and do it even
if there is risk yeah and I do it's a
it's actually I think an especially
tough challenge for Joe Biden
specifically because you know we've just
talked about it right the strengths of I
think the strengths of his candidate you
know the strength of his argument is
around electability but the strength of
him as a candidate right is that kind of
human connection he has with people and
I do think it's about a candidacy rooted
rooted in understanding loss
understanding pain and being able to to
relate to people who have experienced
pain and a lot of people have whether
it's people that have experienced losses
and their families the way that Joe
Biden has or you know people who have
lost their jobs you know lost their
livelihood lost lost lost whatever and
the fact that you know so much of I
think what makes him someone appealing
is not something you're gonna be able to
say in a some speech you know it's not
it's deeper than that it's it's it would
be vulgar it's not it is an emergent
quality of him as a man that comes
through not through talking points or
policies but through something deeper
and so I think it's an especially
difficult challenge they have to get him
out there because getting out there
despite the mistakes and the gaffes is
where you see that special thing that
makes him somebody people might want to
make president but you can't script it
because it's not it's not a policy it's
not a it's not a plan that's not what's
driving his support in the sort of the
conversation around being overly
protective of Biden I think there is one
opportunity that I just that speaks to
just the incredible level of caution
they're doing it it's not positive
America it's these interviews around
health care that Adi Barkan has been
having with all the candidates like
obviously Audion enjoyed by disagree on
Medicare for all but I can't imagine a
politician who would have a better
opportunity to have a conversation about
this to talk about sacrifice and tragedy
and what people go through then Joe
Biden and the fact that he isn't that
his has that his campaign has not let
not yet let him do that I think this
speaks the larger problem era I totally
agree it makes me sad to think that
they're not putting him in that
conversation because I do think you're
right it is that the strengths of who he
is as a person are what would shine in
that kind of a moment even if even if
they disagree on the policy I mean even
you know even just reading about you
know Biden going back to his the house
he grew up and you know I like I've been
incredibly critical of Joe Biden I've
been incredibly critical of his campaign
I've been incredibly congr itical the
debate performances he's had but I have
a well of sympathy and love for Joe
Biden because I do believe he is someone
who has sort of been through such
tremendous pain and come out as somebody
with empathy and if and if they're
afraid to put him in a position to
demonstrate that the key moments were
that could be could be revealed and
shown to people I don't understand what
changes for him other than you know this
kind of slow and steady kind of stuff
you know uh kind of not a decline but
not a growth just sort of a kind of
stasis yeah I I feel like I know Joe
Biden pretty well having grown up in
Delaware and it's worked in the White
House with him for six years and I just
know that if he knew that Adi Barkan
wanted to talk to him and that he would
do in two seconds my guess is he did
that request has not gotten to the
candidate yet well you know hopefully uh
hopefully that's it hopefully we'll see
that conversation when we come back I'm
gonna sit down with Akilah Hughes and
Gideon Resnick the new host of what a
day to kind of go through this Katie
hill story and her decision to resign as
well as the controversy around it
we were back
you
