on the pod today the policy director for
the progressive think tank new consensus
and one of the architects of the green
New Deal Rihanna gun right
Rihanna welcome to the program oh thank
you I'm so happy to be here we're happy
to have you so I want to start with the
context for the green new deal because
the media is the media you know they
tend to frame the context as political
and ideological right so you know the
Republican Party moves far to the right
under Trump and as a response because
politics are so polarized Democrats are
moving further to the left and proposing
things like you know Medicare for all
and a green new deal but it seems to me
there's a different context for why the
green New Deal is so ambitious can you
talk about that context and talk about
why this plan is so different than
climate groups may have proposed you
know just a few years ago under Obama
yeah I think actually the context of
that question sort of points out why
it's different we didn't move to the
left because of Republicans we are
trying to address the issues that people
are clamoring about and saying that
they're facing and that they are facing
in real life which is wage stagnation
income inequality environmental
degradation right Medicare for all and
so I think the reason why the green New
Deal is so comprehensive is a couple of
things one it's based on sort of a mass
mobilization not sort of it is based on
a mass mobilization Industrial Policy
approached how to deal with climate and
that has to do very much with the fact
that we have such a short timeline and
we have to bring down a mission so
dramatically which means that we have to
throw everything we have to essentially
throw the full might of the country
behind this problem if we're going to
solve it and then I think and so that
sort of transformation requires
different policies in order for you to
be able to pay for it quote-unquote with
real resources in terms of workers and
physical capital often we talk about
paying for it when we only actually mean
financing it but you actually for
mobilization this big you are trying to
get to full employment it largely
because you will probably need all of
that
and so we have to sort of have a labor
market where people can move around
where there's a safety net where there's
like a simple entry point for people a
ton of people right the labor
participation for working adult is lower
now than it was a decade ago and so you
have all these people that are fallen
out of the labor market that you have to
plug back in and so you need a
streamline workforce development like
skills training which we don't have and
so I think what people often think of is
like a progressive wishlist of policies
and the green New Deal is actually sort
of it's not sort of is actually about
planning for a mass mobilization I think
the second part that makes it so
different as we take very seriously the
fact that this will be an economic
transformation like when you change your
energy source you change everything
right and climate change isn't even just
because of energy it's also about the
ways that we think about growth in terms
of this like consume consume consume the
ways that we use energy all of that and
so the green New Deal is just recognizes
simply that it to decarbonize at the
state at the pace and sort of the speed
that we have to and at the scale that we
have to we are going to change our
entire economy and so if we're going to
do that why not transform it so that it
includes the most people and that we end
up with a healthier economy than we did
before
and so that's also why you see a lot of
the things related to justice that you
see in the green New Deal and then I
think there's just like really a very
sort of simple third answer which is
that also this isn't a list of policy
prescriptions we approached it in terms
of what kind of work needs to happen for
us to decarbonize our economy and so
it's also very project focus in the
sense that we're thinking about what
work needs to be done how do we create
jobs and sort of how do we use that job
creation this new moment in our economy
to renegotiate power relationships
between the public and the private
between everyday folks and the elite and
ways that people that
majority of Americans are asking for and
just so listeners know what is the
ultimate goal here with regard to
reducing carbon emissions what do we
have to get done because you know I've
seen some people say okay we need net
zero carbon emissions by 2050 I've heard
and then obviously in in the green New
Deal resolution that Alexandria Ocasio
Cortez Annette Markey put forward they
said well we're gonna try to do Net Zero
by 2030
what do you think what has to happen in
terms of reducing carbon emissions and
by win so the science says that we have
about 10 to 12 years there some
scientists now would say like we don't
have any more time we're on track to
have sort of warming of two degrees and
so I think so it's it's confusing
because the 2050 numbers about global
emissions right and the u.s. is still
the largest economy in the world and so
we contribute a ton of those emissions
and so for us to reach Net Zero by 2050
the US will probably have to decrease
will not probably will have to decrease
much more quickly than than 2050 overall
in part because we play such an
important role in sort of creating
technologies making them available to
developing countries and helping them
decarbonize which is going to be a huge
part of this overall you know dealing
with climate change and so for us I
forget the exact targets I think it was
like than the IPCC report I thought it
was like 50 percent by 2030 I'd have to
go back and look I don't remember but I
think it's clear that we need to move
before 2050 and I mean right now it's as
if we hit 2 degrees of warming like 99%
of the coral reefs will be gone by 2040
right and the human cost of fossil fuel
pollution and climate change are already
here right 66 percent of asthma deaths
in the country are women
what 3% of African Americans live within
30 miles of a coal-fired power plant and
black children probably not
coincidentally died from asthma three
times more than white children right 80
percent of Latinos live in an area with
at least one air pollution violation
right so people and their how many
people have you know black lung because
of coal mining right so these there are
already people whose bodies and lives
are on the line because of our reliance
on fossil fuels and that's not even
talking about extreme weather events and
so I don't think we can move too quickly
yeah right because we know that the
devastation will increase and so I think
ASAP yeah so what the science seems to
actually conclude so there's a there's a
lot of different ways to reduce carbon
emissions which of course has to be done
across every industry all kinds of
different things you can put a tax on
carbon you can put in place regulations
you can invest in clean energy
what made you select this specific set
of policies which you know as you've
described sort of revolves around
large-scale industrial mobilization well
I think there's a couple things the
first is that mass mobilization is
necessary to have the reductions that we
need in the time frame if you're talking
about 10 years like just simply because
there's too much work you're talking
about changing the grid you're talking
about decommissioning a bunch of old
infrastructure you're talking about
building new renewables and that's
you're talking about upgrading all
building so that you have more energy
efficiency and so there's just a ton of
work that needs to be done if we are
going to decarbonize our entire economy
in a timely manner and the other reason
I think that we chose this is because
these two issues climate change and
inequality dovetail and create a
particular synergy not just because
they're interconnected right in terms of
greater inequality tends to lead to
greater emissions but just in the
solutions right if you have all this
work that you need to be done you're
going to be creating a lot of jobs
and a lot of need and a lot of demand
and then on sort of the income
inequality side there studies I say
we've done as much means testing well
not as much but we've had more
means-tested program since the 1980s and
pre and post tax income are about the
same which means that transfers like
dealing with the through the tax code
isn't enough so you have to intervene in
the labour market and so there's been so
much talk about public employment
programs and whatnot but the issue is
you don't want to just make work you
want it to be productive and so you have
these two things dovetailing so that you
can have a strategy where you both
decarbonized and you reduce income
inequality so we figured why not take
that opportunity a lot of people talk
about maybe that's too much but to me
that just sounds like efficiency well I
was gonna say I mean cuz people will say
alright you've got these two crises you
got climate change and income inequality
right but climate crisis is existential
so let's solve that first our political
system is a show anyway it can only
bear so much but to me it seems like
it's not only the right thing to do to
also tackle income inequality and we
start there it's also seems like
potentially a more politically pragmatic
thing to do because as you're trying to
build consensus on how to transform the
entire economy obviously that's going to
create winners and losers and that could
actually exacerbate income inequality as
poor families who have to you know bear
the burden of the transition to the new
energy economy like what are they
supposed to do but if you can tell them
look as we transition you're gonna have
a guaranteed job you're gonna have a
good wage then maybe you're gonna get
support from both those people and the
people who represent them in Congress is
that is that basically the strategy a
hundred percent and I think like it
works on a couple levels one so I
remember David Roberts was actually on
this podcast and he talks a lot about
how power is necessary we have to build
power in the climate movement largely
because the GOP has just failed to move
and it's so in transient right and so
you need a lot of public pressure to be
pushing this issue and to be pushing it
to the forefront which I think the green
New Deal helps and then the two dozen
it's also besides just being right it
makes political sense people of color
are overwhelmingly in favor of climate
change but a lot of those same people
cannot care about climate change or
might not make it their first issue
because they are so economically
insecure and facing so many existential
crises I think I talked about this on
Twitter before I think the existential
crises argument is really tough because
what constitutes an existential crises
depends on who you are and where you are
and what other problems you face yeah so
climate change if you are a black woman
who's a single mother right whose kid
has asthma yeah you want to you want to
fix the the environment because your kid
has asthma but you also have a
precarious job you don't have any
savings potentially like your your
child's school isn't that great so
you're worried about that so climate
change is falling far below now if we
can talk to people and connect climate
change to the things that they care
about that is a huge potential bloc of
climate voters that you just activated
that might not have voted on that issue
before so right and so you're leaving
them on the table and also these are the
same populations that let's be honest
conservative groups fossil fuel
companies that don't want this to happen
those are the people that they're going
to target talking about job loss about
economic loss about what this transition
is going to take away from them so why
don't we head them off before we give
them the space to do that yeah it makes
sense so the other the other big issue
from critics is as you mentioned
financing you know people say ok how are
we gonna finance this is it gonna be
higher taxes and if it's not higher
taxes then you know maybe it's true
we've worried way too much about debt
and deficits in the past but if this is
really going to be the cost of a world
war style mobilization you know aren't
we gonna risk inflation at some point if
we if we keep if we keep just financing
it through you know debt and deficit so
I'm not an economist but all the
economists that I've talked to you
definitely agree that that fear about
inflation is is over hyped not only
because we haven't met our inflation
targets in years
only because the rate of borrowing is
interest rates are low but also because
we have tools to deal with inflation
right this is a problem that we know how
to solve climate change is a problem you
can't argue with physics but if you have
don't say you can't argue with physics
but if you have and we do have the tools
to deal with inflation then I don't
understand quite what it's such a big
worry yeah I mean I guess if we were if
this country were under attack like we
were and we're in one of the world wars
we wouldn't sit there and be like well
we need a mass mobilization effort to
fight the war but we first we have to
figure out how to deficit financed it
not existing in 20 years we're talking
about hundreds of thousands of deaths is
not millions of death we're also talking
about an economy that is already
bleeding money because of climate change
and it's only going to get worse or the
NASA study that just came out there was
like 91 billion meet the US economy lost
just last year due to climate change
like there is if there is no reality in
which climate change doesn't create a
cost the issue is are you going to deal
with that cost on the front end
proactively and try to plan and create a
better economy or are you just gonna
deal with it when it's an emergency
cuz you're gonna deal with it right
right it's gonna come with the price tag
you just need to decide when and where
and how you want to spend your money so
what's your most effective argument to
skeptics and to people you're trying to
mobilize around this issue I think one
is like my personal story which is that
I came into this climate fight really
recently and that was largely because
climate has seemed like such a white
issue to me not that it only affected
white people but like I said I was
trying like all of my work has dealt
with equity and poverty and these
intersectional solutions and so and I'm
trying to Center marginalize people in
the work that I do right how do we
create a system that actually works for
them that gives them power instead of
distributing the pain to them right that
gives them resources instead of
tributed violence to them and when I'm
talking to those folks like I just never
I couldn't understand how I'm talking to
a you know I'm trying to write policy
for a woman who's standing two days in
line for public childcare assistants who
like has a shift job her boss is calling
her threatening to fire her but she
can't even go to her job if you know if
her child care assistance isn't renewed
and she might not even make it to the
front of that line after two days right
and so how am i talking to her about
solar panels like what I don't I didn't
I didn't understand the the connections
but coming into this work we did a lot
of work on environmental justice at the
Detroit Health Department and then Abdul
Elsayed who I was his policy director is
a huge advocate of environmental issues
especially from a public health
perspective and then this understanding
how the system worked right and also
understanding the fact that like we can
change this this is human-made and we
have a lot of technologies that we need
and so I try to explain that to people
because I'm like I've amassed an immense
amount of social and political capital
for 29 year-old black women especially
and for 29 year-old in general I like
have a road scholarship I'm educated I
should care about these things and if I
don't care until I understand how it
fits in the system you better believe
that people who have a lot less time and
a lot less money and you know just a lot
more sort of pressing issues to them are
not going to connect with it either but
we need these people to lead to lead
this movement because this idea that
somehow we're just going to get there by
trying to like persuade GOP power
brokers is is just maddening to me they
haven't come along yet I was actually
just on a podcast where I heard they're
like conservative white men are the
least likely to be alarmed by climate
change right and we're just ignoring all
of these people who are suffering from
these systems and also who would move if
they just understood yeah and so I find
that that's really effective because
once you explain to people like hey I
didn't start out in climate because I
think the other thing that we don't
recognize is that there's like quite
I barred entering into the environmental
space it's a very science heavy space
and often it feels like unless you are a
particular activist you can't speak
unless you're a climate scientist right
and so I think lowering those barriers
talking about how much systems made a
difference to me and now to the
communities that I you know talk to and
work with really help yeah I do think
it's about connecting the dots for
people right because you can already see
you know like there's a whole bunch of
people when you tell them well you know
the coral reefs are gonna disappear in
ten years you know they might say oh
well that seems sad but oh well that's
not like existential and once you know
what that means
coral reefs disappearing then you're
more alarmed and looking you're also
alarmed when you start seeing like when
it's a drought on your farm right when
it's a wildfire in your backyard when
when your kids are suffering from asthma
because there's a coal plant and I do
think we probably all have to work
harder to connect the dots about why
this is such an urgent crisis in
people's lives right now because
otherwise you get people saying like so
wait we have to we have to do a bunch of
stuff now for something that's way off
in the future or people are saying is
off in the future 10 years like do I
really want to believe it do I really
want to have a mass mobilization right
now and it seems like the big challenge
here is like helping people in making
people understand especially people in
power like how urgent this is for
people's lives right now absolutely and
I think that again power building is
part of that I remember when I first
came into this like the world war two
mobilization example made sense to me
but I also I was always like well in
order to get that sort of agreement
amongst the people you have to have
everyone sort of agree or at least most
people agree that this is like an
imminent threat that has to be moved on
immediately
like that's how you get this sort of
very friendly Congress that's how you
get a friendly and willing public and I
feel like right now because the green
New Deal is helping to connect all these
dots that urgency is coming right and
also obviously there's all of these
other things wildfires going on right
there's constantly the polar vortex you
know 15 homeless people in Chicago froze
to death you know like this is not
normal and then the net
sweet gives like sixty degrees like
people understand that this isn't normal
but doing that connecting work is so
crucial yeah well I'm glad you're doing
that work and all the work that you're
doing on the green New Deal and this
movement to to try to get people to pay
attention really appreciate it and thank
you so much for for joining us I know
you're you're very busy trying to save
the planet
you
