welcome to plod save America I'm John
Favreau I'm Dan Pfeiffer later in the
pod Tommy's interview with Marcel
McClinton a young activist in Texas who
just graduated from high school and is
now running for the Houston City Council
you might have seen Marcel in the
documentary running with Beto
we met Marcel during the documentary he
is just a phenomenal young talent and
you know got involved in politics
because of school shootings and now he's
gone from being an activist to actually
trying to run for office as a it's just
a high school graduate and so it's a
he's a piece of piece of pretty great
guys so check that out also make sure to
check out our new crooked mini-series
reclaiming patriotism
what does patriotism mean who gets to
call themselves a patriot and how does
politics play into that the series will
be hosted by Ken Harbaugh a former Navy
pilot and nominee for the US House of
Representatives Ken will sit down with
people you've heard of like Pete Buddha
judge Tammy Duckworth and barbara Lee
along with people you might not have
heard of to explore the roles that
dissent inclusion empathy and reckoning
play in our current understanding of
patriotism subscribe to crooked minis
wherever you get your podcast to listen
it's Ken's fantastic guy I spoke to him
for the series - I'm really excited
about it so check it out also we're
going on tour again soon we will be in
Denver on July 17th at the Belko theater
and in Salt Lake City on July 18th at
the Eccles theater the shows will be
co-hosted by hysteria Aaron Ryan so make
sure to come see us live you can still
get tickets at crooked comm slash events
hey Jon is there anything big in the
world in the news happening that week
that we might be able to talk about oh
that's right Bobby 3:6 finally going to
Congress but that's Bob Muller for those
of you who don't follow the podcast that
closely I mean we didn't give him the
nickname but anyway yeah he's he's
finally testifying on that Wednesday so
we'll talk about it in Denver Wednesday
night and we'll probably talk about it
more on in Salt Lake on Thursday night
so that should be an interesting week
hopefully all right
we jump into our second annual July 4th
mailbag is it the second annual I don't
even know third I think we've been doing
July 4th mailbag since the beginning of
time it's the beginning of time forever
we've been doing this okay Christina
from Twitter asks what is going on with
this fourth of July
Trump Stravaganza in DC I realize on the
list of amazingly shitty things
happening it is at the bottom of the
list but it's just so mind-boggling Lee
ridiculous
I agree Christina I agree dan woody I'm
Dan I was reading a story I was reading
stories about this last night and it
started getting me upset and it was one
of those things that I didn't want to
get upset about because there's too many
other things together sort of hutton the
news so I tried to avoid the whole July
4th thing and then I actually started
reading the stories and I was like what
the is going on right now yeah it's
actually worse than you think it is yeah
I mean if if we had been sitting here
maybe at the three years ago July 4th
mailbag and someone had said it is it
possible that Trump would be holding a
authoritarian style military parade on
the 4th of July from the Lincoln
monument people would have been like
that's a crazy thing to say you
conspiracy-theory loving liberals but no
that's what's happening and not only are
we trucking tanks from the Far regions
of the country to come here to fill the
giant mall of insecurity inside of
Donald Trump
the RNC is also giving away ticket to
donors so we have a perfect marriage of
an event that takes American patriotism
and uses it to fuel Donald Trump's
narcissism its authoritarianism and his
corruption all at once so it's
great yeah and look you know when we
lived in DC and Obama was in the White
House the 4th of July in DC was a very
fun holiday it was nonpartisan it was
open to the public
there were musical acts from across the
political spectrum it didn't matter
you know what party you were from it was
it was just a fun thing to do a
celebration of the country
and now it's big Obama didn't go that's
an important point he was not involved
in the fireworks right right yet exactly
he would he sort of watch from the high
white house with his family and you know
there were events at the White House as
well but the the the official
celebration was for the public this is
this isn't patriotism this is jingoism
this is Donald Trump feeling the need to
roll tanks into Washington DC you know
where they got the tanks from from
 Georgia man they transported
tanks from from a military base in
Georgia to DC for Donald Trump's
parade think of all the military
personnel by the way that have to have
had to her like rearrange their plans
they're serving our country and now they
have to you know make extra time to
fulfill Donald Trump's
militaristic fantasies here
he's got the all of the military chiefs
have to stand next to Donald Trump while
they play the different anthems for the
different branches of the military or
whatever it's it's really wild and just
the fact that it's like a RNC
event that they're like handing out you
know as usual he's grifting like they've
doubled the prices at the Trump Hotel so
it's a good thing that the President of
the United States is gonna make money
off of July 4th this year huh man I
don't know I don't know it's it's
certainly it's certainly not patriotism
it's uh I would add this should be added
to the list of things that should be
investigated for sure yeah but probably
won't be will send a strongly worded
letter and then when we don't get a
response we'll move on to something else
Jennifer from Twitter asks Canadian here
could you please explain why Iowa is so
important what do you got daddy do you
want to start you want me to start uh
I'll start I'll start go for it
okay so Iowa uh well obviously it's the
its first in the nation so it's the
first time that people will actually
choose a candidate they choose it in a
caucus and look there's a lot of
arguments you can make against I
and against the caucuses it is a very
white state it is a state that is not
really demographically representative of
the country caucuses are often difficult
for working people to you know
participate in you have to come out at
night usually on a cold snowy night in
Iowa and you have to sit around for a
long time it's much it takes a lot more
work than voting so are there all the
negatives
I think the positives are it is the it
is the closest form to sorry it is the
closest thing to pure democracy that
you'll see in politics because I think
one thing that we have to worry about
today in in this media age is that
campaigns become run on television or
online and they're run by super PACs who
can pay a lot of money for ads and you
know all you see if the candidates is
their sound bites during debates and
then you see them on television and you
see them in some kind of scary attack ad
and that's all you know of a candidate
and that's not a really great way to
pick a president and in Iowa it forces
these candidates in both the Democratic
and Republican primaries when there is a
Republican primary to travel around the
state to all 99 counties or hopefully
all 99 counties if you're a if you get a
good campaign and meet with people and
listen to them and answer their
questions and campaign door-to-door and
it is about activism and it is about
organizing and there's an argument to be
made that if you can you know the
ultimate thing that we're looking for
here is not just voting the voting is
incredibly important but it's to be
active in politics to participate to
organize that's how we succeed that's
how we bring about real change and so if
you're a campaign who can bring people
out in a cold Iowa night to organize for
you and to convince their neighbors to
organize into back.you that shows real
strength as a candidate and it shows a
real organization and I think there's
there's something worthwhile to that
yeah that's right it's a proving ground
for candidates ability to handle tough
questions it's a proving ground for
campaigns ability to organize voters
also it just happens to be that
the winner of the Iowa caucus won the
Democratic nomination in the year 2000
2004 2008 and 2016 and it's important
that like these things happen in phases
right and this is a little bit like you
know the incident play tournament the
primaries are it's like win in advance
and if you win Iowa or do well in Iowa
then you have a chance in South Carolina
if you do poorly
in New Hampshire and then Nevada and
South Carolina and if you do poorly your
campaign is probably over so this this
it serves a function of winnowing the
field and all of the polling that
happens in the states that come after I
will be completely upended by what
happens in Iowa so for better or for
worse the best way to win the Democratic
nomination is to win Iowa and the
fastest way out of the Democratic
campaign is to do poorly in Iowa yeah
Clint from Twitter asks what's the best
strategy against Trump in the Rust Belt
states in your opinion you want to start
with this one sure I think it's a
two-pronged strategy which is we need a
populist progressive economic message
that takes on the powerful interests
that have made this economy unfair to
working people right working
middle-class people that is taking on
the bank's it is give it it's taking on
the wealthy who are getting wealthier it
is a progressive populist message that's
we need a positive agenda that speaks to
that on the other side as importantly if
not more importantly we need an argument
that shows that Trump ran as a populist
but govern as a corporatist
that he despite promising that he's
gonna stand for working people his
signature initiative was to give a
massive tax break to the wealthiest
Americans and Wall Street banks and huge
corporations and that he plans to pay
for it by cutting your Medicare and
making your health care more expensive
so we have to disqualify Trump as a
champion of working people but to do
that you also have to have a place for
them to go which shows that you have an
agenda that speaks to the very real
anxieties that Americans have in this
economy despite high you know high Dow
Jones high stock market performance
and in low unemployment yeah I mean I
think the the Midwest I know they don't
like being called Rust Belt states the
Midwest mister western states especially
industrial Midwestern states they that's
the place to show that Donald Trump is
full of and has been full of
for a long time
you know he promised you better health
care he tried to take it away he
promised you higher wages he gave tax
cuts to billionaires he promised you
that jobs would come back to America
look at all these factories that are
still closing and has your life really
improved because of this man at all and
if not here are some ideas that may
actually improve your life so vote for a
Democrat instead I mean I would look at
the campaigns run by sherrod Brown in
Ohio by Tammy Baldwin in Wisconsin
these are progressive senators who
didn't give an inch when it came to
issues of racial justice social justice
anything like that didn't give an inch
and yet their focus was on economic
populism and they were able to win share
it in a a pretty red state in how Ohio
and Tammy Baldwin in a state that that
Trump just won by a hair so I would look
at those politicians and those campaigns
to emulate what they did one point I
think it's important here is that I
don't think this was the subtext of this
questioners question but the debate
about what Democrats do in the corn
accord Rust Belt Midwest etc is often
within the context of the political
media a proxy for how do you win over
white working-class Trump voters yeah
and I think it's important to note that
we believe that the there is not a
specific strategy for the Rust Belt like
I think this strategy that we just laid
out is also the way to in Florida
Arizona Georgia Colorado Virginia and
every other state in the country
and the point is that you have to have a
strong focus on the economy and a focus
on working in middle-class people of all
races and all backgrounds of all parts
of the country and that there is not
some unique secret rosetta stone
language that works for white people who
live you know in the exurbs of Cleveland
this is a
about a progressive populist economic
agenda that shows that you were fighting
for working people and against the
powerful interests who were taking who
are getting one over on the American
people yeah your message should be
appealing to white working-class
Americans should also be appealing to
black working-class Americans and Latino
working-class Americans and there is
plenty of overlap between all of the
demographic groups in this country or at
least most of the Democratic demographic
groups in this country except you know
the richest that Trump cares
about and uh and your message should be
able to reach all of those people
Russell from Twitter asks how big of a
fear should it be that the Democratic
nominee wins the popular vote by four or
five six or more million thanks to
closing gaps in Georgia Texas and other
states but still loses the electoral
college to trump hard to even type that
without throwing phone across room
rustle I hear you man
I just just smashed my iPad on the floor
yeah we should be very afraid of that
the we where there is a fundamental
misalignment in this country where the
population writ large is getting more
progressive more democratic and the
mechanism by which we pick our
presidents the electoral college is
getting potentially more Republican more
conservative though the weight given to
a set of states whose demographic trends
are moving against Democrats goes up
because they are moving faster in that
direction then states like Texas Georgia
have been moving in the Democratic
direction today so it is very possible
that were trump to win the electoral
college again that he would lose the
popular vote by a margin greater than he
did in 2016 and which will make for some
pretty amazing conspiracy theories
coming out of the White House in that
second term but yeah we should we should
be worried about well like we always say
worry about everything panic about
nothing put this on the worry list I
mean looking at the mapped in it seems
like like the states that I feel most
focused on are Pennsylvania Michigan
Wisconsin and then Arizona is sort of
like the new swing state that in the
Sunbelt actually might flip
to us partly because Kyrsten Sinema won
there in in 2018 like I feel like as we
talk about politics and as we talk about
Democrats ability to win we should think
about the electorate's in those four
states who votes in those states what's
the makeup
what are those voters care about it
seems to me that that's most important
would you agree are you taking Florida
off that list
I'm just so sick of Florida no I
think obviously Florida is a 50/50 State
Florida's always going to be a 50/50
State it's been the one consistent thing
about Florida for a few decades now is
that know whether it's won by Democrat
or Republican and a presidential it's
always very very close but yeah I guess
I guess I would look at Florida too yeah
I mean the problem we have and this
could change but in the 2008 2012
elections Democrats had like dozens of
paths to 270 because we could put all
these different states on the map
everything from Indiana in North
Carolina in 2008 to Florida North
Carolina in 2012 Ohio and Iowa were
competitive states one that wants that
Obama did quite well in but if if we if
you take 2016 as the measure and you
believe as many do that Ohio and Iowa
have moved firmly into the lean
Republican categories and I'm not 100%
sure that's how it's gonna be in that
you know he's not a nominee of a certain
type could potentially bring them back
into the map but we just have a very
limited path we have to win those three
states back from Trump of Michigan
Pennsylvania Wisconsin and those are
probably more likely just based on past
history than Arizona only because it's
an unproven thing but that should be
watched very carefully I also would not
take North Carolina and Georgia off that
map it isn't Georgia has never been
truly competitive what Stacey Abrams did
in 2018 was and was absolutely
incredible
we are you do run against tremendous
voter suppression in that state which is
another problem in Florida as well where
they basically make it impossible to
register voters
although Andrew Gilliam is putting in
efforts to try to deal with that so I
think all those states
matter and you want to you just want to
keep as many paths open to yourself as
possible so that you're not you don't
have to draw an inside straight to win
which is what Trump had to do to attend
2016 and unfortunately did missus
Schwinn from Twitter asks when will you
have Bernie Sanders on for an interview
we're trying any time we're trying mrs.
Schwinn I actually think that we've made
some progress on that front
I believe Tonya has been in contact with
his campaign so I think I think we're
making progress on the Bernie Sanders
font front we have made less progress on
the Joe Biden front despite the fact
that we all know him and worked with him
I can't seem to get Joe Biden on the pod
been trying to reach out to his staff
not a lot of success so if you see Joe
Biden let him know come on pod save
America because beyond we're getting
close to doing the full monty of the 712
candidates right you know we are you
just interviewed Michael Bennett was
here yesterday that pot is up great guy
we had a good time with Michael Bennett
here and then we're down to Bill
DeBlasio and Tulsi Gabbard and John
Delaney ooh sorry John Delaney John
Delaney Angelini will not let you forget
his name he will interrupt you if you do
yeah so that's what we're down to but
yeah we've of course would love to have
Sanders and Biden on sand too Adam from
Twitter asks why is it harder to pull
Nevada and is there a reason it can't be
pulled and just not aggregated with the
other early states if the methodology
would be different Adam asked that
question because our first poll with
change research we did early states we
did Iowa New Hampshire South Carolina we
did not do Nevada because it is hard to
poll dan why isn't about a hard to poll
well there have only ever been two
Democratic caucuses in the history of
Nevada they it started in 2008 then we
had another one 2016 and the reason
caucuses are just very hard because it's
a poll because you it's very hard to
figure out who goes to a caucus because
it's a very small percentage of the
overall electorate
and the reason why people are more
successful at polling Iowa caucus the
Iowa caucus although many people are not
successful at it there are a handful
like Ann Selzer who was on the with us
and Des Moines during Iowa showed were
very good at it but is there's a long
history of figuring out who goes the
Iowa caucus it's something that people
in Iowa know a lot about a lot of people
in Nevada don't know about the caucus
it's it's just such a new thing and John
Ralston who is the godfather of media in
that state was critical of us for
deciding not to do it saying you could
probably figure it out and and people
will probably get closer to doing it and
people should get better at it because
it's an important state we just didn't
want to give a false impression of a
candidate's strengths in the early
states by having a sample that that was
incorrect from that state when we felt
more confident about the ability to get
them in the three states it's it's hard
there's just not a lot of experience in
it and because it's hard a lot of people
don't try to do it and so then there's
not a lot of track record either yeah
Angela from Twitter asks how concerned
should people be about whether 2020 will
actually be a fair and Trust where the
election given all we know about foreign
hacking and interference and the lack of
this administration's effort to protect
electoral integrity very concerned
Angela very concerned yeah we should we
should all be very very concerned
because and this is just common sense if
you're Vladimir Putin and you've
conducted a completely successful
operation against the United States in
2016 that resulted in your favorite
candidate being elected partly probably
because of the operation you conducted
the hacking and theft of democratic
emails and a social media campaign why
wouldn't you try it again if you're
another country that wants to with
the United States why wouldn't you try
it Donald Trump clearly hasn't been
doing anything himself to protect the
elections
I guess we're hoping that somewhere in
the bowels of the federal government
there are people who are nonpartisan
career officials who were trying to
protect this nation from another attack
on our election so we hope that's true
we also take some small comfort in the
fact that states largely run their
elections and so it's not the province
of the federal government and so
hopefully
various states are doing whatever they
can to protect their elections but you
know I'm pretty worried about it I don't
think the media has learned any lessons
from 2016 and how to cover you know
stolen emails or hacked information they
would probably cover it the same way
they covered it in 2016 because they
don't seem like they've learned any
lessons at all it is yes do you you
those are my feelings as well be it is
 asinine and backwards that we
run our federal elections based on
different state laws and then you have a
different access to voting depending on
what state you're born in it is so
 stupid but the small upside is
it creates more hacking targets for the
Russians so it's harder to do than just
hacking one place so take that cold
comfort people Janina on Facebook can
you spend some time talking about the
various health care policies in the mix
for the 2020 primary I know there's
Medicare for all and Medicare for
America is Medicare for America a public
option are there any legitimate other
options in the debate right now my dad
likes Medicare for all but is under the
impression that you'd buy supplemental
insurance like older people do now is
that a thing I just feel like I don't
have a good grasp on where we are with
the health care debate right now Thanks
we hear you Janine it's very confusing
yeah all right I'll I'll try to start
and you interrupt me if I've
something up so let's start with the
public option and there's various
different types of public options or
they're called buy-ins they've been
proposed by a lot of people in Congress
they've been proposed by some of the
presidential candidates basically what
would happen then is on the exchange
which is the Affordable Care Act
exchange where you'd buy other health
insurance plans that are private there
would be one option that would be a
government-run plan and you could buy an
insurance plan based off the government
plan you would still play still pay some
sort of premium some sort of co-pays I'm
sort of deductible it would cover a
certain number of services that the
government says that it has to cover
much like the Affordable Care Act has to
cover now and that would be that it
would be affordable it would probably be
more affordable than
all of the other private insurance plans
and the hope is that because the public
option would be more affordable and more
efficient more people would join that
public option and it would force the
private insurance plans that are also on
the market to be better to be cheaper to
be more efficient because they're now
competing with a government plan that is
pretty cheap and efficient so that's the
idea for buying public option then you
go up to Medicare for America Medicare
for America and this was a bill
introduced by jan Schakowsky and rosa
DeLauro in the house this start is this
starts to look a lot more like medicare
for all but it's not quite there yet
what Medicare for America says is
everyone who's currently uninsured in
the country would automatically enroll
in Medicare they would be enrolled in a
Medicare program everyone who is
currently buying health insurance on the
affordable care act marketplaces on the
exchanges would automatically be
enrolled in Medicare in a Medicare plan
every newborn would automatically be
enrolled in a Medicare plan and the
reason that is is because ultimately
this is basically a long long transition
period into full Medicare because and
that's why we're having newborns in it
basically though private insurance some
private insurance would still remain so
if you're an employer you have a choice
you can either continue with your
private insurance plan for your
employees or you can decide I'm going to
enroll the whole company in Medicare as
well so employers have that choice if
you are an employee and you have private
insurance with your employer you can
decide either I like my employers
private insurance plan or I kind of like
that Medicare plan that everyone else is
getting into so you can decide as an
employee to enroll in Medicare this
Medicare program would cover a whole
suite of services it would you would
still pay some premiums but it would be
a sliding scale so lower-income people
would pay nothing no co-pays no
deductibles no out-of-pocket and higher
income people would pay up to the
highest income people would pay up to
ten percent of their income in premiums
and I think it's like five thousand
out-of-pocket some lower deductible
basically much cheaper than it is now
much
more affordable than it is now and it
would be financed I think on a like
repealing the Trump tax cuts something
like a 5% income tax on people making
$500,000 or more and a suite of other
sort of high end taxes to pay for it but
it is it comes with a fully financed
plan
so that's Medicare for America then you
have Medicare for all in Medicare for
all what happens is the private
insurance market is eliminated there is
some insurance private insurance that
you can buy for like cosmetic stuff but
that's about it you can't get your
primary care doctor from private
insurance it's all one government plan
now one thing people don't often think
about is you do get to keep your doctor
because every doctor in the country is
now under Medicare for all
and so everyone is in the same network
everyone is under the same plan there
are no premiums no deductibles no
co-payments Medicare would expand to
cover dental vision prescription drugs
so Medicare covers everything so this is
like the full suite of everything you've
got the challenge of this plan is the
financing because basically Medicare
would pay Medicare reimbursement rates
to every doctor every health care
provider every hospital in the entire
country and they are used to getting
paid a lot more right now from private
insurance companies and so it would be a
you know difficult transition for
hospitals doctors everyone else to
figure out how to adjust to those new
rates and people who put out Medicare
for all plans don't necessarily have a
financing plan Bernie Sanders released
sort of a suite of possibilities with
various tax increases on wealthy people
but most experts look at looks look at
this and say you probably gonna have to
raise taxes even on middle-class folks
now what Bernie would say is yes there
might be a tax increase but you're also
not paying healthcare premiums or
co-pays or deductibles anymore so in the
end it probably washes out did I do that
right those are those all the planes
sure it was seemed great I believed
every word of it was really good it was
a very good succinct explanation and I
wish and now this is impossible to do in
debates
that like these differences between
people's plans the impacts of who they
impacted how they impacted people was
it's just very hard to communicate in
ninety second debate increments inside
yeah it is very very useful exercise
that was longer than 90 seconds for sure
okay Tara from Twitter asks if Ivanka
actually had experience that warranted
her a job as adviser to the president
would it still be okay to pop into a
conversation among world leaders like
that like is it normal for advisers to
mingle with heads of state like that at
summits or just if you're diluted well
John I also like Ivanka was a senior
advisor the president I was frequently
palying around with world leaders I'd
step in I'd see David Cameron for tea
I'd say hi to Bob a just know of course
it's not normal it's weird and
there and the you have Ivanka Trump is
staff and there was a fellow members
between staff and principal and staff
stay away from whistles she should talk
to the staff members of those leaders
and not walk around pretending like she
is royalty which is I know what goes on
in her head and what the Trump think
they are that she has something more
than a government staffer but she is a
government staffer who just happens to
be the daughter of our president
remember when we were in the UK for the
state visit and we were at that
reception and Obama introduced us it was
you me and ELISA to the Queen like we
almost passed out and didn't know what
to say because I had zoned out when they
didn't the protocol people were telling
me whether you're how you were supposed
to like touch or not touch the Queen
right right I was really I was
definitely afraid of having a major
diplomatic incident and the way that you
guys handled that is you and ELISA
pushed me in front of you both so I had
to do it first
it worked out good she's lovely woman
very nice meeting her but I was not
gonna then just you know ask her her
thoughts on you know trade
agreements all right Casey from Twitter
asked what do you think the best way to
curb propaganda would be obviously you
can't just ban
Fox News and Breitbart but you'd think
there'd be some sort of punishment for
intentionally misleading the American
people yes you would Casey uh did I
included this question because I really
wanted to hear your thoughts on it
because I know this is something you
think about quite a bit I there is not a
simple solution if we still lived in the
world where everyone got their news
through television you could reinstate
something like the Fairness Doctrine or
some other thing where there are some
standards by which you got access to the
public airwaves because that's how
people get it but we now live in the
Internet age and so there are an
infinite number of outlets by which
people can communicate with the public
either as news or fake news or
propaganda or whatever else and so we
can't if you were to somehow if we were
to get convince enough people enough
companies to stop advertising on Fox
News and it collapsed from within that
would be a giant victory for American
democracy but there would be something
to replace it because there is a market
for right-wing propaganda and there has
been for a long time even before the
Trump Arrow's Rush Limbaugh these guys
got really rich in the 90s doing talk
radio and then they moved it to TV and
now Breitbart and The Daily Caller and
all these other god-awful sites are
being quite successful in the digital
age and so the key is not I don't think
there was a way to get rid of propaganda
so there's a couple of things that I
think we should do one is media literacy
should be something that is taught in
schools and that is not to make some
money liberal or conservatives to help
people have the skill set to determine
what is real and what is not what is
objective and what is subjective second
we have to build out a an aggressive
progressive media infrastructure along
the lines of certainly what you taught
me love it or doing with crooked media
but there are other entities out there
as well but I think one thing we can
take away from the Trump era is that the
quote-unquote traditional media the
quote unquote objective media is
incapable totally they are out it isn't
it's not even that they don't want to or
the
incompetent is they just do they cannot
do it the business model the reach of
traditional media is insufficient yeah
as long as Facebook and other social
media platforms which are fueled by
outrage rigged algorithms as long as
that is the main distributor of news and
information in this country the only
like there's no way to compete so we
have to build all this aggressive
progressive media infrastructure that
can speak to people about facts truth
can push back on the conspiracy theory
and the lies or be pushed by the right
we have to have entities who can who can
push content into the Facebook ecosystem
to try this shift the conversation
closer to the middle I'm trying to shift
is the less it is so far rightward right
now we have to shift it to the middle by
having more content in there to help get
the message out to Democrats to accept
that there is hope for the future I do
have some hope that one of the problems
we have right now is that we're in this
weird notch generation of media
consumption particularly for older
Americans which is they grew up in an
era where you had every reason to
believe that if you saw something on TV
you read it in the newspaper that it was
someone's best attempt at giving you the
facts right like no one thought the
media was flawless but that someone was
trying to give you the truth and then
all the sudden we moved information on
to Facebook and so now you have older
Americans who use Facebook at a
shockingly high rate seeing information
that they would generally believe to be
true because it is comes packaged like
news and it is not younger Americans
people who grew up with the Internet in
their lives from the day they were born
are much better consumers of news much
they have both the skepticism about
things to read on the internet and the
skills to fight to fact-check the
information to find out whether it's
true or not and so there is some hope
that as the millennial generation and
the ones that come after it age into the
electorate the power of right-wing
propaganda will diminish the only the
problem with we have is the short term
is a misaligned time lines between the
melting of the planet and
Millennials being
the primary most dominant only force in
politics yeah and I think that's a fine
answer it's a great answer and I think
it is super hopeful and the key is that
those other outlets have to be there for
young people to actually get their
information from in a way that is
entertaining and interesting and catches
their attention so yeah I'm all for more
crooked media's and also you know I was
you should read if you haven't yet that
New York Times piece from a couple weeks
ago we were going to talk about it when
we're on the road we'd have time
the Kevin Roose wrote about sort of
these right-wing youtubers who are
spreading all kinds of propaganda and
sort of radicalizing a lot of young
people and you know the hope and that
story is there is now popping up a bunch
of sort of left-wing youtubers who are
using some of the same memes language
phrases that the right-wing youtubers
are in order to sort of work the
algorithm in a way that sends people to
them and their message instead of just
the right-wing youtubers and so they are
starting to fight back at some of the
propaganda and I do think that is like
you said that's the future here is that
we're not going to ever fully end the
propaganda on the right but we have to
battle it with our own truth and facts
and you know our own message and so I do
think that's the future and if you want
to hear more of this conversation I'm
just gonna do a plug now listen to the
episode of the wilderness on the media
that we did there's more Dan
there's Tanya so manator who's brilliant
works at crooked media and all kinds of
smart people on media and politics
talking about what what actually has to
be done so check that out I would say
well obviously one more thing about this
but yeah it's important that I left
outed my initial overly long spiel but
is every one of us has agency in this
which is we are all on these social
media platforms we all see the fake news
or the conspiracy theories or the
right-wing propaganda that is being
spread not just to a willing audience
it's not just preaching to the choir
because all of our social networks and
our social graphs are intermingled so
when you share something you're going to
share something that'll be seen by your
fellow progressive friend
but also your non-political friends and
I use friends in the Facebook version of
that word you're conservative uncle and
so in addition to everyone on their own
trying to find ways to fight back and
I'm not saying do not I'm not arguing
that you get into a comments argument
with your uncle or anyone else I'm
saying it said sharing countervailing
content that proves that what was out
there sorry and it is incredibly
important and I think the urgency for
this is this election is that campaigns
or technology firms build tools that
would allow you to have at your
fingertips information that you can
share on social media to your network to
put to respond to Trump's absurdity of
data show why he said what was wrong to
amplify a message of the day too we have
to alter the algorithmic base
conversation in the social media
companies into these social media
platforms so the more we've seen but we
like basically you have millions of
Americans who are deeply concerned about
direction this country walking around
with a supercomputer in their pocket and
an average of 300 Facebook friends who
they can be communicating with on a
daily basis they have an average of a
hundred so I'm Instagram for followers
and hundreds upon hundreds of people in
their contacts that if we can map that
information to the voter file and then
give them information about how to reach
the right people there that you can make
a huge difference but everyone can fight
back on this it's not foxnews against
crooked media that's right it's it's Fox
News and everyone else against the
entire country and entire country has to
fight back against democracy loving
Americans um all right David on Facebook
asks we saw a lot of convergence on
policy during the debates particularly
around climate that is potentially a
good thing but how do you see this
panning out on the campaign trail
is there still a case to be made for a
primary climate debate when the
candidates don't seem that far apart so
I added this question because when
activists were first sort of demand jay
Inslee as well sort of demanding a
climate only debate of the DNC I didn't
really agree with it because I sort of
understood the challenge that Tom Perez
was facing there and the DNC was facing
which is once you sanctioned a debate on
one issue then why how do you tell the
net you know how do you tell people oh
we're not gonna do a debate on Criminal
Justice or we're not gonna do a debate
on a women's right so we're not gonna do
debate on this and you start going down
a path and it becomes very difficult but
I've sort of been persuaded just the
more I thought about it the more I write
about it that it might really be a good
idea because climb I mean if we really
believe that this is an emergency that
we have ten years to drastically change
our energy consumption and production in
order to save the planet for future
generations then that seems like it is
an issue that could potentially touch
all other issues and having watched two
debates and having scenes or the climate
sections be not really that great I
actually think it would be fairly
interesting and important to have a
debate that is only about climate and
not only will that give climate change
as an issue a lot of attention but
finally we'll be out of a debate format
where there's like 30 second sound bites
on one issue from ten different people
and then we go back and forth like
imagine two hours digging into one issue
it would be totally different
totally new but I actually think we
could learn something from it you could
have a real substantive debate about an
issue that is an existential threat to
the planet I like like you I was very I
was an M very sympathetic to the DNC and
it is worth noting that while jay Inslee
and a couple of us have called for a
climate debate most of the other
campaigns have been silent about this
even though they care passionate about
climate or have very aggressive policies
on climate and it's largely because
debates are stupid that's unfair I think
they're stupid but they take up they
they're a huge time-suck
for campaigns and candidates right so
every debate means you lose almost a
week of time between getting to the bait
being at the debate the day after the
debate dropping home from the debate and
all that debate prep and so the DNC and
the campaign's together are trying to
limit the overall number of debates in
these rules were not particularly
well-managed in 2008 when we were
running in that primary and we did
something like 25 debates and candidate
forums which were basically just debates
and so the DNC tried to fix that in 2016
they obviously went overboard
in doing so which was a critique the
Sanders campaign had and I think they
were right
and they're trying to find a balance
here yeah having said that if I have no
objection to a climate debate if you had
to pick one issue that I think we could
use the Nationals the 20 million 15 20
million people that such a debate would
get to have a conversation about climate
I think that would be awesome I saw some
polling I think was pulling I was on
Twitter so I'm sure it's true that it
basically a quarter of the viewers of
the debate were Republic of that debates
last month were Republican which if we
could get couple million Republicans to
watch a climate conversation that's a
 great trick if we do this debate
which if the campaigns want to do in the
DNC want to do it obviously I think that
would be great I really hope that it is
conducted with the questioning done by
subject matter experts yes the problem
with the climate discussion in the last
debate was we did it through the prism
of politics yeah what do you tell and
frankly conservative framing of that
conversation you know you know the
question was what do you tell a
conservative voter about their utilities
going up as opposed to what do you tell
young people about the planet
fundamentally changing by the time there
are 35 or whatever and so let's have a
real like there are a lot of really
awesome climate plans they're all mostly
people their dip symbol they're similar
in scope but different in detail and
let's have a conversation about the
details of that you know the hard
questions that we're gonna have to
answer us a society if we're going to
get to the right place on climate the
trade-offs that you're gonna have to
make politically policy wise
economically like that's a good
conversation just simply conducting some
sort of bizarre imaginary focus group
with imaginary swing voters in Ohio is a
waste of everyone's time so like surety
bean it has to be on TV
I know it maybe doesn't actually to be
on TV maybe on the internet people watch
it but yeah
I really it's important we have subject
matter experts I wish they would do that
in every debate
I wish we had ten debates six of them
were issues Pacific economy health care
civil civil rights and women's rights or
something like that
it's the fate of our democracy and the
questioners were subject matter experts
you could ask follow-up questions yeah
so that people could get a real topic
instead of just doing this proxy
political conversation around serious
issues I agree with that all right Dan
Julie from Twitter asks Dan thoughts on
the sixers moves during free agency lost
Jimmy job let's go so glad this question
came and it's and I refused to
acknowledge that quote-unquote Julie is
my burner account but yes so as I
treated section for agency much like I
treat politics which was always dark oh
yeah who's very very pessimistic and I
wouldn't say I panicked but I came
pretty close to panicking in the first
hour in fact in my head I both wrote a
column calling on the Sixers to fire
their front office and rehire Sam hinkie
the father of the process for all who
care about that and they strategy to
convince Brian to post that on crooked
comm and while I was doing that
the Sixers made a bunch of really smart
moves and I'm very excited that they
brought in Al Horford they got Josh
Richardson and they did and what I think
is interesting about it and most of you
have stopped listening now but is that
for the last six years all of the NBA
has tried to go in one direction which
is small ball pace in space and the
Sixers are looking to to Zig where
everyone else is zagged and to go big
and like basically a lot of supports
really sort of s'mores it's like finding
the inefficiencies in the system and
being bigger and stronger maybe an
inefficiency in the system and so it's
great and for all SEC restraints out
there it's very exciting then we get an
entirely new team every six months so
there's my take Thank You Julie
whoever you may be so Dan you sound a
lot happier than our colleague and
friend Travis Hellwig who is a Knicks
fan
and Michael tells me that we have we
have some audio of Travis just being
upset about the Knicks can we account
can we play that
[Laughter]
that was amazing I hadn't heard that
before I love the music - that was some
sad music yeah when I would go I got to
cook it I mean Kirk in headquarters
yesterday my first thing it is I go over
to Travis's desk and treated him as if
his favorite pet died it was really
he's dark so Brian on Twitter asks will
Marianne Williamson ride in on a unicorn
or flying on a dragon to the next debate
Brian boiler I am that is not nice to
say that's from but that is just that's
not nice to her for and Marianne but
probably a unicorn Gabby from Twitter
asks who's your favorite Democratic
primary candidate Pat Liz vs. Beddoes
dog etc also if a candidate doesn't have
a pet should they be allowed to run easy
answer to that last question no Trump is
the first president in the US history to
not have a dog I think that tells you
everything you need to know about the
man favorite Democratic primary
candidate I have to I have to give the
edge to Bailey - to Elizabeth Warren's
dog just because I had golden retrievers
growing up I currently have a golden
doodle but so I have a soft spot for
Golden's and Bailey's all over social
media
and you know what when the when the
Bailey pics show up on Instagram I smash
that like button every time John are you
saying I can't run for president because
no I don't have a pet no Dan no you you
need to get a pet if you're gonna run
John let me be very clear there are a
limited number of things that Hallie and
I think we can't keep alive at any one
we have a child and a and a plant right
now well the dog is easier than the
child the dog is like you know it's it's
a busy it's basically a month of you
know waking up in the middle of the
night because the dog somewhere
and it's pissing in the house and then
it's over and then they're great
i I I think you are you have no idea
what it would be like to have a dog and
eye shadow at the same time many people
do yeah that's true
my Kyllo loves dogs she has obsessed
with dogs you and Emily very generously
gave her a stuffed Leo when she was born
she also has a stuff Sara which is the
her favorite dog which is our good
friends dog she stands at our window she
wants she wants a dog the dog will
eventually happen it would be unfair to
put a dog in our current apartment but
either way I also like Bailey I like all
the pets I will not choose among them I
even support Beddoes turtle people
should but I don't like her politicians
we have to you guys have a careful eye
on this because there are politicians
who have pets and become politicians and
there are politicians who decide they
need a pet for so they can turn their
pet into Instagram influencers it is up
to the voters to distinguish between
those two groups of people there are
some pets that haven't been feature
enough like Gillibrand has some sort of
doodle mix there and I've seen it and
and and every people I think maple yeah
and I never I never see maple on her
social media get maple out there okay
you did some research for the question
when the lead is more maple content
senator I always know that I'm at a
disadvantage in any sort of pet dog
conversation because not only do you all
have dogs you they are prominent
features of your both your personal
lives in your online personas and so I
did research for this question and I
looked up everyone's dogs and I
discovered that Gillibrand Saugus
camera-shy which is why we don't see her
very often okay well that's good all
right final question from Trevor Leigh
Cobb on Instagram what gives you hope
about 2020 in the world in general it's
been a dark couple of months years I
think that sometimes over the last
several months we have sort of erased
the 2018 midterms
from our memory as everything is erased
from our memory in this Twitter age that
you know it's like two days and you
forget what happened in the news but we
had a pretty commanding victory in the
midterms now just because you win that
one party wins the midterms doesn't mean
they win the presidency we have the
history is littered with examples of one
party winning the midterm and the
opposite party winning the presidency
but what I'm talking about is the energy
and activism that we witnessed during
the 2018 election and we had the
opportunity to be on the road during the
HBO show we had the opportunity to go to
The Crooked seven districts here in
California and do some campaigning and
what I saw on the ground there in terms
of people who've been in democratic
politics for a long time working harder
than they've ever worked in their lives
and so so so many new people people
who've never paid attention to politics
young people who were thought that
politics was boring that politics didn't
speak for them the politics didn't mean
anything and then because Donald Trump
was elected and they saw it as a
national emergency they decided to drop
everything and do everything that they
possibly could to elect Democrats and to
stop this madness and seeing that kind
of energy and activism on the ground in
2018 I have to believe that it has not
dissipated just because the Democrats
won the House of Representatives that is
just part of the job and so my hope is
that that feeling that you know we need
to do everything we possibly can knock
on doors register voters convince our
family and friends give money you know
do everything we possibly can to get
Donald Trump and a lot of these
Republicans out of office in 2020 I have
to believe that that energy is still
there and that even though we have so
many challenges as a party ahead of us
and we're gonna have a lot of fights and
a lot of debates I feel like that
feeling that we have to be better than
this and we have to make that show is
still there
a lot of people in this country and
hopefully around the world as well I
think that's right as I'd make two
points one is I think you hit on the
most important one which we talked the
pundits and everyone are hand-wringing
about the quote unquote lessons of 2018
and in that telling of history the
lesson is that moderate winds and then a
focus on health care and taxes and not
Trump wins and ignoring the immigration
issue wins and in some races there are
some truth to that but the true lesson
of 2018 is that activism works
yeah that if people get involved
sometimes for the first time and they
march and they make phone calls and they
register voters we can win and this is
the part of that that gives me hope is
that for all of the the complications of
politics and voting laws and voter
suppression and messaging and polling
and tacking right or tacking laughter
all of that there is a simplicity of
politics which is you just have to vote
and there are more democrats than our
republicans even in these battleground
states that decide the electoral college
there are more democrats and republicans
they just have to vote more people agree
with us thank read with Donald Trump
yeah that's right so we just have to
turn out and when you think about it and
that there you know there are a lot of
bumps in the road between here and there
but we don't need Republicans not to
turnout we're not betting on diminished
turnout from Republicans to win we just
need to turn out we need to turn out and
vote if we do that we can win the house
the White House and the Senate and and
put this country back on a path that
looks a lot more like the America that
Obama talked about than the one that
Trump tweets about yeah and speaking of
Obama if you want to be hopeful over
this fourth of July holiday and you're
and you don't want to watch Donald
Trump's militaristic jingoism
 that he's got going in DC and
you want to really understand what
patriotism is and what patriotism can be
go back and read my favorite Obama's
speech of all time and I can say that
because I did not work on it it was
after I left the White House it was the
president and
and Cody worked on it and it was it's
the speech that Barack Obama gave in
Selma to commemorate the anniversary of
Bloody Sunday in 2015 and it's maybe the
most patriotic speech about America that
I've ever read because it's about all
the people who've made this country
better and I was just looking at it the
other day before I talked to Ken
Harbaugh and that's that's real
patriotism in this country so check that
out have a great fourth and you know
we'll we'll talk to you next week
you
