hmm welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm John Lovett I'm Tommy Vietor later
in the pod you'll hear interviews that
love it conducted with Los Angeles
teachers outside of a school this
morning the first day of a teacher
strike here in one of the biggest school
districts in the entire country nice and
early got up and went talked to some
teachers loved it it was early it was
cold it was wet so you better
listen misdirecting that I can do that
and the teachers can do that you can do
that you know why not listen yeah okay
it's rainy here uh we've also got a lot
of news to cover today from the truly
bonkers times in post stories on Trump
and Russia to what is now the longest
government shutdown in American history
to the growing list of Democrats we're
running for president before we get to
that Tommy tell us about a PST dubs
what's going on there oh god anything I
wasn't ready for this okay I know we're
gonna talk thanks John this week there
have been some ongoing protests in Sudan
so we're gonna try to get the bottom of
that with an activist and then then I'm
gonna tick through the news all the
weird stuff that we you could include on
this show the fact that we pulled out we
went back in now we're pulling out again
a Syria
bill where you know it's unclear can't
be a tweet can I rhythm method for Syria
good what can you guys tell us whether
John Bolton is going to take us to war
in Iran well everything else is going on
because it's that seemed pretty sky
requesting options to strike Iran yeah
that did seem troubling I read that item
I hope I hope I hear the breath is from
Tom Ian Binns that's you know that's
interested it's a long-standing issue
and anger that a lot of people military
have of Iran providing specific type of
munitions to use by militia groups in
Iraq that can take out armored vehicles
and things so yeah we'll get into that
cool done
okay well that's in the background as
everything else is habit sorry
finally positive America love it or
leave it in positive the people are all
going on tour in 2019 as we have told
you tickets for all are available at
Kirkuk home slash events will be
announcing more tour dates and cities
for pod save America tours on Tuesday
tickets for all took Matt
care for all for taking tickets for all
so good so be sure to check out our
social media for a video with that
announcement in the meantime you can
keep watching every episode of positive
America online at youtube.com slash
crooked media all right I am going to
start with a New York Times headline for
the ages FBI opened inquiry into whether
Trump was secretly working on behalf of
Russia how's that one guys leaves a
little bit of an aftertaste in your
mouth you just let that one marinate for
a while and you're like a long way from
the New York Times in the fall of 2016
FBI sees no that is my first reaction
and maybe that says something bad about
me and the kind of way in which we're
all a bit too comfortable with the
possibility that presents a foreign
agent but uh my first thought when I saw
the headline was well I'm York Times you
certainly have come a long way better
late than never
better late than never New York Times
coming to the idea that he might have
had a connection to Russia when right
before the end of the election
any Rami yeah no III came down on the
very unsatisfying shocking but not
surprising answer which I think you're
seeing a lot of places like if we had a
time machine and we asked ourselves this
question or really any living American
in 2015 what you thought about that
headline it would be the craziest most
terrifying thing possible but today
given what we already know in terms of
what Muller's been looking into it sadly
makes sense I think in terms of like the
investigative process and procedure yeah
for example if I told you that a US
official gave the Russian ambassador
highly classified intelligence about an
Israeli operation against Isis while in
the Oval Office you'd say that's a
counterintelligence problem that that's
bad that's like I hope the president
fires that official and then you'd be
like oh no it was the president that's
right that's right and I you know I
think we'll get to this so I won't do a
long preamble like myself myself well I
think a lot of legal experts are
struggling to understand what that
report really means because we don't
have all the underlying facts but also
like really talk through the legal
ramifications
of the extra designation and then just
what it means to have the FBI treating
the president I'd say it says
counterintelligence risk yeah so it's to
say the least so what does this mean
this story right it means that Donald
Trump's firing of FBI director Jim Comey
was so concerning to the FBI that they
launched a counterintelligence
investigation so they could quote
consider whether the president's own
actions constituted a possible threat to
national security agents also sought to
determine whether mr. Trump was
knowingly working for Russia or had
unwittingly fallen under Moscow's
influence so what is a
counterintelligence investigation and
how does this story change our
understanding of Muller's broader
investigation so a counterintelligence
investigation means you're trying to
figure out if a foreign intelligence
service is conducting espionage or
clandestine intelligence collection
against us that is something that
happens all the time it's the FBI's
mission you know they have a lot of
thor's to do it what makes this so
is that it's against the president
United States you know a lot of times
you read a bad headline about Trump and
you think you feel good you're happy
that you were finally learning the truth
about this guy I read this and I thought
this is so so bad because it's bad that
the president's behavior was so
troubling that the FBI had to look into
whether he's a national security risk
it is also terrible that an unelected
law enforcement intelligence agency had
to unilaterally decide that a
president's actions might not be in the
national security interest of the United
States when those national security
interests are delegated to the president
he gets to choose what's in our
interests so it is like so novel and so
fraught but they ultimately must have
said the the the possibility that he has
beholden to Russian interests superseded
and was more of a priority than the
possibility of abuse by the FBI into
looking into these matters which there
is a very long history of going back to
Jagger Hoover yeah
yeah I mean I think one of the biggest
debates will have after Trump presumably
we're all retaining human consciousness
as a species is what powers can the
president delegate what powers can
Congress take from the president and
give to other parts of the executive
you know conservatives including now
people like Brett Kavanaugh on the
Supreme Court have often argued that all
power all presidential power flows from
article 2 it flows from the power vested
in the president via the Constitution
and that that's part of the reason why
there's this notion that the president
can fire the special counsel because
ultimately all those people get their
power from him they all are basically
executing the president's job but
obviously in this case you see both the
importance of and the dangers of what
happens when presidential authority is
delegated the other thing I would just
say is I think one of the what I was
realizing this was reading that story
and also the Washington Post story is
one of the the challenges here is we're
constantly muddling behavior and
motivation so is Donald Trump a national
security risk yes is he doing things to
undermine the nation's interest on
behalf of Russia that answer says yes it
is obvious he's been doing it for two
years he's doing it publicly he's been
doing it since the campaign he has been
doing it in Helsinki he has been doing
it through the policy actions of his
administration or the lack of actions of
his administration then there's this
question of what are his motivations and
I think there we know far less and that
to me is where you know something like
this investigation all the stories were
very clear that it was all the sourcing
and everything was it could have been
witting it could have been unwitting
right which is why and most things he
does is unwitting which is why you know
you read this story and on the one hand
it's a bombshell and the other hand you
know it it forces us to confront
something we already know we may not
fully understand Donald Trump's
motivations but we have seen his
behavior says if anything like we're
gonna open up an investigation to see
whether or not Donald Trump is a risk to
America's national security of course he
is of course I know there's also the
question of like without understanding
the underlying facts it's really hard to
tell what this means I god I listened to
I've read and listened to as many smart
people as I can on these issues like
former top tier GP top DOJ officials and
it's not clear to me what additional
authorities you get from opeing a
specific counterintelligence
investigation into Trump versus the
already opened several investigations
into collusion or obstruction or
whatever like this could be as simple as
the FBI is investigative manual requires
you to open a sub invest
into an individual but like we just
don't know right as we don't know the
fact and what we do know is I mean
remember when Rosen Stein appoint
smaller he basically appoints him with
the charge of that becomes public you
know
investigating any links between
individuals associated with the Trump
campaign right and Russia and how it
affected the 2016 campaign well Trump is
an individual associated with the Trump
campaign it's been long surmised that
Trump was included in this this is just
like you said it could be as as innocent
as of course we just have to take this
extra step and formally launched this
counterintelligence investigation the
other thing I thought that was
interesting here is what triggered it is
firing Comey right and so and I think
someone had this headline but maybe was
been witness at law fair which was like
perhaps the obstruction was part of the
collusion right like by obstructing
justice which is a criminal act which of
course the Special Counsel has charged
to investigate of the president because
the president can obstruct justice we do
know that that's on firm legal ground by
obstructing justice he was there for
aiding and abetting the conspiracy with
Russia
whatever happened right because part of
the reason he fired Comey again was
because you know of the Russia
investigation which he told us which is
what also set off a bunch of flags in
the in the FBI yeah I think there's - I
think there's - I know that to me you
can boil this down you say I'd say I
pull two things from it one we're now
we're now drawing a distinction between
the Trump campaign and Donald Trump and
now we are learning that they were
looking at Donald Trump himself that is
one thing that's important and if not
totally new at least now kind of
reported that this was now an
investigation not just into associates
around Donald Trump at Donald Trump
himself and then the second piece
Charles Charles Pearson Esquire pointed
this out which is there's this line in
the time story that says that the
connections between Donald Trump that
connections between Donald Trump and
Russia have not yet been publicly made
known right that there are perhaps and
that that Mark Warner and Adam Schiff
and and some of the Republicans who have
all been very quiet and very reticent to
comment on this story that what we may
be learning through their through their
whatever discretion is
that and what then and that the New York
Times may also know is that there is
more to come about the specific evidence
that came out of this investigation
about the ways in which Donald Trump and
Russia were working together and that we
just don't know yet well that's enough
this is an important point too because
you know obviously the FBI is not a
co-equal branch of government it's part
of an executive branch but Congress is
and so I think the first question a lot
of people had was well was Congress
briefed on this counterintelligence
investigation and senators Burr Warner
Schiff a whole bunch of people are asked
over the weekend and they all declined
to comment he declined to comment and in
that to me is likely a yes because if
they were not you would imagine that the
Republicans would be pissed right yeah
you would imagine that burr at least
burr would be out there saying something
like I can't believe this investigation
was ever conducted by Democrats would be
pursued everyone would be but we wanted
everyone wants to know this information
now notably Trump himself said he just
learned about this story in The New York
Times which is interesting because you
know that you you collect information
and intelligence arguably to run it up
to the president ultimately I mean that
that's the point of intelligence lightly
so that the whole thing is just
complicated in front yeah and Adam
Goldman who was one of the reporters who
wrote the story was interviewed about it
and he said it's my understanding having
talked to people in the FBI that if they
hadn't opened this they felt it would
have been a severe abdication of duty
right and they did wrestle with it I'm
sure whether they should do this or not
but they felt like in the end they could
not let this go in good conscience now
whether I hope you let this go I hope
you'll see fit to let this go
oh my god I mean I I just asked like how
do we begin to actually grapple with the
idea that the president United States
may be compromised by a foreign power
like I started thinking about this over
the weekend it is something so big and
so somewhat terrifying that I don't even
know how how you how you start to unpack
it I yeah I think we I think we sort of
in some ways been grappling with it for
two years I mean the the special counsel
if they find collusion that to me is
essentially a proxy for him being
compromised because if Vladimir Putin is
known since election day that he helped
Donald Trump win with the support of
Trump in his campaign they
he owns him and he could disclose that
at any time the PTO his career the
friends he made along the way and so to
the reporters you you mentioned that um
they in that interview they said that
their first response to this story was
sort of well duh obviously there's a
counterintelligence investigation but
the implications as you play them out in
your mind especially when we get to our
next topic about hiding all the notes
from conversations with Putin are
massive yeah so that brings us to the
next topic another reason to suspect
what the President may be compromised by
a foreign power was reported in The
Washington Post over the weekend it's
just kept coming
apparently Donald Trump has been hiding
details of his interactions with
Vladimir Putin from people within his
own White House going so far as to at
least once take the notes away from an
interpreter who facilitated one of his
meetings with Putin and told that person
not to talk about what happened in the
meeting with anyone else in the
administration as such no detailed
record exists of several of trumps
interactions with Putin
Tommy how unusual is it for this to
happen what usually happens when there's
a meeting between two foreign leaders I
mean normally if there's a there's a
meeting between two foreign leaders
there's a larger meeting that's six
seven eight relevant officials on either
side and then sometimes that's gets
skinny down to a tighter group of people
and maybe maybe there's a one-on-one
component to to just either only have
Rex Tillerson the Secretary of State in
the meeting or just an interpreter is
wildly unusual I mean I can think of
times during the Obama administration
when we lock down distribution of notes
from a meeting or a transcript of a call
hypothetically Obama calls Bibi
Netanyahu they're talking about an
incredibly secret details of Iran's
nuclear program look you get why that's
close hold that's also a conversation
with a friend who you can reasonably
expect to keep that close hold with in
their administration to the crazy thing
about this is hiding the notes of your
conversation with Putin from your own
team doesn't keep it a secret it just
keeps it from the United States like
Putin is gonna tell whoever the hell he
wants about the meeting I would be
shocked if the Russians weren't
recording the meeting so basically you
are just allowing Putin to dictate the
readout of that meeting to his team
publicly US
right disinformation which they're known
to do so look at your your you're
harming yourself in your Trump
can I ask you don't you think is it
possible also that after the meeting if
Putin discusses the meeting with his
team it's possible that our Intel
services yeah know what was discussed
and that was reported in this story and
has been reported previously that all
kinds of people in the administration
are trying to figure out what the hell
was discussed to include HR McMaster who
at the time was the National Security
Advisor he said he could never get a
full readout of the meeting I forget
which one from Tillerson or from anybody
else
so our Intel guys are trying to collect
on Putin's team to figure out what the
 our president said in a meeting
with Putin it is wild and now I get that
he might have been paranoid about leaks
because at one point that transcript of
the call with the Canadians and the
Australians got out but like this is a
serious overreach this also goes but
this like this goes to this sorry make
your point
I just can you imagine any scenario
where Barack Obama would have a meeting
or a conversation with the foreign
leader and would refuse to read out what
he said to Denis McDonough Tom Donnell
and Susan Rice no no no person not no no
especially not someone who's an
adversary okay the prime minister of the
UK says I have a horrible degenerative
disease and I'm only telling you maybe
you don't tell your team you know like a
two-hour meeting with Vladimir Putin
that's crazy
so this all to me goes this is similar
connects back to the first story to
which is ultimately what comes out of
that meeting is a set of actions right
like what they say to each other in
private goes to goes to what Donald
Trump will do as a policy maker as pres
United States and what Vladimir Putin
will do as the leader of Russia so I
guess there's things that could come out
of that where where we will discover
after the fact that Putin takes an
action and Donald Trump fails to respond
or responds in some inordinate way and
from there we learned perhaps that's
what they discussed in the meeting he
gave him permission to do something he
he agreed he wouldn't care about some
issue in Ukraine or in
Syria or what have you but ultimately
what has to come out of these meetings
is policy is decisions and those
decisions are not implemented by Donald
Trump he's never I mean pret there have
been presidents that are hands on this
is not one of them no there's not a
president who is calling up to dictate
the movements of his administration it's
activated through his own people who
they don't know what happened in that
meeting so similar to the problem with
this New York Times not the problem but
similar to the similar to this sort of
this dichotomy between the York Times
story and this Washington Post story is
a lot of what we are coming to
understand is we don't understand Donald
Trump's motivations his motivations are
hidden from us and very well meet
benefit nefarious and ultimately maybe
part of the greatest scandal in modern
global political history we don't know
that but what we do know are his
behaviors right his behaviors are deeply
troubling and that is public and that
has been true the whole time so on the
we have this strange situation in which
we may be in the midst of an of
uncovering one of the greatest scandals
we've ever seen and it actually won't
lead us to a conclusion very different
from the one we've already drawn well as
you say like we don't know all the facts
yet but we know even more than his
Justice behavior is right I mean one
example that a lot of people were
pointing out after the story was
remember the White House learns that the
New York Times is about to run a story
that there is a meeting and Trump Tower
between Don jr.
Jerrod Paul Manafort and this Russian
lawyer and they asked them for comment
and that night there's a dinner where
Trump is with Putin and he's already had
a meeting during the day that's where he
had the meeting with Tillerson and the
translators at the dinner he grabs Putin
and it's just the two of them in Putin's
interpreter and Putin's interpreter
right sorry who's a KGB or whatever SVR
agent I can tell it's the two of them
and in Putin's interpreter and they talk
about adoptions which is also about
sanction anxious and we know that
because later in an interview with the
New York Times in the Oval Trump's just
blabbing on and on and tell Maggie that
he talked to Hiten about adoptions and
then we know that when they got back to
the New York Times Donald Trump himself
dictated the statement that was a lie to
the New York Times that at the Trump
Tower meeting
Don junior and the rest of them were in
the Russian lawyer were only
talking about adoptions sanctions policy
yeah so and we also know that Muller has
been looking into specifically the fact
that Donald Trump dictated the statement
that was a lie
and everyone's like well the president
can lie that's not a crime but you've
clearly Moeller one of the reasons of
always looking into it is because of the
 Putin thing the night before
yeah I just want to raise one other
instance which was there was a recent
cabinet meeting where Trump said that
Russia was in Afghanistan because
terrorists were going into Russia and
and he said they were right to be there
now that is wildly factually wrong the
Russians were in Afghanistan as part of
their pro communism called war strategy
they basically went in deposed a leader
they thought was to Western installed a
guy they liked better by the way we were
fighting against them we were arming
proxy forces in Afghanistan there's no
evidence though that terrorism was the
motivation for Russia to go into
Afghanistan so so it's not surprising
that Trump was totally wrong about
something not at all but in this
instance you have to wonder where the
hell did he learn this from right
because his neocon national security
team like John Bolton's not peddling
this Russian propaganda Pompeyo maddest
a chart mcmaster they are not either so
this had to come from the Russians this
this was like came directly from Putin
and he is believing and regurgitating
Russian propaganda which makes what
happened in these meetings all the more
combative
yeah it's it's um it's very rare look
we've been debating the the domino
theory and whether what the u.s. posture
should be towards like Soviet expansion
for a long time but it's very it's the
first time I believe that an American
president has said the domino theory is
real and the question is which of
Democrats in Congress do about this
House Intelligence chair Adam Schiff has
said he wants the notes or testimony
from the interpreter Republican
politicians of course dismissed the
whole story is trivial Kevin McCarthy
 Kevin when I counted Kevin Mike
Kevin already trying to outdo Paul Ryan
Kevin Bacardi said said I'm sorry come
across he said it was about Trump
wanting to build a personal relationship
with Putin yeah that happens all the
time Kevin so what do we think about
this now other Republicans or other
people have said look you can't start so
painting you know or
you can't grab nodes and testimony like
that because then presidents in the
future will feel like they can't have
private conversations with foreign
leaders this is very similar to the
debate that happened after the
transcripts of Trump's conversations
with the Mexican Mexican president in
the australian prime minister leaked and
they said look at this this is a
disaster this is extraordinary
presidents are gonna be able to trust
their team that I can be able to trust
their conversations will be held private
that's a very important concern however
you have it that concern is only valid
if you don't believe Donald Trump is
unique and deserves unique scrutiny and
and unique transparency it is obviously
the case that he deserves that now if in
the future a future president has to
worry that he won't be able to have
conversations with an interpreter
because that interpreter could one day
be dragged in front of Congress that's a
problem we'll have in the future but
right now we're looking at the situation
which he has tried to conceal
information from his own government
there are legitimate questions raised
about the president's loyalty to the
United States there's plenty of evidence
to support the fact that it's at least a
worthy a worthy investigation and so
yeah there's a very valid concern there
it is trumped by the concern that Donald
Trump is a disloyal person who deserves
to be investigated fully so yeah we want
we I want presidents have whatever
executive privilege I want presidents to
be able to have private conversations
they need to be able to have debates
amongst their team and be honest and all
that is very true and very important but
some things supersede it and this is a
case where we have a national interest
that supersedes it I mean it's almost
easier than that in this instance though
because then Trump went on judge Jeanine
show on Saturday night he called into it
and he said I couldn't care less good if
my conversation with Putin becomes
public the same way he said he wanted to
talk to robert muller right but he's
just he's just laughing this is part of
Muller's
work mother's going after to sup you
know there's a story the last week that
Muller is looking at his public
statements as evidence of obstruction
like at some point the public statements
and the tweets catch up with them like
yeah because okay if your president says
if you don't care the conversations come
out then let the conversations come up
then you obviously don't have a problem
and if you do have a problem then tell
us why you have a problem right so wild
to just snatch the notes out of your
interpreters hands and run away with
them the other thing besides the
interpreter though is
why isn't anyone talking about is
calling rats Rex Tillerson to testify he
was in the meeting yeah Rex should be
somewhere the people are looking on the
interpreter and not just one Rex - well
I think you were more more concerned
about the Rex --less meetings answer
there they can't he's um he's in a
Jacuzzi filled with pure Texas crews
that was quite the interview with George
and Nina in Saturday night so tell me I
know you were watching it - we were both
yeah respective he also used the
occasion of that interview to threaten
Michael Cohen's father-in-law yes he did
he said there's gonna be some some big
stories coming out about him and she's
and then he goes what's his name he goes
I don't know which earned him a warning
from congressional Democrats that it's
against the law to intimidate witnesses
she just tries to tee up softballs
to him and instead of swinging at them
he catches them and throws the matter
like he gets increasingly angry
throughout the interview when she's
trying to provide him the easiest for
impossible to deny these Chargers which
he just doesn't do like I'm not making
too much of the fact that he didn't deny
being a Russian asset because he lies
about everything like oh very
interesting the president refused to say
the word no he lies he would heal eyes
all the time he does this morning they
sent him out to say no because everybody
was saying he didn't actually say no who
gives a okay anyway yeah okay so
our potentially compromised president
has also now set the record for the
longest government shutdown in history
Congrats federal workers have now
started missing paychecks more people
are filing for unemployment food banks
are reporting a growing need NBC ran a
heartbreaking story over the weekend
about one woman who's been forced to
ration her insulin
meanwhile polls over the weekend from
CNN as well as the Washington Post and
ABC show that most of the country is not
confused at all about whose fault this
is 53 percent blame Trump and the
Republicans
9% blame Democrats and only 13% say both
sides are to blame they're all they're
all pundits in green Republican sides
about 13% in the CNN poll Trump's
approval is only at 37% with 57%
disapproving the disapproval number has
risen five points in one month and only
around 40% of the public is for the wall
in the first place Washington Post poll
was 40 to 339 in CNN meanwhile 50% of
Americans now call the shutdown very
serious up from 29% at the start guys
usually the polling is what helps end
these things in the past that's been
true why are Trump and the Republicans
seemingly immune to these numbers or I
guess do we have to just wait and see we
have to wait and see I don't believe
that they're immune to these numbers I
think acting is if you're immune to
these numbers is what you do right
before you cave it's always the way you
know the shutdowns are always gonna last
forever right before they end so I don't
think we know I mean I think we talked
about it a lot there is a
anti-democratic streak inside of the
Republican Party we see it all the time
this is a manifestation of it I mean
we're talking about a president who
didn't receive the popular vote being
backed by a Congress that did not
receive a majority of support for a
project that doesn't have majority
support so you know I don't think we
know the answer to that but I think
we're seeing the kind of polling that
usually leads the side being held
responsible for the shutdown to find a
way to cave even Lindsey Graham's
proposals to compromise as a way to cave
I mean they're all looking for a way out
of this momentum Yael Graham saying like
let's let's just you know open the
government pull the plug on this and in
declare a state of emergency like they
want this to be over but I think the
thing is freaking people out is Trump's
allies told POLITICO that he might keep
the government open even after I'm sorry
Trump's allies told POLITICO that he
might keep the government closed even
after an emergency declaration getting
his border money because he's so worried
about the Democrats getting a win there
is this there's this overtone in the
coverage that's like is Donald Trump
ready for perpetual political war and I
think that ignores the fact that that's
all he knows like he thrives on it yeah
because it drives a new cycle it fires
up his base it gets him covered and so
he doesn't care and like Peter Bay
made the point today that that what is
at stake in this fight is 5.7 billion
dollars which is roughly 1/8 of 1% of
the total federal budget so in a normal
world like there's a middle ground there
that you could figure out if that little
amount of money leads to the longest
shutdown ever we could be in for some
much bigger fights which is why I think
Democrats are think if they cave on this
they're gonna shut down they're gonna
have government shutdowns to deal with
in perpetuity
yeah what struck me about some of the
comments over the weekend was he is
shooting down Trump is shooting down
compromises even from his aides his
closest allies that Lindsey you know
Lindsey Graham's proposal which is so
 ridiculous it was like let's
open up the government for three weeks
and then at the end if we haven't
negotiated then you can do as national
emergency and brian schatz point out
three weeks brings us to February 8th
which is what the original yes CR that
they voted a hundred to nothing for was
back in February also but national
emergencies if it's a true national
emergency which will of course be
challenged in court it can't be based
around the congressional schedule and
when negotiations run out that's not how
that's not how emergencies work and that
will ultimately mean it doesn't actually
go anywhere yeah that's not the courts
not gonna enjoy that argument very much
so he shuts down Graham's proposal
apparently you know he was in a meeting
with congressional leaders with you know
Chuck and Nancy and the rest of the crew
and Mick Mulvaney his new chief of staff
was in there and Mulvaney was like well
maybe we can go below 5.7 and we can go
to somebody and he just starts yelling
at Mick Mulvaney so you just it
up maybe it up Mick I got him
right where they want him is is it this
is the art of the deal and Mick Mulvaney
coming in here up my whole thing
first you shut down the government
without a plan okay then you get real
unpopular alright then you call Jeanine
Pirro
right before the final act make moving
 it up I want to read a little
anecdote that I guess in the meetings
Trump is just all over the place he's
doing his normal stream-of-consciousness
diatribe that you would see at any event
any TV interview so I guess in one
meeting with Pelosi and Schumer he
started trashing the Iran nuclear deal
and he told Democrats that they should
give him money for the wall because they
gave Barack Obama money for the
agreement with Tehran like he is
so confused on the facts that of course
this thing is stuck in place is very
unwitting there yeah but in common do
you know but so I don't I guess all this
I'm sorry I guess thinking about all
this what I don't understand is I don't
get how we get out of this now because
last week I thought to myself oh he's
building towards this emergency
declaration any to and it's awful and
authoritarian horrible but like you know
it's a face-saving measure and at least
well got out of it in the government
will open but he's shooting down every
single compromise he went out today and
said I don't think I'm gonna do the
emergency declaration and so I don't
know how we get out of this but it's
it's very serious right now like I think
it's him it's gone so far beyond like
Trump's tantrum and political games like
you read these stories and like people
are hurting they can't afford like basic
necessities there's people jobs it's
gonna start affecting the larger economy
like I don't know what the to do
here yeah I mean this it seemed I think
it's time for like mass protests here I
mean yeah we're gonna its I think
protests may be one of the things we're
gonna all end up having to do to get out
of it it's also you know we talked about
this before that there was there was
often during the Obama administration
these two potential crises one was a
government shutdown and one was default
yeah and and a shutdown is is very bad
but ultimately not as destructive as
default but if a government shutdown is
allowed to go on and on and on it has a
lot of like the longer it goes the more
it becomes a true national crisis a true
national emergency not only for the
millions of people not only for the
federal workers affected by the millions
of people who rely on food stamps and
other things and also the businesses
that rely on those checks the ripple
effects start getting bigger and bigger
and bigger the other piece of this which
is just an unspoken and accepted fact is
that Donald Trump doesn't care about the
people affected you know in any other
shutdown you could count on the fact
that everyone at that table they may be
craven and political and ideological but
there's some portion on both sides that
has genuine empathy and does not want to
be a party to hurting people for no
reason
but Donald Trump doesn't care he doesn't
have that muscle he doesn't have that
empathy and so
one of the things that would help end
this shutdown we just don't have ya know
what has to what has to happen is
because Donald Trump's an who
will only budge when you know Fox and
Friends and Ann Coulter and the people
on Fox
tell him to which they won't because you
know there's not a lot of souls there
either and now and they don't they're
not on food stamps they don't know
anybody know they're rich Sean
Hannity and Ann Coulter or rich
and they don't give a about people
okay
but the in the Senate these moderate
Republicans or you know we've already
had Collins Markowski Gardner because
you know Gardner and Collins are up and
up in 2020 more moderate Republicans
have to or some Republicans or Senate
Republicans know whether they're
moderate or not they just have to be
scared of losing right they have to go
to McConnell and tell him go to Trump
and end this because Mitch McConnell
could end this today today Mitch
McConnell if you put a funding bill on
the floor in the Senate it would pass me
if not a hundred to nothing like the
last one did by probably a veto-proof
majority Mitchell McConnell could end
this two-day an override Trump's veto
and then Kevin McCarthy would be like 15
20 30 whatever votes you need or
Republicans in the house they passed the
bill and this thing would be over
tomorrow the problem is the idiots like
Lindsey Graham is on TV saying that if
we don't get trumps back on this that's
the end of his presidency as we know it
so Dave just like set the stakes we've
all told them solidly in the corner
they've let him just take them off a
cliff and they knew damn well he had no
plan there's there stories about them
all trying to talk him out of this
shutdown but he just went through with
it again you know you go back to the
cause of all of this the Republicans
already voted to open the government and
then Donald Trump pitched a fit that is
the order of operations you know there
are other ways this could end right you
can it can go out with a whimper you can
see bills opening up parts of the
government starting to pass that starts
to crack the Republican intransigence
maybe Donald Trump vetoes one we don't
know maybe he sends it back maybe he
doesn't that I think we don't fully know
but I think the position Democrats have
Tate has have taken the position
Democrats has taken continues to be the
right one we cannot give you can't give
in to this kind of you can't give in to
the policy
you also can't give in to this kind of
governance
when there's so much on the line and
there's so many fights of real
consequence to come there's just no
option for Democrats other than to
continue to put pressure not only on
Trump but on Senate Republicans there's
there's no other way out of this for us
I think people out there you know you
have to keep calling your members of
Congress and you know I know that there
have been some you know protests already
but I do think this has to command
national attention these stories of
people hurting have to command national
attention and I think you know this week
as this drags on and people are starting
to feel the effect of not getting a
paycheck it's time for people to really
take action you know and like look
people have take week this has happened
in the trump presidency like around the
travel ban the women's March at the
March for our lives like I think we need
to treat a bunch of people who don't
make a ton of money and really kind of
these paychecks and hurting and what
that's going to do to themselves and
their families as seriously as we take
we've taken all of these other
emergencies in the Trump presidency
yeah it's funny it's just tying all this
together to it's like here we are you
know all of us who warned and we're
worried about what a trump presidency
would mean we are now over two years in
the government is shut down for
basically no reason whatsoever because
of a fit by a narcissist stupidest and
the longest shutdown longest shutdown in
history there are you know the the
positions of technically White House
chief of staff Secretary of Defense
these are open positions which with no
hopes of being lobbyists running the
Kevin mob and lobbyists running the
cabinet most of them under Muslim hadn't
been a point mostly have been confirmed
no Attorney General president under
multiple investigations we've seen
rolling back of environmental
protections we've seen business allowed
to kind of run roughshod over
regulations throughout the government
this is this is what we feared we are in
it we are in we are in the version of
the Trump presidency that we feared
right now and one of the things we've
said from the very beginning is we just
didn't know how bad it would get and the
truth is we still don't we don't know
how long the shutdown will go because we
don't have a true president yeah all
right
let's talk about 2020 since that's the
hope here that's the next hope since
there was a bunch of news on that front
over the last few days
former San Antonio mayor in you
housing secretary Julian Castro formally
announced his presidential campaign over
the weekend from his home town in Texas
he said he wants to run on a platform
advocating for universal pre-k
medicare-for-all a green New Deal a
higher minimum wage and comprehensive
immigration reform
Castro who's mexican-american is one of
the highest profile Latinos to ever seek
his party's nomination his first
campaign stop will be in Puerto Rico
where he'll meet with survivors of
Hurricane Maria then he's scheduled to
go to New Hampshire love it you spoke to
Castro a few weeks ago what were your
impressions my honest impression is uh
you know I'm looking for a reason why
this person who has never run even for
statewide office decided to run for
president for why he has gotten in the
race when we then there when there are
so many other Democrats and honestly I
still don't know why I don't understand
the justification you know he's put he's
saying the right things he's putting
forward the right policies but when you
ask for like a genuine reason for why
this person is running for president
why'd take this great risk when clearly
he's a longshot when clearly he's
lesser-known when clearly has a
reputation for being boring and you
asked for a reason why you're in this
race I don't think anyone has heard one
yet and I think we should just all be
honest about that because this is the
most important presidential election
since the last one and there's so much
on the line and I want to know that
people are getting in the race because
they think that that because they think
it's so important and they're the person
that should win rather than a lot of
people who are gonna look at it as an
opportunity to raise their profile even
though they don't have a chance would
you think Tom I think you know the
resume on paper like Stanford Harvard
law and they are the seventh largest
city in the nation Secretary of HUD like
it's good on paper the platform you
talked about as a lot of like sort of
barrier to entry I'd say progressive
policies you know I mean universal pre-k
is not something we've talked about a
lot on the show but only 55 percent of
American three to four year-olds
attended preschool so that's a big
important thing I think it's interesting
that his first trip is to Puerto Rico I
think that's distinctive and interesting
and I'm with love it like I think for a
lot of candidates in a crowded field
you're looking for how to distinguish
yourself like jay Inslee came out and
said that he'd be running as a climate
change candidate right I think that's
interesting and distinctive I think
Castro was a little more work to do on
that front but you know it's super super
early so he's got time but yeah you got
a you
it's it's going to be harder than ever
to make news that you want to make this
cycle yeah it made me think you know
listening to his speech you know when
when Elizabeth Warren announced one
point we made was that she doesn't just
have a list of very bold progressive
policies she has a story that weaves
those policies together you know she has
a reason for running right and she has a
story she's a theory of the case that
there are you know corporations have
been screwing the middle class they've
been rigging the game and what we need
to do is sort of unrig the game with
rules of the road and you know this is
what she's been doing her whole life and
it sort of all connects
and so in a 20-person field when you
hear the name elizabeth war and you
think oh yeah i know what her story is I
know why she's running and I think
Castro is interesting because you're
right he has this list of very bold
progressive policies and I'm starting to
think that in this race in 2020 in the
primary there's not going to be a ton of
difference for a lot of these candidates
about the policies that they proposed
they're all going to be bold progressive
policies which by the way is great news
and credit to a lot of the you know
left-leaning folks in the party for
pushing the party to embrace things like
Medicare for all them green New Deal
whether it's you know AOC or or or
Barney in 2016 or on some of these
issues Hillary's platforms when whoever
it may be right so it's good that we're
all going to be there I think what ends
up distinguishing you is your theory of
the case either about why you chose
these policies what's your priority
among these policies and your theory of
politics and what's wrong with the
country at this given moment and when I
listen to Castro speech it did seem very
like I'm running here's my bio here's
where I grew up and here's a bunch of
stories I mean I'm sorry and here's a
bunch of policies and they're important
to me and Donald Trump is bad and so
they're there it is and it's like you
should sort of want a little more that's
it's a little too cautious a little too
checklist II you know and I think look
he one of the reasons that pre-k he
talked about pre-k is when he was mayor
of San Antonio he instituted universal
pre-k there and
if that's an issue he's passed and
passionate about and that is where he
has this long record then you know go
around the country making that a huge
issue and make it a big deal and talk
about it all the time like talk about
what you really believe in what you've
done in your life because that gives you
you know that gives you more of a leg to
stand on when you're in a field of 20
people and it will help distinguish you
right I also think that like there's
there's what will help these candidates
politically right and I think that's
absolutely absolutely true you know you
look at someone like Elizabeth Warren
and you say well this is a person who
has been advocating for these positions
for a very long time the announcement
video and the position she took in that
announcement and the way she talked
about policy and politics is how she's
been speaking for better part of 20
years if not longer long before it was
the mainstream position of Democrats
also she has a record on those issues
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
exists because of her she's made the
right enemies she has been doing this
for a long time and so when someone like
Julian Castro steps up and says I have
these same views largely you know I take
these same policy positions you have to
ask well first of all in a field in
which we're gonna see a lot of people
who have lived those values and done it
at a national level and done it for a
long time I you know both at a political
level just to break through in this
primary but also to me as a person
hoping to find a candidate who I think
will actually pursue those things when
they win that long record of actually
having done it is really important not
because it'll help you win a debate but
because we actually need someone to do
those things because one lesson of the
last ten years is maybe our failure to
be bold enough once we were elected
opens the doors to villains like Trump
Olivia let me push you on one point
there because we've also talked about
how exciting in 2018 better O'Rourke
Stacey Abrams Andrew Gilliam all were
and the three of them didn't have very
very long records um Stacey Aaron's
probably had more than anyone could
she's Minori leader in the in the
Georgia Legislature but there was
something else about those three
candidates that were exciting and you
know you could see them as all three of
them as national candidates and yet I
think we'd all say that they are
different than who Leanne Castro and
maybe we'd be excited about those three
running more than Castro so on that case
it doesn't seem to be like a long record
well
I think it's also I think in an era in
which we are constantly confronted by
very tested messages that understand
what people in the base want and what
can help you and we look for evidence
that a people have done things that were
risky mm-hmm that took chances also that
demonstrates not authenticity but like
actual zeal and integrity and passion
and you look at the kind of campaign
Stacey Abrams around you look at the
account of campaign Andrew Gilliam
around you look at the campaign that
better work on and you see that in there
you see someone who is willing to say
things that might not help them that may
even cost them votes because it's what
they believe and if the kind of person
they are and we need more of that yeah
and it's important point the other
Democrat who jumped into the
presidential contest this week was Tulsi
Gabbard a congresswoman from Hawaii who
announced her intentions in an interview
on CNN with Van Jones she said a formal
announcement would be coming shortly and
shared that criminal justice reform
climate change in health care would be
among her priorities as a candidate
Gabbard an Iraq war veteran who was also
the first Hindu and American Samoan
elected to Congress has excited and
alarmed both Democrats and Republicans
during her time in politics she made
news in 2016 when she resigned a
position at the DNC and supported Bernie
Sanders for president she made even
bigger news when she traveled to Syria
and met with President Bashar al-assad
in question whether he was responsible
for a chemical attack on civilians he
was
she's also twice called the LGBTQ
community add-in supporters of same-sex
marriage quote homosexual extremists
which she says she now regrets along
with the anti marriage position she took
back then guys well what to make of
Tulsi Gabbard here I don't know I mean I
think a lot of people ask that question
I mean it's like she was she was elected
to the Hawaii State Legislature at like
21 22 and she left that seat to go serve
in Iraq which is obviously very
admirable and impressive and not a lot
of politicians make that kind of
sacrifice so good side of the ledger the
Assad meeting the questioning of
chemical weapons use that is baffling to
me I think she worked for her father's
anti LGBT organization which was trying
to pass measures against same-sex
marriage in Hawaii in promoting really
awful things like conversion therapy
yeah
and so I don't want to make excuses for
her but maybe like the family element of
this is weird but still I mean that is a
non-starter for a Democrat yes sir it's
not like in 2004 you were against
same-sex marriages plenty of Democrats
were there but like homosexual extremist
gave you everything therapy like biggity
even if you've evolved that's quite a
thing to evolve from well yes and also
you know one of her explanations is like
you know she she saw what theocracy is
what she said she saw what theocracy
could look like in the Middle East and
it changed her views on what the
government should do which leaves open
both to her having still personal views
on gay issues that are Anathem at a
democratic voters but the question I
would have there is what were you not
able to see about the humanity of gay
people before that right like why is it
that you had to go halfway around the
world only to come home to discover that
gay people were people that deserve the
same rights that you have I don't
understand it I think you know I find
myself thinking like is this here's
somebody who has who is willing to take
let's call them hetero hetero Doc's
positions inside of the Democratic Party
and maybe we're also accustomed to
unified Democratic kind of consensus
that it's hard to really break someone
like this down ideologically but then I
think you know what I don't so much care
you know I don't need to understand the
the overall philosophy of a person who's
taken positions that I find so important
yeah also Steve bannon's a fan set up a
meeting with her and Trump right after
the election to see if she maybe would
take a job in the administration which
of course she didn't she's been very
critical of Trump ever since but we're
weird one young weird stuff here crowded
field not sure if we need to pick these
apart since we have like you know
20-something other kids my only concern
is I know and there's a that in the
first few debate debates they may roll
that does day they may roll the dice to
see who's on stage and I'm just like I'm
just a little bit worried about some of
those dice rolls
you know like who's on stage with you
here what am i dealing with how am I
gonna figure this out a quick thing here
you know one person who's not running
Tom Steyer the billionaire and Peterman
ad guy announced last week he would not
be running for president went to Iowa to
announce it that he instead intends to
spend millions of dollars on impeachment
efforts this year you know I guess I
guess
good for him for not running we had
often said you know is he spending all
this money to get himself on TV to
advance a presidential campaign it turns
out he was not so that's good and again
and we've also said this Tom Snyder's
organization nextgen has spent a lot of
money on the ground organizing in 2018
they were very helpful they did a lot of
good work so that part's great you know
I think the whole impeachment campaign
is still a bit baffling to me so I have
to say I when I saw that he wasn't
running like it did allow like it did
just sort of allow me to recharacterize
Tom Steyer because I think my concern
through the last two years was hear
somebody using a erogenous an erogenous
zone of democratic voters which is
impeachment to kind of get his name
recognition out there and get people to
be part of his organization which is
genuinely doing a good work so a double
edged sword from the beginning but now
that he's someone who is not running
right maybe he's thinking running in the
future who knows but that to me does a
lot to alleviate my concerns that he's
just doing it for himself and then then
it becomes just a debate about how to
argue for impeachment and the one thing
I would say is the situation is very
different now than it was two years ago
we now have the house and so I think
there's a far more legitimate argument
to be made for having an organization
out there that is focused on building a
case for impeach but I'm not totally
sold on it but the fact that he's now
not just doing it to raise his own name
profile and has done this great
organizing I think is really good and
you know that's my nuanced position on
Tom Steyer I just want to know what the
impeachment effort looks like going
forward because if it's 40 million
dollars of ads that is a not a good use
of money it's a terrible waste of money
if it's organizing in Florida Ohio
Wisconsin like that is a great use of
money and I know that stuff he's already
doing like they've done incredible work
getting young people registered and
involved and motivated if they continue
to put money and said that kind of work
like god bless you thank you
if it's just TV ads I think that that's
lighting the money oh yeah
again my big issue here is impeachment
is an issue right now and in the coming
months when Muller finally finishes his
work here
impeachment all those T's and down those
eyes mark the impeachment will not be an
issue in 2020 because the issue in 2020
is already replacing the president
all these Democrat you never say write
all these Democrats are running to
replace the president right so a bunch
of ads talking about impeachment as
there's a bunch of Democrats running to
replace the president doesn't make a ton
of sense yeah you know what though I
agree with you I agree with you and then
yet I see what Tom Steyer says and it's
in arguable he's like this person is a
threat yeah he is dangerous
he's impeachable everything must remove
them as soon as possible right so it's
like it's you know III am sympathetic if
there are soft lawmakers who are you
know Republicans who we think we can
peel off and get them to vote for
impeachment you dump five million
dollars of ads in their state yeah
okay interesting I get that let's talk
about it totally all right finally this
isn't about the presidential campaign
but one Republican congressman will have
a primary challenger in 2020 and that's
a vowed white nationalist Steve King who
last week said the following in an
interview with The New York Times quote
white nationalist white supremacist
Western civilization how did that
language become offensive how indeed
guys how indeed he is the worst person
on the planet thank God Republicans are
finally going to strip him of his
committees or maybe censure him or
hopefully possibly but like this guy and
his disgusting hateful views have been
hiding in plain sight for years and
years and years and you know there was a
what pickup here what was the MF M FA
that Media Matters stat it was versus
never mind and you know there was a
Media Matters did a study of how much
coverage Rasheeda two leaves use of the
word impeach the
words P got on cable news
verses Steve King saying white
nationalist white supremacist word
comments and it was like five to one in
favor of to leave so it's something that
doesn't get the coverage because I guess
maybe it makes a bunch of reporters in
Washington uncomfortable calling someone
a racist but he's a vile racist and he
has no place in Congress it's also
there's a you know maybe a senator
saying a member of Congress
saying is more newsworthy
than a Republican being racist just
because they're not exactly news the I
was the other thing about this is all
these Republicans turning on Steve King
this week it just like reminded me of
the line from Casablanca which is
shocked shocked to find gambling in this
casino like guys where you been he's
he's retweeted Nazis
both eyes errs he retweeted some Dutch
nationalists saying our civilization
can't be restored with other people's
babies he's met with far-right groups
with ties to Nazis in the past like well
you know I'm glad that Republicans are
finally speaking out like where were
they this whole time it is amazing to me
by the way for all the the Paul Ryan
legacy defenders out there Kevin
McCarthy is the one who said action will
be taken against Steve King when Paul
Ryan refused to ever take that action
and a lot of Paul Ryan's finished it oh
well you know he he's done everything in
he spoke out no no you're gonna say that
Kevin McCarthy is gonna be better Kevin
cars kept Kevin McCarthy cracked the
code he's the one who unlocked this
 enigma box you couldn't figure
out how to criticize Steve King and
Kevin McCarthy boundless cowardice Paul
Ryan Donald Trump said he hasn't seen
the comments hopefully hopefully Steve
King goes down loses committee
assignments and and this you know and
hopefully look primary yeah well he's
got a challenger hopefully this guy sky
we'll take him down here so all right
when we come back we will hear Lovitz
interviews with teachers who are
striking here in LA it was actually
we had some very interesting
conversation so check it out great
you
