Janina on Facebook can you spend some
time talking about the various
healthcare policies in the mix for the
2020 primary alright I'll I'll try to
start and you interrupt me if I've
 something up so let's start with
the public option and there's various
different types of public options or
they're called buy-ins they've been
proposed by a lot of people in Congress
they've been proposed by some of the
presidential candidates basically what
would happen then is on the exchange
which is the Affordable Care Act
exchange where you'd buy other health
insurance plans that are private there
would be one option that would be a
government-run plan and you could buy an
insurance plan based off the government
plan you would still play still pay some
sort of premium some sort of co-pays I'm
sort of deductible it would cover a
certain number of services that the
government says that it has to cover
much like the Affordable Care Act has to
cover now and that would be that it
would be affordable it would probably be
more affordable than all of the other
private insurance plans and the hope is
that because the public option would be
more affordable and more efficient more
people would join that public option and
it would force the private insurance
plans that are also on the market to be
better to be cheaper to be more
efficient because they're now competing
with a government plan that is pretty
cheap and efficient so that's the idea
for buying public option then you go up
to Medicare for America Medicare for
America and this was a bill introduced
by jan Schakowsky and rosa DeLauro in
the house this size this starts to look
a lot more like Medicare for all but
it's not quite there yet
what Medicare for America says is
everyone who's currently uninsured in
the country would automatically enroll
in Medicare they would be enrolled in a
Medicare program everyone who is
currently buying health insurance on the
affordable care act marketplaces on the
exchanges would automatically be
enrolled in Medicare in a Medicare plan
every newborn would automatically be
enrolled in a Medicare plan and the
reason that is is because ultimately
this is basically a long long transition
period into full Medicare because and
that's why we're having newborns in it
basically though private insurance some
private insurance would still remain so
if you're an employer you have a choice
you can either continue with your
private insurance plan for your
employees or you can decide I'm going to
enroll the whole company in Medicare as
well so employers have that choice if
you are an employee and you have private
insurance with your employer you can
decide either I like my employers
private insurance plan or I kind of like
that Medicare Plan that everyone else is
getting into so you can decide as an
employee to enroll in Medicare this
Medicare program would cover a whole
suite of services it would you would
still pay some premiums but it would be
a sliding scale so lower-income people
would pay nothing no co-pays no
deductibles no out-of-pocket and higher
income people would pay up to the
highest income people would pay up to
ten percent of their income in premiums
and I think it's like five thousand out
of pocket some lower deductible
basically much cheaper than it is now
much more affordable than it is now and
it would be financed I think on a like
repealing the Trump tax cuts something
like a five percent income tax on people
making $500,000 or more and a suite of
other sort of high end taxes to pay for
it but it is it comes with a fully
financed plan
so that's Medicare for America then you
have Medicare for all in Medicare for
all what happens is the private
insurance market is eliminated there is
some insurance private insurance that
you can buy for like cosmetic stuff but
that's about it you can't get your
primary care doctor from private
insurance it's all one government plan
now one thing people don't often think
about is you do get to keep your doctor
because every doctor in the country is
now under Medicare for all and so
everyone is in the same network everyone
is under the same plan there are no
premiums no deductibles no co-payments
yeah Medicare would expand to cover
dental vision prescription drugs so
Medicare covers everything so this is
like the full suite of everything you've
got the challenge of this plan is the
financing because basically Medicare
would pay
Medicare reimbursement rates to every
doctor every health care provider every
hospital in the entire country and they
are used to getting paid a lot more
right now from private insurance
companies and so it would be a you know
difficult transition for hospitals
doctors everyone else to figure out how
to adjust to those new rates and people
who put out Medicare for all plans don't
necessarily have a financing plan Bernie
Sanders released sort of a suite of
possibilities with various tax increases
on wealthy people but most expert look
at looks look at this and say you
probably gonna have to raise taxes even
on middle-class folks now what Bernie
would say is yes there might be a tax
increase but you're also not paying
healthcare premiums or co-pays or
deductibles anymore so in the end it
probably washes out
you
