an intrepid reporter had asked many of
the Democratic candidates for what their
comfort food has here are some of the
answers Cory Booker's comfort food was
veggies what are you talking about no it
isn't no it isn't it's not and you know
what yeah you're vegan and you like like
all the great vegans you make us aware
of it
I live in Los Angeles all right there's
plenty of vegan comfort food in the city
there's vegan macaroni and cheese
there's vegan meatloaf they make
anything vegan now it is 2019 we can we
can wield gods of creation into unholy
unholy food items meat made of cashews
it's possible Tulsi Gabbard said vegan
cupcakes I'm gonna say acceptable better
or work any kind of fast-food acceptable
good answer I would have liked a more
specificity but you know what we'd
better were we're working our way up
Steve Bullock who was denied a place in
the debate he said a good hamburger I'll
count it Seth Moulton a burger great
answer John Delaney
grilled the chicken sandwich for
McDonald's no sauce
but now grilled not fried but he said
this two of them and you know what I
respect that
I respect that because because any true
McDonald's connoisseur knows you get a
meal and one little thing Amy Klobuchar
said a baked potato which as many noted
online you can throw at people Michael
Bennett said an Italian sausage sandwich
at passkey and Pueblo Colorado I'll take
it bill de blasio pulled pork I'll take
it Andrew yang kind bars you
kind bars are the veggies of the bar
community John Hickenlooper said little
bowls of M&Ms or mints like so way to go
loop you got the weirdest answer
little bowls like what a window into
another world like how did you make this
answer sound so rich jay inslee
said it was Eminem's but I taken an oath
now to lay off the Emma men's M&Ms to
maintain belt security uncle Jay Bernie
Sanders said last time out we did a trip
to the west coast and I gained three
pounds in four days so it's too much
comfort food you know what it's not an
answer but it's charming Marianne
Williamson said I have no comfort food
fucking-a + answer she's like you
 Earthlings and your and your and
your unab inability to manage your human
emotions Pete Buddha judge said beef
jerky come on Pete beef jerky is not
comfort food it's not it's like the
opposite of comfort food it's what you
eat on a horse comfort food is what you
have when you get back from the week of
being on the horse eating beef jerky
it's the stew and the bowl at the ranch
to weed to weave a tale about it Tim
Ryan said I'm an ice-cream guy kirsten
gillibrand said a glass of whiskey at
the end of the night so but this is what
I mean it's like this is the this is the
Gillibrand candidate problem almost spin
off you're like I get it all right you
want to drink fine but that wasn't the
question are you evading the question
Elizabeth Warren said chips and
guacamole it's crunchy I don't think cut
it's not comfort food Carla Harris said
french fries good answer fine get the
job done a little cautious but we'll
take it
Joe Biden just didn't respond that's his
strategy and it's working I
to do the two worst answers one was who
lien Castro who said iced tea the
it's not a food it's a beverage and then
Eric's wawel said it's really a comfort
coffee my favorite coffee is a mocha
you're not gonna win the Midwest with
that every time love it or leave it
or pod save America goes to the Midwest
I gained eight pounds not three not five
I gained eight pounds you cannot
communicate with these people if your
comfort food is a cafe latte what would
your comfort food be oh wow let's judge
you sir I want to tell you a story about
what it really means to have comfort
food and it's going to a pizza place in
West Hollywood alone ordering the pizza
eating the pizza walking out of the
pizza parlor realizing it was next door
to have five guys walking into the five
guys getting a cheeseburger fully
 loaded eating that cheeseburger
all right you don't come at me about
comfort food it has landed on cheese
curds guys these things are fantastic
and and you need to get some confidence
get some get some get some get a meeting
together meet with some of the other
Green Bay Packers owners take a little
bit of that money you're gonna use to
buy more paper stock invest in some way
to take Wisconsin milk converted into
cheese curds and sell it across the
country there is no reason that I have
to come here to eat them this is America
we get everything everywhere now every
store is the same every city's the same
there is nothing special about any local
place anymore that's the bargain we made
all right we all shop at the same online
store we go to the same 14
restaurants they all should be selling
cheese curds
at some point due to consolidation
economic dislocation of a rot inside of
the culture we decided that literally
100 percent of our cities will be
identical I don't like it but it's the
world we live in so here are the choices
we now have cheese curds nowhere or
cheese curds everywhere and all I'm
saying is all right there are some ways
in which I have benefited from this new
world one of which is there's literally
no restaurant left that does not serve
spinach an artichoke dip
I don't know why that happens I don't
get it but I love it and I see no reason
why in the phone book that is the
Cheesecake factory's menu there isn't a
beautiful little line that says
Wisconsin cheese curds think about proud
you'll be they make mozzarella sticks
look like mozzarella dicks they are so
much better it's a subtle difference but
but it counts so get your together
take that stuff national it's fantastic
stuff the dominoes hand hand tossed pan
pizza is the best of the fast food
pizzas I do believe that and if you know
if you're looking for a commendation
--zz salami banana peppers and spinach
just gonna throw it out there for people
very specific very specific what about
Taco Bell
the Taco Bell double decker taco supreme
the Taco Bell double decker taco supreme
is one of the best it's the best one of
the best values in the business taco
first of all fundamentally there's a
problem at your boat lake there's a
problem at Taco Bell which is they put
the cheese on after though like very
late in the game and it's like get the
cheese right on that meat so
that it melts what are we doing here
what kind of corporation doesn't crack
this code but the problem to talk about
taco supreme his stuff it breaks as you
eating it and so like you actually need
to lay something down but
to catch you can basically you eat three
tacos supreme when you're done there's
another taco supreme at the bottom
before that you could just eat but with
the double decker taco supreme it is
wrapped in a soft flour tortilla and
beans that keep it so contained it is
such an unnecessary video circulating of
a lovely woman at some sort of a
sporting event I believe she was
surrounded by children and she was
eating chicken fingers and she used her
own diet coke as like a dipping sauce
and eat them you know what there was a
guy named Steve Jobs and he looked at
the world and he said think different
and then this woman came along she is
the Steve Jobs of dipping chicken dip
into artificially sweetened beverages I
think it is innovative I think it is
basically sugar free honey it's a great
idea and also to put this in larger
context in general I think we're all a
bit too persnickety about mixing foods I
thought we were like these two foods
don't go well together I actually to be
honest have very rarely come across two
foods that don't go well together I
think it's all I think it's all
 I think that when you eat a
bite of a sandwich you take a bite of
dessert it's good it's always good
you're never at leader like start
vomiting if you accidentally combine two
different parts of your plate
incorrectly it's like oh it's a it all
so let's I know what we're talking about
now what everyone's like oh this pairs
well with a red wine or a white wine
like what are you talking about
I don't get it
I don't get pairing I don't get thinking
it's gross to dip your food and soda
I think everything goes well together
and I think this woman should be
applauded for innovation what what why
is ketchup ketchup makes sense but but
Diet Coke doesn't make sense
oh you dip your food into what big food
tells you to dip it into you see these
studies the oats are filled with
pesticides you can't trust anything one
last point about this I have come to
realize that I have diet coke with
virtually every bit of food I consume
all day diet coke is incredibly sweet it
is incredibly sweet food and so really
what I am doing is convert and I you
know I eat something and then I take a
sip asoto I eat something I take a sip a
soda so what am i doing I'm dipping
every single thing I eat all day every
day in diet coke diet coke basically
turns every food into dessert I have
been eating dessert for every bite of
every food I have eaten for basically
the last 25 years of my life ever since
Fran Lovett switched the loved'
household from regular coca-cola to Thai
coca-cola in 1994 and we all lost in
path
you
