on the line is Karen Atia she is the
global opinions editor at The Washington
Post
she's also Jamal khashoggi editor and
friend and in fact edited his last work
that he turned in to the Washington Post
before he was murdered by the Saudi
government I wanted to quickly touch
base with you because you have done such
an amazing job of keeping Jamal
khashoggi x' murder in the news in
pushing for accountability and then the
White House released this statement
today that was one of the more appalling
things I've ever seen come out of a
White House and I wanted to get your
reaction and what you think should
happen next
yeah and I just I always frankly just
disgusted by the White House and
couldn't Trump's statement I mean in it
basically he lays out that you know the
real problem is Iran and that
partnership with Saudi Arabia means US
jobs again he repeated the denials of
the conference and the king that they
they knew anything about this and
basically just in a nutshell said that
you know a man's death is not worth the
money that Saudi Arabia gives to the
United States there were so many
falsehoods so many lives we know at this
point that even you know the hundred
hundred and ten billion dollars figure
as far as money coming from Saudi Arabia
for arms deals is wildly exaggerated and
no mention at all of any any sort of
requests are asked from the United
States there's so many people in Saudi
prisons that are languishing no no sort
of requests for it for any changes in in
Saudi Arabia's stance towards human
rights it was we call this a us-saudi
relationship and this looks more like a
u.s. servitude Jordan Saudi Arabian
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and so
what this does is we're at a point now
where essentially Mohammed bin Salman
who's only
33 years old or so now has a blank check
should he become king he has a blank
check to basically eliminate anybody she
wants and the United States or Trump you
know will stand by and it's such a
chilling and dangerous message to send
to not only citizens of Saudi Arabia but
for those who find themselves in the
crosshairs of any authoritarian
government so it's just this is just a
real a new low I think for the Trump
administration there have been a lot of
lows but this is literally helping Saudi
Arabia get away with murder and
dismemberment and lying about it it's
stunningly appalling yeah I mean I think
this statement would be a moral
abomination if it were accurate but you
make an important point that it's alive
that the notion that we're selling them
110 billion dollars of military
equipment is ridiculous double triple
quadruple counting it's nowhere close to
that figure the job figures Trump tries
to cite four hundred thousand five
hundred thousand six hundred thousand
jobs created through these sales is made
up the Washington Post in particular has
done an incredible job fact-checking
these statements repeatedly so you know
but he's lying right he's he's lying and
yet still giving them a pass and I just
can't fathom why he would do that all
right and you know it's it's also you
know with the argument regarding even
Yemen or countering Iran there's been so
much evidence but despite all of the US
support the the arming of the Saudi
troops that they have not been able to
counter the Houthis effectively in Iran
in Yemen I mean and that it's only led
to what is the worst humanitarian crisis
and in the world since World War two and
so even just on its face you know these
are the facts the arguments are just
false and not credible but it just
represents a willingness to bend over
backwards in order to please or
that frankly needs us more than we need
them and you know I just hope right now
the balls in Congress's court the
Lindsey Graham Marco Rubio in the past
plenty bipartisan support for more
consequences on Saudi Arabia not only
for Jamal's death because I think it's a
certain level right now it's even bigger
than Jamal murder as painful as it is
this is about imposing a strong check on
Saudi Arabia's behavior under Mohammed
bin Salman who's basically the de facto
ruler and yeah this is about the war in
Yemen this is about reformers activists
women who are behind bars and facing
torture this is about strong
consequences for kidnapping the prime
minister of Lebanon and cutting off
diplomatic relations with Canada over
tweets it's just time for the US through
Congress at this point to say enough is
enough I mean and I think you know I saw
you tweeted out a story by Kareem Fahim
who's a great report at the Washington
Post about how several women's rights
activists who have been imprisoned in
Saudi jails had been tortured and
administered electric shock treatment or
beaten and if if Mohammed bin Salman can
get away with murdering a journalist in
a foreign country in such a high-profile
and disgraceful way imagine what he
could do especially when given the green
light by the United States to countless
other people he's holding in various
detention facility absolutely and you
know what that report is just even more
shocking and unacceptable considering
the fact that Mohammed bin Salman part
of his charm offensive in the West was
basically using women and their right to
drive as an indicator of you know a
modernizing or changing Saudi Arabia but
right after he lifted the driving ban on
women the regime moved to imprison
numbers of women including Lou Jane
fool because these are youssef you know
some of these are huge huge figures no
woman's driving movement and so this
idea that you know the lengths that
they're willing to go to to not only
silence people but to humiliate them I
mean to dismember Jamal's body in death
is is another level of humiliation and
shame and this idea that women beyond
being silenced by being put in prison
are being subject to sexual harassment
it's just another level of ruthless
humiliation you know and this is the
sort of behavior that we should not be
looking the other way on or tolerating
it just makes us as the US but you know
plenty of people bought into mbss reform
plan look like idiots and but now we
know the truth and now we should act
accordingly and do something about it
yeah I mean several many successive
administrations have turned a blind eye
to horrible Saudi behavior this is I
believe more brazen than almost anything
we've seen before and and it's it is
stunning to me that this administration
is is yet again turning away even for a
immoral group of people for folks
listening now is there anything you
think should happen next in terms of
pressure specifically from Congress I
know you mentioned that earlier but for
pressure from the UN or foreign
countries or businesses that they can
that they can help with mmm I mean I
think absolutely again for Congress to
impose not only sanctions but but I
think the could be anything that could
come out of Jamal's death it would be
the end of us support for the Saudi and
and UAE led coalition and Yemen that
could save countless lives and as far as
you know I think for you know ordinary
Americans which this might be the first
time really that they're hearing of
Jamal keshavjee or of what's happening
in Saudi Arabia
you know I'd urge them to to continue to
make noise to their
congresspeople and and to say that this
is not something that we as Americans
will accept for a Washington Post
journalist and for peaceful people to be
you know basically destroyed right and I
think I was just saying in particular I
think we're in a good moment or an
opportune moment to push for the release
of those reformers who've been sitting
in prisons who've been tortured some
reports of some who might have even
actually died in prisons and to keep
raising the names of luise√±o a fool as
user Yusef as some of them Mel who was
an economist who dared criticize
Mohammed bin Salman vision 2030 plans
all these are people that are patriots
to to Saudi Arabia who were only
interested in guiding Saudi Arabia
during down a better path so I think you
know for Americans to to read and be
aware and to demand their freedom and an
end to the war in Yemen that would be
the best way to Saudi Arabia accountable
and to honor Jamal's legacy and I would
just urge everyone to please you know
reading and share Jamal's work at the
Washington Post so much of what's
happening now he wrote about he foresaw
even going back and reading his pieces
it's almost eerie to me to read them and
I just want everybody to know how brave
and how great of a man he was he gave
his life just to be able to write freely
so yeah well Karen thank you so much for
for talking me through the statement and
for your continued work keeping the
story in the news and and I would know
you've you've pinned the tweet of all of
Jamal's work where people can find it if
they follow you on twitter go to the
Washington Post website be is as you say
they can they can silence him but they
cannot kill his words they will live
forever and people can can read them
still so thank you again and I'm so
sorry for what you've been through
absolutely thank you so much thank you
you
