welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Tommy Vitor later in the pod Tommy
talks to JD Schulten the Democrat
running for Congress in Iowa's fourth
District against Republican Steve King
who's actually a white nationalist he's
a terrible terrible person like actually
a white national yeah when when asked if
he was a white nationalist or white
supremacist he actually did not deny
either and and every he was Ted Cruz's
national campaign co-chair mm-hmm Paul
Ryan lets him in every meeting they ever
have with the caucus they fundraise with
them that's your party Republicans so
that's we're gonna be hearing from JD
Scholten who's trying to take him out
he's got an uphill climb despite all
that because a pretty conservative
district of Iowa in Iowa but Tommy has a
good conversation with him tell me who
are you interviewing for Pods name of
the world this week back in the saddle
man back in the saddle well you know
there's a lot going on I'm gonna talk to
Mehdi Hasan who is a fantastic writer
and podcaster to the intercept and I'll
Jazeera I wanted to talk about this
ongoing dust-up a Saudi Arabia and more
importantly focused on what they're
actually doing in Yemen because it's a
humanitarian catastrophe yeah and I
don't think it's getting the attention
it's due I'm also trying to figure out
if I can figure out a way to talk about
what just happened in Brazil somehow
because that election is frightening so
I really want to hear about that okay
stay tuned then John okay everyone
should also check out this week's love
it or leave it which was hosted by our
pal Erin Ryan tastic so check that out
and we will be in Irvine California on
Friday for the last of for midterm
specials for HBO we just were in
Philadelphia great show check that out
it's now on HBO go and HBO now so you
can check that out and check out the
last one in our vine yeah and Chrissy
who lands really cool check out her
campaign she's inspiring she's one of
those people you meet and you're like oh
not only am i excited about your
election I'm excited for someone like
you to have the job and do it better and
be smart on policy she's brilliant she's
brilliant she's outstanding and she was
a great guest in Philly um finally we
are eight days out from the election so
please go to vote save America com
download a copy of your ballot you can
fill it out you can find information
about ballot measures and the candidates
on your ballot and make a plan to vote
you can figure out exactly when you're
gonna vote where you're gonna vote will
send you personal reminders on your
calendars they
no excuses no excuse also our pals at
civis analytics this is the sum of the
data people that helped Obama win
two-term cool nerds cool nerds they've
helped us identify twenty House races
and here's the deal with these House
races they are both very close yeah and
they are also in Cheaper media markets
right which means that if you donate to
these races you'll have a bigger bang
for your buck and you can help these
Democrats get over the finish line so we
put we put this link out on Friday it's
vote save America calm slash donate and
we expect it to you know hopefully
fundraise a couple a couple hundred
thousand dollars six hundred thousand
dollars we're already at right now and
believe thanks to you guys since since
Friday so and a lot of these candidates
in these races have reached out to us
since then and they've been overwhelmed
by the support some of them said that
like they're almost running out of money
and these checks came in and it helps
them over the finish line these are
races we can really win this means the
difference between being unable to
respond to paul ryan's disgusting super
PAC ads or you know getting your message
on the air it means maybe hiring one
last organizer to knock doors to get out
there and to get voters to the polls so
it's like the impact is so big with
these donations in this late stage yeah
so please donate alright let's get to
the very sad and enraging news today on
Saturday a gunman used an ar-15 to kill
eleven Americans who were attending a
bris at a Pittsburgh synagogue half a
dozen more people were wounded the
anti-defamation league called the
shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue
the single deadliest anti-semitic attack
in the history of the United States the
man arrested by authorities told a SWAT
team officer that quote he wanted all
Jews to die and he also had nearly two
dozen guns registered to his name
because that's what we allow here in the
United States Tommy what else do we know
about what led to the shooter whose name
is Robert Bowers to launch this attack
at this particular moment we know that
he believed that the Jews quotes are
working to destroy America by bringing
in immigrants and so I believe that that
conspiratorial crazy whatever you want
to call it belief is directly tied
the idea that you're seeing in the
mainstream media that there is a caravan
of people coming to invade our country
full of gang members young Isis like the
president says and that George Soros who
is a billionaire financier who happens
to be Jewish who has been demagogued by
the Republican Party for decades is
paying for that Caravan and like
secretly slipping in so it is it doesn't
require using a slur to be anti-semitism
if you're talking about how globalists
are controlling the media or our
politics
we know damn well what you're saying
Steve Bennett you're saying the Jews are
in charge the globalist Jews are running
the media or they're bringing it they're
subverting our democracy somehow this is
a disgusting anti-semitic slur we should
call it for what it is and this has been
part and parcel of Republican Party's
messaging in some places for a long time
and Trump is just mainlining this
experience yeah I mean I don't think we
can emphasize the link to the caravan
conspiracy enough here yep last week
sorry last week Matt gates Florida
congressman the dumbest person on the
 planet again is a frat paddle
come to life I believe his lovest line
yeah he is at the plural idiot but he's
dangerous well and again I mean like so
many of these people this is not someone
who who knows but like that genuinely
believes this is this is like a rich
dude who went to you know college and
everything like that he knows better and
he just decided to cast his lot with the
far-right and white now she was Donald
Trump because he knew it would help his
queer people who know him people might
get to be like this guy knows exactly
what he's doing
but he's just doing this purely for his
own ambition you may have heard of him
before because he invited a Holocaust
denier to be his guest at the State of
the Union that's right so that's what a
good guy Matt guides is so he started
this whole thing last week by saying by
tweeting a fake picture I wasn't real it
wasn't actually the caravan saying this
is the caravan George Soros has funded
this caravan Soros question mark right
just asking question in the queue in the
in the caravan are dangerous people who
are coming to the United States that of
course went on to Fox from Fox it goes
to the president right states his
think-tank that's in French so now we
have the Presidents Day
telling everyone that the caravan it is
that is a thousand a thousand miles away
from the border is filled with Middle
Easterners dangerous people possibly
terrorists all those kind of stuff and
that it's possibly funded by the
Democrats yeah and so now what happened
was on gab which is a social media
platform used by many white supremacists
and neo-nazis glad we have one of those
yeah Bauer's who's the guy who did the
shooting
recently complained after all this last
week that Jews were helping transport
members of the migrant caravans called a
Jewish organization that helps refugees
a sugar-coated evil and then finally
said I don't care about the optics I
can't take this anymore I'm gonna go do
this thing and now we have this mass
shooting Tommy what do we know in
general about rising anti-semitism over
the last few years the ADL reported in
February that the number of anti-semitic
incidents was nearly 60% higher in 2017
than in 2016 that is the single largest
that's sorry that's the largest single
year increase on record and the second
highest number reported since the ADA
started tracking incident data in the
1970s and of course this coincided with
Donald Trump's campaign in 2016 and
Donald Trump's presidency in in 2017 so
the question is does Trump bear any
responsibility for this rise in
anti-semitism the White House obviously
says not at all they point to his
statements condemning the attack in
Pittsburgh which according to the New
York Times were written by his Jewish
daughter and his Jewish son-in-law Jared
and sorry Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner
who I guess had to persuade him to
condemn these and super harsh terms
which is always comforting but what do
you think what what sort of connections
if any can we draw from Trump's
presidency Trump's rhetoric to sort of
these rising attacks I think that the
key to understanding the link between
Trump and these fringe anti-semitic
extremists is just listening to what the
French anti-semitic extremists say and
they take solace when in in
Charlottesville he blames both sides or
doesn't condemn them they look to him
and they're inspired and they see
leadership and and they
emboldened by him when he calls himself
a nationalist these right-wing
nationalist parties have been blaming
Jews for all their problems for
centuries they know damn well what it
means when Steve Bannon sits his fat ass
in the White House for six months as the
chief strategist they look to him for
leadership when he's inviting these
pizza gate lunatics into briefings and
you know these people walking around
making the like okay white nationalist
sign and and they so like what drives me
crazy about this is you know they're all
these people that say oh they're just
trolling you know they're just they're
trying to you know own the libs by
making these signs like you are what you
do you know and then on and then the
response like I think it drives me nuts
and I think African American community
is dealt with for a very long time as
well it's like when you point out
something as racist or anti-semitic I
think people are think that that's like
the the worst thing you could ever say
about someone that they are racist or
they're an anti-semite and they act like
pointing out the facts and making that
charge - somehow worse than the original
incident we need to call this for what
it is
right I mean to paraphrase Andrew
Gilliam I'm not saying he's an
anti-semite I'm saying the anti-semites
right he's an anti-semite Julia Yaffe
friend of the pod wrote a really great
piece for The Washington Post about all
of this that you should go check out but
she basically you know sort of laid out
Trump's evolution on this in 2016 he
joked at a meeting of the Republican
Jewish coalition that it wouldn't
support him quote because I don't want
your money yeah during the campaign he
tweeted a picture of Hillary Clinton
superimposed on a Star of David over
dollar bills after Julia published a
profile of Melania which the White House
didn't like she was del used with
anti-semitic threats Trump was asked to
condemn those attacks on Yaffe from his
supporters and he said quote I don't
have a message for them and of course as
you pointed out the worst example is
charlottesville people marching in
Charlottesville chanting Jews will not
replace us and Donald Trump saying there
were fine people on both sides
I want a reporter this is very simple to
ask Donald Trump asked Sarah Huckabee
Sanders asked anyone at the White House
today does the president still
leave that the people in Charlottesville
who were chanting Jews will not replace
us were fine people that there were fine
people among those Martians I want
someone to ask him that question because
if they really say he's not anti-semitic
that he condemns this kind of attacks
that he condemns the kind of hate that
leads to these attacks then then they
will answer the president that's right
you know what I don't believe they were
fine people I'm sorry I shouldn't have
said that but he won't because he hasn't
because nothing has changed since
Charlottesville the only thing that's
changed is somehow like the news move so
fast our collective memory doesn't
really remember the fact that in
Charlottesville he issued these horrible
horrible statements and has not
apologized for them right I mean there
was an article last year where I think
is the independent of the UK where Trump
suggested that Jews might be secretly
committing anti-semitic hate crimes on
themselves so that he looks bad I forgot
about that one
I mean Adams serwer who writes for The
Atlantic wrote I think as crystal-clear
a piece about how the spark for the
worst anti-semitic massacre in American
history was a racist hoax that was kind
of came through the weird Twitter
ecosystem through Lou Dobbs and then got
on Fox & Friends and then got to the
president and he decided that he was
going to demagogue a caravan of
desperate people because he thought it
was gonna be an election issue that
inspired this individual to do what he
did yeah period you know I keep thinking
like does the Republican line as well no
one can control what their supporters do
on either side and there's bad and
there's rhetoric on both sides that's
gotten out of hand right but what would
we be saying right now if these
perpetrators of these crimes are is hate
and it's violence that we've seen over
the last week or muslim' exactly what
would we be doing if there was a
connection to Isis wouldn't we say that
that Isis propaganda inspired some of
these people who said I'm doing this in
the name of Isis which we've seen all
the time of course and and we would be
calling on every single Muslim on the
planet to denounce this act and to do
better somehow and to somehow fix the
problem I mean these these people are
these right-wingers are incapable of
looking within their party within
themselves and seeing the harm that's
being created here and so it's not just
Trump the NRCC
after George Soros was sent an AED a
pipe bomb they put up an ad attacking
George Soros GOP leader Kevin McCarthy
tweeted we cannot allow Soros steyr in
Bloomberg to buy this election gee what
are those three guys have in common yeah
no I mean look it is true that a
politician or a leader cannot control
what his or her supporters do all the
time there are people who will will do
crazy things will do horrible things all
the time
but you can control your own words in
your own actions they like to point out
oh it was a Bernie Sanders supporter
that shot Steve Scalise and he was doing
it because there were Republicans right
that is correct and yet can you point to
a single word that Bernie Sanders has
ever said or any Democrat that told
people to commit violence can you do
that to Donald Trump yes how many times
did he say he was gonna pay the legal
bills of his supporters who beat people
up at rallies yeah how many times has he
said huh
today today he called the press the
enemy of the people how many times in
his stump speech is he called Democrats
evil and crazy he says it every single
day Democrats don't do that no I it also
worries me because there you see this a
lot among like young men in particular
there was a big part of the appeal of
Trump was he's just trolling he's
talking he's generally
anti-establishment I get why like
anti-establishment sentiments are
appealing to young people in the sixties
you're anti-war right yeah this is a
different time but that stuff can has
manifested itself online in dark ways I
mean there's racist anti-semitic jokes
that pop up on gab or 4chan or god
forbid like The Daily stormer and when
people you know it's sort of like a race
to the bottom to see who we can offend
and like upset the libs but I think it
that's of lulls you into thinking it's
acceptable and some people see that
stuff and can go further and further and
further I mean Timothy McVeigh the white
nationalist Oklahoma City bomber was
inspired by anti-semitic books and
teaching and he perpetrated a horrific
terrorist act so like we need to we need
to keep an eye on these things and we
need to understand
that leadership comes from the very top
and you can't tell me that Barack Obama
singing Amazing Grace in a church wasn't
an important healing moment in the lack
of that grace or any kind of unity in
our country it's like you can feel it or
get take George W Bush right right
who will go down in history as one of
the worst presidents because the Iraq
war was one of the biggest catastrophes
that any president has ever led us into
okay but George W Bush made a point of
condemning attacks on Muslims made a
point of saying the Muslim religion is a
peaceful religion and whether it's
George Bush whether it's Ronald Reagan
words any of the public and president
when they were if their supporters
started attacking people you wouldn't be
able to draw the same kind of links that
you can draw with Donald Trump and
Republicans know this of course
they know it damn well like and so like
whether it's Barack Obama George Bush
whatever like for some reason these
anti-semitic people these racist
supporters they look at Donald Trump and
they think he's one of them
after charlottesville they said we think
he's on our side we know he eventually
had to condemn it but they forced him to
condemn him and we really many waters
back what other president have
anti-semites and racists ever said that
about and like the people and it drives
me crazy the people that are elevated in
the media because they're sort of Trump
fans or sick of fans like Erick Erickson
lame bloggers two weeks ago tweeted it's
not a coincidence that this caravan to
the south of us is happening two weeks
before our federal elections he was on
Meet the Press the Sunday great booking
guys Lou Dobbs who is a particularly
virulent brand of washed-up and
intolerant had a guy on from Judicial
Watch who said talked about the Soros
funded State Department financially back
in the caravan it was so bad that Fox
actually to pull the episode and banned
the guests in perpetuity but like those
are the people that Donald Trump watches
those are the people he calls on the
phone during his nine hours of executive
time which is code for him sitting
around and tweeting and calling his
buddies right we have like a part time
president who you know in the time he
actually does work just divides the
nation as thoroughly as he possibly can
if the president United States and
Republicans in Congress truly believed
that this these kind of attacks and this
kind of hate and stuff like that
was awful and they wanted to condemn it
they could decide to comport themselves
differently in these final weeks of the
election right instead this is what
happened this is Trump's let's talk
about Trump's general response to not
just what happened in Pittsburgh but all
of the incidents of hate and violence
last week in addition to the worst
anti-semitic a massacre in the United
States history we saw a mass
assassination attempt of Democratic
leaders in the murders of two
african-americans in Kentucky by a
gunman
authorities say tried to enter a
predominantly black church in the
moments before the attack the president
has responded to these incidents by
continuing to hold political rallies and
send tweets where he attacks his
opponents to attacks the very people who
were sent mail bombs George Soros Tom
Styer I'm steyr Maxine Waters and
attacks the media as the enemy of the
people which he did this morning mm-hmm
and Republicans at the same they're cute
as you said they continue to run these
ads from the congressional leadership
fund which was Paul Ryan super PAC what
is going on here why are they doing this
I
fatum it I cannot fathom it and like
just a quick aside one conversation were
not having which is very frustrating is
about gun control yeah and you know when
58 people were killed in Las Vegas
massacre 500 of them injured he promised
he'd take action on bump stocks and
background checks and these things but
he did absolutely nothing and here we
are again another guy with an ar-15
shooting up a community but I mean to
your broader point I'm like they gave up
so long ago on checking him in anyway
and I don't think they will find any
courage until we win in the midterms
that's our only hope well they could
very easily have said you know what this
is all gotten too far we don't want the
people we don't want the votes of
racists we don't want the votes of
anti-semites and you know what in this
lat in these last week's let's make this
an election about issues we're gonna
have ads up about tax cuts about
immigration about the issues that we
differ on okay but we are not going to
make these attacks on Democrats we're
not going to attack George Soros we're
not gonna have these gross heads up it
is time for the country to get
they could have done all that good yeah
yeah they need the vote sad yeah sad
sack policy-wonk Paul Ryan could have
run on his big tax cut his crowning
achievement but no he's running a series
of racist ads through super PAC where
he's calling out an african-american
candidate for having released a rap
album he's calling out Aftab you know
for ties to terrorism they're the most
specious disgusting racist things you
ever seen like this is their playbook
they're all running the Trump playbook
yeah period how how do you think the
media should cover this are they doing
it well you know Republicans are
obviously pushing the message here that
both sides are to blame for the rhetoric
how's the media handling I mean I think
they're like I was apoplectic a week ago
during the caravan discussions because I
thought that they were just getting led
down this road of manufacturing crisis
because it was politically helpful to
Trump I think we've gotten away from
that because of horrific events I think
a few things in this instance like one
there is a sense I think that threats
made online maybe or conversations
online aren't as real or aren't as
dangerous and that is completely false
and there are all these people I think
who who live in a world where they
follow these white nationalists and he's
white extremists online have been trying
to sound the alarm about this stuff and
we need to take that a lot more
seriously like I keep thinking about in
2009 when I was we were all in the White
House the Department of Homeland that in
2009 when we were still in the White
House DHS released this report that had
actually been commissioned by the Bush
administration about the rise in
right-wing extremism and radicalization
and basically it said you know these
economic conditions could lead to
increased radicalization and recruiting
they felt reminiscent of the economic
conditions and 90s that led to Timothy
McVeigh people were scared of or gun
control they were stockpiling weapons
and the thing that was sort of
politically explosive was that they were
trying to recruit veterans and basically
the right-wing PC police shouted down
this report Mirman made us walk away
from it and instead of having a real
conversation about what was happening
and and the threats from within we
dismissed it as you know somehow
targeting Republicans like I think since
9/11 we've been so conditioned to
externally for threats and the things we
fear from like Isis and al-qaeda and
that's understandable but we really do
need to focus more on these right-wing
homegrown extremist groups because
communities of color that you ask me
they're being literally terrorists and
murdered how do you think I think
Democrats should handle this does this
change the dynamic of the midterms in
any way it does feel like over the last
week there's been a shift where a things
have gotten a lot scarier yeah but be
the focus has gone from you know Trump
was able to keep the focus on first
first it was Cavanaugh then it was the
caravan but you know it's a funny thing
happened here is Trump said oh he wants
to make this a election a referendum on
him
right cuz he was out there doing all
these rallies he's out there giving all
these interviews and he's figuring like
I'm the one who can juice Republican
turnout because they all love me so he's
put himself at the center of this
election well now he got what he wanted
and now the midterms do seem like
they're more of a referendum on his
actions his behavior in his words which
in the wake of two or three tragedies
write a mass assassination attempt the
worst attack on the Jewish community in
US history and the killing of two
african-americans in Kentucky in the
wake of this he has not tried to bring
the country together he has not offered
any consoling words and in fact he has
doubled down on his attacks on Democrats
and the media yeah and I'm just
wondering like what how should Democrats
handle this in this last week um boy
it's hard to know right I mean notable
this morning is the Gallup Trump
approval track last week he was at forty
four approve fifty disapprove this week
he's at forty approved fifty-four
disapproved so the country is not happy
about his handling of the the ie D
incident I don't think they've come to
process in polling at least what
happened over the weekend you know so
that's just sort of the context of
what's happening in the country I do
think this midterm was always going to
be a referendum on Trump yeah I think
that Democrats should continue running
on health care and
issues that they know people care the
most about but I do think that most of
the country thinks he needs to be
checked and that's gonna be even more
salient of a message now well and and
and whether they believe that or not
certainly I do think Democrat should
make that part of their closing message
along with health care and everything
else like you know if you give Donald
Trump a Republican Congress again if he
wins this election if Republicans win
this election he will absolutely take
that as an affirmation of his behavior
oh absolutely
what he did was okay and then he can
continue doing that and for the next two
years he will say and do whatever he
wants because the Republican Congress
will let him they've they have basically
shown that no matter what he does or
what he says they will stand behind him
a hundred percent right so even if even
if you sort of like Trump even if you
think that the economy is going great
even if you've said to yourself you know
what I liked him I'm gonna continue
voting for my Republican congressman
while aware you have to think to
yourself what we have seen these last
two weeks will only get worse over the
next two years if this man on November 6
gets an affirmation that his behavior is
okay and then for the next few years he
will do whatever he wants he will shut
down investigations he will take away
people's health care you will pass more
tax cuts for the rich he will deport
more immigrants he will do whatever he
wants he views everything in terms of
winning and losing so he thinks that the
way he treated Christine Bazzi Ford is
okay because Cavanaugh got confirmed
right so like that's the only lesson he
ever learns and I do think that there
are a lot of people in this country that
like kind of like Trump's
anti-establishment stuff but they it
shows up in polls I don't like the
tweets
well the tweets are a big deal yeah when
the tweets are inspiring radical
frightening violent people then that
should really rise to the top of your
concerns and how you're voting and look
we've seen this happen before to his
lowest approval ratings came after
Charlottesville after the Helsinki press
conference with Putin where he stood
with Putin just moments where he has
totally dropped the ball in the worst
way in his role as leader as national
unifier as press
it mean like people in this country do
want someone who was going to console
them during times of tragedy who's gonna
try to bring the country together who's
gonna try to rise above partisan
politics he can't do any of those things
he's a part-time president we know this
because we read all the stories like the
guy has like literally three hours in
the middle of the day routinely where it
just does nothing but watch TV and tweet
right so we know that he's not doing the
job generally there's part I think
there's parts of us were like oh that's
probably good that he's not more
effective but you know you can't hide
when you've completely abdicated your
role as a moral leader or a sort of a
healer for the country yeah um
period and and I do think Democrats and
he's in this last week should think
about including in their message when
they're on the stump like it is it is
Democrats job in a way because there's
such a vacuum of leadership on the
Republican side to show people what real
leaders sound like and look like and
what real leaders do you know like I
keep thinking of Andrew gillum's you
know closing statement made in his
debate with Ron de Santos when he said
you know in Trump's America we've been
led to believe that we've got to step on
our neighbors shoulder and they're back
in their face in order to get ahead will
I reject that and I do think we've got
to give people a reminder of what you
know America can be when it has real
leaders who are willing to rise above
all this you know and you saw I
mean you saw some of this in the wake of
Pittsburgh you know CBS reported that
Dimas Ella Barrios and his family drove
to Pittsburgh from New York City as an
african-american family who were also
first responders to the Emanuel AME
shooting in Charleston and he said you
know all faith communities no matter
nationality or race need to stick
together and support each other in times
like these there was the leader of an
Islamic Center in Pittsburgh announces
that the Muslim community has raised
more than $70,000 for synagogue attack
victims and of course think about the
Jewish Center itself and that and the
jewish organization that was helping
refugees who were muslims of that were
targets they attacked like there is
there was good in this country and i
think democrats have to remind people of
what that is in his final week just a
real quick point on the refugees I mean
Trump has demagogued the the concept of
helping out refugees he has made that
somehow an evil or bad thing right
because he claims they're all Isis I
mean when you think like the history of
the Jewish people who are stateless you
know who you know like had to flee the
most horrific thing you could ever
imagine in the Holocaust there's no
there's no more disgusting undercutting
or misunderstanding of what the history
of the people or a nation or a country
right bringing refugees or people you
know fleeing something so anyway he
knows awful because he needs an enemy to
win yet he needs people angry with each
other and afraid of one another and so
whether that enemy you know whether he's
painting men versus women in the
Cavanagh hearing whether he's trying to
make people afraid of foreigners and
brown people and immigrants and now the
press and the media and Democrats and
mobs he needs this enemy to keep going
his enemy Trump's enemy is unity yeah
this country coming together voting in
this country voting and people engage in
people supporting each other even if you
don't look like each other or pray like
each other or love like one another
that's the worst news for him yeah
that's how he does it one because then
there's no need for Donald Trump if
people fail together you know so he is
going to try his damndest in
this last week to make sure that he
calls out all the enemies he can today
it's the press he's sending 5,000 troops
to the border because he hopes the
caravan will back be back in the news
nonsense they are desperate for people
to find enemies to hate one another to
be angry with one another and I think
with Democrats have to see the Democrats
have to do is show the country that
there is another way yeah
there are good people there are a lot of
people showing grace in this moment it
is deeply unfortunate that our president
isn't one of them yeah but we can elect
really good people to Congress who can
make it a better place
and and you will be talking to one of
those people next JD Shelton who's
running for Congress against Steve King
in Iowa joins us after the break
you
