yeah me too welcome to plod save America
I'm John Favreau
I'm Dan Piper later in the pod our
interview with veep's Julie a little bit
later in the pod our interview with
veep's Julia louis-dreyfus and
showrunner David Mandel they stopped by
the office yesterday and as you'll hear
we pretty much laughed the entire time
was one of my favorite interviews but
first we got some big news to get
through robert Muller's first words in
two years the political case for
impeachment and the Democratic Party's
new qualifications for the Fall debates
in other pod news we've released an
interview on Wednesday between Dan and
Amy Klobuchar I'll also be talking with
presidential candidate Marianne
Williamson on Friday and you'll be able
to hear my conversation with her later
that afternoon on the newest episode of
POD save the world Tommy and Ben
explained the recent European
parliamentary elections analyzed Trump's
trip to Japan and try to understand why
he's micromanaging the construction of
our aircraft carriers weird I'm gonna
say this again Tommy and Ben explained
the recent European Parliament elections
not parliamentary okay
and finally the newest crooked media
podcast this land premiers this coming
Monday June 3rd it's a story from
Cherokee journalist Rebecca Nagle about
two crimes and an imminent Supreme Court
decision could come any week now that
will determine the fate of five tribes
and nearly half the land in Oklahoma
it's an important story about how this
country treats Native people in their
land it's riveting it's beautifully told
so please go subscribe now listen to the
trailer wherever you get your podcasts
or you can just go to this land
podcast.com to subscribe make sure it's
on your phone and ready for Monday
morning when the first episode drops
trust me you won't want to miss this one
so please go subscribe one last thing
you subscribed thank you see Dan
subscribed all of you should subscribe
to for next week we're on the road again
I can't believe we're already on the
road again you can god you can catch
love it or leave it in Minneapolis and
catch POD save America in Chicago
Minneapolis and Des Moines there's still
a few tickets left I believe at
cricut.com slash events so go go scoop
up those tickets and then come say hi
we'll be flying around the Midwest okay
one more thing one more thing before we
get to the news sure I watch running
with Beto last night hmm
wasn't it great it was really great and
I would encourage people whether they
support Beto for president or they
support someone else they don't know who
they're supporting at to watch it for a
couple reasons one it's just really it's
a really good film but I thought it
captured two things really well that are
let me try together I've got a captured
two things really well that I think
people will really enjoy one is the
moment in time that was 2018 and
people's reaction what happens in 2016
and and just sort of every regular
everyday people getting involved in
politics to try to put this country back
on the right track and second what it's
like to be on a campaign the highs the
lows the exhaustion the frustration the
excitement and ultimately as happens and
a lot of campaigns the heartbreak in the
you know I'm sure this was true for you
and watching it but having worked on
campaigns where you pour your entire
being into them and then having them
come up short is it's just so hard but
it you know I thought it was really
great and I would encourage people to
watch it and I was excited to see your
name in the credits yeah I mean the
reason that we wanted to you know help
co-produce this in the first place is
you know that the filmmaker David MIDI
Glee Ani came to us you know when no one
really knew who Beto was and we barely
knew who Beto was and said he was going
to make this documentary about people in
Texas working for this longshot
candidate in the wake of 2016 and it's
sort of everything that we talked about
here at comedian pod save America about
getting involved in joining a campaign
and you know fighting the odds to fight
for what you believe in and and so you
know we jumped on then and I think you
know David told an incredible story
about people in Texas working for what
they believed in and so and
you know the documentary doesn't just
follow Beto it follows three volunteers
who worked in the campaign who all have
pretty powerful stories on their own so
it's a great film definitely check it
out on HBO okay let's get to the news on
Wednesday Special Counsel Robert Muller
spoke publicly for the first time in two
years to announce his retirement and
send an implicit but unmistakable
message to Congress about impeachment do
your damn job
here are some key parts of his statement
quote the Russian military launched a
concerted attack on our political system
the matters we investigated were of
paramount importance and when a subject
of an investigation obstructs that
investigation or lies to investigators
it strikes at the core of the
government's effort to find the truth
and hold wrongdoers accountable and he
says that on the question of whether the
president obstructed justice himself
quote if we had confidence that the
president clearly did not commit a crime
we would have said so Muller goes on to
say that the reason he didn't make a
determination about whether Trump
committed a crime is because quote under
a long-standing Department policy a
president cannot be charged with a
federal crime while he is in office the
opinion says that the Constitution
requires a process other than the
criminal justice system to formally
accuse a sitting president of wrongdoing
so it would be unfair to potentially
accuse somebody of a crime when there
can be no court resolution of the actual
charge Muller also said that he doesn't
plan on speaking publicly again because
his 400-page report speaks for itself
dan why did Muller after two years and
about a month since the report itself
came out decide to give this statement
what was he trying to achieve here do
you think I think he was trying to go on
vacation Day weekend at us he probably
got a home at the shore he wanted to get
there I think so like I say that that's
happened jest which is I think he is
trying to put a coda on this part of his
life and move on he's basically he is
saying as you point out in the preamble
here that he's
to Nancy Pelosi the commercial Democrats
I did my job it's time for you to do
yours it's up to you I haven't put the
ball in your court you can do with it
whatever you want and but let me be very
clear I was giving this to you which he
should have been clear about in the
report or and you're not waited nine
weeks to speak but the message is clear
I think he is ready to move on and let
the next part of this process take place
if that's the top Democrats choose which
we'll discuss why they should do that
later yeah and I think what he chose to
emphasize in his eight minute statement
versus the four hundred page report that
he wrote is important too you know he
says a few times at the beginning at the
end about how you know Russia the
Russian military the Russian government
launched this concerted consistent
attack on our political system and then
he said obstructing the investigation
into who's behind that attack and who
was responsible for it is a very serious
misdeed and basically what he lays out
is if if Trump hadn't sorry if Trump had
succeeded in obstructing the
investigation
if Trump had succeeded in firing Bob
Muller if you know Don McGann and olives
Trump subordinates had carried out his
wishes to fire Bob Muller and to make
sure that the investigation was only
focused on future election interference
which the report says Trump wanted to do
then Bob Muller never would have been
able to indict the Russian hackers the
Russian military all the people in
Russia that were responsible for
breaking into the Democratic email
system stealing emails disseminating
stolen emails and then launching the
social media campaign propaganda
campaign to sway the election and so you
know Muller actually doing justice
finding the people responsible for the
attack on our political system would not
have been possible if the president it√≠d
states had his way and obstructed
justice and I think he's trying to tell
us that is a very serious offense that's
right and the question will be anyone's
gonna listen I
I will say that Bob Muller
could have been clearer on this point
and he could have been clearer earlier
on this point right because a lot of
people like I feel like you and I got
the message but a lot of people didn't
know how the reporting is trying to read
it like it's some sort of code and like
what can we divine from this when he's
pretty explicit it's it is certainly not
clear that Democratic leaders took the
message some of the reporting is unclear
and then and there this is both the
benefit and then this is just the
positive and the negative of having
someone like Bob Muller do this
investigation
he is theoretically although only in
theory not reality above reproach in the
public sphere right he should have been
an unimpeachable investigator if we were
living in normal political times see
yeah so with a like a reputation that is
so good that the Senate in a huge
bipartisan vote voted to extend his term
as FBI director because he was so good
at the job some of the Republicans
someone that we've been apart about
george w bush extended by obama like he
is the ultimate nonpartisan figure even
if he is a republican but because he has
a nonpartisan seat here he was much more
subtle much less explicit and left some
room both in his lats of what he wrote
in the report but in in the way in which
he presented the report and the way in
which he allowed institutional figures
like bob bill bar to spin his report for
him he he left more questions about what
he intended that he should have and I
think that's still true today despite
today's statement yeah I think that
Muller's biggest mistake was allowing
that four-page letter from William bar
to be released before his executive
summaries and then after that four-page
letter was released not responding
immediately to correct the record that
was his mistake I do think in the
statement he delivered yesterday it
could not be more clear than the
sentence the opinion says that the
Constitution requires a process other
than the criminal justice system to
formally accuse the sitting president of
wrongdoing I mean it screams impeachment
that is the only that is the price
says he's talking about right there and
look I get the box he's in because of
the Justice Department guidelines right
he feels that is unfair to accuse a
sitting president of a crime if that
person cannot then defend themselves
using a normal court process and so
therefore he does that's even why he
can't say Congress it's your job to
impeach him and say the word impeachment
Ofuro because even that and and the
Washington Post says this Muller's team
believed that even that was accusing the
president of a crime without the
president be able being able to defend
himself through a normal court process
so Muller did everything he could to
basically say here's the evidence that
the president committed a crime but I
can't say that the president committed a
crime because I can't charge him because
he's a sitting president because of this
stupid opinion well I don't know
if he thinks it's a stupid
opinion but it is so you can see the box
he's in so I sort of understand that I
can't understand why either reporters
Democrats in Congress I can understand
why Republicans do this because they are
conspiracy theorists and there you know
willfully ignorant of this but I can't
understand why Democrats and reporters
don't you know I'm sorry I'm sorry this
again I can't understand why there are
any mixed messages coming from what he
said yesterday it seemed pretty clear to
me yeah it's like this is a hard part of
undoing first impression mm-hmm right if
we would being an entirely difficult it
would probably be weeks into an
impeachment inquiry right now if the way
this inflate out was he had submitted
his letter or his report to Bill Maher
in Ron Rosenstein and then made this
statement total in that Friday night or
that Sunday yep either before or
contemporaneous to bill Barr sending out
his letter and if he had done that then
we would world or if he had let it be
known to the public that he disagreed
with the characterization of the report
in real time instead of waiting weeks to
do so and so I understand the BOK sees
it and we really should be thankful to
Bob Muller for his service to this guy
grunts entire life including taking on
what is a thankless but very important
job even beyond just accountability to
President Trump but finding out but
holding people are holding Russian
entities in Russian individuals
accountable for what happened the
election but your there is a world in
which you have to understand that what
is happening is not on the level and
adjust your tactics as such and so yeah
like writing a letter to Bill Barr
saying you want your summaries out but
then go borrow your in you and then
writing another letter and then just
saying well I tried it's not sufficient
if you believe in the work that you did
and it's the same thing goes to the
question of his testimony right I
understand why he doesn't want to
testify but that is not how the world
works
and if you truly believe that this is it
really important that the work you did
was important you should stand on itself
and the public and the Congress should
make a decision based on the work itself
not on the propaganda zation of the work
by Trump don't bar in Fox News then you
got to speak for that work yourself and
there's not a substitute for that that
is appropriate in this day and age what
do you think Democrats should do about
his reluctance to testify how much does
his testimony matter at this point I
think what we know from yesterday's
testimony matters a lot if he just sat
in a chair and read all 400 pages of the
report out loud I think it would it
would be very dramatic and important
does it mean it shifts all of the public
opinion in favor of impeachment no not
necessarily but a person is what is a
more as a a person it is a better
message within a PDF and yeah so having
him do that would be good
I think we have to set expectations in
our in our own minds as consumers and
the Congress people do and there's that
Bob Muller is not Jim Comey he is not
going to preen for the cameras he's not
going to try to be dramatic he's not he
is going to be as boring as he possibly
can but has I think as we saw from
yesterday that is there's so much
confusion around this there's so much
 that's just saying the words
out loud in a mostly clear way helps cut
through that so I think he will
be getting a subpoena one way or the
other Adam shift basically as I heard
yesterday said great I look forward to
hearing from polar soon
to think they're going to make him come
testify in some way shape or form I
think the more nonpartisan and boring
Bob Muller is during his testimony the
more politically effective it will be
frankly I mean I think I think that I
think the James Comey was less
politically effective because he decided
to you know go after Trump talked about
his tanning goggles all that
 I mean you know he he did sound
in a way like he had joined the
resistance at some point and Bob Muller
being nonpartisan and just reading or
reiterating the conclusions from his
report in front of Congress yeah look
look what an eight minute statement did
yesterday this is also I mean we're
gonna talk about this later but it's
another argument for the power of
impeachment hearings in an age of
television and media where you know
people aren't reading a 400-page report
but when something is televised live for
weeks at a time and it's all over cable
and it's all over Twitter and it's all
the news and information that most
Americans are consuming it has a much
much bigger impact on people than any
kind of report that Bob Muller could
release and I think Democrats are
probably under estimating the power of
televised hearings that lay out for the
American people exactly what misdeeds
and crimes the president committed
yeah and they shouldn't be because the
original approach that the Democratic
leadership in the Congress proposed was
as a either a substitute for or a
preamble to impeachment would be a
series of very high profile televised
hearings with star witnesses to pull on
the threads of the Moller report and
other associated Trump crimes and
corruption so like that was the plan
they wanted done began in front of the
Senate the House Judiciary Committee Bob
Muller in front of the House Judiciary
Committee Donald Trump jr. in front of
the house intelligence like that was the
plan yep but that is not that plan has
not worked out for a host of reasons
that also issue to the path and
management
yeah so another reason we know that
Muller statement was a big bill is that
Trump dropped his total exoneration bit
and tweeted immediately after the
statement quote there was insufficient
evidence and therefore in our country a
person is innocent the case is closed
thank you and then today waking up to
this was fun today he tweeted I had
nothing to do with Russia helping me get
elected whoops
and then he goes out to the White House
South Lawn and he gives a little
impromptu press conference to reporters
and I believe we have a clip of that
that we're gonna play right now to me
it's a dirty word the word impeach it's
a dirty filthy disgusting word and it
had nothing to do with me so I don't
think so because there was no crime you
know it's high crimes and not with or
it's high crimes and misdemeanors there
was no high crime and there was no
misdemeanor so how do you a Beach face
from that and it came out that there was
nothing to do with Russia the whole
thing is a scam it's one of its a giant
presidential harassment and honestly I
hope it goes down as one of my greatest
achievements because I've exposed
corruption I've exposed corruption like
nobody knew existed tonight can I just
say something there's obviously a lot of
problems with that statement but maybe
the biggest is that under Trump's
definition of what constitutes an
impeachable offense you can commit a
high crime but if you don't also commit
a misdemeanor you're off the hook I mean
there's just so much to unpack first
the are anti-immigrant America first
president would undoubtedly fail the
citizenship test undoubtedly like this
no concept of how anything within our
government works which it which is scary
because he's in charge of the government
he
also is just the king of the cell phone
it's like you mentioned previous where
he in attempts to defend himself finally
admits that Russia helped him win here
he says he exposed a lot of corruption
which is true
it's just his corruption yeah his his
obstruction did succeed in exposing his
own corruption so that's that's a big
win for him no I mean but does that does
that statement sound like the statement
of someone who is goading Democrats into
impeachment because he thinks it will be
politically beneficial for him no I
think the worst arguments against
impeachment is it's what Trump once yeah
it doesn't seem like it's what everyday
very real debate about what is good good
or bad politically and you have that but
just if you know anything about Trump
the idea that he would he can't even
fathom the idea that he is one of a tiny
handful of presidents who won the
electoral college and lost the popular
vote he has had to construct an x-file
style conspiracy to justify that black
mark on his presidential record to
imagine how he would act if he were to
become one of three presidents who had
to wear the Scarlet I had impeachment
and there's no way he wants that and in
his mind like constant so much a trust
behavior is trying to navigate the
dissonance between the reality of Trump
with like who he is how bad a president
he is how dumb he is what a poor
imitation of his own father he is and
the reality in his own mind that he is
about to become they have his head
carved into Mount Rushmore and whenever
he like he falls into the area between
us that dissonance comes towards when he
acts like a lunatic and so impeachment
is most certainly something that he
would dread because it is it makes it
harder to abide the fantasy that he is
somehow not a giant loser he
would be the only president in history
to have won the presidency while losing
the popular vote and getting impeached
and by his own admission having a
foreign government helped him get
elected in the first place that is a
very specific category I mean that is
like that is very much like what is
involved in sports statistics now when
they're like Steph Curry is the first
player under six four to average twenty
eight point five rebounds and three
steals like well it's also a be the one
person to do that well it also goes to
the core of what he cares about which is
the legitimacy of his presidency because
if you look at then you look at his
presidency and say okay well the guy won
without winning the popular vote he he
won because a foreign government helped
him get elected and then he got
impeached that doesn't make him feel
very good about his presidency he also
by the way said it wasn't part of that
clip but he said of impeachment the
courts will never allow it
right hey buddy courts though they do
not have anything to do with it I'm
sorry except for the fact that I was a
little bit of him like saying the quiet
part out loud which is like he knows and
McConnell notes Republican Party know so
they had been stacking the courts in his
favor and he's basically looking at
those when you have a Supreme Court and
in his head you know if I put Brett
Kavanaugh on there and the ogor
snitching Mitch McConnell stole that fee
from Obama so like I immunity by court
fest yeah what's the problem
I think he really does think that this
is why he's so outraged when all
of his unconstitutional illegal acts get
overturned and cause he like I put oh my
god my judges right he causes his judges
I put my judges on the court who aren't
I getting rulings that are in my favor
so I do think he thinks the courts will
protect them because he is stacked the
courts just wait'll John Roberts the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
preside over the trial in the Senate and
Trump starts saying like why is crooked
John Roberts there why isn't Brett
Kavanaugh presiding over the thing he's
not he doesn't get how any of this works
all right so let's talk about the
Democrats and what they should do now
just about all the major presidential
put out statements supportive of
impeachment to various degrees yesterday
to more House Democratic Chairman
announced their support for impeachment
bringing the pro impeachment vote in the
house to around 40 41 42 Democrats and
one Republican Justin Amash that still
leaves approximately 200 or so Democrats
who were either opposed or undecided
including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and
most of her top leadership on Wednesday
Pelosi said quote nothing is off the
table but we do want to make such a
compelling case such an ironclad case
that even the Republican Senate will be
convinced we want to do what gets
results dan what kind of pressure does
Muller's statement yesterday put on
Pelosi how does this affect her decision
and what do you think of her reasoning
yesterday it puts more pressure on I
think the thing that hurts the most
pressure is Justin Amash a Republican
congressman facing a primary challenge
not only being essentially the most
vocal advocate for impeachment in the
house going to go into a town hall in
his Republican district and standing up
and getting a standing ovation for
making that case I think that puts the
most pressure on like we can't live in a
world where Republican even if it's one
but one Republican congressman is
showing more courage of their
convictions than Democrats in the
situation I think that puts a lot of
pressure on and there's - I just have
this sense that the momentum is all on
the side of the flow of the Democrats
who want to hold Trump accountable by
opening in a Pietschmann inquiry because
just think of like the arguments they
have they had the clear moral argument
they have a clear constitutional
argument they have the better argument
around strat legal strategy in the sense
that Trump is stiff-arming everything
that they want to do and that their
hands and getting access to those
documents and those witnesses and
strengthened by any Pietschmann inquiry
and the argument on the other side is
essentially Trump committed and
teachable offenses but we're not going
to do impeachment because politics or
something and that is just not that's
not a compelling argument you're not
exciting anyone with that you're not
you're not it's not a logically coherent
I urge to win that argument over the
long term because there's no and it's
just it's not a great argument and it is
exacerbated by the fact that people are
very skeptical for good reason about
members of the Democratic establishment
telling the activists to check their
passion because of political strategy
right let's just we have been down the
road we now believe for better or worse
that no one knows anything and so why
would you take that on face value that
doing the right thing morally
constitutionally legally is the wrong
thing politically why would you allow
that argument to Trump no pun intended
what you believe and look uh you know
I've obviously been in favor of
proceeding with impeachment for a little
bit now but I will I understand where
Nancy Pelosi is coming from I will make
her argument for her if you look at
polls right now Democrats are in favor
of impeachment by around seventy seventy
five percent of Democrats independents
are slightly opposed Republicans are
obviously very very opposed Pelosi is
looking out at her caucus she's looking
at the seats that gave the Democrats the
majority in the house that made her
speaker those seats are in districts
where those Democrats would not have won
those seats if they did not get a good
amount of votes from independence from
some Republicans you know ask Katie
Porter asked Lauren Underwood ask
Antonio de got del Gado if they'd be in
their seats right now without obama
trump voters without republican voters
voting for them and so if you look at
the polls and you see independents and
Republicans against impeachment and you
see that not even all Democrats are for
impeachment and you know that you're not
going to get a conviction out of the
Senate because Republicans are gonna
stand by Trump you say to yourself why
put the caucus through that right now
and why take that vote if we know that a
majority of Americans overwhelming
majority of Americans agree with us on
issues like health care which voters
happen to be very concerned about
so this is where Nancy Pelosi is coming
from the counter to that is
that's where public opinion is right now
at a time where only one-half of one
party is making the case why the
president United States should be
impeached and we haven't had a trial we
haven't had all these televised
investigations all this testimony we
haven't made a consistent coherent
argument about why Donald Trump should
be impeached all the news right now is
process arguments it's about contempt
citations it's about getting don McGann
to testify who the is Don McGann
most people don't know so all of this is
we're in the weeds on process right now
and we haven't begun to make the actual
argument for impeachment so the truth is
we don't know where the politics will
end up on impeachment they could be bad
for Democrats they could be good anyone
who tells you they know where the
politics are gonna end up a couple
months or now or year from now they're
they're just they're not telling the
truth because none of us know so the
question is do you do what seems right
what seems like the logical thing to do
which what gives you the most compelling
coherent logical argument which is
here's the you know the Special Counsel
investigated the president found that he
committed a bunch of crimes by the way
he's been abusing his power in office in
all these other ways since the day he
was elected since before he was elected
this is why he's unfit for office this
is why he's dangerous this is why he
feels like he's above the law lay out
the case you know who knows what might
happen then you know as was probably
clear to people who are listening now is
that my opinion has shifted on this over
time like I talked about that and by the
way everyone should check out your piece
in crooked comm today about how
Democrats can win the politics of
impeachment if we go down that road it's
a fantastic piece and so everyone please
check it out now I know I just write
strategy memos for the open Internet
it's become my new wife Sarah needs the
so right after the Mullen report drops I
agreed with Nancy Pelosi that the best
path was keep impeachment on the table
right so all the people like Steny Hoyer
in the
and who said we're not going to impede
staff the mistake you have to keep it on
the table because yeah my view right
after the Mullen report dropped was I
grieved antsy we should keep in
feature on the table you can do a series
of high-profile hearings in the normal
course of business that in the Oversight
Committee of the Judiciary Committee
Intelligence Committee that dramatized
what was in the molar report and expand
upon it right yeah I so I thought that
and then at the end of that process if
you can build support within the
caucuses in the country for teaching you
should proceed there have been two
things that have caused me to believe
that now impeachment impeachment inquiry
is being best path for Democrats to take
the first is the path aeneas be closely
originally put forward it's not
available because Trump has decided to
take an unprecedented Lyon
constitutional approach to the balance
between two seven equal branches of
government and to say that no oversight
is appropriate and everything is a
partisan fit partisan fishing expedition
I will not cooperate you'll get no
woodenness you get the document that's
going to be trilling everything from
what was in the molar report to the
hurricane that to oversight into the
botched response The Tragically botch
response to the hurricane in Puerto Rico
to just all the other contingencies of
corruption self administration and so
you're deprived the opportunity to
expose to the public what Trump did
through the normal course of business so
that's one and the second one is I sort
of had this gnawing feeling about it's
almost a sense of deja vu it's I've been
talking about this and so on Friday and
it was Friday I was on Twitter as often
happened about a Friday any other day or
any day and I there was I saw that
Robbie boots it was Hillary Clinton's
campaign manager was trending over huh
so I clicked on that and people were
very worked up because CNBC had written
an article that said
voter activists are mad at essentially
mad at closely for not moving on Pete
Smith but political strategists agree
with her and it went through and quoted
a lot of very smart very accomplished
pollsters who consulted suspension
people whose job it is to keep the house
take the Senate when the White House and
included in that group of Ravi Luke
and who said that a warding impeachment
was the better political moves and I
just had this feeling now that I don't
respect all of the people quoted in that
story this feeling that like there was
just something deeply uncomfortable
about once again the professional
political class of I consider myself at
least adjacent to it it's not an actual
member of telling activists we know
better what is good politically so check
what you believe is right
morally or constitutional whatever they
just felt very uncomfortable and say it
felt like an unsustainable position for
the party to be in because you're
basically putting a neon sign over your
head that says we are doing.we we are
not doing what we believe is right we're
doing what we believe polls better and
that is always terrible politics yeah
it's just you you it is very hard to
convince people that you are the change
that they believe in when you act like
the most typical politician in
American history and that is how
Democrats are coming off right now
because no one is making the
counter-argument to impeachment on
anything other than politics right like
they're going out and saying it's what
Trump wants it'll solidify in spades
the polls say it's bad all of those are
not arguments to persuade people to your
position and I think that is a huge
problem and so I took from that I was
like huh maybe I should have a thought
exercise try to make the case for why
the politics of impeachment are good
right then maybe then all the
consultants are wrong and so I spent way
more of my weekend from all day weekend
writing that piece and I intended to but
ultimately I couldn't convince myself
that they were good right then like what
I came away from was that the politics
are not like the problem the politics of
matter are not what they are now like it
is how how they are at the end of this
and then there is huge political risk in
impeaching and heading down an
impeachment path there is no doubt about
that but there is also as much if not
more risk in not heading down that path
and basically turning a blind eye to
your constitutional responsibility and
we can talk
why that is but what it really came down
to the reason I wrote this piece was
instead of trying to debate what was
whether it was good politics bad
politics or if or when we do impeachment
I decided to focus on how we do it to
think about if we go down this path
which I think we are probably at least
seems as of today like we are going to
get to eventually what would be the best
way to do it to manage those politics
but see if you can turn this into a at a
moment when we're doing the right thing
for the country but we are also
maximizing our chances to keep the house
the seat Trump and even take back the
Senate I think there is a path to do
that and that's what I laid out the
piece I think the point you just made
about what does the path look like what
does the next year look like if we do
not pursue impeachment is a very
important point and something that we
haven't talked about as much if you told
me that if we walk away from impeachment
we could engage Donald Trump in the
Republican Party in a great debate over
health care coverage or a great debate
over tax cuts there you know the
Republican tax cuts or the regulations
they're stripping away and how they're
helping Wall Street banks and all this
other kind of stuff if you told me that
we could have that debate every day from
now until the election in 2020 I tell
you I'd rather have that debate than
have a debate about impeachment but
that's not the presidency we're dealing
with that's not the age of media that
we're dealing with right now and I think
it it's it's a misunderstanding of how
Trump captures the new cycle everyday
and how he acts as a president which is
he is going to he's already told us that
he is basically going to try to
investigate his political opponents turn
this around on the Democrats you know
try to have show trials by the time
we're in the election you know next year
he's got his Attorney General now
investigating the investigators he's
going to beat up on Democrats every day
and I've come to think that basically
this is a race against time to feed you
to find out who can own more news cycles
between now and the 2020 election the
Democrats or Donald Trump and as we saw
today
going after Trump on the crimes that he
committed on the impeachable offenses
that he's committed puts him on the
defensive makes him angry and prevents
him from being on offense against
Democrats as he is on other days of the
week when we're out there trying to get
our message up now this doesn't mean
that our presidential candidates and our
congressional candidates shouldn't be
out there at Town Hall's every single
 day talking about their plan for
healthcare and their plan for wages and
all the other kind of stuff but it does
mean that we are in this constant media
battle to see who can own the microphone
that day and Donald Trump nine times out
of 10 is always in control of the
microphone impeachment having the eyes
of the nation focused on these live
televised hearings over and over again
is perhaps one way perhaps the only way
to finally rest the microphone away from
Donald Trump I think that is right and
if I was trying to factor the politics
in my head and it is like there is
something uncomfortable about like this
is Congress's most sort of sacred
responsibility right it is the biggest
thing they do would be to undertake an
effort that can lead to the removal of
an elected president like that is a big
thing and so you sort of it feels weird
to talk about politics but it is a a
political process it is it is the
founder of sort of intended it that way
by giving it to the elected
representatives of the public as opposed
to the judiciary which was also you know
they had three branches they they had to
choose to here and they chose the one
staffed by people who have to face the
voters but also we know it's political
in the sense that Trump is has immunity
by Republican cowardice in the Senate
right there he tweet like we have to be
very clear he is not going to be removed
from office right now we have to think
about what we're trying to achieve here
and it is a political objective and so a
couple of thoughts about how to think
about that one is we have to think about
an impeachment proceeding as what
matters is the journey not the
destination I don't as much as it will
bother Donald Trump to be one of us tiny
handful of
presidents what matters is what we tell
people into getting there I don't think
voters gonna be like I was for him until
you impeached him but it could be that
in the context of what what they learned
over the course of that time they were
less likely to support Trump or they
decided that a Democrat would be better
off and so I think that that is the way
to think about right it's not what can
happen at the end of school what's gonna
happen between the day you open the
inquiry and Election Day 2020 and how
can you inform voters in a very specific
set of orders right new it new and
sporadic lawyers who helped elect
Democrats 2018 the voters who voted for
Trump 2016 but disapprove mminton now
the voters who voted for a third party
candidate 2016 will they be available to
us like that's how we have to think
about that the second thing is I think
the arguments against impeachment
politically are they're not precise
enough whether they're and somewhat
inaccurate and so they should at least
be tested it may still turn out that the
risk of impeachment is tremendous and
you just everything's working like
getting out of bed right so but the two
points that people often cite is the
effects of the Republicans in teaching
Bill Clinton in 1998 and the way that
story is told is historically inaccurate
because a couple of important points one
Bill Clinton was yes
Bill Clinton won seats in 1998 which was
him the big surprise was very unusual
for a midterm election in the
president's second term an impeachment
was something was being discussed in
that election because Republicans were
talking about it as a response to the
Ken Starr investigation and Bill
Clinton's conduct but the impeachment
didn't happen till after the election so
Republicans didn't so basically if we do
not impeach or begin impeachment
proceedings against Trump before the
2020 election we were essentially
rerunning the play that did not work in
1998 which is you put something that is
a radioactive issue like a feature on
the table and then you spend no time or
effort to explain to people why you're
doing it to plate it basically they
raise the charge without prosecuting the
case
the other point is yes it is true that
at the height of impeachment Bill
Clinton's approval ratings skyrocketed
to 73 percent in the Gallup poll that is
true but a couple of points around that
one
they were 66 percent on the day of the
and the last Gallup poll before the 1998
election and while they hit 73 right his
trumpet and booklet miss being impeached
the his numbers went back down to what
was sort of his baseline for the last of
the rest of his term which was high 60s
low fifties we're just still very high
but we were also sort of living in a
different less polarized era and then in
the first election after impeachment
Democrats did pick up seats in the House
and they did pick up seats in the Senate
so we should be clear about that but
Bill Clinton's vice president lost
election in part because because the
George W Bush was running against Al
Gore at the time ran explicitly against
Clinton's conduct he talked about
returning decency to the Oval Office
- it was very specific that he was
running against Bill Clinton's conduct
and the associated chaos they came from
all the investigations the impeachment
and even though booklet remained
relatively popular he was at least toxic
enough with swing voters at the end of
that election that Al Gore decided that
Bill Clinton the incumbent democratic
residentes could not campaign for him
down the stretch and we can debate
whether that was like that will be
debated forever where that was the right
session or decision but the fact that he
even thought it is proof that
impeachment had an impact on Bill
Clinton's political viability and so I
think we have to think about we at least
have to understand that historical
example correctly if we're going to
evaluate the politics of each one going
forward yeah I think the other important
point about that historical example is
the argument that Republicans made for
impeachment was somewhat discordant in
the minds of voters because they're
basically saying yes you might like this
president but sorry yes you might think
he's doing a good job this president you
might like the economy you might think
his presidency is a success but we want
to impeach him for personal conduct and
I think it also I think that gets to
a very important point that you also
raised in your piece today which is that
the Democrats messaging around
impeachment and why they're impeaching
Donald Trump and what for is critical
and I do think that if Democrats focus
only on the Muller report that will be a
political mistake and just a mistake in
general because what Trump did around
Russia and his obstruction is not the
only a peach Abul offense he has
committed since taking office and so I
think you need a broader message about
Trump's abuse of power I mean just
imagine a set of impeachment hearings
where you not only talk about them on a
report but used to talk about how Trump
has been using his presidency to promote
his private businesses and get rich
which has encouraged corporations and
foreign governments to funnel money into
the Trump Hotel in mar-a-lago if they
want to influence say a corporate merger
or u.s. foreign policy and you know you
ask people is that how we want our
president to make decisions about can
you afford to join his private club if
if you need a certain policy he's placed
himself above the law he's abused his
power to target his political enemies
he's ordered investigations into hillary
biden obama officials
he's tried to make amazon pay more for
postage because of a personal feud with
jeff bezos the company's owner imagine
if he did that to your company he's
pardoned his friends and business
associates even when they violated Human
Rights like Joe Arpaio or stole
money from people like his former
business partner Conrad black he told
border patrol agents he pardoned them if
they broke the law he's considering
right now pardoning war criminals I mean
he the his government tried to cover up
the murder of a Washington Post
journalist by a foreign government who
currently has a secret financial
relationship with and then there's
issues that actually you know matter to
people's lives
he acted illegally to sabotage the
Affordable Care Act build a border wall
using money that Congress refused to
appropriate and separate immigrant
children from their families some of
whom his government has lost
I mean imagine the witnesses that you
could bring before Congress to tell
these stories and how you could connect
his actions and his misdeeds and his
crimes to what really matters to the
American people it doesn't have to be
about
just obstruction and contempt and the
Muller report all the stuff we can make
this about issues that really matter to
people the other point I just want to
make about the politics on it right
because I mean because they do better is
people also say Democrats won in 2018
because they didn't follow Trump down
rabbit holes and they had a discipline
focused
campaign on health care and the Trump
tax cut and that is true mm-hmm but
there is a second piece of that and they
also ran whether they were running in
blue districts or deeply red districts
they ran on from providing a check and a
balance against the chaos and corruption
of trumps Washington yeah and I we
talked last week about this catalyst
report one of the findings in the report
was one of the things that cause
Democrats to have such a successful 2018
was a surge of new voters for a midterm
there are 13 percent the electorate was
new voters and what message does it send
to those voters if you sell to them in
2018 that you can provide a check and a
balance to Trump but then in 2019 you
turn a blind eye to in what is
essentially an impeachment referral from
Bob Muller about obstruction of justice
like what message is that then the key
to getting people to get off the
sidelines and vote and then you get them
to go from being a first-time voter to a
second third for senators to show them
their vote matters so if you make them
an explicit promise and then break that
promise within 365 days then you are
putting yourself at risk in 20 times we
need every one of those voters from 2018
to turnout and then some to win this
election in 2020 and so yes there there
is real concerns about how this will
affect some of those Obama Trump voters
who voted for a Democrat in 2018 yes
there is some concern about how this
will affect some of those Republicans
who voted for Trump in 2016 but now
disapprove them and captains of industry
there are some effect event but there's
also an effect on the other side of the
ledger and what it says in in the in
impact sorry there is also in effect on
potentially base turnout and we have to
look at all
like at a holistic picture here about
the politics and not simply assign it to
a set of white working-class voters in
the Midwest and allow them to dictate
the strategy for the party which I take
- often times we do yes and last point
here and you make this you sorry last
point here and you talked about this in
your piece as well
is I think Democrats should use the low
expectations that impeachment will
result in Trump's removal in their favor
right the the the jury is not the Senate
the jury is the American people and as
Democrats start this I think they should
say explicitly we don't necessarily
expect that Mitch McConnell and the
Senate Republicans are going to show
political courage for the first time in
the Trump presidency and do the right
thing here but we want everyone in that
Senate on record before the 2020
election and then the American people
can decide if Susan Collins who's going
to be in a hopefully in a close race in
Maine if Cory Gardner who's going to be
in a tight race in Colorado
if martha mcsalley who's going to be in
a tight race in Arizona if they want to
look at all this evidence about the
president's abuse of power and unfitness
for office and the crimes he committed
and say we stick with Donald Trump we're
gonna ensure we're gonna not have any
accountability for Donald Trump
whatsoever we're going to let him off
the hook for everything if they want to
take that vote they can take that vote
and then they can face the voters in
2020 and so therefore we set up a thing
where when you know the Senate
exonerates Donald Trump and he says oh
they exonerated me
no one's surprised because we know that
basically this is about making a case to
the American people which we're gonna do
anyway about why Donald Trump shouldn't
serve a second term and then the voters
can decide ask Susan Collins right now I
bet if a reporter asked Susan Collins
right now would you vote to exonerate
Donald Trump or impeach Donald Trump
she'd she'd at least say well I'd have
to see the evidence she wouldn't say I'm
gonna I'm gonna she's not excited to
take a vote on impeachment Cory Gardner
is not excited to take a vote of
impeachment do you think these people
are like super psyched the Democrats are
pursuing this and then they get to vote
to exonerate Donald Trump I don't think
so yeah yeah they have no choice because
if they vote to tolerate Donald Trump in
blue states in a presidential election
year they are they
face real risk of wrath of both
jacked-up Democratic turnout and
independent folks estate by Colorado
independents are the largest portion
electorate and if they were some people
have said to me since that piecing that
well wouldnt the Connell just let
Gardner Collins mcsalley etc vote to
convict Trump because he doesn't need
those votes they can't take that vote
either because that would betray Trump
and they would basically no Trump voters
would turnout so they are you putting
them doing tremendous pressure on them
in possible position which there's a way
in which we can use this process to not
just beat Donald Trump in presidential
election but also take the Senate which
is what this is this is what we are
aiming for yeah that's right like if
this is done poorly it's a
disaster but you have to have a plan you
have to have a message you have to
execute it with precision and
discipline and that is not easy no in a
live-fire exercise like this will be but
it can be done we just have to do it
right yeah and I think that's where my
biggest anxiety is that we we fail in
the execution here and it becomes a
bunch of you know Democrats and disarray
stories and you know we it all up
and you know like the guy who ate a
bunch of fried chicken when you know Don
McGann didn't show up for his testimony
and thought that was a funny stunt
that's the kind of that yeah that
will that will be politically bad for us
okay talk to her about this let's talk
about the Democratic primary on
Wednesday the Democratic National
Committee announced its third
presidential primary debate in September
along with new requirements for
candidates to qualify candidates will
now have to sorry can dates will now
have to have a hundred and thirty
thousand unique donors up from the
current threshold of 65,000 unique
donors and not or and they will have to
pull at 2% or higher in at least four
national or early state polls up from
the current rule of one percent in three
polls the new rules could dramatically
winnow the number of candidates that
make the debates as of right now 19
candidates have qualified for the first
debates later this month these new rules
could trim the field possibly down to
seven eight nine candidates dan is this
a good idea
it's hard to say if it is a good idea or
not it is a necessary idea and I am very
sympathetic to the challenges the DNC
faces here right they wanted to
especially after what happened 2016 they
wanted to be as fair as possible to give
as many people an opportunity to go from
the bottom of the pack to the top of the
pack and so they set the standard 1% in
a poll and 65 thousand unique donors and
the goal with that was to make it so
that grassroots support small dollar
grassroots support should be encouraged
it should be recognized it just turned
out that it was easier to hit that
threshold than people expect it and
that's that's sort of impossible to know
at the time there I don't remember less
people being like this is super easy
there's just more engagement among a
wider array of candidates and people
expect it and it's easier to get people
to get like you think it most people get
a few dollars online especially if
you're putting money behind social media
ads which is what all these kids been
spending all their money on it's this
building and donations and so you can
get there so they're trying to balance
not putting their thumb on the scale in
favor of establishment candidates who
are currently frontrunners with I think
also an obligation to the voters that
they get to see the candidates who are
most likely to be the nominee engage
with each other right like if we go
through a bunch of debates and we never
see Elizabeth Warren and Joe Biden or
Kamala Harris and Bernie Sanders or
Biden and Bernie Sanders engage with
each other then that is the Madison
disservice to the voters right like if
we end up in a world where Biden is on
stage with Marianne Williamson Andrew
yang you know a bunch of people who have
a very very small chance as of right now
to be president then we're not really
getting to see like to really test out
the mettle of that candidate and so
they're trying to find the right balance
I think this could dramatically winnow
the field made silver made this point
that it's just gonna be very hard to get
2% for a lot of these candidates 1%
you're sort of within the margin of
error and you can you know be 0 most
times then one a couple times and you'll
get there too is harder especially in a
film this large so you know you could be
down to
you know eight to ten candidates pretty
quickly and I I'm torn on it like it
it's hard for those other candidates
specially the ones who got in the race
wait to say tough but I think ultimately
it was probably the right thing to do
with just the we're living in a world of
unintended consequences yeah I am I am
sympathetic to all the candidates who
are currently you know pulling around 1%
and haven't hit that donor threshold and
I'm sympathetic to their argument well I
just need more time I'm sort of in this
catch-22 like I need sort of I need to
be able to break through but in order to
break through I sort of need the media
exposure and that's why I need this
debate and I get that to a point but the
counter example here is Pete Buddha
judge who you know was it you know he's
a small town mayor he was on nobody's
radar he was polling at 1% and within a
month of announcing maybe a little more
he was able to through his CNN Town Hall
and of course his interview with you Dan
here in Pudsey of America he was able to
prove that he belonged in the top tier
through several breakout performances
and it took him about a month or two
months and if this thresholds this new
threshold were in place for these first
two debates I'd say it was certainly
unfair but by September by the time
September rolls around and all these
candidates have been campaigning for a
couple months and they've all had their
chance to do their CNN Town Hall's in
their MSNBC town halls and by the way
they've had a chance to do two national
debates and get their message out there
if they still can't hit 2 percent in the
polls then I do think it's fair to say
you know we still are gonna have about
eight or nine candidates on stage at
once together that's still a huge field
and we NEET and those are the eight or
nine candidates not the two or three
eight or nine candidates most likely to
win this race and voters need to see
them in a series of exchanges and not
hear thirty Seconds to a minute from
each person and then move on they need
to hear a real debate and by the way
that field if it was right now would
you know Joe Biden Bernie Sanders
Elizabeth Warren Pete Buddha judge
Camilla Harris better or Roarke cory
booker amy klobuchar perhaps as well
that that field would be the most
diverse field of democratic candidates
maybe in history three women in that
field to people of color a gay man I
mean that is a that is a very diverse
field its diverse ideologically and so I
think you know if we end up with that
field with that group of candidates by
September after all these other
candidates have been campaigning for
months and had plenty of media exposure
you know sanctioned by the DNC then I
think we're in a pretty good place yeah
the the barriers to entry for
lesser-known political figures are
lesser than they never let me show you
the barriers to entry have been brought
down for lesser-known political figures
and that's not just mayor P it's also
Andrew yang yes they repeat at least it
was well-known within the party as a
rising star he had turned a run for DNC
chair into play some same internal like
I mean even to the point where when we
interviewed President Obama on the last
his last day in office he mentioned
mayor P bright someone who was a rising
star with him like he's had that rising
star label but Andrew yang is gonna be
in that debate Kate like came from
nowhere right yeah built a following on
the Internet
through an aggressive strategy and so
you still like even these are getting a
date it gets harder but you can still
you can still make yourself known
because you can get on podcast you if
this is just we're like the three
networks CNN and the New York Council
watching us decide who gets coverage
there are all kinds of ways to get
coverage and you can still do it in you
have a compelling message in a good
story and interesting agenda you have a
chance yep but the DNC does it to your
court has an obligation to try to make
these debates this informative of
possible for the voters and just simply
saying you were running for president as
we said before it's not the same as
actually running for president has to be
putting together a real campaign and
getting traction and whether this is
going to be the exact right line maybe
it should be totally different if you
have 12 KN s not nine 87.9 I don't know
but
going to a world in which we are
beginning as we get where is worth in
six months of the Iowa caucus where
we're focusing the attention on the
people who've been able to gain traction
there's probably the right and only path
to take whether it's me they're doing it
exactly or not we'll see how this plays
out but I I understand why they did and
it seems to be the only choice to make
all right let's talk about the policy
primary a news story from Thomas Kaplan
and a sted hundun in The New York Times
says that Elizabeth Warren is gaining in
the polls and seeing bigger crowds and
that she's quote been propelled in part
by a number of disruptive choices most
notably the breakneck pace at which he
introduces policy proposals dan do you
agree with that and what do you think
about Warren's overall strategy and the
strength of her campaign Elizabeth
Warren is running the best campaign of
anyone in this race and it's not close I
agree there are other people running
really good races like the fact that
Mayor P has gone from nowhere to a
top-tier contender and is by all
accounts raising more money than perhaps
anyone else in the field yeah
right now it's also currently president
so we can debate it but Elizabeth Warren
knows why she's running her campaign
knows what their path to win is
everything they're running it with
strategic discipline they're playing the
long game they are taking risks that are
consistent with their strategy and
they're being opportunistic to find ways
to make news in a very tough news
environment whether it is being the
first to in the context of a
presidential campaign to jump on a peach
pit whether it is seeing that every
other candidate is doing a Fox News Town
Hall so you're gonna take a strong
stance against Fox like she's just
running the best campaign does that mean
she's gonna win no does that mean she'll
be running the still also be running the
best campaign three months in now no but
she states she has a plan for why she is
for which item in a great I mean this is
a little funny I guess but she has to
plan away right that is the actual plan
she has and all of all of her policies
ladder up to a narrative about who she
is and why she be a good president it's
very impressive just for us the
perspective of people who have worked on
campaigns before both good ones and bad
ones she is running a very good campaign
and that should be noted
I completely agree and it actually
bothers me when
and people talk about Elizabeth Warren
success as only a result of the fact
that she's releasing a bunch of policies
because as we have seen in the past as
we've talked about many times about 2016
and about other races you can put out a
slew of 10-point plans and detailed
policy papers and that does not equal a
winning political strategy by any means
but the reason that elizabeth warren is
successful and the reason that her plans
are successful is because like you said
they are all sort of sorry they all
ladder up to that one overarching
message right even her policies it's all
about sort of unstacking the debt right
I'm sorry they're all about unstacking
the debt they they they they fit a
message right that you know people who
are powerful and wealthy they write the
rules they write the laws and everyone
else gets screwed and she's saying we're
gonna rewrite the laws so that they're
more democratic we're gonna write
rewrite the rules so that more people
have a chance and all of her policies
flow from that and like you said she's
also been very good about trying to get
coverage not just on her plans but on
things like the Fox News townhall on
being out there early on impeachment
she's doing things like going to West
Virginia to talk to Trump voters about
opioids and she's getting news that way
you know she's out there she was at a
she was in an event last week and she
said ask the other candidates if they
get their money from a bunch of
millionaires which is talking about her
very difficult and risky decision to
ditch high-dollar fundraising events and
only do low dollar fundraising which is
risky but she's then using it to her
advantage by saying you know when mayor
Pete and Kamala Harris and Joe Biden and
some of these candidates were doing a
lot of high-dollar fund raising and
raising money from really rich people
when they come through here you ask them
where they're getting their money from
I'm getting their money from grassroots
fun Trek grassroots donors and so I
really think it's smart that she's
putting all the different pieces
together and she's not just focused on
throwing out a bunch of policy plans and
one thing is important to note there is
her campaign has been very high risk
tolerance yes they understand that for
anyone with the other than the possible
exception of Joe Biden just given his
commanding lead in the polls right now
for everyone else winning it's a
tremendous longshot right it is probably
sub 10 percent for every other candidate
not other than Joe Biden and because
it's very hard to win a primary period
it's really hard to win in a large and
credibly diverse field like this one and
if you understand how low your chances
are of winning then you recognize that
you need to take risks you have to have
a strategy with high durians where there
is there's tremendous downside risk to
saying I'm not going to do in-person
fundraisers like he was betting on
something you're betting you're going to
sell a grassroots message and turn that
into enough money to power your campaign
but there's also huge upside benefit if
you execute it well right being in front
of impeachment same situation and like I
would like to see more campaigns
undertake understand the importance of
risky strategies like not risk for risk
sake it is looking as I understand what
your strategy is and then being willing
to tolerate high risk for high benefit
and that is I think into the great
credit for campaign and she hasn't
panicked like it was only a like a month
ago that the air Times wrote a story
that was very criticized by many of us
but made the point that she was
struggling not moving in the polls not
raising money and since then she has
moved in the polls and raised a lot of
money and is firmly askance ourselves in
the top tier of the race and that's very
president the other thing I'd just say
about her campaign is she has adjusted
over time I thought I sort of dread it
in some ways what it was with morons
presidential name would look like a few
years ago when Trump first came into
office and she was getting in these
Twitter fights with Trump all the time
yeah and it just felt very like she was
her strategy was drafting on Trump's
insults of her and sort of allowing him
to define the four corners of the
conversation around Elizabeth Warren and
that you're going to like John's going
to speak you're gonna respond and it
felt 2016 ish to me yeah but since then
she has found a way to tell her story in
communicate
her message absolute Trump right like
Trump is a is part of every part of
every conversation in America she
doesn't mention it all the time and her
way of communicating our will and
telling her story right now has has
really changed since the early part of
the Trump parents relay there's a much
more effective both primary and general
election strategy and it's impressive so
some of the other candidates released
big policy proposals of their own this
week Joe Biden promised to triple
spending on low-income schools for
things like teacher raises and access to
pre key access to pre-k Beto became the
second candidate to release a
comprehensive immigration plan that
would offer a pathway to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants and end
deportations of undocumented immigrants
who don't have criminal backgrounds
Kamala Harris released a plan based on
the Voting Rights Act that would require
States to get pre-clearance to pass new
abortion restrictions if the state has a
bad track record dan what's your
reaction to these plans and do you think
these candidates have felt pressured at
all by Warren putting all her plans out
and should they I think they all seem
very like like much of the policy that's
been released by all the candidates well
thought out aggressive speaks to the the
moment we're in and by the moment I
don't mean Trump being president I mean
a world in which our we're living a
world of massive transformation both in
our government and our economy excetera
and so like bolts right like like these
are both these are good ball plans I'm
not an expert enough in some of them to
know like even the exact precision of
how good they are but they they're
compelling I certainly think Elizabeth
Warren is putting some pressure on some
candidates to put out more policies
because she set the bar but this is also
in fairness these candidates this is how
you run for president yeah is that you
put a pulse and try to help tell the
public what you stand for what kind of
person that you would be and you try to
do it the way that makes news right
Carmel Harris did hers did her
announcement in anticipation of an MSNBC
Town Hall she was doing better will work
is someone who's defined his candidacy
around growing up and and representing a
border district and so immigration is
important part I think there's some
pressure this is also what presidential
campaigns
should be doing it's what they sort of
owed the voters and it's a import parts
Treasury the key is making your policies
be more than a one day precedent they
have to be a data point in a larger
story you're trying to tell the public
that's exactly right
I mean I thought the same thing to you
your policies it's not just about
throwing out random policies to satisfy
people who are saying you need more
policy you're not substantive enough
look at all of Elizabeth Warren's policy
and then you react by throwing out a
bunch of policy every policy proposal
you release every press event you do
every strategic move you make should be
in service of the larger story you're
trying to tell about why you should be
president why people should vote for you
in this very crowded field over
everybody else and even if you don't
want to make the explicit argument about
why you should be the nominee and not
everyone else it should be implicit in
just about everything that you say and I
do think look Joe Biden and Bernie
Sanders have to worry about this a
little less because they have
near-universal name ID there at the top
of the field everyone knows how that
knows how everyone knows who they are
and so they're gonna lay out their plans
and talk about why they should be
president that's that and then you have
the next sort of two people in the polls
Pete Budaj and Elizabeth Warren they've
sort of been able to stand out I mean
Warren's
policy is her message in some ways all
of her plans add up to a larger story
about where she wants to take the
country and what's currently broken
about our politics Pete's personal story
and his age and where he comes from in
many ways is his message
he's lighter on the policy side right
now but he's sort of telling a story
about who he is and where he comes from
and generational change that's his
message I think then when you get to
Beto and Kamala we're sort of the next
two people in the polls you know they
both stand out in in different ways and
have different stories to tell but I
think their challenge is to figure out
what policies they can put together what
tactic what strategies they can all put
together that tells very unique stories
about each of them and why they would be
you know the best nominee and why they
should stand out and why you should vote
for them and not all of these other
qualified nominees
yeah that's right it is you know every
candidate needs to know why they're
running for president what story they
want to tell voters and if you don't
know that you're gonna run a very poor
campaign because everything's just going
to be pretty random but I think
the Elizabeth Warren people to judge
comparison is really interesting because
Warren is running entirely on policy and
good decisions running almost entirely
without policy which doesn't mean he
doesn't have positions but he is in very
depth at like at running in a way that
allows people to regardless of where the
he's alighted the debates around issues
like Medicare for all or the Green Deal
by kind of being four broad versions of
lots of things so if you're for Medicare
for all there you know me repeat is
giving you reason as he did in the
prostate America interview to believe
he's open to a Bernie Sanders version of
Medicare for all but if you're against
that he's also he is said he's also
willing to consider a buy it and so like
some play there's it's just very
interesting you can have success
entirely with policy and all and have
almost as much or as much success
without a focus on policy it's just it
looks like two different campaigns both
being run Wow yeah what what ties them
both together is knowing what your story
is and why it's unique compared to the
rest of the field and driving that
message home every single day and not
being random about what you decide to
speak about and what you know where you
decide to go so okay when we return we
will have our interview with Julia Louie
Dreyfus and Dave Mandel a veep thank you
to Julia Louie Dreyfus and Dave Mandel
for joining us today and we will see you
next week all right
you
