welcome to pod save America I'm John
Lovett I'm Dan Pfeiffer Favreau and
Tommy are on vacation in Barrett's
making eyes with Justin Trudeau while
Trump watches Dan how you doing okay how
are you look at this
another Jetsons Flintstones crossover
it's what the people that's that's
you're across our episode go so it is
like I don't know I didn't mad about you
go somewhere once then they show up in
places yeah I think so there was Alf was
only guilt was on Gilligan's Iowa and so
a couple other ones
empty-nest was on the Golden Girls all
kinds of big ones that makes sense all
right let's move on all right today
we're gonna - today we're gonna talk
about the new additions to Trump's long
list of enemies foreign and domestic now
it's the chairman of the Federal Reserve
Jay Powell who they started answering
today we're gonna talk about new
additions to Trump's long list of
enemies foreign and domestic now it's
the chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board Jay Powell who definitely had a
rough Friday we'll also look at Trump's
escalating trade war with China and his
decision to skip a climate change
meeting at the ED a tumultuous gathering
at the g7 in France then we'll cover the
Republican presidential primary which is
which is uh heating up dan do you think
it's fair to say that it's heating up
it's hotter than it was before so yeah
and the latest news around the
Democratic race plus we'll have Dan's
interview with Ben whittler the new
chair of the Wisconsin Democratic Party
on Ben's efforts to organize in
Wisconsin one of if not the most
important states we can target in 2020
dan I know there was one thing you
wanted to mention sure so for all of our
listeners doing the bit who are in the
Bay Area on September 16th Holly and I
are hosting a fundraiser for Isis with
our friends from Airbnb at their
headquarters here in San Cisco at that
fundraiser I'll be interviewing hope
fried who is one of the attorneys who
has been visiting the immigration
facilities is people listen to the pod
note race this is an amazing
organization that is working to reunite
the separated families and advocate for
immigrants particularly those who are
suffering at the hands of the Trump
administration's policies so for all
everyone is in the area hope you can
join us I will tweet out the invitation
and more details
later today so go to that uh-huh
come and then also on Thursday I will be
joined by Alyssa Mastromonaco who will
be filling who will be filling in for
Dan on a very special Thursday pod which
should be fun but let's start with the
latest on trumps various trade Wars and
Twitter Wars because they're having very
real consequences for the economy right
now you and John talked about it last
Thursday about the kind of increasingly
unhinged musings of Trump around the
economy but on Friday it did get worse
we woke up to news that China was adding
seventy five billion dollars in Rotella
retaliatory toute chatter we woke up to
news that China would be adding seventy
five billion dollars in retaliatory
tariffs the Fed chair Jay Powell had a
the Fed chair Jay Powell the Fed chair
Jay Powell gave a speech where basically
he said that the trade war was doing
damage and the Fed was not the right
tool to fix it
Trump found the perfect way to combine
these two news events he said quote my
only question is who is our bigger enemy
Jay Powell or chairman ji-dan were you
were you surprised to see the president
basically issue a threat to the Fed
chair on Twitter comparing him to a
foreign adversary
well it's I'm not even sure if it was a
threat to pal I guess was a threat to
Jay Powell also to China and both in the
city as I saw that tweet and then I saw
that it had been deleted I was like Oh
someone got to trump they suggested that
maybe it was a bad idea to label China
our enemy and make the suggestion about
the Fed chair but no he reposted it
moments later because he simply had a
typo growth from Trump it was a typo so
it wasn't a fit of pique he went back
and really made sure that he stuck the
landing
it was an extraordinary I do think it's
look I know we talked about Trump Suites
all the time but it really is an
extraordinary document because it
contains two very big parts of what
is doing at once on the one hand it is
calling China and enemy which is a big
deal and then on the other hand it is
this personal politics of threats and
harassment that he practices now against
the chair of the Federal Reserve a
position that is incredibly important in
our economy that for a very long time
was treated as sacrosanct was treated as
something at least in some ways a
political a political whether or not
that's true because there was a
recognition that there's a lot of danger
in getting our scut our scuzzy political
getting our scuzzy partisan politics on
the way the Fed operates given how
important monetary policy is to the
economy so let's take each one at a time
dan why is it a big deal for Trump to
declare China and enemy you know it
seems so quaint
like even thinking about this way but
there was this time a we spent all this
time thinking and caring about the words
became not about the presidents now but
out of any person who could credibly
credibly be labeled a spokesperson to
the United States government whether
even that was Jay Carney or Josh earnest
or Robert Gibbs or you know an assistant
press secretary in the White House and
that anyone with White House in their
title could cause marked it caused
international incident or markets to
sink now I guess now we know why but the
idea that we're very careful what we
call other countries are you and then
people been very specific with China to
call it either an adversary or a
strategic competitor because enemies
other people you're going to war with
and like we can all decide that we don't
care that chump isn't someone we should
take seriously or little or either one
but people are trying to see that and it
probably is concerning to them that the
United States with the most powerful
military in the world and a gazillion
nuclear weapons thinks that China is an
enemy and so it's like we ever want to
laugh it off we paid little attention to
it but these are the kind of things that
have mattered before and we'll have to
wonder whether they matter yet yeah I
mean there is a sort of now the system
seems to protect itself from Trump's
words
because we just don't take them as
seriously but it does seem as though
there was regret on the part of the
Trump administration at the g7 Trump
then struck a much more conciliatory
tone in how he talked about China how he
talked about the Chinese president
referring to him as being you know very
capable talking about the importance of
making a deal now there was this sort of
mini kerfuffle around whether or not
Trump had second thoughts about the
trade war we can get to that but do you
think that even in his forget to forget
the explicit discussion of second
thoughts
is there an acknowledgment that he went
too far in just the way he addressed
China during this meeting I think it yes
I think there is an acknowledgment but I
think he used that the consequences of
his statements not in the context of US
relations around the world but in the
very specific context of he needs China
to help him get out of this mess right
he is he banked his reelection on this
these globing assessments of the economy
saying he's given us the greatest
economy in the world even though the
facts do not back that up by any stretch
the imagination and so he I think he did
a thing where he pushed really hard sort
of realized maybe I went too far so I'm
gonna walk it back but not because it's
bad for the US was because it's bad for
Trump right right so let's talk about so
let's talk about what the other let's
talk about how let's talk about the
other ways in which he seemed to
escalate this feud with China over the
weekend he issued a series of tweets in
which he quote hereby ordered end quote
American companies to look elsewhere
from China immediately people were very
concerned about what he meant by this if
he meant anything at all if it was a
serious order if there was some legal
mechanism by which he could enforce this
order he then tweeted reference to a law
which he claims given it gives him the
authority to do things like this it does
seem as though someone made a mistake
and teaching him the word hereby because
it seems as though he added
to make it sound more official how
bigger the deal is at Dan that Trump is
hereby ordering American companies to
look elsewhere for to look elsewhere
than China well I mean I think it says a
lot about the moment we're in like we
talked about the specifics of the border
that was hereby given but he MC doesn't
have the authority to do this and no one
seems to be immediately like shuttering
their factories overseas but he seemed
like I see a couple different mention
this one is it's like it must be noted
that almost everything that Trump has
ever sold with his name on it is made in
China and they still to this day the
Chinese government is bribing the Trump
family by granting trademarks to his
daughter Ivanka Trump who somehow has a
line of goods they're still sold in
China while working in the White House
so there's just what a general lack of
self-awareness there the second part is
I do think we didn't like I know he did
can't actually order people to do it but
I I don't know that the conversation
around it in the media by other
politicians fully grasp the gravity of
the moment I mean Trump is a tweet and
bare minimum that Trump is authoritarian
curious and he is ordering the American
American company to stop doing business
in China and we're all this pretend like
oh he couldn't possibly have met that
it's not that serious we're just going
to ignore it but if we don't hate like
we are we have gone to the point where
we were neither taking it Trump
seriously or literally and that's
probably a pretty bad thing for the
country even if it was just what it says
not the person in charge of the country
right now is that he's like he is your
crazy uncle that you just dismiss what
they say into Thanksgiving dinner
right there there's there's two pieces
of this that I think are why it's
alarming there's on there's the one
piece of it you're describing which is
just not taking what Trump is saying
seriously because oh the law is murky
but once again whenever Trump has sought
to expand executive power in some way
this has been true around immigration
this has been true on a number of other
issues there's
immediately this look at the law and
whether or not it's possible you know
Trump tweeted out reference to a law
that he believes gives him emergency
powers to make these kinds of
declarations over the economy but the
debate tenza to resolve to well kind of
sort of probably not it would end up in
the courts and everybody just sort of
goes along with that uncertainty as if
that's an acceptable way to imbue a
single very unfit person with a
tremendous amount of power the other
piece of it is what it signals about the
trade war and whether or not he views it
as something that will end soon so he's
in beer it's and I love saying that he's
in Peretz because it's just a city I
associate with like drunken Hemingway
adventures you know but uh he's in there
he's in the whole time just getting out
rereading all of it Hemingway yeah it's
a great time for Trump to dive into The
Sun Also Rises sort of like be in the
place while experiencing what it was
like in another time but but so as an
American traveler you know the ugly
American the greatest magician yeah
anyway he is in burr it's talking about
how he wants it to resolve he wants
there to be an end he wants it there to
be a deal while he's signaling to
American companies for his own politics
and maybe because he also views this as
a trade war that will go on for a long
time to start looking to stop doing
business in China because of how
extensive this trade war is going to be
but it's also a temper tantrum right
which is he's out of options he has
placed his fate in the hand of the
Chinese he doesn't understand them he
doesn't understand what their calculus
is and he doesn't get that he's on a 18
months timeline right now and and she
will never stand for election again it
can be in charge as long as he wants and
it is like you have and sort of the
going back and forth between threats and
flattery goes to a point that you have
made many times which is Trump use this
as a negotiation with a guy selling them
marble for countertops right which is he
thinks he liked he doesn't understand
one diminish
negotiations which is if I threaten them
flattering than threatening the father
until eventually do what I want when
like the Chinese have a thousand
different interests at stake here and he
hasn't even begun to calculate like what
what would get them to yeah right and
there is also just this inherent
challenge we have as a democracy which
is they're playing on a much longer
timeline they have they have greater
tools at their disposal
you know Trump bristling at the Fed
Trump trying to order American companies
to move their factories it does go to
the the problem with this trade war that
many pointed out from the beginning
which is China has a much different set
of tools than the United States does and
now and but he but he dove in because he
never considered it at all he didn't
consider he didn't consider the
long-term implications of this fight
didn't consider very much of anything he
just did what he you know it's it's a
it's a view he's had since 1985 it's a
froze its frozen in amber this idea that
you need to fight China on trade if I
was a good term because they say if I
was basically the dirty stop learning
thing yeah but you can't I you can take
back all of his views or sort of the use
of an old British guy in New York from
the 80s there is a there is a bookmark
on page 13 of the very last book he
tried to read and it is very much where
it was left in 1985 Dan before before we
move on there was a very important
question that was apparently on the
minds of of trumps war that was
apparently on the mind of many world
leaders this is what Trump reports the
question I was asked most today by
fellow world leaders who think that the
u.s. is doing so well and is stronger
than ever before happens to be mr.
president why does the American media
hate your country so much why are they
rooting for it to fail dan do you
believe it was Merkel who said that
McCrone who who do you think is the one
who asked such a pointed and honestly
hard-hitting question for all of us to
consider was the other most F question
president Trump why are you so awesome
so
he is such a bad liar because he has now
taken a why that is so obviously not
true but he's also there's only six
other people at the g7 the only six of
the people who asked him the question so
it makes it pretty hard to prove that it
makes pretty easy to prove that he is
I mean I guess Boris Johnson could have
in some way asked the question it's not
inconceivable yeah I guess yes I guess
if there was one person who would do it
it would be the other authoritarian
Tyrion want to be anti-immigrant world
leader with bad hair of a once-great
nation so let's talk about let's talk
about the g7 for a bit the times has had
I thought very delightful delightful
writing out of the g7 ever so gingerly
as if determined not to rouse the
Americans well known temper the other
group of g7 leaders sought to nudge him
toward their views I'm sorry the other
g7 group the other group of G the other
group of seven leaders thought to nudge
him toward their views on the pressing
issues of the day or at least register
their differences while making sure to
wrap them in a French CREP of flattery
as they know he prefers though I don't
believe he has ever allowed a crepe to
enter his face so now it's like a small
child he would lick the filling out ah
man do you think that we've talked about
Trump too much like in our lives like do
you like what are what do you think we
would have talked about for days on end
during this period at Hillary Clinton
one would we have had other hobbies
would you think we would have taken up
I don't know painting archery what do
you think he does have soft by the
change cured cancer watch more better TV
I don't know so I so I think there was a
signal event at the g7 that's worth
talking about that I think captures this
tension between the rest of the world
and Trump at this event there was a
meeting to talk about climate change and
the fire is currently ravaging the
Amazon in Brazil and part as a result of
the populist government that has taken
power there
and their disregard for environmental
rules to protect a part of the world
that sucks up carbon dioxide and
provides oxygen for the planet so a big
deal
Trump's skipped the meeting claiming
that he was busy because he had meetings
with other leaders like Merkel and Modi
and India however both of those leaders
attended the meeting dan why do you
think Trump skipped the climate change
meeting because he's scared every he
like this is happening a couple of times
in various g7 Sochi 20s or or UN General
Assemblies where the topic is climate
change and the rest of the world agrees
that climate change is real because it's
only one half of our two parties of our
two-party political system America who
refuses to believe the climate change is
real and so it it was going to be
uncomfortable and he seeks to avoid
confrontation so we hid out in this room
and watched
well no toxic I assume whatever was on
Fox News it than all that and it
probably it like it's kind of funny that
Trump is such a giant wuss and for
someone who talks so talk he can't even
defend his indefensible views on climate
change but the world is wood as you
point out literally on fire the world
and when United can even show up to the
meeting and it made it's like well it
all said and done at Trump we ever get
Trump out of here and reverse some of
this policy to your wrestling executive
orders the most damage that Trump will
do will be the opportunity cost of four
to eight years of dealing with climate
change corn eight years we don't really
add and and the abdication of American
leadership you know we saw Trump
basically issue bromides encouraging
Brazil to tackle the fires and
suggesting we'd help as if this is a
purely natural disaster brill is Brazil
is unequipped to fix as opposed to
something that the government has
actively encouraged and we've seen other
leaders like like Makran and France and
others step up to try to pressure Brazil
into doing the right thing and the
was reported that even as Trump talked
about how much comedy there was at the
g7 how well these countries were getting
along and by the way there's always so
uncomfortable how much he personalizes
even these moments about how much
basically describing it as a great time
and that's so important it so important
we had fun here and really really had a
blast we wanted the meeting to last
longer we could have we could have
talked for another hour as if that
that's as if these personal
relationships are that important if it's
based on his personal affection for
these people but behind the scenes Trump
administration officials were
criticizing the g7 in France for
focusing on niche issues one of those
niche issues was climate change yes the
nice issue that matters to the entire
 planet so Dan if there were an
American president period if there was
some way that if that job was filled
appropriately by a fully full-fledged
functioning person what would that
president be doing differently about the
crisis in Brazil I think about this all
the time because you know when we worked
in the White House you're constantly
faced with crises and you own and you
often have a limited set of tools that
your disposal to deal with it and we
were working on these you know people
within the government allows work on
these things all the time and I just
wonder sometimes what the people in the
Trump White House are doing other than
retconning his tweets into policy but so
we'd like in this situation right so you
have what you have is you have a fire in
Britain the Amazon this threatens the
walls right it threatens climate change
of everything you have a corrupt
essential essentially a dictator in
Brazil who is unwilling or incapable to
deal the situation how would the United
States deal with this it would have been
not a meeting United States gift it
would have been a meeting my face chair
to the g7 the president would be on the
phone with leaders around the world with
the other g7 nations but also in the
region marshaling support in putting
pressure on Brazil
to do something and instead we're just
sending tweets and it is it is like this
like a lot of what's been going on
in forums Friday meltdown over the
weekend it's just this really
crystallization of what has happened to
America's leadership role in the world
under Trump and the consequences of it
are seriously RS on Twitter this morning
that Bethenny Frankel of The Real
Housewives of New York's of New York is
turning a plane to go like a tanker
plane to go spray the fires and some
areas to try to help indigenous people
and people are cheering the fact that
she is doing it because it's a it's
great she's done it but also because no
one else is doing it right like we
actually need people from the caps of
Bravo reality shows to step in and do
the thing tonight alone we do which is
scary
I mean look they are the real heroes I
you know in a in a dark time well it's
also you know Franklin for wrote in the
Atlantic about the ways in which these
fires are more dangerous than weapons of
mass destruction that that basically
this incredibly valuable global resource
is being threatened by this one
government and you can imagine a an
order led by a by an American president
who cares about this issue and who cares
about working with allies on this issue
coming up with a way to think about
these really important questions about
these international these international
about about these let me say it this way
about these incredibly precious global
resources that at a moment where we're
on a hinge where these incredibly
precious global resources at a moment
where scientists tell us were at a hinge
point as to whether or not we can
address climate change you could imagine
an American president leading not just
on this one issue but in thinking about
these broader questions about resource
use about about agriculture one other
point about this that one other point
that I saw some people making too is one
of the pressures on these fires is the
fact that the trade war between the
United States and China is putting
pressure on agriculture in South America
that China looking for supplies of
things like soybeans outside
the United States is creating pressure
for more land more places to grow crops
to to find more arable land in in Brazil
so there's all these unintended
consequences of what Trump is doing it
is a and by the way the fact that there
is a populist in Brazil is just another
reminder too that this scourge of
right-wing populism
is genuinely threatening the health of
the planet it's it is this I mean
there's obviously connections between
why we have a populist in Brazil a
populist and you know I can't get Roger
tonight say it's all at the same time
but it is this you couldn't take a worse
time in us in world history to cede some
of the most important influential
governments either diplomatically or
militarily or in the case of Brazil
literally in charge of the world's
oxygen supply to have these sort of
knuckleheads at the switch you know at
this moment yeah and it's just worth
remembering too that this abdication of
American leadership as many have pointed
out as Joe Biden has pointed out that if
we can get Trump out of office we can
make this period of time an aberration
not because we don't not because we view
Trump as an aberration but because we
can signal to the world that we
recognize the mistake of Trump but if we
affirm him for us if we affirm if we
affirm him in a second term the
opportunity to send that message to the
world is gone at an incredibly critical
moment no one is ever to be more popular
than the first president who is a trump
at like the g20 or the United Nations so
carry him in tearing him in on one of
those litters alright let's move on to
domestic politics the Republican primary
has entered a new phase there's a new
competitor his name is Joe Walsh and he
is going to bring the fight to Donald
Trump dan how worried do you think
Donald Trump is and should be about
former congressman Twitter persona
previous quote Obama is a Muslim and
quote type guy running against Trump I
don't think Trump should have any fears
about losing the nomination I don't
think there's any chance that Joe Walsh
is going to beat him I mean Trump has a
96 percent approval rating or whatever
from Republican voters the Republican
Party just to make sure that he would
lose the nomination cancel the South
Carolina primary which is the primary
where conservatives who generally have
the best chance to knock off an
incumbent it was probably it was
problematic for George HW Bush back in
the day and so he's not going to lose
the nomination and we shouldn't get we
shouldn't think that that's going to
happen
but I do think he should be more worried
about someone like Joe Walsh and then
either William weld or John Kasich
William weld is a doofus do you think
governor of Massachusetts he was on the
third-party ticket last time that he had
no constituency in America let alone the
Republican Party John Kasich is love is
an affable I guess guy he has some
popularity he did a few things that were
not terrible in Ohio
he's a CNN contributor and but also no
constituency in the national company
party joe walsh is the first person who
is making an attack on Trump from the
right and that at least I think it's
interesting and could have some
political consequences down the line but
he was on some dozen on ABC this weekend
during a Sunday show circuit and he
attacked Trump for not building the wall
and not making Mexico pay for the wall
and that I think like I was intrigued by
that image to see where that goes
because that could have been like lesson
political repercussions for Trump down
the line not in a primary but in the
general election so there was some
effort on the part of Walsh to get
George Conway involved in this fracas
and to me that signaled that this is
very
much a publicity move for Joe Walsh
because obviously getting George Conway
involved is not about appealing to
voters in swing states
it's about finding someone who will
antagonize Trump the absolute most you
know there was a there was I feel like
there were two conversations happening
on Twitter about Donald Trump facing a
new Republican challenger one was kind
of it was a openness but at least a
willingness to say well it's good that
this person is doing this it is good
that a former right wing person even a
heinous right wing person is willing to
tell the truth about Trump even if it's
for their own purposes even if it's to
build a brand even if it's ultimately to
fund a right wing campaign for the house
and then there was I think a more
cynical take when I think I largely
agree with saying this is a this is a
purely self aggrandizing move to help
one person gain traction and find a way
to make income in the you know
commentary economy we have built after
we closed the hole factories I think I
take an even more cynical take on this
lady this debate the sort of the aunt
bee
don't normalize joe walsh debate has or
the note that don't know maestro walsh
argument has been led by shannon watts
mom's a man to someone we support a lot
here at american really like and she is
right joe walsh is disgusting here's a
disgusting human being his Estelle's
disgusting racist views i think it was
at one point was the Sandy Hook truther
obviously said horrible things about
obama really a disgusting person and we
should not take his conversion to
anti-trump ism seriously like we should
like we is the same thing antes garbagey
right these are drifters who find a
market opening they go into it to make
money and when then that closes it look
for another one skaara Moochie damn it
scaramouche eagerly wrote a book he
wrote a book about Trump a pro Trump
book in October of 2018 like it is one
thing to have a change of heart
you
not write a book and then six months
later say the opposite of the book
that's too quick mean like I can almost
buy someone who supported Trump in the
election under this idea that he would
somehow be a more serious president or
not or like that was a stupid position
to have then but you if you decided
after a month or two of Trump as
president like this is not a good thing
he is even worse than we thought but he
was just as bad in September of 2018 or
October whatever similar book as he is
now he it was all part of a skirmish
egressed to support Trump and when that
door closed he found another grift was
it was anti trunk right it's a better
way for me get detention
sorry it's a better way for him to get
on television attacking Trump than
praising Trump Walsh is the same way my
even more cynical take on it is I like I
agree Joe Walsh is disgusting I do not
take him seriously
I do hope that there are some segment of
voters who get to see Joe Walsh's
message right who are conservative but
have questions about trunk-like you can
you know these universes of Republican
voters who could be driven away from
Trump maybe not to vote for a Democrat
but maybe into a third party camp or
they may decide to sit the election out
if they were exposed to an argument
about Trump which no one is making Walsh
is making so I do like I do think there
are some political upside to it but I
think we need to and we should be this
way with all of our the sort of never
Trump universe right which is just like
we may agree with what Bill Kristol says
about Trump now but every other part of
Bill Kristol just because of a broken
clock has stopped in the right place for
right now doesn't mean we should support
these people and I think Joe Walsh falls
in that category but look my imaginary
super PAC would be completely aboveboard
and not engage in anything but another
imaginary or real super back who was
showing Joe Walsh conservative making a
conservative argument
to Trump about Trump sorry try again
another super PAC imaginary or real who
was making who is showing some targeting
universe of conservative or republican
independence and anti a conservative
anti Trump argument would be agency what
impact I could have in an election as
always we end this segment by wondering
where our billionaires are with the
delightful aboveboard super PACs and
less delightful subversive super PACs
that we say we don't want but secretly
do one other thing about what one other
note on one other note on what's taking
place on the right
Trump has increasingly been directing
criticism at Fox News I want to spend
too much time on this but what do you
make of this he has been he was
seemingly annoyed that Donna Brazile
showed up on his television because he
associates Donna Brazile with a very
overblown attack he leveled against her
in CNN for a long time around to bait
questions for Hillary Clinton during the
primary but it does seem he is in some
ways frustrated with the way Fox has
been covering him what do you make of it
yeah I think he is feeling anxiety about
I think it's economic this job is
finally feeling the economic anxiety
that pundits and folks rejected on his
voters oh he is so I think there is beef
nerves and he is trying to circle the
wagons and it is this evidence that
Trump is I'm sorry there isn't this is
evidence that he watches Fox too much
because Papa is so pro Trump you really
have to watch it for hours upon hours
upon hours to find a glimmer of anti
Trump ISM and because he's always
watching and he manages to find it you
know I would love to see some reporting
on how the folks at Fox are reacting to
this because they they have hitched her
wagon to Trump and he and like it helped
them in 2016 to get on board with Trump
very early and I don't know where they
would go if they left Trump by birth
date of these voters left Fox but
they're much
be like inside you know I don't there is
not like there's a news like an actual
true news division but somewhere in Fox
of people who keep the money flowing I
would love to know what their reaction
is to Trump attacking them like is it
like how nervous doesn't make them right
you know it it strikes me as you know
look he lashes out wherever he finds
someone who has said something that
damages his ego in some way whether it's
the head of the the the Fed or its Fox
News it does seem to me that targeting
Fox is one of those places where he can
actually be far more effective I don't
know what personally attacking the
chairman of the Fed will do other than
put up put a kind of battery acid panic
in the in the you know in the stomach's
of his loved ones but it seems as though
he thinks going after Fox is gonna make
them just a little bit more circumspect
before they tell the truth to their to
the audience they respect so very much
okay let's move on to 2020 this week is
the deadline to see who will make the
September debate as of right now ten
candidates have qualified one candidate
Tom Steyer is one pull away that could
be something he hits while we're
recording it could be something he
doesn't hit if if Tom Styer gets the
qualifying poll the fourth poll he needs
URI qualified on donors that will mean
ABC will go to a two night debate with
six on one night and five on the other
Dan I don't what
sometimes I go back and forth I
obviously have a personal interest in
there being a one night debate because
love it or leave it is on Friday in New
York that night but when I actually
think about it whether or not there's a
kind of lengthier conversation over two
nights among smaller groups versus one
night in which all the candidates are on
one stage I'm not totally sure which is
better for Democrats ritual Rick I'm not
really sure which is better for
Democrats writ large what do you think I
had going back and both of those two so
one the DNC like this has been this
lingering question among a lot of people
about if it was eleven candidates would
they just you know add another podium
minute just do it in one night the DNC
specific last week that they would make
it to and my initial reaction was ugh
like I wanted to see I want to see the
you know the leading candidates on stage
I want to see Warren and bitin on the
same stage for Warren and Harris on the
same stage yeah so you can compare them
and maybe there will be some interaction
right like that was my initial reaction
and then I there was like I thought
about it for a little bit and which I
probably has done before sweet is and no
Dan actually I you I know that's your
sir hey hey you true whatever you want
without thinking it is 2019 don't
hesitate there are no there are no
consequences
but I I now in hindsight think that my
two nights would be better but it is
September of the off year like this is
not like we don't need blood sport where
we have put the candidates on stage
right now
and one of the two frontrunners awesome
stop the kumite right and like it
would be interesting to see I knew I
wasn't one debate you don't look good
Mateus what is that you know if you're
in the movie bloodsport Michonne oh yeah
the clap it's a classic 80s cable
magician I don't think I've ever seen
bloodsport all the way through I only
know it as a movie Donald Trump watches
on his airplane but fast forwards to the
fights did you it's only like 90 minutes
long it's basically all it's very 80s
it's all fight the musical montages am i
rated any does get gone he's gone yes
but anyway so I think it would be
interesting to have five you know five
or six candidates on stage together
having a longer conversation and
hopefully ABC could you know either
extend the number these are the length
of answers or get the more topics and so
I kind of think we just hearing more
from the candidates now would probably
be useful I mean so I rescind my
original suite but I will not delete it
good good and don't apologize
ever dan I have to say I am shocked but
I think that I agree now is like my
actual view is it doesn't really matter
that much ultimately but I do agree
that I would rather see longer more
substantive conversations over two
nights and I say that because I actually
and I'm I'm sorry and I say that not
because I think the substantive debate
will mean there's some more likely
shake-up of who supported versus who's
not but because the kind of cattle call
debates we've been having don't seem to
be moving the needle that much anyway
and so a good conversation is just a
better outcome because we'll just hear
more substance will have a richer deeper
policy conversation as we move through
these issues the reason I say that is so
John Harwood reported this in July
actually then in late April a poll found
that just five candidates Joe Biden
Bernie Sanders Elizabeth Warren Kamala
Harris and Pete Buddha judge drew 79
percent of the Democratic vote six weeks
later before the first round of debates
it's through the same 79 percent this
this was from July after the first round
just before the second a Quinnipiac poll
showed that those few those five drew 78
percent and I went and looked today
that's basically where the vote share is
now but over the course of these several
debates the top five candidates have
continued to be splitting around 75 to
80 80 percent of the vote now things
have moved about between those
candidates but this notion that getting
on the debate stage and finally having
an opportunity to be seen by millions
more Americans will fundamentally shift
the dynamics of the debate that just
hasn't happened yet do you think that
that's well yes Ari or you think I was
gonna say I we're thinking about this I
think in the wrong way which is we're
seven eight nine months whatever it is
now from the Iowa caucuses and what the
debates are partner they're the journey
not the destination to the decision
right so over the course of time they're
gonna get to see these candidates I
think twelve times between now and I
guess through the early primary contest
and people will get to make their to sit
like like they're learning a little bit
more both good and bad about all these
candidates and then there will be an
opportunity for the race to shift like
on Thursday when with John never having
this conversation about how why the race
hasn't changed you know I went and
looked back at the gallop at the polling
from this point 2000
three which is probably the most
analogous Democratic primary to this one
and Joe Lieberman was leading a poll
which I carry was it for indica part
with in second or third and so there was
you know like we're still really early
in this and people are learning and they
will either shift among those five but
they will move to somewhat one of those
other candidates at some point and we
don't need to think we don't need a
debate in the summer of the year before
to tell us who's going to be made we
just want but it sorta learn more
information and I think that does that
also argues that also argues for having
I think fewer people having more of a
chance to to to speak now another debate
it's alright let me just let me just get
that and just say now another debate
that has been taking place inside the
Democratic Party is whether or not there
should be a climate debate this weekend
the DNC held a vote the climate debate
lost there will not be a climate debate
according to the DNC Dan this seems to
be sort of a their the activists are
furious about this I think a lot of
Democratic voters are are angry about
this a lot of the candidates have come
out in favor of a climate debate jay
Inslee I think let that before he
dropped out led the charge on this
because he was running on a climate
platform why do you think the DNC is at
odds with activists and I think some of
the more energetic and fervent parts of
the base over a climate debate right now
I think you can see is throughout all of
this doing the best in a terrible
situation and so the from their
perspectives as I understand it the
argument against it's not an argument
against my climate debate specifically
it's an argument for an endless series
of debates that take the candidates off
the the campaign trail and put them in a
studio because it's not just the two
hours of the debate it's also the days
of prep for the debate and they're
trying to find this balance like we ran
in 2008 there were like dozens of debate
it was a huge time-suck it was probably
bad for the campaign in 2016 there were
not enough debates they overcorrected 16
so this is sort of
the the just right amount approach
they're doing and their fear is if you
say yes to climate how do you say no to
guns right so let's say all the
activists who after what happened this
past week and I'll pass their Dayton or
anything else or mom to man or everyone
come together and say we want to debate
on guns how do you say yes the climate
no one gun how do you say yes the
climate no in a criminal justice debate
and so they're trying to hold the line
so I would make two points on this one
is the campaigns are acting as if they
have no leverage here and if the
frontrunners not jay Inslee who we miss
but not James Lee but if Biden Warren
Buddha judge Harris Sanders decided
there was going to be a climate debate
there would be a climate debate
it's like we in 2008 the front running
campaigns of Clinton Obama in Edwards
who was a person in American politics at
one time and when the campaign managers
would help sort of navigate all the
forums and debates together because they
knew if one of them did it all three of
them had to do it and if none of them
did it then it would happen and so the
frontrunners could decide to have a
climate debate but they have decided not
to do that and so it's the DNC's fault
right now a lot of the campaign's want
to have their cake and eat it too and
say we are for a climate debate but the
DNC you know hold me back the DNC said
we can't do anything but they could do
something if they wanted joke right it
does seem right that the interests of
the candidate is to be for every debate
humanly possible while hoping some other
external force prevents them from having
to leave the trail again and again it's
also true that there's gonna be climate
change a climate change forum and I
guess the only do we say again it is
also true that there's going to be a
climate change forum so that is also an
opportunity to hear all the different
candidates on this issue at length but I
do think you know I think one of the
problems people are having is that
there's a kind of objectivity to the
rules which I understand but just feels
quite frustrating to people that that
wait a second what are these
qualification terms why why is why is
Tom Steyer able to get so close but
someone like Michael Bennett isn't like
I understand that these rules were drawn
up before there were candidates so that
they'd be fair but is it actually
serving
candidates best do you think overall the
debate process this time has been
working what do you think I just I don't
really know like they're obviously flaws
right the donor the grassroots donor
threshold will seem like a great idea at
the time but it has become a world where
the campaign's that had to spend
millions of dollars at a loss to try to
meet these thresholds and so there are
unintended consequences all of them I
just cannot come up with a better
process right right I don't know what
it's certainly just a a non grassroots
donation number or contribution number
would be bad right so where you're
rewarded people who raise money from
large contributors that would be bad the
polling should matter in some way shape
or form because like what would we have
done like it would have been worse if
there had been if there enough in a
twenty candidate cutoff for these first
couple debates and we had three nights
of debates right is you're just getting
fewer eyeballs or less interaction and
so I don't think there is an ideal way
to do this I think this is the right way
to do it I would be cautious about
trying to overcorrect for some of the
criticism going forward to make it
harder to get as the base I think that
would be a mistake all right we'll leave
it there before we wrap up another
important developments Dan Sean Sean
Spicer
he was White House press secretary is a
sort of a this is a job of great
prestige it is a job that has been
lionized in film and television the
voice of an administration standing at
that podium people work really hard to
get that job they achieve it they go on
to to incredible things uh do you think
Donald Trump was being sincere when he
praised Sean Spicer for going on Dancing
with the Stars no I do not think that
others being sincere
and I think he tweet he sent that tweet
because he knew it would make Shawn
Spencer's life harder and torturing Sean
Spicer is other than golf and watching
Fox News one of trumps few hobbies you
remember in the early days when when
Sean Spicer was with a when the chumps
would still work there and be there was
actually a White House briefing that
Trump would clear his schedule watch the
briefing in his office and then demand
that Sean Spicer come up there and then
Creek to give him basically question by
question critiques all while making fun
of the tailoring of his suit first of
all I would I would take issue I would
take issue with the phrase clear his
schedule I mean he had to DVR at least
two Fox shows at that time so something
had to give to make one serious point
about this before we go though it is so
the one thing that was always
fascinating about Sean Spicer is when he
was press secretary kind of wore his
pain on his face and in his tailoring
but there was a kind of a gruesome
expression he would draw when standing
at that podium because of the space
between the person he thought he was
going to be and the person he had to be
by defending Donald Trump the kind of
the distance traveled between being
press secretary for a different
president and being press secretary for
this president and it was fascinating to
see Spicer kind of do this round of
press saying I just think this should be
a politics free zone because there's
still this desire on the part of people
like Sean Spicer to be treated normally
that that even now there's still this
feeling like they they know deep down
that Trump is not a legitimate president
in any meaningful sense that working for
him it will always have an asterisk that
you're not a press secretary or Trump
press secretary and it seems to me that
the response he's getting to this is a
reminder that as much as they want that
to be true that's just not the case you
can't evade responsibility and only take
the parts you want like the fame and
apparently the ballroom dancing what do
you think that calculus was and Sean
Spicer's had to do this right like
Dancing with the Stars is a refuge for
b-list celebrities trying to resurrect
it is where the cast of Jersey Shore
goes
when Jersey Shore goes off the air and
so like I presume Sean Spicer just on
the Republicans speaking circuit selling
access has the capacity to make money
and other way are you sure about that
so are you sure but I don't understand
cuz like think about there's a lot of
money going around Republican politics
well yeah but think about that mark like
who wants Sean Spicer to come speak at
their event if you're just a true like
normally an administration right that
there would be like trade groups
nonpartisan organizations that might
want somebody from an administration to
come give them the lay of the land in
Washington people pay for that privilege
it is a long-standing you know this is
basically a version of what Hillary
Clinton did when she gave high paid
speeches they they want the best person
they can get to talk to them about
politics but you might not want Sean
Spicer at your event where you talk
about the latest in I don't know like
retail packaging or Health
Administration because he's so
controversial nobody believes he had any
influence nobody believes he's still
talking to these people so all the
people trying to buy their way into
Trump they're going to Lewandowski
they're going to other people i i i
wonder if it's not more complicated than
the book didn't sell you know yeah i
mean the book was interesting because he
both man it like he did it is like no
one has played their hand worse than
Sean Spicer in this whole deal right
like most of the people who got fired
got no-show jobs that Trump super PACs
and are just making you know just
getting laundered coke dollars but in
their pocket just to not just just
things they're basically being paid to
find NBA so trunk so didn't do that or
they wrote by the way just so people
know coke dollar well I thought you
meant what I thought you meant like I
thought you meant coke dollars and now
I'm realizing you meant coke dollars you
know yes yes yes yeah the other ones who
knows and like or they either wrote
these like typical conservative selling
books at Rumpel tweet about it accuse
you know about the fake press or you
know Russian fake Russian collusion
witch-hunt whatever else or they wrote
tell us and transpiler managed to do
neither he wrote he did not write a book
that please which one people but he also
was
didn't have the courage to tell the
truth either and so he said living in
this I know some sort of sad purgatory
of he can't figure out how to get
himself out of the box he put himself in
yeah i but i know i would be very I
would be very clear I do not feel sorry
for him no is a grown sentient adult who
made a series of choices that everyone
do belong and he knew they were long and
he made them anyway yes it is almost as
if he's been sentenced to pushing his
reputation up a hill and then when it
gets to the top of the hill it rolls
back down so he walks back down to the
bottom of the hill and it seems like he
may have to do that forever pretty good
seems fair all right when we come back
we will have Dan's interview with the
chairman of the Wisconsin Democratic
Party Benwick ler that was great what an
interview Dan this it was the bed like
we're in the outro join us on Thursday
it'll be me and Alyssa Mastromonaco
that'll be a blast
what else we have to say that the pot at
the pot everyone wants finally people
are saying to themselves at the gym on
the toilet or in their cars wherever you
get this bye dad have a great week have
a great break bye John
yep alright everybody
you
