all right I'm here with former Governor
John Hickenlooper a candidate for the
Democratic nomination for president
governor welcome to policy of America
I'm glad to be on thanks so much for
having me back I want to start with a
question that we some version of which
we asked all the different candidates so
you are a moderate former governor mayor
small-business owner from a western
state you look out at this gigantic
field of Democratic candidates and there
are actually other moderates other
former governors former mayors former
small business owners people from
western states what was it when you were
looking at the field and thinking about
running that made you think something is
missing in this field I should run for
president this is this is my time to run
well if you look at there's only one
other mayor that's true and he certainly
wasn't a governor right and there's only
my ger was a former mayor former mayor
that's true and but he wasn't a governor
right that's right or two mayors but
they weren't governors and in a funny
way I feel like I'm the one person that
actually has spent you know my life both
in small business but my life as eight
years of merit years the governor my job
was to bring people together who often
were at odds in conflict and figure out
how to get get them to put down their
weapons and then get stuff done and I
looked at the whole field and in a funny
way I looked at it almost everyone else
and you can as you interview each one
you can ask whether I mean I feel like I
never ran for student council I wasn't
involved in student politics it was like
that you don't you didn't run until you
were almost 50 years old yeah forty-nine
years old when I ran from for Denver
mayor first time I ever ran for anything
and I feel that you know how in kids in
elementary school you know chat books or
school books that they have they have
like three different images what which
one doesn't look like the others yeah I
feel like that within all the
presidential candidates I'm the one guy
that in small business you know I
started our restaurant and then worked
with all the other restaurant owners to
change and transform a whole
neighborhood of Denver look
they call now load Oh back that was
lower downtown we got everyone to bite
and you open the brew gether pray yeah
it was a restaurant the bruises don't be
or we were that I think the tenth
brewpub in North America okay
and so we opened it but we used it as a
community organizing tool to build
community community and then we did him
in a bunch of other cities like Omaha
and Des Moines Rapid City South Dakota
always historic buildings and abandoned
parts of downtown always trying to
create community and that when and when
I ran for mayor I got all the suburban
mayor's to work together and we did you
know fast tracks the largest transit
initiative in the history of the country
and then when I was governor you know I
went out to the I got the environmental
community to sit down with the oil and
gas industry and we created you know
these these regulations methane
regulations to to stop the flaring and
venting of methane which is you know
methane's 25 40 times worse and then co2
in terms of climate change I mean each
of these are just example after example
of where I kind of felt like I was there
to take people from where they were and
move them to a different place where
they could hear each other better and
they could actually work together which
again I realized the cynicism that's out
there today I I listen to podcast
America stranger to the challenges that
we face in all this but at a certain
point you know we we have to be if we're
really gonna address not just universal
coverage but but making sure that we can
control the inflationary spiral health
care of health care costs or deal with
climate change right I'm within what 10
years or 12 reams of irreversible damage
somebody somehow has got to bring people
together yeah well I mean so you've
clearly had a lot of success working
with Republicans in Colorado and with
people who disagree with you in Colorado
in DC of course I was in the Obama White
House for eight years and watch
Republicans block every single policy
that President Obama proposed even
moderate policies even free-market
policies tax cuts you name it what leads
you to believe that you will have more
success than Obama did working with DC
Republicans well it's hard if I'm gonna
be bluntly honest it's hard to think
I have so much admiration for for
President Obama that's hard to say well
I can do this what he didn't and I you
know I look at someone like Mitch
McConnell when he came in and said that
he would do everything humanly possible
within his power to make sure that that
as President Barack Obama had no
successes yeah I mean that verges on
that's treasonous right I mean that's
someone who's an elected official saying
that they want to work against the
common good of Americans again I'm not
saying that I can do anything with with
Mitch McConnell that's well yeah I saw
that you'd say that you would have a
drink with them when you got to DC what
would you say during the drinks I would
I would reach out to him because you
have to reach out and you have to go to
their turf and as much just to show all
their followers that you're paying the
respect to the system but then you sit
down and you try and figure out where is
their self-interest and how can you find
some way to to work towards some level
of common ground and again you know when
we had the after the Aurora movie
theater shooting we decided we were
first we put thirty million bucks into
mental health stuff but then we decided
to take on universal background checks
that process I mean we could not get the
NRA to compromise at all they would I
mean they barely talked to us yeah but
in the end we just had to muscle through
and sometimes you just have to do that
right but again and again you know when
I got elected mayor of Denver in 2003 my
predecessor Wellington Webb who was a
great American mayor I mean really one
of the great mayors of the of the 20th
century he could not be in the same room
with the mayor of Aurora they hated each
other one or the other would walk out
they couldn't talk to each other and and
they hated that denver hated Aurora
Aurora hated Denver that was the sense
and when I first ran from air I said I'm
gonna I believe Denver will never be a
great city without great suburbs yeah
and everyone said you can't say that
Denver hey hey hey the suburb but the
bottom line was the the the the
politicians hated each other the
citizens didn't and when I got elected I
went out to the mayor of Aurora and I
actually sat down and spent an hour in
his office I didn't make him come to me
and I just kept asking so what do you
really need and how can we make this
work and if we did a light rail system
how could it really work for Aurora and
what things would we have to change from
that rough draft of a plan of a year ago
and you know if you listen hard enough
this is a trick you learn in the bar
business right having all those brewpubs
and you know dealing with cranky irate
customers sometimes they're completely
wrong but boy you you don't want to
leave when they're when they're really
ticked off because they'll go out and
trash your reputation you won't hear
about it until it's way too late and so
you you learn to repeat back exactly
their words when they're really angry I
know it sounds silly because politics is
probably a different different universe
but I did do this with a bunch of the
mayor's not the mayor of Aurora but
several the other mayor's I wouldn't
visit it you because they get so angry
at me right and and you just repeat back
the words to make sure they feel heard
that they feel validated and it's funny
at least with me when you say back when
someone says something to you it's
really angry they're certain you know
body rhythms or your your chemistry that
changes you you kind of close down and
you don't I know I think sometimes you
don't really hear people and when you
repeat back their same words you
suddenly kind of hear them in a
different sense you actually really hear
them maybe yeah
in the restaurant business we'd say oh
so the waiter drop soup on your lap oh
and the winner wasn't looking where is
going I hear oh and yes the soup was
very hot and it validates them hearing
it when you say it it moves you in a
different place and you get to that
point where you just have an inkling of
trust yeah okay I'm not saying that this
would work with with Mitch McConnell but
something's got to work with somebody
right well I mean I guess I guess what
I've come to realize is that the problem
with politics in Washington at least is
less a clash of personalities and more
clash of sort of incentives right like
irons but you know Obama didn't have a
great relationship with Mitch McConnell
he did have a pretty good relationship
with John Boehner and I remember Boehner
saying I want to do immigration reform
let's figure this out together
and they had this plan they were gonna
do it and then you know Eric Cantor
loses in Virginia and Boehner comes to
Obama and he goes I really want I like
you I want to do this but my caucus is a
bunch of people in districts
90 plus percent white they don't want to
do immigration reform and if I push it
I'm gonna be ousted as Speaker so that's
that and it's like there's no amount of
golf
that would have changed that dynamic and
so I wonder for the next Democratic
president like how you think about
passing a legislative agenda and how you
think about power and power dynamics in
this situation well you know power and
and you're right the dynamics
surrounding power are a function of
because you know certain core elements
of being human right so there's there's
that sense of of insecurity that pretty
much everybody has somewhere there's
that sense of wanting to belong to a
tribe and have some sense of safety by
by being part of that group you've got a
line though you know utilize those
various kind of emotional values and and
attach them to positions where people
feel they're getting some advantage and
it is I think one of the most
complicated things in life but also you
know in business or in politics it's
always a question about trying to hear
clearly what the person really wants I
can't tell you how many times that that
you know once you once you get a little
bit of trust between people then you can
finally collaborate without that you
can't collaborate collaborate at all I
tell them I tell our staff for years I
you know we collaborate at the speed of
trust and there's really not nothing I
mean trust only comes from hard work
you've got to take the effort and really
listen and demonstrate that you hear
people that you have some respect for
them you care about them and you're
gonna strike out someone like Mitch
McConnell is just not gonna but then you
have to look for somebody else and how
can you find I think immigration
especially right now is such a perfect
place because I saw the the labor data
came out a few weeks ago where we now
have 7.2 million jobs unfilled yeah and
6.3 million people looking so we don't
even have as many people looking for
work as we have job openings and of the
main reason more than half those jobs
aren't filled because we don't have the
skills right well we need more people
right now we left we left vegetables and
and
fruits you know agricultural produce
that couldn't be harvested by machines
it went on harvested last year
California Colorado all across the
country because we didn't have the right
labor right if we can't address right
now immigration and say listen let's
let's go after all this stuff and let's
you know deal with the issue of refugees
at the border let's get an ID system
that works let's make sure we have the
right you know visas and and and and
figure out what the right pathway to
citizenship is and and somehow make sure
that we go to those states where people
are worried that the immigration the
immigrants are gonna take their job and
show them that actually our economy in a
in a very real way is based upon having
more immigrants if we can't do it now
we're never gonna do it what's up what
would your top legislative priority as
president be you know that's I mean you
look at things like climate change that
are such an imperative I look at
automation and artificial intelligence
what that's gonna do in the workplace
I'm gonna turn it upside down but I
think in terms of what people feel the
greatest urgency about its health care
that's the one thing in Iowa New
Hampshire when I'm in South Carolina
people are so fearful of what's gonna
come next and and so distrustful of
Trump and and the Republican Party that
they're gonna it's not just pre-existing
conditions and it's not just it's not
just coverage it's they can't afford the
coverage they've got yeah and so I'd had
I think I'd I think you have to do them
all kind of together in a funny way the
you know of artificial intelligence and
automation is tied in to health care
which all kind of have play a
significant role in how we address
climate change but I think health care
is probably at the at the center of it
all just because it is the emotional
core of so many Americans right now what
would you do on health care you're for a
public option or yeah I think that the
I'm very cautious about you know if
you're gonna go Medicare for all and
doing it all one swipe right you're
you're telling 150 million people you
know and I realize it half of them or
maybe maybe even more than half of them
don't like their their private insurance
even even if it is through their
workplace they'd they'd like to get rid
of it and have something else
but the other half you know trusted and
and and and don't want to lose it at
least in this country we traditionally
don't take something away from people
we're very careful
President Obama was very careful to try
and make sure and reassure people in
every way that he could as we did the
Affordable Care Act I think that same
reassurance is necessary now however you
need a public option right we we got in
Colorado we did this bipartisan right we
expanded Medicaid we got to almost a
hundred percent coverage almost 95%
coverage and if we had a public option
and they're gonna get a public option I
think this year we did a lot of the
foundation work so baby that's Medicare
maybe it's Medicare Advantage or some
combination of best practices for the
two men maybe part of it could even be
expanding Medicaid you know that who
qualifies for Medicaid uh-huh on the on
the other side of the of the spectrum
but either way let's just say we're for
the sake of argument we're gonna have a
public option of Medicare and people go
to it and as it as more people go into
Medicare it becomes even more efficient
and the quality improves and more people
want Medicare and now all sudden
everyone wants to leave their private
insurance and they they flood into
Medicare then we end up with a
single-payer all might take us ten years
but we end up with a single pair through
evolution rather than revolution and I
think that's traditionally the way
things occur in these kinds of
transformations in America and do you
think that's the best way also as you
mentioned to bring costs down in the
system because obviously it's not just
coverage and it's first of all there's a
tremendous amount of cost in the system
but there's also deductibles that people
can't pay there's long term care that's
not kicking in like how do you deal with
all the sort of extraneous cost that
people are grappling with um in health
insurance in health care and that all
you're right the aggregation the the
accumulation of the worry and anxiety
around all these costs is what's I think
driving people nuts yeah I think it's a
big part of why we're seeing an epidemic
of depression and all kinds of mental
health challenges across the country
first let me just say I think you start
you have to start every discussion as
that that health care is a right and not
a privilege and I you know in 1973 when
I was
student at this little college in
Connecticut I helped a friend start a
Community Health Center which now is
still in business has over 200 locations
in Connecticut but their basic argument
was life health care is is a right not a
principle I wrote a letter to the the
the Middletown press editor saying that
you know in 1978 I think that was when
Elizabeth Warren was still a Republican
I'm just kidding that's just a minor a
soft soft Hardy joke anyway you look at
all that all the places did these costs
swing into play so why is it that people
in America paid 30 times more for
insulin than somebody in Canada yeah
right clearly we've got to regulate the
pharmaceutical industry we've got to
make sure we have more access to
generics we've got to be able both at
Medicare but as as groups in the country
be able to compete for better prices for
pharmaceuticals that's a significant
cost we also need transparency that's a
probably a bigger place of savings every
clinic every hospital they'll tell you
that it's too complex the the possible
variations in needs and services
provided make it impossible to predict
what a tonsillectomy would cost for
their kid that's nonsense walk into walk
into Walmart you got a hundred and
thirty thousand you know digits and
widgets and with sizes and colors you
probably got four hundred thousand s K
use they can tell you the cost of every
one and once you get and provide people
a genuine on their handheld device their
cell phone they can look and see where
they can get a a high-quality you know
get stitches removed from their kids are
more gonna tonsillectomy for their kid
whatever they can see not only what the
overall cost is but what their copay is
then you begin to harness that that the
the the leverage that that are an open
market allows you to get to so those are
obvious places right off the bat one we
can save more importantly our problems
we've made health care into a business
and like any business it goes where the
money is so it's only natural to suspect
that you know we're gonna get more more
scans more blood tests more everything
because that's what that's how the
industry pays for things that wanna do
you know and I call it
yeah there's no way that we got we
should shift the system so the
the healthcare system gets compensated
for keeping us well and that that's why
we're huge in Colorado we pushed outdoor
recreation so strongly and I think I'm
pushing trying to get outdoor recreation
to get more integrated into urban areas
and get more people outside and provide
an incentive of you know for kids just
to get their faces out of the you know
I've got a 16 year old son his face is
always in a screen he he'll hate me for
saying that but mine to it so it's a
problem but anyway that's that is that
preventive of a getting people to lead
healthier lifestyles of their own choice
but really giving them the incentives
and making it attractive is a big part
of getting to a place where we we have a
system that can we can begin to
contemplate how do we reward the system
for keeping us healthy let's talk about
climate change you wrote an op eds that
said that the green New Deal resolution
introduced by Alexandria Ocasio Cortez
and Ed Markey sets us up for failure how
do you think we should reach the goal of
you know Net Zero global emissions by
2050 which is what the inter government
soldier handle on climate change and I
you know I share 1,000% the sense of
urgency that the green New Deal
communicates and I've and I celebrate it
for that I think the problem I think
we've got to be laser-focused on climate
change and I look at that especially the
federal jobs guarantee mm-hmm that that
would get caught up in Congress and you
can imagine the battles that will take
place and even if the legislation got
passed the implementation would require
almost certainly judicial challenges
everything would gum down the process I
look at at at how we're gonna address
climate change and and and we know
already we know that things like like
electricity and transportation buildings
we know that there ways that that
society as a whole can save money right
by doing the right things we've got
we're closing to coal plants in Colorado
right now replacing the coal coal-fired
electrical generation plants with wind
solar and batteries no natural gas at
all and the monthly electric bill
for all those consumers is gonna go down
that's when the market begins to to
change and some things like like
agriculture and and large-scale
manufacturing is still we doe don't
quite have the the final solutions there
right but we need to be laser-focused on
everything on you know how do we get the
recharging stations net necessary for
you know rapid recharging of electric
vehicles everywhere right every and and
in real time you know we took our
Volkswagen diesel settlement money and
put it towards recharging stations and
then we kind of snuck around and
convinced governor Herbert and Utah that
he should do it so drivers could get out
to California yeah then we've got
governor Bullock in Montana to do it and
we got you know kind of went around now
I went to governor Matt Mead who's one
of my favorite mayors I'm and but you
know Wyoming's a pretty big coal state
pretty good oil and gas state yeah and I
went to Matt and said you know you don't
want people who drive around Wyoming to
get to Yellowstone Park do you
he laughed but the next day he said yeah
we'll start we'll build it will be part
of the network as well in the end we got
all 10 western states you know five
Republican five Democrat to all agree
that they wanted to be part of that
network that's the kind of integrated
work that gets it done in the United
States but as you point out then we got
to go globally but what we do in the
United States is never gonna be the
final solution or the the best solution
for from climate change it's got to be
global well so better will work this
week released a plan that basically is
in line with the targets a set by the
green New Deal resolution but doesn't
have some of the economic proposals that
you were talking about like the federal
job guarantee is that something you
think we should pursue I guess I guess
my big question here is like in a normal
time we could like experiment with all
these different sort of renewable energy
clean energy investments and incentives
basically they're telling us within 10
years if we don't have a mass
mobilization in this country than 10
years totally transform this economy and
probably do more even than the rest of
the world since we're bigger emitters
then we're gonna have we're going to
have just devastation from climate
change that we're not going to be able
to come back from so because of the
situation we're in
would you be willing to sort of take you
know really significant steps huge
public investment of the scale that
would you know get us to the solutions
and the right technology and time would
transition the economy in time like what
do you what do you think about that I
agree wholeheartedly and I think it's
got to be that the trick though we are
so polarized and again this is I get
back to why I'm running for president we
are so divided I mean we're as divided
as probably any time since the Civil War
and if we're really going to address
climate change in a meaningful way we've
got to figure out how do we get
everybody working on their own home or
everyone focused on what they can do and
supporting at a national level those big
steps that you're describing and right
you know I think that's doable
I think it's going to take a different
approach than just using the the you
know the stick you're gonna need a
little bit of a carrot in there as well
to make sure people you know they see
their own self-interest their their
benefit from fixing this and they've got
to be they've got to understand and and
buy into that issue of the damage
that'll be irreversible if we don't get
this done next ten or twelve years I I
think the the one thing that is has been
missing that people haven't talked about
a lot that last year the Charles Koch
said to the the eff emerges for
Prosperity that they were no longer
gonna they were no longer going to fund
climate deniers right was shocking yeah
I saw it picked up got picked up in one
news place yeah but that's and now the X
on all the major oil companies are
saying they're no longer gonna deny it
that allows us this is a window where we
can really mobilize public sentiment
right Lincoln's all dealing with with
public sentiment nothing can fail
without it nothing could succeed now is
the time to really mold public sentiment
yeah you released a new trade policy
today your communications directors said
that the Democratic Party has really
struggled to respond to Trump's trade
policy why do you think that is and why
do you think the last trade agreement
that was negotiated by a Democrat Barack
Obama with the
trans-pacific partnership was sort of
divided the party yeah well that trade
has always been a tricky issue in the
Democratic Party for a variety of
reasons that I don't have to drag out on
on your show I do think that we're
seeing in a compelling way right now how
misguided president Trump's policies are
yeah and if you I mean you don't have to
spend very much time in Iowa to run into
a soybean farmer one of the agricultural
auditors in the state of Iowa told us
that that a typical soybean farmer would
need eight consecutive good years to get
back to where they were two years ago
and level will you look at the
projections for bankruptcies and in
farms all across the country they are
gonna high probability going to see a
dramatic increase even in the next 12
months the a lot of that says tariffs or
and it's not just the agricultural
community we have a bunch of
manufacturing companies that are based
on bringing components together from you
know all different places and where do
they finally get a sim assemble where
who is what is the final place of
manufacture right some of these
automobiles go back and forth between
Canada the United States and Mexico back
and forth back and forth right there's
good there is if we really want to lift
up the middle class and and have it
expand instead of shrinking if we want
to make sure that our American form of
business is provides again a ladder so
that people at the bottom can can grab a
hold that ladder and pull themselves up
I think trade has to be part of it we
just have to figure out how do we get
trade in such a way that we protect in
in all countries that are part of any
agreement that we protect workplace
safety workers rights protection of the
environment I mean you go down that list
of the basic items that we need in an
agreement that they can they can be fair
and they can be enforced but some form
of trade is gonna is going to allow us
the resources to deal with our health
care situation to to deal with climate
change and those trade agreements lay
the foundation for I mean again as we as
we've already said what we do around
climate change in this country is never
going to be enough we have to have the
World War
together and that comes from
relationships and say do you want to use
trade agreements to sort of and you want
to put climate targets in the trade
agreement you have to have climate
targets in the agreement and but all
these just all the negotiations right we
used to believe in diplomacy right now
after World War two our greatest
generation created all these strategic
alliances because they didn't ever want
to see a world war they had seen
firsthand just how awful that kind of
carnage and that the destruction in a
world war could be and now it sounds
like well we're gonna take a little more
risk towards that you know we don't care
so much yeah the beauty about the trade
agreements what what what started out as
strategic agreements ended up helping
for trade I think that collaborative
ability is is almost like a muscle that
the people as they begin to work
together towards one goal can work
together towards another goal and some
of the issues like you know like
pandemics like Ebola we have to have
everyone working together nuclear
proliferation and and and think about
cybersecurity we have to figure out a
way that as as a world we're working
together to make sure that that we are
not at risk and vulnerable to the cyber
terrorists yeah you had the experience
of being unemployed for some time in
your in your 30s and then you've also
had the experience of going on to become
a very successful business owners how
those experiences shaped your views of
economic policy and Here I am Here I am
unemployed again you know that going for
a very big job that's when I what I
became a geologist tonight I one of my
interns a couple years ago told me that
they are convinced I am the first
professional geologist ever to get
elected governor in the history of
America it seems like a safe bet
yeah well I I think it seems like I know
for a fact that I'm the first Brewer
since Sam Adams in 1792 to get elected
governor okay yeah but I think you know
when when I came out to Colorado in the
original late 70s I moved out
permanently in 81 I thought I'd be a
geologist for the rest of my life and
then you know the markets changed and
commodity prices tanked
and our company and many other companies
got sold and consolidated and literally
thousands probably more than ten
thousand geologists lost their jobs so
no one was hiring I lost not just my job
but my profession and you know the story
I sometimes tell is it at first you have
your natural resilience that most most
people learn through the early years of
their life and and you know my mom my
mom was widowed twice before she was 40
and she told us you know you can't
control what life throws at you but you
can control how you respond to it does
it make you better or worse so I felt
pretty good but after about I know six
eight maybe ten months of being out of
work you begin to see a different person
in the mirror and you don't have the
same the same framework of confidence
you had and just that little bit of
self-doubt I found myself having to
really work hard to change my attitude
and by this time weeds we had the notion
we thought we might start this wild
thing called a brewpub right and no one
knew what a brewpub was I mean like most
entrepreneurial opportunities there's a
vacuum because no one's ever seen it
yeah I mean I couldn't get my own mother
to invest it was just it was hard and
and having that doubt in my mind about
you know my own career and and was I a
failure was my fault
that all these geologists got laid off
at least that I had chosen to be one of
these geologists and now I didn't have a
career I think that's a lot of what went
through the minds of so many of the
people that voted for Donald Trump right
in the in the 80s and 90s there and it
wasn't just all outsourcing all right
that's what the that's the anti trade
people said alive it was automation that
eliminated a lot of those jobs but
regardless of where we did up I mean it
was government malpractice we did a
terrible job of retraining people and
giving them tools to create their own
new future and if we do that again we're
gonna see the same thing from automation
and artificial intelligence with the
whole are our professional world is
going to get turned upside down whole
professions are gonna disappear we need
to get out ahead of this and we've got a
partnership with Microsoft now called
skillful
just rudimentary so far but it allow
people kids of all ages to acquire a
profile skills but more importantly
hopefully we'll be able to get to
predicting three four five years out
which professions are likely to be at
risk and not threaten or scare people
but just say hey here the skills you
already have if you go on to skilful
comm these are new professions click on
a profession see what skills you have
that are useful what skills you might be
missing what would you need to acquire
and where you can get them and what it
would cost and that's the part I think
that we need to make those skills
essentially free for people that can't
afford them it should be a sliding scale
but just like a community health center
they've got to be free if you don't have
the money and let people I mean what I
learned from being laid off was the
anxiety and the frustration that I saw
especially a lot of my friends it was so
disruptive I see I didn't have I didn't
have kids I didn't have a family to
support there was much less pressure on
me than that almost everyone else I knew
and I think we can get people trained
and get those skills before they're
their career their life is at risk you
eliminate that anxiety to a large extent
so we're talking at a time of you know
very low unemployment the economy is
growing and yet you know Federal Reserve
found last year that 40% of Americans
couldn't pay a four hundred dollar bill
if there was an emergency expense what
do we do for all the people who are
working but they still can't afford a
basic middle-class lifestyle sure and I
think you know I the statistic that's
even worse than that one is that 80% of
the families in America today are having
a hard time pretty much every month
balancing their household budget at the
end of every month they can't they can't
make ends meet that's not America yeah
and so obviously the I think raising the
minimum wage and maybe in certain places
that come up goes faster than others and
maybe big cities where it's really more
expensive to live like New York or or
maybe San Francisco maybe you haven't
even higher than $15 minimum wage but
you tie it in some way to the cost of
living but
but there's much more to it than that I
I mean this our system used to be when I
was a kid our economic system was a
place where you know not just the middle
class but but but people in the bottom
of the economic ladder they could find
both security and opportunity just by
working and working hard and playing by
the rules and that's clearly not the
case anymore and you know part of it is
and these are not evil people I'm not
demonizing but they're a t-1000 trade
associations out there right the sand
and gravel providers of America the
bridge builders of America the
Restaurant Association here are there
all these trade associations have a
lobbyist and again I'm not against
lobbyists right there they're
hardworking and and and and representing
their the the associations they work for
but their job is to find another
opportunity a retained earnings or a tax
break that their business can get well
all those breaks that have accumulated
over all these years have added up and
you know the other statistic and then I
won't say anymore statistics I promise
because I know what good radio is it is
not statistically low statistics yeah
you like humor more than statistics but
sometimes they're relevant and I think
from 1946 to 1980 when Reagan got
elected basically adjusted for inflation
every American doubled their income
that's an amazing statistic the only
people that didn't were at the very top
of the economic ladder and they're very
wealthy only their income only went up
about 80% but they start out so much
higher that they still were doing great
and then there was obviously a
government was bad trickle-down
economics this is all gonna benefit
everyone else more and more and more if
you go from 1980 to the present day 50%
of Americans are making less now than
they were before
yeah that's staggering I mean how
clearly do you want to demonstrate that
our system is broken so a lot of those
things that the the lobbying community
created over many many years a lot of
more loopholes I think we should go in
and address him and just try and make it
a level playing field as much as humanly
possible make sure that people get paid
fairly fair wage for a fair day's work
and make sure the companies pay yeah I
don't know if you saw the thing the
other day that there are 6000 I do one
more statistic sorry this is like what I
swear I'll tell you're 60 fortune 500
companies which is are paying no taxes
for the last year and that's double the
number before Trump's tax cut I mean so
all of a sudden now we've got more he
said he was gonna get rid of all it all
the loopholes and all and that we're
gonna lower their taxes but they'd pay
more taxes right well somehow that
doesn't seem to have happened you know I
haven't heard a much of an out roar
would you get rid of the Trump tax cuts
the the tax cut that was passed by the
Republican Congress certainly I would
look at I thought that we needed to
reduce the corporate tax cut a little
bit somewhat probably somewhere between
where it is now and where it was there I
certainly would have tried to take the
money and and put it towards something
like infrastructure you know some of
that savings is really dedicated towards
transportation broadband you know
Colorado is gonna be in by the end of
2020 we'll be the first state in America
to have broadband in every city in town
Wow yeah we're very proud of that so we
want our share back when the federal
government money for broadband for
everybody so you know you made this
great case about how sort of the middle
class has been hollowed out and
obviously you know Republican policies
tax cuts for the rich not much for
everyone else
Democrats have you know been pushing for
universal health care skills training
living wage all the times have you
talked about and yet we've seen this
sort of exodus from the party of white
working-class non-college educated
voters we've maintained
you know african-american working-class
voters Latino working-class voters but
the white voters have been leaving and
you know some people might say it helped
hit the election to Trump in 2016 how do
you how do you view this these these
voters we should be getting back or is
there racial and cultural resentment
there that we can't we can't get back
well how do you how do you see this well
there's certainly there is friction in
the in the large generalities within
within what you're describing but
you know at least in Colorado I think
across the country there are
opportunities and part of it is you know
looking at how do we how do we bring
together the people that feel left
behind and oftentimes it's not just
black people in Latino people is a lot
of those rural white workers and small
towns and in rural parts of our States
feel tremendously at left behind
you know we part of why we push
broadband in all parts of Colorado is we
made a commitment when I first got
elected we were 40th in job creation I
said what we're gonna we're gonna be
pro-business the most pro-business state
but with the highest ethical standards
the highest environmental standards and
part of that goal was to make sure we
lifted up the entire economy but we
didn't leave the rural parts behind and
so will last year US News and World
Report ranked us for the second year in
a row as the number one economy in
America so we went from 48th and job
creation to the number one economy but
we're gonna have this year I think we're
gonna have the number one rural economy
or one of the top rural economies and
I've got a bunch of of mostly Republican
farmers out on the eastern plains that
send me emails and texts saying you
gotta run for president and they want to
come campaign with me and Iowa and say
here's what Hickenlooper did in Colorado
here's what he could do in Iowa imagine
what he could do for the country and I
think that's providing tools like skills
training making sure that every small
town has has broadband we provided tax
incentives and and and not that many
businesses or entrepreneurs to took part
of it but if you go and start a business
in a rural part of Colorado for the
first four years not only does your
business but also none of your employees
pay any taxes of any kind to the state
of Colorado four years so again just
well I think what's eight hundred jobs
or a thousand jobs we've created but if
you're in a town with sixteen hundred
people or two thousand people and it's
been getting smaller and people are
leaving harder for the grocery store to
stay in business and suddenly you've got
twenty new workers at a new business or
thirty the the feeling that someone
cares and that there's hope and there's
a future I think it's powerful and I
think I think there ways to do that all
across America
you mentioned Aurora earlier
in the wake of that shooting you took on
the NRA you were able to pass universal
background checks bans on high-capacity
ammo and this was with a Republican
right in Colorado there were at that
time we had one vote majority one for
Senate what lessons do you take from
passing gun safety measures in Colorado
that you might be able to apply to the
country well you know the one thing I
hadn't thought through was the the power
of local statistics yeah and the funny
story my son Teddy at that time was in
fifth grade and I made a mistake of
complaining to him when I got home cuz
it was just a battle at the State
Capitol and he looked at me he goes dad
what do you do all day at work this so
hard make decisions he goes dad get the
facts make a decision check next I said
well tell you it's not that easy dad
get the facts make a decision check next
he goes every day I've got to go to
school and learn something completely
new that I didn't even know existed the
day before if I don't get it perfect the
next day is misery because everything's
based on the day before you know after
five minutes as to tell you right fifth
grade is harder than being governor but
the next day I went in I went in and I
got the the statistics we had the
national statistics for gun safety and
universal background checks but we
hadn't got in the local statistics and
even though every Republican business
person I knew was in favor of universal
background checks the Republican Party
largely because of the NRA wouldn't
wouldn't give an inch and the NRA
wouldn't compromise and based after my
talk with Teddy I went and we got the
local statistics and in Colorado just
five and a half million people there
were 38 people this is in 2012 so the
year before this legislative session
there were 38 people convicted of
homicide who tried to buy a gun and we
stopped them we were getting to 50% of
all the gun purchases which is what most
states get to yeah and we wanted to get
to 100% and the Republicans said well
crooks aren't stupid well we went
through 133 people convicted of sexual
assault tried to buy a gun and we
stopped them there 1,300 people
convicted of felony assault tried to buy
a gun and we stopped them you know went
through there are over 3,000 people can
make their felony assault and a hundred
and forty people make
came to pick up their new gun we
arrested them for an outstanding warrant
for a violent crime so when you take
those local statistics let me just say
once we laid those out a bunch of the
Republican legislators said I'm not
gonna try and repeal this so even when
they came back they repealed two
Democrats two of the state senators so
the Republicans got the majority back in
the state centered but those statistics
are so powerful locally and I think
we've got to go all across the country
and get the local statistics in front of
the lawmakers and get him into the local
media so that I mean national statistics
are powerful but it's not quite the same
as thinking about who's living down the
road and who's trying to buy a gun who
might do harm to your family in addition
to the tragedy in Aurora I read that in
your first term as governor you attended
more than 50 funerals whether it was
natural disaster or shooting like Aurora
did that change you did that give you a
new perspective on on grief I know it
did for for President Obama and all the
you know funerals that he spoke at and
attended after all the shootings that
occurred when he was in the White House
yeah I don't think he could help but
change you that and I felt it was a
blessing that he came you know we had
the Waldo Canyon fire in the late spring
of 2012 and then we had the shooting in
the Aurora movie theater in July of 2012
and the president generously came out
both times to console the people with
losses and and he has a gift I mean it I
thought it was a gift and and asked him
after we met with all the the surviving
family members of the 12 deceased
victims of the Aurora shooting he was so
it was almost beyond words to describe
but he was one with those families he
knew just and he would stand with them
for it felt like minutes but it was you
know at least 10 seconds without saying
something and then know exactly who to
who to embrace and he changed her I've
heard several of those people come and
later tell me that that
transform something that was the worst
experience in their life they were still
the worst experience but he transformed
it in a way that somehow they they came
out that you know that that his his
ability to connect with them transform
the experience in a positive way still
the worst experience of their lives but
and and I asked him I said how do you do
that how do you have that talent he says
it's not a talent it's a craft and once
you've done it again and again and again
you begin to get a real sense of of what
it is people need and and and how
different people express that need and
and it's true you do you do get better
and you realize you know I mentioned my
mom her first husband died at the end of
World War two and she had two kids he
got he died in a freak accident he was a
pilot in Europe and he came back to the
United Sates and the day before he's
gonna get discharged he died in a freak
accident
and then she met my dad and she had two
kids already and she had two more kids I
was the baby and then he got intestinal
cancer after they'd been married about
six years I think
yeah maybe seven years and he died just
after I turned eight and my mom was so
stoic and you know she really told us
you've got a no one's gonna create joy
for you you got to take responsibility
for yourselves and you'll never be able
to control what what life throws at you
but you can control how really whether
it does make you better or worse and
stronger or weaker and I think in a
funny way when you go to that many
funerals as I did in those first four
years it was and I'm not sure it was
really fifty at one point that's what we
thought I went back and tried to check
it and I think we could we counted 34 it
was a lot it felt like I can't tell you
and so often it's interesting and I was
I was sitting with the parents of a
young soldier who died in Iraq and and
had gone to his funeral and there's a
reception afterwards and several of
these families have stayed friends with
mine friends of mine to this day and
we're just sort of talking and well
these kids it was amazing the
best-looking kid the one all his friends
loved the one who wanted a
volunteer and serve and protect his
country and and and as we were talking
it just came out that sometimes
sometimes God takes the very best tried
to make the rest of us realize how
valuable and how precious not just life
is but are how much we love each other
and and we were all just sitting there
crying at the same time it's it's I mean
obviously Donald Trump has not played
the role of consoler in chief or any
sort of you know national leader and
while you know as president you can do a
lot of good by passing a lot of policies
there's also seems to be a role to play
in bringing the country together and
sort of being a moral leader how do you
how do you see that role especially in
the wake of a trump presidency well I
mean I never has common decency been in
such short supply and you know when
Trump was running and and he began to
get traction and and you know I can't
remember feeling more anxiety around a
political a political wave and my
biggest fear right from the beginning
was that all the young people in America
looked to the president for their moral
compass and for what itwhat how do you
define common decency what what are the
lessons whether you call them
Aesop's fables or from the Bible or the
Quran wherever you get your moral
compass that the president is has to has
to somehow illuminate those values as
President Obama did as I think president
george w bush did president Trump is the
opposite he seems determined to take any
opportunity to vote to divide people as
as he possibly can and if that process
of division that action that divides us
if that results in somebody being
bitterly heartbroken or or or feeling
more pain he seems to embrace that
rather than have any level of empathy I
I haven't felt anything that he said as
and I'm not I'm not putting this as an
attack I've just I haven't felt he's
expressed real empathy he said
empathetic type words but not in a
context not with a tone not in a way
that I've ever recognized as real
empathy yeah
governor Hickenlooper thank you so much
for joining us well really my pleasure
and good luck there should I luck out
there on the campaign trail thank you
very much
you
