welcome to pod save America I'm John
Favreau
I'm Dan peickert we have lots to talk
about today from Bill Taylor's testimony
to the brave Republican freedom fighters
who tried to disrupt the impeachment
inquiry we're also going to talk about
why Democrats who like talking to
reporters are freaking out about our
candidates and all the latest twenty20
news
we apologize today for the delayed pod
and the sound on dan side but we've had
quite a day trying to get this to get
this to work because Dan's on vacation
and I'm traveling as well we have been
in two studios we several phone lines
here we are but you know this is not a
long-term problem it's just today so you
all know when you all tweeted us about
it all right a few housekeeping notes
before we start on this week's pod state
of the world Tommy and Ben covered the
latest with Syria brexit and explain how
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau
pulled out a narrow victory up in Canada
and you can watch the rest of their
interview with former national security
adviser Susan Rice which was featured
last night on Sean Hannity's show I like
all of the other content we produce here
at quicken media finally crooked media
is starting a brand new daily podcast
what a day it's a daily news pad cast
starting on Monday October 28th you'll
be able to hear what a day every morning
Monday through Friday with new episodes
available at 5 a.m. Eastern our new
hosts Akilah Hughes and Gideon Resnick
will cut through the chaos and crimes to
break down the biggest news of the day
help you understand what matters and how
you can fix it all in 15 minutes or less
the trailer is live now so do us a favor
as you listening to this pod or right
after go to crooked comm slash what a
day and subscribe - what a day on Apple
podcast Spotify stitcher wherever you
listen your podcasts we need everyone
subscribing because we want this thing
to hit number one when when it when it
launches on Monday so do us a favor
help us out go subscribe it's gonna be
great it's gonna be great subscribe so
what a day and unsubscribe from the
daily I'm Dan
I'm kidding the deal the daily is great
such a Lovett thing to say alright
all right let's get to the news on
Tuesday we learned about testimony that
I'm sorry I'll try that again on Tuesday
we learned about testimony that I think
almost guarantees the Donald Trump will
be impeached by the House of
Representatives the testimony came from
Bill Taylor an Army veteran and career
diplomat who's been appointed to serve
in every administration since Reagan's
including this one where he is currently
Trump's top diplomat in Ukraine for
those of you don't remember bill
Taylor's the guy who texted European
Union ambassador Gordon Sandlin quote I
think it's crazy to withhold security
assistance for help with a political
campaign end quote
well in a 15-page opening statement that
leaked to the press
Taylor testified that the president
himself was in fact withholding
taxpayer-funded assistance from a US
ally in exchange for help with his
re-election campaign
here's the money quote from the
testimony quote ambassador sunland tried
to explain to me that President Trump is
a businessman and when a businessman is
about to sign a cheque to someone who
owes him something he said the
businessman asks that person to pay up
before signing the check Dan two
questions for you
one is that how business works and two
why are Democrat saying that built a
lift testimony is the most significant
they've heard in the entire impeachment
inquiry what it is how business works
unless you're Donald Trump who is famous
of course for not paying people for
goods received and services provided
right but I guess in the case of foreign
policy blackmail that's when he really
adheres to the common rules of business
this testimony is incredibly significant
in a normal world Taylor is an
unimpeachable source he lays out in
great detail that there is a quid pro
quo in even some of the other people
we've heard from who had very also very
damning things to say about how Trump
and his minions inside not that the
government conducting business left open
some vagueness around the specificity of
a quid pro quo that it was just pressure
or there was a disconnect between those
two things there was just a coincidence
that Trump was demanding something
absurd from a foreign company country at
the same time he was resisting
Congress's
legal will for said money be provided
but here you have a full criminal
conspiracy laid out by a career diplomat
who is a first-hand witness to all of us
and spoke to all of the parties and so
in a world of smoking guns this is a
smoking issue smoking so look I think
it's also you know he hears this
you know Taylor's testimony is based on
what he hears directly from Gordon
sunland who had been a little squishy
during his testimony there was a lot of
I do not recall we now have reports in
the days after bill Taylor's testimony
that Gordon sunland is thinking about
coming back to revise his testimony but
so and so you know this is Gordon
Sandlin telling Bill Taylor this is what
President Trump has told me we also
found out that you know Bill Taylor said
that the Ukrainians eventually in early
September knew that the aid was withheld
as well the other thing that I thought
was interesting too is what Trump and
Giuliani and Sunland and all these
goobers what they wanted zolensky to do
the president of Ukraine it's not like
you know these folks really cared about
corruptions and wanted some
investigations into corruption and you
know Maurice majest happened to be one
of the companies that they picked they
wanted president Solinsky to go on CNN
and announce on CNN that he would be
investigating that Ukraine the cranium
government would be investigating sorry
the Ukrainian government would be
investigating burry smih the the firm
that Joe Biden's son was on so it just
goes to show you that it's like it's
it's it has have anything to do with an
investigation it was just wanting a
foreign government to smear a potential
political opponent that's what he wanted
I rarely use the term savvy and Trump in
the same sentence but this is a very
savvy understanding of how the modern
clinical media works yo Trump knows from
- 2016 that all he has to do is get
someone to say that Biden hunter Biden
the Biden family is under investigation
and that will be in every story written
about your Biden for the rest of time
what was so devastating Hillary Clinton
and so he doesn't want to action
investigation he just wants some thin
Reid to hang the accusations of
corruption on and he knows the press
will run with it and I mean this is
Trump is it's Giuliana they know what
they're doing here it is very specific
and that's why they don't want it they
wanted him to say it on CNN and I think
in part because they think there that is
influential in the Democratic primary
which I don't know if it's heavy or not
but it's very clear what Trump was
trying to do here and it was get Ukraine
to be involved in the American election
full-stop yeah I think the other thing
worth pointing out is part of the one
other reason this was in you know fairly
compelling testimony is Taylor who is
this career diplomat but in a diplomat
his whole life talks about going to
Ukraine and you know visiting with some
of the people in Ukraine fighting
Russian aggression who are on the front
lines and was talking about how you know
people in Ukraine are gonna die because
they didn't get this assistance this
military assistance and it was all held
up because of Donald Trump and for
political reasons and it's like they're
you know real-world consequences to
withholding congressionally appropriated
aid like that
so Trump's first reaction was to tweet a
quote from some idiot Republican
congressman who was on Fox that said
quote neither Taylor or any other
witness has provided testimony that the
Ukrainians were aware that military aid
was being withheld dan what's wrong with
that defense it's wrong
journalistic hero Ken Vogel publish a
story in The New York Times which said
they of course we're aware of it how
could they not possibly aware of it and
there is documents that prove that they
knew about it so this is part of the
risks I would say of bait of forming
your anti impeachment messaging strategy
around things random people say on Fox
News well I will say before the Vogel
story was even published bill Taylor
himself testified that the Ukrainians
knew he said President Trump did insist
the President Solinsky go to a
microphone and say he's opening
investigations of Biden that presidents
himself had to quote clear things up and
do it in public president Trump said it
was not a quid pro quo ambassador
Sandlin said that he had talked to
president Solinsky and his aide mr. your
Mac and told him that although this was
not a quid pro quo if president Solinsky
did not clear things up in public we
would be at a stalemate
quid pro quo but if you don't provide
the quo so Taylor testifies that Sandlin
told him they did know that the aid was
being withheld for political purposes on
September 1st and then Vogel has a story
where that runs in the New York Times it
says it was actually much earlier this
summer that the Ukrainians knew and the
New York Times has documents to prove
that and then the AP reports a couple
hours after that yesterday the Zielinski
had been worried since before he took
office as president that he would be
asked by Trump to investigate the
Biden's and he was already worried that
he would get drawn into u.s. domestic
politics and be pressured to investigate
the Biden's and that if he didn't do
that
his very fragile relationship with his
most important ally the United States as
he's facing aggression from Russia would
be in jeopardy so it was all right there
it's all right there so the next the
next Trump excuse is that Bill Taylor is
a deep state never Trump er the White
House released a statement the night of
Taylor's testimony calling him a quote
radical unelected bureaucrat who was
part of a quote coordinated smear
campaign and then Trump himself tweeted
the next day never Trump or Republican
John Bellinger represents never Trump or
diplomat bill Taylor in parentheses who
I don't know in testimony before
Congress exclamation point so what's the
problem with this defense well it's
obviously not true you went through at
the beginning of this podcast which
frankly for us who've been dealing with
this feels like 10 years ago with
Taylor's very long resume he is someone
who has worked for Republicans and
Democrats he is a public servant through
and through there was nothing to suggest
that he is a partisan hack a member of
the deef State or anything like that I
will say there is a
xual problem with this for sure but I
think as Democrats and people who care
about the rule of law and facts and
things like that we should be at least
we should recognize that Trump had some
measure success taking Bob Muller who
was someone who had unimpeachable
bipartisan public servant credentials as
well and turned him into a bogeyman for
just enough Republicans to ensure that
the report was not taken seriously by
his base or by any of the members from
probably members of Congress and so this
is an absurd strategy on its face but
absurdity has some success when
amplified by a right-wing propaganda
network yeah I do think it will be
harder this time
and it will be harder because bill
Taylor does not stand alone here
you know Fiona Hill who was on Trump's
National Security Council you know and
she was a Russia specialist she
testified Gordon Sunland testified and
even though he's a Trump loyalist seems
to be maybe changing his story and
revising his testimony you know the the
ambassador to Ukraine Marie Jovanovic
testified so there's a number of you
know a Defense Department official
there's a number of trump appointed
officials I mean Bill Taylor was
appointed by Mike Pompeo no one
like is three weeks ago three weeks ago
and no one is a bigger Trump at his ass
in the entire federal government than
Mike Pompeo or at least he's like top
three or four at least we don't want to
give him that was up there bill bars up
there but they're all he's close
so Mike Pompeo thought that they should
give this guy this never Trump never
Trump or unelected bureaucrat a job in
the administration so I do think you're
right like Trump and Fox and everyone
else will be trying their hardest to
show that Bill Taylor is biased that
every single person who testified
against Trump is bias that's that's
their strategy if you testify
whatever you say whether it's the truth
or not the truth if you testify and it
hurts Donald Trump you are a deep state
unelected bureaucrat or you're working
with the Democrats that's it that's
that's that's what they got
so a number of Republicans have already
made the transition from embarrassing
excuses to deeply embarrassing stunts
the day after Bill Taylor testified
Trump reportedly encouraged a group of
House Republicans to obstruct the
impeachment inquiry by physically
storming the secured office where a
Defense Department official was
testifying these republican freedom
fighters were led by human frat paddle
Matt Gaetz who chanted led us in led us
in before quietly sitting at a
conference table to eat the pizza that
they ordered dan what prompted this
brave protest any any problems you see
with the basic logic behind it I would
say just Adam Schiff if you're listening
that I think you may there may be a flaw
in your strategy to run the secret
partisan hearing so you keep your whole
wagons in the dark so the advice I give
you is maybe stop inviting all their
public members on the committee to all
the depositions it's like what are we
doing it's just so it's like it's not a
secret process there are Republicans in
the room though people not remember
people the Republican leadership to send
it not to put on the committee's that
are holding the hearings and it it is it
is it really like human front panel is
these brilliant way and I was that tell
me or loved it I can't remember which
one of them did let's just let's go with
Tommy it's a perfect way to describe
Matt Gaetz
obviously cuz he's just a subservience
this frat like low-rent frat house
atmosphere that is the modern Republican
Party that the only response here cannot
be some sort of intellectual argument or
a fact-based response or looking at the
law and has to be a stunt has to be
absurd stunts of a bunch of grown men I
think there are almost entirely men
that's just based on the fact that there
are Republicans in the house which is
almost all white men and who went
stormed a room and ordered pizza and
begged to be arrested yeah they one
could be heroes of what I don't know
yeah I mean there's so many problems
with they're so dumb there's so many
problems with their argument here it's
it's hard to know where to begin but I
think we should with the fact that you
know yes these are these hearings that
are being conducted right now and there
are more interviews than they are like
full-blown hearings they are being
conducted behind closed doors but what
you wouldn't know from listening to
Trump or the Republicans or any
person on Fox is that they're being
conducted by Democrats and Republicans
like you said
Republicans who are on the Intelligence
Committee her on the Oversight Committee
and who are on the Judiciary Committee
are all in the room and Democrats who
are on those three committees are all in
the room Democrats who are not on those
committees aren't allowed in just like
Republicans who aren't on those
committees aren't allowed in it's that
 simple in fact a quarter of the
Republicans who were part of the protest
who stormed the who stormed the meeting
were already allowed in they were
already allowed into the meeting if they
just wanted to they did it as a stunt to
get press attention it was
un-fuckin'-believable do you think it
was smart or stupid I think it was as a
stunt like I think his stunts go I mean
I don't know I think it's pretty
stupid but like did they get a day's
worth of headlines about how they
stormed into a meeting yeah although I
have to say you know we criticized the
media often like every single
nonpartisan reporter and outlet reported
that it was a stunt that it was
ridiculous and explained what was really
true even on Fox I saw you know Andrew
Napolitano Judge Napolitano on Fox &
Friends this morning talking about how
like this is what happens you don't want
witnesses to coordinate testimony so you
do these initial interviews in a closed
session privately and then Adam Schiff
has already said we're gonna hold public
hearings and we're gonna make all of
this testimony public he has already
said that so the crazy thing is that all
these Republicans in Trump are like the
Democrats and their socialist
closed-door
soviet-style hearings what are they
doing like as if we're afraid of public
hearings I can't wait for the
public hearing like it's it might be a
short what it might be a short term
tactic to get them through right now to
try to get a few good headlines but it's
gonna blow up in their face as soon as
there are public hearings right yeah the
idea that they want this to happen in
public is insane just be like this has
been the problem this is why this has
been hard for Democrats I understand the
process they're going through it's the
right process to come to a measured
reason fully investigated decision but
we live in a online video world and to
print stories are not gonna drive a
conversation so just a bunch of
headlines about what Bill Taylor said
it's not the same as an event where Bill
Taylor is delivering testimony people
are tuning in on their television or
watching the clips online like that
it'll be so much more powerful in it
like this is I when we were in the White
House and their problems would
constantly do stupid I always used
to try to explain to people that the
Republican Congressional Republican
strategy is not this is not a chess
checkers conversation because that's
insulting to checkers it's basically
they want to do whatever gets them
through the next caucus meeting right
it's like whatever just makes the next
lunch they're gonna have to have with
the crazies less uncomfortable and now
it's basically like how do you get to
the next Trump tweet right like how'd it
like what are we going to do for the
next five minutes without any thought of
what happens in minutes 6 through 1
million and that's what that is now the
way in which this is somewhat there is
some logic to this is Republicans have
understood since the beginning of
Obama's presidency that the that the the
stunts like this work because what they
do is they surf the natural cynicism of
the American public and so people don't
have most people who are not news
obsessive like us and many of people
listening they just are they're just
like looking at the headlines either on
the chyron about on the TV or as they're
scrolling through Facebook or whatever
social media they use and and all you
hear is a bunch of people yelling at
each other and then they're naturally
they immediately default to both sides
our bad it's like oh there's a big mess
here must be something and so throwing a
bunch of mud around can dirty up the
process for a lot of people who are
naturally cynical about politics and
these are the people that we need to
turn out right and so when you know same
thing kind with health care people they
didn't pay attention to health care in
2010 when we were trying to pass it into
the what the actual specifics of the
bill were it was just a bunch of people
yelling each other at town halls and a
bunch people yelling at each other it's
not seems like it might be problematic
and so I think that is the underlying
logic to the idiocy of yesterday is just
make the whole thing seem so messy that
people will turn out because Trump's
base well I'm sorry
make the thing so messy that many people
will tune out while ensuring that
Trump's base turns out that's sort of
there's a political process here that I
think is something we should keep our
eyes on well and I will say even people
who aren't cynical about politics and
who do pay attention to the news the the
logic here is to try to confuse them as
much as possible I mean my dad who pays
a lot of attention to the news I was
talking to him last night about this
whole thing and he's like I didn't know
that Republicans were allowed in some of
these meetings he's like I thought that
he's like shift should make that clear I
don't know I've been paying attention to
the news all day I didn't know they were
allowed in some of the hearings like so
there is they they are just trying to
confuse people even people who pay a lot
of attention to this stuff and it's easy
and I mean I don't think I knew until
two days ago three days ago that three
committees worth of Republicans in the
 room you know so you know you
can see why they're doing this and I
will say also when there are public
hearings I think the public hearings
will be very strong I think they'll be
able to be choreographed at that point
because Schiff and Pelosi and all the
Democrats will have all the testimony
they need and they'll be able to figure
out like who should we hear from in what
order to make sure it's most the most
compelling story as possible but
Republicans will try to make those
hearings a circus because
they're gonna get time to speak and
they're gonna say crazy and they're
gonna yell and they're gonna try to do
what they did in that Corey Lewandowski
hearing and try to make it seem like
it's so much of a circus that everyone's
like why is everyone yelling to each
other during these impeachment hearings
so there is going to be a similar
challenge even when these hearings are
public
for sure so I guess Lindsey Graham today
as we're recording this Lindsey Graham
is also going to introduce a resolution
in the Senate that is an official you
know disapproval of the houses
impeachment process and how it's a
closed-door secret process like do you
think he's gonna get all the Republican
votes for this do you think I mean this
it's clearly not just Matt Gaetz in his
in his frat buddies storming norming ask
if here but this his it seems like this
is a broader Republican strategy now is
it is it smart do you think Graham's
gonna succeed I know McConnell's backing
Graham and this resolution well I mean
I'm interested to see if McConnell will
actually bring this to the floor and
forced cory gardner martha mcsalley
susan collins etc to vote on this
because it seems like a lose-lose
because if those if you any republicans
vote against it like either the
vulnerable republicans i mentioned or
someone like a lisa murkowski who you
know has been known to buck the party at
times if any of them vote against it
that's a giant blow to trump and would
put this bipartisan approval to show
some bipartisan support and clear
republican senators for it and if he
passes it on a party line vote and
forces all of these republicans running
in in blue and purple states the
presidential election year to say that
they disapprove of looking into
presidential crimes right which is
different than saying i've looked at
this it's troubling it doesn't reach the
level of conviction yeah that's a that's
a much worse position puts people in so
i am surprised
i would be surprised that mcconnell
brought this to the floor and see i
understand why graham did it because he
knows trump's mad at him and this is the
legislative equivalent of John Cusack
standing outside holding up a boom box
so he's just trying to send a message to
trump and the but I think the long-term
play here seems not helpful for the
Republican Party I will say we forgot to
mention one more thing about how
stupid that stunt was is the the the
interviews were being held in what's
known as a secure compartment
information facility known as a skiff is
the acronym there and they have some of
these in the White House in the
Situation Room they have some in
Congress basically they're places you
can go and have meetings where you don't
bring any cell phones in any laptops
anything else because you want to be
secure as possible and so if people are
hacking if there's listening devices
whatever else you can make sure that
this is you know that this is clear of
all that and you can basically discuss
classified information right and these
 goobers charged in there with
their cell phones into a skiff which you
are never supposed to do never these
same Republicans who are you know they
care a lot about operational security
when it comes to private emails and
email servers and all that but
they'll just barge into skiff
would you're never supposed to do with
their cell phones John I don't want to
seem cynical here but I don't think they
really care about what do you provide
email servers I don't think that was I
don't think that was I don't think that
was sincere
you know that's another part about this
dish was funny was I know I know I'm
sorry the last levels
the other part about this it's sort of
funny is Kevin McCarthy this is they
violated house rules like you're not
allowed to do that the parliamentarian
ruled on that today but yesterday Kevin
McCarthy who is really a doofus and just
truly a doofus went out and explained
that it's not these members faults they
don't know these rules because they're
not on the Intelligence Committee which
is the whole point yeah they're not in
the room because they're not on the
Intelligence Committee
thank you Kevin McCarthy I'm sure that
sounded smart in the mirror when you're
practicing it while combing your hair so
we're talking about a vote Lindsey
Graham and the Senate resolution not all
of the Republican senators have gone
with you know Trump and Matt Gaetz and
Lindsey Graham and you know fully
defending everything already here's a
quote from one Republican senator about
Bill Taylor's testimony quote the
picture coming out of it based on the
reporting that we've seen I
say is not a good one but I would say
also that until we have a process that
allows for everybody to see this in full
transparency it's pretty hard to draw
any hard and fast conclusions that was
John Thune the number-two Republican in
the Senate second ranking Senate
Republican there were similar
wait-and-see comments from senators like
Susan Collins and MIT Romney appeared
Alecto and in this week the Daily Caller
contacted the offices of all 53
Republican senators and found only seven
who said that they definitively opposed
the impeachment inquiry into Trump so
you know we can't really predict
anything here but do you think the
chances of 20 Republicans voting to
convict Trump have increased this week
with Taylor's testimony have the
politics changed at all what do you
think I don't think the chances of Trump
being removed from office have increased
I do not I I still think there is a but
the even though the impeachment number
poll numbers have moved what drives
Republican fealty to Trump is the
Republican base and that has not moved
and I don't and I have no reason to
believe it is going to move because it's
it is instead 38 percent right because a
lot of these people are in these very
who would make these decisions when they
very Republican say its and they're
definitely afraid of a primary we're the
filing deadlines have not passed in a
lot of states so this is a in this
process will end before those filing
deadlines new pass so it's I think
that's very unlikely I think we should
be clear-eyed about that and not get
anyone's hopes up yeah and certainly
allow the media to move what is success
from a inquiry that tells a story to the
country with a trial and with it reveals
information to whether Trump is removed
or not because that is a game we are
destined to lose
I do think Republicans are finding all
of their previous defenses to be much
much harder to sustain so I suspect
we're gonna see a strategic retreat of
sorts where you are not adamantly
opposed to the inquiry itself but
adamant but you become adamantly opposed
that what is discovered in the inquiry
reaches a level worthy of removal yeah
and that's and that's where they end up
right
that's the final excuse from all the
Republicans even even someone like
Collins and honestly it mirrors their
final excuse in the Cavanaugh
confirmation right which was you know
Susan Kay I think Susan Collins says
something like yeah maybe there's wrong
then but we can't really be sure it
doesn't rise to the level of stopping
this appointment and all that kind of
 you can see them and you can
see even the ones who are up in 20/20
ultimately saying well look I supported
the inquiry because I think it was
important to get to the bottom of this
but I don't believe it rises to the
level of an impeachable offense so
knowing that that's where they're gonna
end up and knowing that one of our big
political goals here has never been like
yeah we really think that twenty
Republicans are gonna have the courage
to remove this guy from office
but we want to make sure we want to make
life as hard on some of these Senate
Republicans who are up in purple states
we want to make it as hard for as
possible for them to vote to protect
Trump how should Democrats respond to
that argument that it just doesn't rise
to the level of an impeachable offense I
think it is to make the case and as
clear and dramatic terms as possible
that it does right this is like you have
to explain simply and clearly how this
is an abuse of power and I mean we
really are where you have a quid pro quo
around military aid for a vulnerable
ally in exchange for a politically
motivated investigation to an interfere
in an upcoming election that is that is
an a-plus answer to my poli-sci question
of what is an impeachable offense it is
that is exactly what they were thinking
about and you have to make you have to
make that case you have to do it clearly
and succinctly and I do think we've been
involved in this we the world and then
even some of us internally at Ponzi
America medium and you know discussing
like should it be just Ukraine should it
be other things should it be broader I'm
generally for broader but I do think the
top even some of the things we've heard
about how focusing this around abuse of
power from this president with the
spitless you know that being the framing
concept with what's
Ukraine is the centerpiece of that is a
very powerful argument and you have to
show why these Republicans who are
trying to have it both ways are full of
 and that means making the case
simply clearly in every day between now
and whatever day this trial comes to a
conclusion so I like focusing it on
abuse of power but I do think that
proving that Donald Trump's behavior
towards Ukraine is part of a ladder
Locke is part of a larger pattern and
that he has done this kind of thing that
he has abused his power time and time
again helps make it more difficult for
Republicans in Congress to vote to
acquit and I think if you can say it
wasn't just Ukraine he tried to he asked
China to investigate the Biden's and
today
Trump's Trade Representative Peter
Navarro was asked if investigating the
Biden's has ever come up during the
trade talks with China and he said he
wouldn't answer so there's another
possibility like I think you need to
show that look this guy is using the
power of the presidency and abusing the
power of the presidency to do whatever
it takes to win reelection and we cannot
have free and fair elections in 2020 if
this man remains in office because he
has already proven time and again he
will stop at nothing at nothing to try
to get foreign help to win this election
on his behalf and I think the way we
need to frame it ultimately is a vote to
acquit is a vote to greenlight foreign
interference in the 2020 election it's
not about Trump it's not about defending
Trump or opposing Trump if you are Susan
Collins and you vote to acquit you just
voted to give the green light for
foreign interference in the 2020
election that's what your vote is about
and if Democrats run those ads they will
be completely fair in Maine and
Arizona all the places where Republicans
are out and even if they weren't fair
you could still run on Facebook without
any problems that is right yeah everyone
go check out a time for facts but
I was gonna say everyone go check out a
oh C's questioning of Mark Zuckerberg
yesterday and Katy Porter's and
everyone's it was it was fantastic but
yeah look I I'm I'm for I'm not for
widening the inquiry in a way that will
confuse the storyline because I think we
have a good understandable accessible
storyline right now but I am for proving
that Donald Trump's abuse of power with
regard to Ukraine is part of a larger
pattern and making sure that the
American people know what that pattern
is and making sure that the senators
were voting on this know what that
pattern is and feel the pressure alright
I think the way that we can brick yeah I
would say there's someone with him on
this I think the way we can bring in all
the various strains of this in a one
story is that something along the lines
of Donald Trump Donald Trump has abused
his office to enrich himself reward his
friends and punish his enemies and so
that gets you crushin which is I think a
very whether it's doing back or the g7
or any of that it gets the things he's
done to you know reward donors and it
gets to the foreigner election air
appearance yeah and I think just and put
our input free and fair elections at
risk you know put our democracy at risk
I think I think getting onto people's
heads that we might not have a fair
election because Donald Trump has you
know whether it's bill bar or president
Solinsky he's using all of the using all
the powers of his presidency to make
sure he wins and and we can't be sure we
know about the Ukraine won because of a
brave whistleblower and a but even Bill
Taylor who's like a good guy in all this
because he came forward and his you know
speaking out bill Taylor if not for the
whistleblower wouldn't have said
anything and we would never have known
about all this so think about all of the
other abuses of power that are going on
in the administration if this is the
only one that we know about right now
all right yeah let's talk about 2020 it
is apparently that time of the campaign
season where democratic donors and
strategists and people who love taking
calls from reporters freaked out over
the field of Democratic candidates
here's Jonathan Martin in the New York
Times quote Democratic leaders are
engaging in a familiar right fretting
about who is in the race and longing for
a white knight to enter the contest at
the last minute and here's the
Washington Post quote
in conversations with 17 state National
Party leaders nearly all expressed some
level of unease with where the field
stands and a deepening concern that the
leading contenders would struggle
mightily against Trump these party
leaders are reportedly kicking around
the idea of trying to get a variety of
candidates to enter the race from
Michael Bloomberg and Bob Iger to John
Kerry and Deval Patrick to sherrod Brown
and even Hillary Clinton dan where have
we seen these pieces before every
election every election happens every
single time democratic tradition like it
I mean it's frankly it's a bipartisan
tradition like no other because that's
true that's how we got Rick Perry in the
race in 2012 and Fred Thompson 2004 and
there is something about the primary
process it is very diminishing of
candidates it you go a year of
tremendous scrutiny debates getting and
debate exchanges with fourth tier
candidates reporters coming after you
making gaffes and so like you would do
all of that before you ever get a signal
vote so every like it is a all of every
candidate's flaws are on full display
and you don't have without actionable
elections you don't have any validation
of whether there was reason for your
anxiety and so we've seen this every
single time it's not surprising what is
interesting about it to me this time is
two things one there's more anxiety this
time because Trump is bad and this is
this is the scariest election we're ever
gonna have and it feels like a lot of
what this country is about and democracy
is about is on the ballot this time in
second is that these party leaders who
are quoting these stories have never had
less influence right they just there's
there's no there's no it's been a long
time but there's no smoke-filled room
somewhere we're a bunch of donors and
state party chairs can put a candidate
on the ballot like the all of the Power
has been pushed down to the grassroots
and you can see that by the fact that
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders and
are here at the top of this race with
Joe Biden two people who do not have a
ton of Italian establishment support and
the other person who is lurking in the
backgrounds is the 38 year old mayor of
South Bend Indiana who couldn't even win
the hit
see chairmanship two years ago and so
these are not candidates the party
leaves are picking so yeah I wouldn't
sweat this one too much yeah I should
say the other reason everyone so scared
is not only the Trump's awful and you
know it would be a catastrophe if it got
a second term but that we lost to him in
the first place and it is and we all got
it wrong right and so it is like
everyone is so much more nervous this
time about who we're gonna choose as a
nominee and I think that's getting there
too now the the issue here though is the
worry among the party leaders and donors
is not necessarily reflected in the
Democratic electorate according to a
poll of Democratic and Democratic
leaning voters conducted by YouGov after
the last debate 83% described themselves
as satisfied with the field and 45%
described themselves as enthusiastic so
yeah we'd like the enthusiastic number
to be up there but 83% of people being
satisfied and you look at approval
ratings for some of these candidates
Elizabeth Warren's approval ratings
among Democrats is incredibly high pee
Buddha judges approval rating among
Democrats is incredibly high joe biden's
is pretty high Bernie Sanders is pretty
high as for candidates right there who
have very very high approval ratings
with the Democratic electorate so the
question there so the things crazy about
this is no no go ahead you guys sorry no
no you go they say the other thing here
is let's just hypothetically say you was
a donor or a pretty leader or just a
random voter are nervous or have some
reason to not be in love with the top
three or top for the people you just
listen yeah there are plenty of other
great candidates in the race that you
could support you could support Cory
Booker Uniqlo Bashar or Kamala Harris or
better like lack of candidates is not
our problem so we don't need to go
dragging people out of retirement to get
into place and it's an it's just it's an
absurd proposition well especially
people look look you and I and we've
done this right you and I could make a
case why each one of these candidates in
the field at least the leading
candidates
and some of the ones in the second tier
could beat Donald Trump in a case why
they could lose to Donald Trump right
and with some candidates there are
different reasons for each but I also
all the candidates that have been
mentioned in the piece who aren't
running and people want to jump in I
could do the same thing with them about
strengths they have and weaknesses they
have the truth is every single one of
these candidates has strengths and they
have weaknesses no one is perfect we are
not going to nominate the perfect
Democratic candidate we never have we
never have like we can go back and look
at all the stories about party leaders
and I'm sure there's a a whole
bunch of Ed Rendell quotes about why
Barack Obama is a weak general election
nominee why Barack Obama can't win
against John McCain especially John
McCain who at the time was this maverick
independent hero like oh no like you
know Barack Obama up against John McCain
that that's gonna be horrible so like I
do think there is look right now I
understand I get the concern that people
have right now that we're not gonna win
I have it every day but I think
you know if I as I go down the list of
candidates like I said I can give you a
case why each one of them wins and I can
give you a case why they lose and and
all that we can do is work our
asses off to for whoever the Democratic
nominee is to make sure that they do it
I mean in a lot of ways it's up to us
that's right and we should we should
post you have a if you have anxiety if
you have anxiety go to a phone bank and
call an undecided voter don't call
Jonathan Martin yeah I mean that's the
biggest so you know so we the piece says
you know they're worried about Biden
because of his campaign he's sort of you
know even though you know his poll
numbers are fairly steady but he's
slipping a lot in Iowa so they're
worried about Biden for all that and
then they say they're worried about
Warren because you know she's taken
positions that are too liberal right and
what they really mean here is her
position on Medicare for all so we
should stop to talk about that just
because partly in response to these
concerns about her position on Medicare
for all which she was challenged on
during the last debate the senator
announced on Sunday that in a few weeks
she'll release her plan
how to pay for it so first of all you
know how concerning is her embrace of
Bernie Sanders medicare-for-all
legislation do you think it's a smart
move that she is finally going to
release specifics on how to pay for it
and and also did she really have a
choice I think what was smart like there
is plenty of evidence and plenty of a
reason for political concern around
Medicare fall right it can be like just
the polling is clear that there are risk
there there risks in every policy and
it's a question is that what the policy
is how do you sell that policy and what
I think was smart was elizabeth warren
unlike all the other candidates not
named Bernie Sanders backed Bernie
Sanders is bill back in 2017 and when
she did that she was new she was making
a decision that that was going to be her
approach in the presidential campaign
that she wouldn't back that bill to get
to get through you know be get liberal
excitement as you were thinking about
running for president and then have a
different approach the being for that
bill and then being for a different bill
has been problematic for a bunch of
other candidates who senators who had
done that but Elizabeth Warren has run
an excellent campaigns and thus far the
only place where I think she has made
real mistakes since she actually got in
the race has been around the question of
the pay-for and it's been in a it's been
a topic every debate it is bit and even
though I know what she is trying to do
there and hasn't come off well and it's
it seems very typical politician e to
someone who's brennan themselves as an
atypical politician and so she needs an
answer I am frankly very fascinated to
see what you say because I think the
better answer would have been to just
follow Bernie's lead and just say what
Bernie was saying both in the primary
and the general because now she's gonna
have this new plan that's gonna get
attacked from 13 different directions
depending on how many candidates you
think are still in the race
as opposed to signing yourself with
Bernie and with where she originally was
well and let's let's look at what Bernie
has done right
Ernie has a list of potential pay-fors
in his legislation potential pay-fors
one of those is a some percentage on a
payroll tax which would hit of course
working in middle-class families Bernie
Sanders has been open about the fact
that yes taxes might go up on some
working middle-class families but your
premiums will go down to zero along with
your co-pays and deductibles so you'll
be fine in the end so that's where
Bernie is Elizabeth Warren by saying
your costs will go down and not saying
anything about taxes but promising
pledging she will not sign a piece of
legislation that has cost go up for
middle-class families by saying that she
yes she doesn't want to give the
Republicans a talking point of her
saying taxes will go up but it's clear
she just doesn't agree with that pay for
which is why she's finding her own right
she doesn't want that payroll tax
increase or else she probably would have
just figured out a way to say it in a
different way right like she's she's
looking at other funding options so she
what she's trying to do is solve this
puzzle of how to fund this very very
expensive program like yes we know that
Medicare for all is going to ultimately
bring health care costs down because
there's nothing right now we have so
much waste in health care and part of
that waste is overhead and unnecessary
tests and all the that
insurance companies do in hospitals do
and all this kind of stuff that we don't
need to get into but there's a lot of
waste but still to get the program off
the ground it does need financing and
you know I do theory that for someone
who has come out with so many plans in
so many details including like you know
go on my website and type in your
student loan amount and you'll figure
out exactly how much you get relieved in
your student loans or wealth that you
know like she's been so specific on so
many different things it would have been
I think it would have been a a mistake
and it would have just been its core to
who she is right to talk about plans and
details and so I don't think she had an
option I don't think she had another
option now the question is when she
comes out with the plan how do you come
up with a plan to pay for this that
doesn't either get attacked by Bernie
Sanders on the Left fights by saying oh
you're
a sellout you didn't stick with my
medicare-for-all plan or get attacked by
you know folks in the center and the
center left and the right saying oh this
is crazy it's gonna raise taxes on
people blah blah blah blah blah like
it's a it's a tough needle to thread
I'll say that yeah I mean I think it was
this problem could have been so like she
made this an issue by not answering it
or trying to reframe the question and I
think maybe thinking that her reframing
could hold but once you're doing the
debate every month and you're taking
questions from reporters all the time of
questions from people at town halls it
becomes less sustainable and it
certainly becomes less to say them as
you get near the top and it gives an
incentive to people like people to
ginger Joe Biden there's some others to
make a point of a very fair point about
that and the question that I always sort
of wondered is hey why not just say I'm
open like is there a way you could say
I'm open to a number of ways of paying
for it but my principle is no one who
makes less than X will see their taxes
raised right like that
like like does that pass some green
eyeshade budget test no but the
Republicans just passed a trillion
dollar tax cut for Wall Street and told
everyone's gonna be paid for and it's a
deterring are deficit like seven minutes
yeah so I think there were like there
was probably a way to stake out a
principle here and then leave the
details for later now I I'll be in true
to see like is this gonna be a super
detailed like all the columns and
numbers add up and how that plays
politically both right now in a moment
where I think she is going to be the
focus of attack so I assume the deadline
for this is the November 20th yes debate
rightly she is to have that answer by
then yeah there was a story that Jeff
Stein at the Washington Post ran today
just before we started recording about
some of the advisors her economic
advisors outside advisors trying to help
her with this and the campaign did say
they're gonna have it out by the next
debate
they also said we know one of the things
they're looking at which seems like a
good place to go is some kind of
employer tax so that you know employers
right now you know spend money to cover
their employees under Medicare for all
employers
won't be spending any money uncovering
their employees ever again because the
government is paying for that so do you
say to employers who are right now
covering their employees are at the
money that you spend on your employees
right now for coverage you're gonna pay
in taxes now it's still a tax increase
but is it more politically paddleball
palatable to say I'm gonna raise taxes
on employers than employees and
middle-class families yeah probably
now does that get you all the way there
I don't think it does I think you still
need a couple more pay-fors but that's
one place I could see her going all
right
let's end by discussing something that
we do think is worth freaking out over
which is the Democrats information
warfare strategy for 2020 on Sunday
Matthew Rosenberg and Kevin Roose of the
New York Times published a very well
reported piece that lays out how the
Trump campaign has spent three years
building a quote sophisticated digital
marketing effort that includes targeted
ads tested content and data collection
Democrats according to the story are
quite far behind and not nearly as
focused on digital ad spending message
testing or data collection so everyone
who listens knows that we're concerned
about this at pods save America but do
you want to explain just how concerned
we are and why we're quite concerned
here quite concerned and it falls on the
on I think a couple different reasons
one is simply this is a product of
trumps immense incumbency advantage
Barack Obama started his re-election
campaign in April of 2011 which gave him
a little over a year and a half to build
infrastructure test messages you know
build tech accumulate data Trump formed
his reelection committee five hours
after he was sworn into office in
January of 2017 and they have been
raising and spending money at an
incredible clip and what that allows you
to do is accumulate a ton of data about
who to target and how to target them so
that you will be incredibly efficient
and effective in your advertising spend
in the general election once you know
who your opponent is in addition to just
building up your supporters you know do
it defining the conversation
that it's money you're spending right
now you're gonna know so much more about
the electorate and the Democrat is gonna
be because the Democrats are focused
rightfully the Democratic candidates
focus rightly on primarily winning four
states two of which are highly unlikely
to vote for the Democrat in the fall and
in within those states they're not
targeting swing voters they're mostly
targeting traditional primary voters
certain Democratic voters and they're
spending their money not on learning how
to persuade voters but on getting
building up their email list and
building up their fundraising databases
that's where they're spending their
money so we're these are two you can't
even compare the money that Democrats
are spending in the money Trump has been
because there are two different things
the money Democrats is spending has very
limited if any utility for how you're
actually gonna wage in the general
election the second problem is it is
very well revealed in the story which is
there's just a fundamental continues B
this fundamental disconnect between how
a lot of Democrats not all of them but a
lot of Democrats view political
communications I've said this before but
Democrats view political communications
as public relations when it is really in
this day and age modern information
warfare which means it is using data it
is targeting is trying to shift the
online conversation in your way in your
direction to understand how you persuade
not by telling the New York Times or CNN
or even con save America thinks it's how
you take content and information and put
it in front of the voters who need to
hear it right it is like almost hand to
hand persuasion through digital
advertising through organic content etc
and too much of the structures around
Democratic communications continues to
be set up around how you communicate to
the press and there's a lot of
incentives within a primary to do that
because Democratic primary voters pay
attention to the press and the third
thing that is very concerning is that
facebook is the primary engine for all
of this in facebook is a advantages
Republican it is a structure a second
Facebook provides conservatives with a
structural advantage it is there is an
algorithmic reward for outrage and
outrage is the coin of the realm in
politics and so Republican messages
which drive outrage go further on
Facebook Republican ads that drive
outrage reach more people more
efficiently than Democratic ads and so
in order to figure out how to match them
we need to be spending money and working
on it right now and with a couple of
exceptions that we can talk about there
there's just been this giant vacuum on
the Democratic side for a long time so
yes how's that that's scary you know
that's great we know look I'm there so
because there's something wrong with me
I got into it with Nate silver over the
story on Sunday because he spent most of
Sunday tweeting about how wrong and
overblown it was at one point saying
quote there's nothing magic about
digital ad spending we're supposed to
believe that the Trump campaign is a
bunch of super geniuses for spending
extensively on Facebook ads whereas
everyone who works for one of the 19
Democratic campaigns is an idiot
far more likely is that they've studied
this stuff with some empirical rigor
rather than buying into the largely
evidence free media mythology about the
effectiveness of digital campaign ads
dan so what is what is Nate what is Nate
write about and what is he wrong about
what Nate is right about is the Trump
campaign is not they are not they are
not geniuses right the Trump campaign
are not geniuses they are they were more
lucky than good in 2016 but they
stumbled on something that was
incomplete effective which was they ran
a modern digital marketing campaign
where they beta tested thousands of
different messages to see which one
worked best and then double downs on the
ones on the ones that worked and they
did that have a necessity not out of
genius but it did work it is it is also
like it's very hard to pull apart Nate's
argument because there are elements of
it that are right
the Trump campaign are not geniuses and
they spent the last few years telling
everyone they are geniuses and basically
lying about what they did in 2016 like
that is true yeah it's also true that
the it's also true that the Democrats
it's not that the Democrats have studied
its Frio doesn't work is they have no
incentive right now to be doing the
things that Trump is doing because
they're trying is they're trying to get
Democratic primary voters so I cannot
tell you with a hundred percent
certainty that digital ads are magical
mythical like all of the
they have to be done right to work what
I do know is that we are being massively
outspent in an area that matters yeah I
mean in order to do it well in the fall
you have to be learning how to do it
well now yeah where I really where I
fundamentally disagree with Nate I mean
obviously digital ads aren't magic no
one is arguing that like the Trump
campaign found some secret sauce with
digital ads and you know they have this
magic recipe that you know that they can
hack into our brains and figure it out
when the election that way and Democrats
it's not that it goes back to how do you
communicate with voters right this is
the the decision that every campaign has
to make is what do you say to voters and
how do you say it to them where where do
you reach them where do you find them
and it used to be that you found a lot
of voters most voters on television and
there was three news channels and
everyone watched the nightly news and
then if you ran a political ad that's
how you got your message across in
addition to getting stories on the
nightly news about your campaign that
day that world is gone it has been gone
for a very long time and it is
increasingly harder to find the voters
who we need to win the election not very
engaged partisans on both sides but the
folks who are either cynical that we
were talking about earlier when the
impeachment hearing stuff who are either
cynical about politics or who are
disengaged from politics who casually
pay attention to the news where do you
find those people you find them on their
phones they are not watching television
anymore they're not watching the news
anymore even older people who are the
most reliable television watchers are
now on Facebook more than ever young
people are on their phones they're on
Instagram they're on snapchat
right and the question is our Democratic
campaigns reaching people where they are
how do you figure out a way to reach
people where they are and the Trump
campaign like you said not through
genius but by necessity because they
were so far behind in the Republican
primary for so long and didn't think
they would beat Hillary Clinton and
think they were gonna get outspent by
Hillary Clinton they had to out of
necessity figure out ways to reach
people in hard-to-reach places on
Facebook and and test ads and do all
this kind of and the
campaign will you know Plouffe was
talking about this David Plouffe is
talking with us that like Brad parse
Kyle basically admitted it that it was
out of necessity that they did these
things they were able to take risks and
be creative because they didn't have any
other shot Democratic campaigns aren't
as willing to take those risks and like
you said we are at a moment right now
where all of these candidates are
focusing on winning the primary as they
should be but that means that there's
only one side that is reaching voters
where a lot of them are which is on
Facebook or some of the other platforms
where I mean they're also running stuff
on YouTube on cable right the Trump
campaign spending money everywhere and
they are reaching people where they are
with messages that they are testing in
real time to see if they work in real
time not some like focus group and pull
and then they go into the field after
it's they're sending out messages
they're testing them and then they're
getting the feedback and they're
changing their ads and on our side you
know I know Priorities USA which is the
big Democratic super PAC on our side
said that they're actually now out
spending Trump in some of the
battleground states on digital the six
battleground states that are the closest
which is great good for priorities we've
talked a lot about acronym terror
McGowan's organization that David
Plouffe is now sitting on there do
they're gonna they're about to launch an
entire effort to go fund digital
advertising that's as creative and
interesting as what the Trump campaign
has been doing so that's great too but
like this isn't some you know what to
believe in magic to think that digital
advertising is effective it's just about
communicating with voters and where you
do it and how right like in it just as
view it's like let's leave no stone
unturned right like that I like that how
it works how effective it is like that's
all gonna matter in the execution but
what I do fundamentally believe is it's
not jet like the thing we just can't do
again is the digital advertising is
happening over here and the press
department is happening over here it's
all of a piece it's all of a strategy of
persuasion and pushback and shaping the
conversation American politics because
Trump has all the wind at his back in
doing this he has a giant bully pulpit
he has a state-run propaganda
organization the economics of digital
advert
on media outlets push towards Trump
content
Facebook's algorithm push room for
contact so we need an all-hands-on-deck
holistic effort to push back on it I am
very I was very excited to see the news
about priorities I'm very sad to see
what acronym does the more the merrier
let's get in there I get this done good
okay on that note we will see you guys
next week and because everyone is still
traveling in different places I believe
that you and loved it are doing the
Monday pod next week and then Tommy and
I are arming the Thursday pod next week
because we'll both be on the road too so
that is the schedule for next week
and everyone have a great weekend one
day people were writing books about the
effort to record this pod today I will
not be writing that book
