my guest today is from the great state
of Texas congressman Bill o'roarke
running for president it's great to have
you in the crooked media HQ thank you
for doing this good to be at the world
headquarters thanks for having me um
first question let's dive into it here
so there are 23 Democrats running for
president it is this big diverse
impressive field of people I think we
all have a good handle on the challenges
we face we all want to be Trump people
are struggling to figure out with all
these great candidates who can win and
who will be the best president so can
you make your pitch for why you're the
one who could be Trump and why you would
be the best person to serve in the job
if elected yeah
so you mentioned this historic set of
challenges
climate healthcare an economy that is
not working for far too many people and
you mentioned Trump as well this country
already very polarized he is dividing
further everyday this democracy already
badly broken he's undermining at every
turn so in other words we've really got
our work cut out for us and it's
important that we beat Trump it's really
important that we meet these challenges
that we face which in almost every
instance preceded Trump but were just
made much worse by him so in order to do
this I think we've got to bring
something different to the campaign and
something different to the country if if
we're divided we've got to find a way to
bring people in if this democracy
doesn't work we've got to find a way to
fix it everything that I'm about
everything that I've ever been a part of
has been bringing people in and making
democracy work for everyone so small but
I hope telling example on city council
for six years every single week I held a
town hall meeting and it's important for
me to listen to my constituents on
proposals for economic development or
how to make sure that we balance a
budget which we did every one of those
six years even to listen to those whom I
could not help your your neighbor's dog
was barking too loud last night but you
were you were gonna make sure that you
you let me know about it yeah that
direct accountability fundamental to a
successful democracy
made me such a better representative and
also ensured that when we had to take on
the tough fights an example in 20 2009
extending healthcare benefits to the
same-sex partners of city employees
despite the blowback and the recall
elections
I had a grounding in in working with my
constituents regardless of the
differences between us taking that same
approach to a campaign against an
incumbent and against the odds for
Congress in 2012 and winning by going
door-to-door bringing in new voters who
had not participated maybe ever given
him a reason to register or folks who
dropped out for the last 15 or 20 years
including their voices and their
concerns in our campaign we won that
race and use that same level of
accountability to deliver on expanding
veteran's health care for example or
protecting public lands all of which
happened while I was in the minority so
finding Republicans and Democrats alike
with whom I could work getting that
signed into law by Barack Obama getting
that signed into law by the one person
with whom I agree on almost nothing
Donald J Trump but proving that we will
work with anyone anytime anywhere to
advance this country's agenda and then
lastly Texas so so here's a state that
had ranked 50th in voter turnout not by
accident a hundred percent on purpose by
design drawn that way through through
racial gerrymandering to diminish the
power of your vote or your voice
depending on the color of your skin we
went to every single one of the 254
counties of Texas without a single dime
from a single political action committee
showed up with the courage of our
convictions a bold progressive agenda
but also showed up to listen and to
learn and to include people and their
stories in the campaign that we were
running and at the end of the day though
we did not defeat Ted Cruz we won more
votes than any Democrat has ever won in
the history of the state we won
independence for the first time in
decades and brought along nearly half a
million Republicans who voted for Greg
Abbott very conservative Tea Party
Republican for governor and voted for me
on the same ballot not despite but be
of the progressive campaign that we ran
and what is thought to be one of the
reddest states in the country and we
transformed our democracy no longer 50th
in voter turnout those 38 electoral
college votes now unlocked forever
changing the political landscape in
America and that movement led by young
people who turned out 500% greater than
the last midterm election in early
voting so in other words if you do not
count anybody out or down if you don't
take anyone for granted if you include
everyone in a bold progressive agenda
you can lead a grassroots movement
that's what it's gonna take to defeat
Donald Trump that's what it's gonna take
to meet the greatest challenges we've
ever faced
in our administration so congratulations
you did it that speech won you're
elected president you're sitting the
Oval Office what you choose to do first
matters a lot right because you can burn
political capital the administration get
overtaken by events like whatever um so
you can hammer out executive orders all
you want but that first legislative
priority really matters what would
President O'Rourke put to Congress first
if I think about the single greatest
threat that we face it's the fact that
this climate is changing and that's
produced not as an act of God not from
Mother Nature but from you and from me
and from people in this country and
around the world through our emissions
our excesses and in our inaction in the
face of the facts and the science and
the fires that we've seen here in
California preceded by historic droughts
in this state the floods in Houston
Texas the floods were seeing on both
sides of Iowa along the Missouri along
the Mississippi these disasters that are
consuming the lives of our fellow
Americans are property in entire
communities in some cases that will pale
in comparison to the hell that awaits
our kids unless we take action now and
so responding in in the boldest the most
confident the most courageous way
distinguishing ourselves by the way that
we meet the greatest challenge we have
to lead on that because the clock is
ticking and the scientists tell us that
there are roughly 10 years left to us
to free ourselves from a dependence on
fossil fuel to make sure that every
single one of us is doing our part that
we're fortifying those communities very
often lower income and communities of
color they're on the front lines of
climate change and pollution to make
sure that we not only survive this but
we lead the world in making sure that we
overcome this challenge so there are a
host of threats and challenges that we
face that is the single greatest I think
it's important that we begin by bringing
this entire country together around the
solutions to it it's worth noting folks
one more detail it's one of the major
policy platforms on your websites they
can check that out
I don't want to dwell on Trump today but
a couple which is one question I mean
Vice President Biden basically argues
that Trump is an aberration and that
Republicans will come to their senses
once Trump is gone do you agree and do
you believe that cordial relations
between Vice President Biden and
segregationist senators is a good
example of civility in politics look the
the Republican Party of today at least
those Republican members of Congress is
complicit in what this president is
doing absolutely tearing apart this
country and tearing down our democracy
if you had any doubt about the
president's efforts to collude with
Russia then those were completely
dispelled and it became crystal clear to
you when he admitted to George
Stephanopoulos that he would take the
help of a foreign power to defeat his
opponent that's new member of 2020 and
where was the outrage from the
Republican Party I mean if you had any
doubt that he sought to obstruct justice
into the investigation what happened to
our democracy in in 2016 then you know
his firing of James Comey or his
tweeting to his Attorney General to stop
the investigation or his calling of
Vladimir Putin after the Mulder report
is released and describes that as a hoax
giving the guy a green light to invade
this democracy again or Bob Miller's
crystal-clear public statement that when
the subject of an investigation lies to
investigators or seeks to obstruct that
investigation he strikes at the very
heart of
our government of four and by people
where is the Republican Party on this
and who cares about our prospects in the
next election about polling numbers this
is the the very future and fate of this
country and in our democracy this is
something where country should
absolutely
Trump party or any other consideration
really for for that matter so deeply
disappointed you know in in that party
and and and still hold out some hope
although I'm not counting on it
that folks are going to come to their
senses those in these positions of
public trust who future generations are
going to be looking back to they've got
to do the right thing and and and the
windows closing on the ability to do
that yeah the the Biden comments about
segregation of senators do you think
that's a good example of civility know
the fact that this country is so riven
by partisanship being diminished
everyday by a president who will stop at
nothing to secure ever more greater
powers for himself
might distract us from the fact that for
african-americans in this country from
the inception of this country this
country has not worked for them and in
fact has been actively keeping them down
by law and out of greatness and an
economic success so one of the most
obvious examples that people point to is
the fact that we lock up almost two and
a half million of our fellow Americans
many there for nonviolent drug crimes
disproportionately comprise to people of
color but but it's not just that it's
it's the economy where there's ten times
the wealth in white America then black
America health care outcomes where you
have a maternal mortality crisis in this
country that is three times as deadly
for women of color education in a
kindergarten classroom a four or
five-year-old child is five times as
likely to be disciplined or suspended or
expelled if she is a child of color so
for the vice president to somehow say
that what we're seeing in in this
country today is
function of partisanship or a lack of
bipartisanship completely ignores the
legacy of slavery and the act of
suppression of african-americans and
communities of color right now so we've
got to be focused on on the future and
again it means bringing people in
especially those who've been locked out
and estranged from having any ability to
participate in the success of this
country that's what I want to do as
president you proposed a major plan to
make it easier to vote and to restore
people's faith in government I was
interested let's hope you could walk us
through the plan briefly and talk about
why you made that a priority yeah so you
asked about you know the first policy
priority and I talked about climate for
reasons that I hope are obvious to all
of us maybe not to the to the President
and and much of the Republican Party
today but how are you gonna do that
there's been scientific consensus on
climate for decades there's been
political consensus actually for 30
years on this why have we not been able
to act it's because our institutions of
power Congress as the most telling
example have been captured and corrupted
by special interests corporations
especially after 2010's Supreme Court
decision on citizens united that they
are equated to people and money speech
and they can spend unlimited amounts to
not just affect but I would argue
purchase the outcomes of Elections and
and legislation meanwhile you have
people locked out of their democracy I
mentioned the the racist gerrymandering
in Texas but Stacey Abrams would be
governor right now Georgia but for the
fact the Secretary of State could
successfully and legally purge of
thousands of voters from the rolls in
that state could serve as the referee in
the competition where he was a
competitor and and crowned himself
Victor at the end of it so how do we
meet this challenge we free ourselves
from the influence of corporate
interests and special interests by
removing political action committees
from Federal Elections we make sure that
we restore faith in our elections by
having paper ballots or paper receipts
for every ballot cast we audit those
elections that that take place we ensure
that we have the resources to stop
future foreign interference and
guarantee that there are consequences in
this country and outside of this country
for those who have welcomed or
participated in undermining the world's
greatest democracy and then we bring
people in we call for 55 million more
Americans to be registered over the next
four years through automatic and
same-day voter registration ensuring
those who've been criminally
justice-involved
are not denied their rights to vote once
they've paid their debt to society and
then we make sure that barriers in place
like those voter roll purges or voter ID
laws that we have in Texas are removed
through a new Voting Rights Act and then
ensure greater access to the ballot box
through a National Election Day holiday
to make sure that make it easier for
people to cast their vote and and and
ensure that their voice is heard in our
democracy we do all that and so many
more things become possible that's
what's the difference going forward
that's that's again what we bring to
this historically in the way that I've
run and served and and at the heart of
what I propose to do as president for
this country bring everybody and remove
the barriers and ensure that people not
PACs or corporations are calling the
shots one piece of the plan that I found
particularly interesting was the
proposed 12 year term limits for
Congress and 18 year term limits for the
Supreme Court so the argument against
term limits is that a lifetime
appointment somehow make judges immune
to politics I I roll my eyes at that and
that congressional term limits push
people out right when they become
experts um you served in the House why
do you think some of those bozos need to
retire earlier than they would otherwise
want to look I'll make the best case for
term limits Amy and I decided when we
first ran for Congress in 2012 that I
would serve no more than four terms
eight years and the logic was you know
the president United States can't serve
more than eight years the mayor of El
Paso can't serve more than eight years
what's special about a member of
Congress and then an Amy's additional
push on this is I don't want you to turn
out
to be trying to say something polite
yeah I don't want you to be a jerk at
the end of the I don't want you to think
that you're more important than than
anyone else that I see what happens to
people who hold onto power - yeah so
after three terms six years chose not to
to run again
that seat is now held by Veronica
Escobar she became the first woman to
ever represent the 16th congressional
district in Texas in history of the
district and the first Latino woman in
addition to Sylvia Garcia to represent a
congressional district in the state of
Texas a state that's more than 40
percent mexican-american so by getting
out of the way
you demonstrate a faith in the people
that you represent you say look out of
more than 700,000 people in this
district certainly there's someone who
will do just as good if not a better job
than I've been able to do and yeah their
mas we're gonna add something to that
institution of power that reflects the
diversity and the genius of this country
folks who in some ways have been locked
out through the perpetual reelection of
members of Congress and listen to be
intellectually honest I get the other
side of this argument that you you lose
some of that institutional knowledge you
may empower lobbyists or you know some
people say staff or federal employees
I'm not so concerned they seem pretty
empowered yeah they those are people
that I saw often relied on to be smarter
and do a better job but but I think this
is about a faith in our democracy and a
faith in people and and that not any one
of us is you know inherently any better
than anyone else and if you don't
refresh and recharge these institutions
they're not going to reflect the true
genius of this country and you're not
going to meet these challenges with the
urgency that they demand yeah I mean it
would be nice if some of the US Senate
had like use the internet before from El
Paso you put out a major immigration
proposal that includes protecting daca
recipients and their families from
deportation as well as temporary
protected status recipients ending
immigration detention for everyone
except I think violent criminals better
resourcing and speeding up the asylum
process and I've heard you talk about
potentially tearing down in some parts
of the border wall clearly immigration
is going
the essential part of Trump's campaign
he's gonna lie he's gonna scare people
he's gonna say there's a caravan on
every corner but do you worry that what
you've put forward could be credibly
described as opening the border or could
be described as creating more of an
incentive for people to come to the u.s.
at a time when the system is taxed this
is another reason to run this is another
way in which we can distinguish
ourselves in an extraordinary field of
candidates the president has trained our
focus on the us-mexico border in an
attempt to try to scare us about
Mexicans whom he described as rapists
and criminals about caravans that are
coming to get us about asylum seekers
he's described them as an infestation
he's described them as animals I think
it's only when you use language like
that that you get kids and cages yeah
that you are able to deport their moms
back to the countries from which they
fled the chind up separating families
and creating this kind of cruelty that
seems so unimportant REE not only the
right thing to do not just morally just
but but in our own self-interests
economically or from the perspective of
safety and security El Paso Texas is one
of the safest cities in the u.s. today
and it's because we are a city of
immigrants and asylum seekers and
refugees from the world over who are
called to us and are making us better by
their very presence and then I'll say
this as a Democrat I've been really
frustrated by our party's response to
this issue for my entire life I've seen
us be so apologetic and defensive and
really kind of half-hearted and making
these bargains that never work out I'm
gonna get really tough on immigrants
we're gonna deport a bunch of people
we'll break up families
what will vote for walls and fences
though we know they've caused thousands
of deaths of people who are trying to
join their families or work jobs in this
country that no one born in this country
would take but I'm gonna do all this so
that I can get to a place that will
allow me having
how tough I was to do the right thing
we're changing that this is different
we're gonna say doing the right thing
makes us safer and more secure adds to
our economy makes the average Americans
life far better by ensuring that the
nine million green card holders in this
country can become US citizens as
quickly as possible
waive their fees make sure that we send
them prefilled application forms with
the data that they sent us when they
first applied for legal permanent
residency for the more than 1 million
dreamers make them US citizens never
again allow them to live in any fear of
deportation to a country whose language
they don't speak where they no longer
have family where if against those long
odds they're successful they're gonna be
successful for that place not here not
your community not our country and then
the millions who are here doing the most
back-breaking the shittiest jobs that we
have available in America that no one
born in America is willing to do allow
them to register and get right with our
government contribute even more to our
country's success and ensure that we're
living up to the promise of this country
that defined itself not by race not by a
common genealogy but by the fact that we
are all created equal and that's the
source of our strength that's the
foundation of our success and we turn
our back on that to our peril so this is
ambitious it is bold it is confident
it's in the best traditions of the
United States of America and and I know
that we can bring not just Democrats
into this we can bring independents and
Republicans folks who understand from
their communities that this is the right
thing to do I left out a big piece of
your plan which is investing five
billion dollars mostly through NGOs I
believe in Guatemala Honduras El
Salvador to improve the quality of life
for people living those countries so
they don't want to leave and you've also
talked about I think creating regional
partnerships to get other countries in
the region to bring money and provide
political support and I mean I I
personally think this is the key to any
long-term immigration proposal if you're
a kid or if you're a parent and your kid
is being forced to join a gang or could
get killed like nothing's going to
convince you to stick around right
but I've also worked on the NSE and I
know how hard it is to convince
Americans that it's in their interest to
support sending dollars to other
countries and less work yeah blowing
them up so can you make the pitch like
how do we convince a skeptical voter
that this is a good use of taxpayer
dollars you can just decide where you're
gonna meet this challenge if you wait to
meet it at the us-mexico border and you
for example believe in a wall that'll
cost you thirty billion dollars you'll
have to take you know our fellow
Americans ranches and homes and farms
and properties in order to build it
because it won't be built on the true
international boundary the centerline of
the Rio Grande River Channel it'll be
built well into the interior of the US
you can even look at our current costs
to accept these asylum seekers if we
were to follow our laws incredibly
expensive to do that or for a fraction
of the cost you could invest in reducing
violence in Guatemala in El Salvador in
Honduras so that no family ever has to
make that god-awful decision to send
their child on that 2,000 mile trek and
when we empathize when we just put
ourselves in the shoes if somebody would
have to make that decision we we realize
no parent would ever do that for kicks
sort of take somebody's job or benefits
or to take advantage of another country
you you would put your child on that
perilous journey if that were the only
thing you could do to save her life
that's exactly what people are doing now
so what if we can help them to protect
their families and their kids in those
countries and as you mentioned work with
nongovernmental organizations work with
communities neighborhood level policing
and then understand some of our
culpability in the problem we are the
largest market for illegal drugs on the
planet were four percent of the
population we consume 25 percent of the
illegal drugs that demand and our way of
responding to that with the
militarization of this drug war in
Central America has helped to hollow out
some of those civil institutions
compounded by decades of intervention in
Central America in their civil wars and
civic life and in eroding institutions
for democracy we also have some
responsibility to do this as well but
but again if I were just too
the most basic self-interest argument it
is far cheaper to meet this problem at
its source than a meet at the us-mexico
border and in the larger challenge I
think that we have to address is the
need to elevate the Western Hemisphere
as a priority in foreign policy it
always is
you know forgotten if it was ever
remembered at all and these are the
people that were literally connected to
by land by language by culture and
increasingly by family and it should not
have come as a surprise to us that tens
of thousands of kids showed up on our
front door but it was because we were so
preoccupied on places half a world away
wars that we've been fighting now for
for 18 years and Counting so a great
opportunity for our administration to
elevate the western hemisphere address
these problems at their source Creed so
health care question so during the
Senate campaign you talked about your
support for Bernie Sanders Medicare for
all bill that would have essentially
eliminated the private insurance market
you now say that's not the fastest way
to get to universal care when did you
change your mind on on that bill and why
yeah so two extraordinary women with
whom I had the chance to work as a
member of Congress introduced a proposal
called Medicare for America jan
Schakowsky of Illinois and rosa DeLauro
of Connecticut and essentially this plan
says that if you are uninsured today in
America you can enroll in Medicare it
also importantly says that if you're
insufficiently insured so you have
insurance but really it's a name only
you can't afford the copay on the
medication you can't afford the rising
premium costs you can't bridge that
deductible before you you can choose to
enroll in Medicare but if you are
somebody who has employer sponsored
insurance and you like it because it
works for you and your family if you're
a member of a union that negotiated for
a health care plan perhaps in lieu of
wage increases or other benefits and you
like that plan because it works for you
and it works for your family you're able
to keep it I think that gets us to the
goal of guaranteed high quality
Universal care as quickly and as
early as possible it incorporates the
interests of everyone who's concerned
about the affordability of prescription
medication the ability for women to make
their own decisions about their own body
and have access to the healthcare that
makes that possible
ensuring that our county jails are no
longer the largest providers of mental
health care services and it allows
people who have insurance that they like
right now to be able to keep it going
forward um a quick question about sort
of your time growing up as a kid you
were kind of messing around on early
internet message boards and he's like
pseudo hacker communities you were at a
punk band
I can imagine a 20-19 version of Beto
O'Rourke that is in these same
communities and gets pulled into 4chan
or force-fed some like alright
by the YouTube algorithm and your life
goes in a really different direction
you know and and I know you have three
kids um do you worry about how many
young people are finding friendship and
community in some of these dark corners
of the Internet and do you think the
government has a role in preventing
radicalization the answer the question
is yes
I want to just clarify that nothing
about punk-rock will lead you down that
road
no I but I get your point so I'll go
back to where you started so in in the
1980s awkward kid who had a hard time
socializing found friendship online well
the version of online at the time which
was dialing into somebody's calendar on
a 300 baud modem so your mom picks up
the phone and you yell or your dad gets
the phone bill oh man what are you doing
I got hammered for our AOL bill yes I
was with you I weighed the same as I do
now and I was much shorter and I was a
lot of time in my room yeah but but
here's here's a positive side of that I
found this extraordinary community of
people who also in some ways were
misfits in their hometown or their
school or in their lives but but who
came together online or that version of
online and and man that was just a
really powerful experience and and
really in some ways
kept me going in in the right direction
you know so I don't want to discount the
the value and the positive power of
online communities but but I'll
acknowledge your point that there's
there's a really dark side as there is
in every aspect of life right there's a
dark side to that as well and when you
have people who traffic in in hatred and
and violence and incitement based on on
race or religion or the differences that
that should not matter it helps to
explain some of the rise in in public
hatred that we see right now you know
right outside the United States Capitol
I think very recently Charlottesville
Virginia just a couple of years ago and
a president who then says that Klansmen
and Nazis and white supremacists are
very fine people he's in part responding
to a base that has been nurtured in in
these online communities unfettered and
undisturbed especially by the platforms
that enable this and so I think
expecting far more out of Facebook and
Twitter and other digital platforms
where people congregate to combat this
kind of hatred and also to acknowledge
that that really young people are on
there and are receiving an education in
in intolerance that's going to manifest
itself in violence you've seen a rise in
hate crimes every single one of the last
three years in in this country and much
of that is Donald Trump but but a lot of
it is what is allowed to to grow and
exist unchallenged and unchecked so I do
see a role for government to help
regulate that I do see greater
responsibility in through enforcement of
these social media platforms to make
sure that we're we're protecting people
and that everyone is able to thrive in
this country without fear of our
differences I want to turn to a couple
foreign policy questions so there's been
a lot of loose talk about Iran lately
whether to go to war with them you're
seeing New York Times columnist senator
members of the administration if Iran
did sabotage the two commercial vessels
in the Gulf of Oman with these limpet
mines and they continue to enrich
uranium above the level set by the jcpoa
what do you think the Trump
administration should do about it to
stop them
America should find a way to work in
concert with with other countries
primarily our allies but but countries
who may have a shared interest in
stability in in the region to ensure
that peacefully without invading Iran
without firing a shot we're able to
resolve what would otherwise be an
intractable problem in part because we
know that the cost and consequence of
invasion and military action will be
measured in lives lost our fellow
Americans who will be sacrificed lives
taken in the name of this country and an
understanding that that rarely has
military intervention produced the
results that we're looking for the CIA
led coup in Iran in 1953 the
democratically elected Mossadegh in part
produced the revolution that we saw in
1979 and the impasse that we face today
in in 2019 we were talking about Central
America earlier the next year in 1954
again CIA led coup in Guatemala deposing
huh Colbert Benz Guzman leading to
instability that has persisted to this
very day president Trump has made it
very hard for us though to do this and
do it the right way not just through the
saber-rattling and the threatening of
war but by exiting the joint
comprehensive plan of action which is
one of the greatest foreign policy feats
of the United States in the modern era
certainly of the Obama administration
the fact that we could bring the
permanent members of the UN Security
Council Germany and Iran all to the
table and be able to stop them from
pursuing nuclear weapons and and begin
the the the process of addressing other
tough challenges that Iran poses the
funding of terrorism in the Middle East
their development of ballistic missiles
their support of the Houthis in in Yemen
and the instability in that civil war
that we see in that region I felt like
that was a great start towards
addressing those other issues now we
have no one with whom to meet at the
table iran's not going to trust us again
europeans don't know how to handle a
country that breaks its word and its
commitments and that has made us less
not more secure less not more safe and
and has really made war a more likely
outcome and option as we are seeing play
out right now so so yes let's hold Iran
accountable let's do this through
partners and allies and friends were
much more likely to be successful in
achieve our aims
um sickan with the region you've talked
about Israeli Prime Minister Bibi
Netanyahu you mentioned you I think the
quote was he openly sided with racists
if he follows through on his campaign
pledge to annex the West Bank do you
think we should cut assistance to Israel
and and you know given some of the races
things he's done and said do you think
he's committed to a peace agreement it
is in our national security interests it
is in the interests of the people of
Israel and the Palestinian Authority for
there to be a two-state solution
annexing the West Bank would spike any
opportunity to achieve that which would
promote greater instability and and
violence in the region it would make
Israel less safe make it less likely
that you would ever achieve full human
rights and dignity for the Palestinians
so it's got to be our priority and it
would be my goal as president to make
sure that we achieve a two-state
solution to provide encouragement to
facilitate where we can to do so with
the humility of understanding that we
cannot impose this solution but it's
going to be tough because in addition to
Prime Minister Netanyahu and his threat
to annex the West Bank his warning that
Arabs are coming to the polls in a
previous election his siding with with
openly racist parties in the Palestinian
Authority with Abbas you don't have a
full partner for peace either you don't
have somebody who can quell the
incitement or control the violence or
who can demonstrate a willingness
to make the necessary concessions to get
to that desired goal so so I say this
knowing that it's going to be
extraordinarily difficult given the two
leaders that we have in in the region
but but also making that commitment and
I would be hesitant to describe you know
a punishment or negotiate in public with
the Prime Minister right now only to say
that this will be the priority of the
United States and that we will work even
if it is Prime Minister Netanyahu and
our administration we will work with
anyone to make sure that we secure peace
and a two-state solution there was a
pretty depressing coda to the Arab
Spring protests in Egypt this week when
Mohamed Morsi who was each was first
democratically elected president died in
prison of what appears to be neglect but
at the same time we're seeing these mass
protest movements in Algeria Sudan Hong
Kong it does feel like there's sort of
an Arab Spring 2.0 going on or maybe it
never ended what did you take away from
watching that first round of protest
movements it started in 2001 and how do
you think the US should respond to or
support efforts to beat back
authoritarianism yeah it's such a good
question and and it's obviously a tough
one for us to answer and has been for
decades we mentioned Guatemala in 1954
Iran in 1953
we've always are not always well maybe
always struggled with short term
security interests you know fighting
communism we're fighting international
terrorism today and and compromising our
values for democracy and independence
and and freedom in order to achieve
those those short-term security gains
and here we are faced with that again
only in this case it doesn't seem like
there's a struggle on the part of the
administration they have openly sided
with dictators in autocrats you know
Prince Mohammed bin Salman in in Saudi
Arabia was able to kill a an American
journalist or journalist based in
America Khashoggi with absolute impunity
we
President Trump you know maybe this kind
of stuff was said behind doors in the
past openly saying yeah but this guy
buys billions of dollars in weapons
systems from United States defense
contractors so I'm willing to turn a
blind eye to that and the fact that he's
bombing Yemen into the last century and
precipitating the greatest humanitarian
crisis perhaps that we've seen since
World War two and that we are
effectively a Co combatant it is doTERRA
in the Philippines it's al-sisi in in
Egypt where Morsi was just just died and
in court it's aired Awan in Turkey and
then to our allies into the great
democracies we turn the back or give the
middle finger that that is going to make
us and already is making us demonstrably
less safe if we're gonna be able to to
end these wars that we're in if we're
gonna be able to confront climate change
if we're gonna be able to stop nuclear
proliferation
we're gonna need partners and allies and
if we're gonna answer the big open
question that the world has right now is
the future authoritarian whereas the
future Democratic we're gonna have to
lead by example around the world and
then here at home again why democracy is
central to this campaign into the
administration that I hope to lead so as
tough as it is in in the short term I
think it's important that America side
with democracy in in Egypt it seems as
though we were willing to forsake
somebody democratically elected
politically and maybe diplomatically
inconvenient in favor of somebody who
has been incredibly brutal in his
repression and has effectively closed
down even the the nominal democracy that
existed before him that can't be who we
are and who we support and and what we
do going forward and in my
administration we will absolutely change
course in favor of democracy yeah I mean
you talked about the the Western
Hemisphere as often forgotten I mean the
one place in the Western Hemisphere that
has been forgotten by this
administration has been Venezuela and
you know they've done this ham-handed
sort of coup light regime change effort
were they we're supporting you no
legitimate brave opposition leaders like
Juan Guido
although Lopez and their efforts to to
take power but you know meanwhile we
have I think four million refugees have
already flown out of in as well as so I
mean I'm curious what you make of the
administration's efforts to deal with
Venezuela diplomatically and how you
might approach that yeah you know I'm
concerned in much the same way about the
administration's threat to invade or
bomb Iran its threat to to bomb North
Korea its threat to invade Venezuela
threat that this president made and and
perhaps unwittingly diminishing guidos
stature you know with the memory of
Pinochet with the with the memory of our
Benz Guzman with the memory of active
American involvement in civil wars and
overthrowing legitimately elected
Democratic leaders in some ways we
complicated guidos path to effectively
represent the you know the resistance to
Maduro and the ability to stabilize a
country that is absolutely out of
control
once the richest country in in Latin
America people are starving they're
going out going without medications I
think Colombia alone has absorbed 1.5
million refugees this is one of the
greatest if not the greatest
humanitarian disasters in in the Western
Hemisphere so enough of the
sabre-rattling focus on resolving the
humanitarian urgency that we have in
people dying or potentially dying and
then we're collaboratively with the
other stakeholders in the region with
Colombia with Mexico with our partners
in Latin America to provide stability a
transition of power and then a
democratically elected government to
final much less serious or important
questions first do you think the way the
DNC is structured and handled the
debates his made sense or worked this is
a good way to run a railroad I don't
know that it made it makes sense I I
don't know you've got this really good
problem where you have 23 or 24 people
all of whom bring it
ordinary expertise and biography and
skills to this campaign into what they
want to provide for this country as as
president and that's a great sign for
our party I think it's a great sign for
this country and in our democracy how do
you facilitate the conversation
necessary for people to make an informed
decision when it comes time to caucus or
to vote in the primary so for example
this this ten and ten over two nights in
in Florida maybe that was the best way
to do it the threshold of I don't know
what it was sixty-five thousand unique
donations in a certain polling level
maybe that's the right way to do it so
I'm I'm participating obviously in these
debates I'm looking forward to it
but I'm also really focused on on
meeting people where they are through
town halls that we've been holding all
over the country going to big blue
communities go into rural red
communities just listening and making
sure that I have a chance to introduce
myself and then take the questions from
the people whom I want to serve and and
learn from them in the process so um you
know loads to second-guess you know how
I would do this differently I just think
you you want to make sure that that
every one of these candidates has a
chance to make their case to answer
questions and and then we make the the
best most informed decision for
defeating Donald Trump and then bringing
this country together around the
greatest challenges we've ever faced
last question as you know because you
gave Leo a tree coming in we were very
Pro dog podcast so Elizabeth Warren's
golden retriever Bailey has been getting
a lot of press has a big social media
presence and is reportedly a very good
boy can you make the case for why
Artemus should be chasing tennis balls
in the South Lana's yeah oh so Artemis
is amazing she Amy and I were just
talking about this the other day she she
took our kids on a backpacking trip with
her two brothers and their kids and took
Artemis and she said no matter you know
how far the leader on the trail was from
the last person on the trail Artemis
is going back and forth the entire way
to make sure that everyone's okay
constantly checking on them so she's
incredibly loyal and faithful and is
there to you know protect the family and
the extended family so I don't know
those characteristics she's incredibly
loving and cute great dog to run with
she was maligned as a turtle leader you
know that was my bad I'll tell you the
circumstantial evidence what was was
pretty clear that you know she had taken
the turtle food out of the turtle
container into the backyard and eaten it
there was like turtle food wrapper
everywhere the turtle was missing I
thought you know she ate the turtle food
why not just eat turtle yes well the
turtle later showed up I think she she
picked up the turtle in perhaps an
attempt to eat it
I believe that turtle bit her oh that's
that's this is okay sure and then
Artemis dropped the turtle and the
turtle went into a closet where it hid
for three days until until we found it
update on this Molly our ten-year-old
who volunteers at an animal rescue just
adopted two more box turtles were found
and rescued and treated and cared for so
Gus has two more friends in the turtle
enclosure so we're adding to the you
know the household Zoo that Molly's
running right and that's a happy ending
it's uh you know you're like a pizza
away from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
um thank you for doing this congressman
bill o'roarke great to see you best of
luck out there grateful thank you
you
