now it's time for a game called okay
stop below the clip and the panel can
say okay it's not at any point to
comment the green New Deal is a wildly
popular new program that has being
spearheaded by Alexandria Acacio Cortez
who refused to lend me that cake
and over on fox business stuart varney
interviewed a fascist version of Bill
Nye the Science Guy to talk all about it
let's roll the clip it's ignorance
there's willful ignorance and then
there's wilful and malicious ignorance
that is Alexandria
Acacio Cortez this is demagoguery it's
about time she be caught called out just
like going on the aoc sucks channel to
say it's about time somebody said that
aoc sucks and the green new deal is
going to be part of many of the
presidential campaign presidential
candidates campaigns well think about
who we're talking about this is the
party not to change the subject that
wants to tell us a 40th week abortion is
not a fit infanticide but rather just
choice
not abortion it comes out like it's here
they come out at 40 weeks yeah yeah you
really can't pull the plug at that point
that maybe I'm in your house yep up here
and it also shows us what's going on
with immigration basically what you have
we went from socialism to abortion and
now we're on immigration I just feel
like this guy's losing his own thread
and I don't get invited on news shows
but this guy cuz he has a bow tie gets
to be jumping I just think it's about
this also it says just it says that he
is a professor emeritus I think it means
that uh you're not there's like you need
to look listen you can call yourself a
professor where you get ready get the
 out of here for tests our Latin
American values okay success yeah yeah
yeah oh that was subtle AOC is bringing
Latin American values about Latin
American values I just want to see like
have either of them ever been even close
to Latin America
they know the beginning in one
latin-american song like I just feel
like if you're gonna say values be
specific bro like spell it out system
elating them they are assimilating us
and they want to bring the kind of
socialism that destroyed Venezuela and
frankly Mexico okay just to be clear I
guess those are American values I'm
sleep whatever coming over the border
bringing opioids and Latin American
values in there it's just like a super
what isn't the like latest Taco Bell
burritos what it's called but it's like
he's wrapped up every like
fear-mongering and dog missile into one
thing in the trucks the border and they
are turning bright they're burning they
got they're coming over that border they
got they got socialist textbooks some of
them are gay
[Music]
they're gay ones socials gay ones they
bring in Medicare for all
[Music]
[Laughter]
what's next flat backs huge Twitter
phone also just worth remembering that
Fox Business is like their their minor
league ball you know it's where they go
and they're just not ready for the big
time they just they basically stick
that's where like Lou Dobbs is um that's
where Lou Dobbs is currently ensconced I
think I think technically they upgraded
Lou Dobbs to a single room at Fox News
because his insurance covered it
technically being a host on Fox Business
is covered by Medicare which is again
ironic right because they hate Medicare
but then it's considered technically a
long-term care facility and you think
like hahaha but it's actually pretty
good care at Fox Business and that's
okay stop
[Applause]
[Music]
