welcome to pod Z of America I'm
fabrica I'm Dan Pfeiffer on the pod
today we're going to talk about new
on impeachment next week special
election in North Carolina and this
week's marathon climate change forum
with the Democratic presidential
candidates we were also supposed to talk
to Audie Barkin today but he had to go
back to the hospital for some breathing
issues been a really tough week for Adi
but he's been incredibly brave and the
good news is that he'll be home soon and
will be with us on Mondays pod to talk
about two things first his video series
uncovered where he interviews the
Democratic presidential candidates about
health care you can check that out on
our website at crooked comm slash be a
hero and he's gonna talk to us about his
new book eyes to the wind which you
should absolutely order you can go to
Oddie's Twitter feed at Adi Barkan and
order it there or you can go right to
his website be a hero fund dot-com if
you go to the website you can order it
right there the book comes out on
Tuesday the 10th next Tuesday I read it
a few months ago Dan and it is fantastic
like I expected a book about political
activism because that's always what we
talk to Artie about and it is about
political activism and it's very
inspiring in that way but it's also it's
also a book about you know what it means
to really live in the face of death and
it is you know I cried through the book
I also laughed it's beautifully written
it's poignant it's just it's an
incredible incredible book I'm very much
looking forward to reading it Adi is
always so inspiring to us and so many
other people
yeah so I would like you I encourage
everyone to get it yeah he's just a
fantastic writer and it is it's it's
definitely worth checking out
also check out this week's episode of
POD save the world where Tommy and Ben
talk about all the recent brexit madness
the protests in Hong Kong North Korea's
missile tests general mattis's refusal
to criticize presidents not named Obama
and Donald Trump's very special message
for the people of Poland finally Lovett
has announced the guest for his Radio
City lover leave at Show next Friday
September 13th Lovett will be joined on
stage by Stacey Abrams Wyatt Cenac Dulce
Sloan
the master Monaco & dicie's and Miro if
you're in New York you will not want to
miss it
that is a star-studded lineup go to a
crooked comm slash events and get your
tickets alright let's get to the news it
appears as though the president may have
piled up a few more impeachment of sorry
it appears as though the president may
have piled up a few more impeachable
offenses last week he's using her tax
dollars to build his wall to help his
businesses he's falsifying weather maps
with sharpies we're all gonna get to all
of this in a little bit but first we
wanted to talk about the latest
developments in the impeachment inquiry
that is now taking place in the House of
Representatives is it John
you know in court filings it says that
it's an official inquiry that's what
Jerry Nadler is telling us who's the
chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee that's what some other
Democrats are saying so apparently we're
in an impeachment inquiry since the
beginning of August recess more than 30
Democrats have come out in favor of the
inquiry bringing the number of House
Democrats who support impeachment to 137
which is now more than half the house
Democratic caucus but Dan the question
is are we any closer to the house voting
on articles of impeachment than we were
at the beginning of the summer John I
don't know does anyone know I don't know
this is this is a very strange situation
we're in
which is the Judiciary Committee says it
is conducting any impeachment inquiry
the Speaker of the House doesn't seem to
agree with that fact or acknowledge that
fact and it is being mentioned in court
filings I'm not really in public
anywhere else and so yes I think we are
30 more member so tech to answer your
question I guess we are 30 more members
is a lot of members it moves us closer
and it is not just a bunch of people in
blue districts it's people from some of
these tougher districts some of the
newer members and sort of spans the
ideological spectrum and if
the process here is which is I think we
should talk about whether there's a good
process or not but is do the
investigation kind of sort of kind of
sort of under the cover of darkness and
then use the fruits of that
investigation to write impeachment
articles at some point later this year
and I guess we will know more as we some
of these court cases that are preventing
the committee from getting access to
things like the underlying grand jury
materials from the Muller investigation
and access to noted obstruction of
justice and Mabel are done began to get
him to testify like maybe that will
serve as the basis for it but it's just
it's very I think odd to go down the
path of a major constitutional action
like impeachment but sort of amble down
that path is because the storm down it
yeah it feels like a compromise that
will not really help anyone because
you're still technically an impeachment
but you're not getting the benefits of
conducting a very public impeachment a
set of impeachment hearings which would
attract media attention which is in a
world where the Senate's going to
exonerate Donald Trump the point of
conducting or at least a big point of
conducting impeachment hearings is to
focus the public's attention on the
president's crimes and abuses of power
that is the whole reason that we've been
for this aside from the fact that it is
simply the right thing to do because if
this president isn't impeached what is
worthy of impeachment but yeah so I mean
as you mentioned the timetable here and
part of this is you know there's
democratic strategy and then part of it
is that the timetable is being at least
partially dictated by these legal fights
you know chief among them the legal
fight to force Mahler's key witness
former White House Counsel Don Magan as
you were just saying to testify about
Trump's obstruction of justice and we
learned this week that the court fight
over that won't be resolved at least
until the end of October
though Nadler said that his committee
could make its decision about whether to
recommend articles of impeachment before
the house winds down in mid-december and
everyone goes home for the holidays so I
mean that's an odd timeline too because
you know say the McGann thing is
resolved at the end of October or early
November and then what he testifies
sometime in November earliest hopefully
and then you have a couple weeks to turn
around articles of impeachment in in the
middle of December and then suddenly you
know people come back and now it's
January of 2020 we're in an election
year the Iowa caucuses or early February
like what what's going on here I you
know I think in some of the original
conversations we had about this the idea
was you should like they should get we
were having this conversation three
months ago we should get going so that
you could despite you can deal with
impeachment you could have you could
have the hearings you could have to vote
and get it all of it done before the
presidential Democratic presidential
primary really kicks off and I think
that's still basically the right timing
but I think it would be a epic strategic
error to vote on something like
impeachment and then go on vacation for
two weeks yeah you think is well it's
and I'm like often as we say like
Congress is on vacation but they're
really whole right it's actually you
kind of want to vote on it and go home
and meet with your constituents and talk
to him about and sell your decision to
the public but that Christmas break is
for Congress like for a lot of people
you know it's a dead period right where
there's Christmas there's New Year's was
not an ability to you know people aren't
having tailed halls of December 27th to
sell to explain why they impeached
president Trump so I would actually
think you should roll it over into the
next year I think there's a second at a
strategic benefit of that which is I
think you want Donald Trump to deliver
his last State of the Union before
reelection as an impeached president as
a recently impeached president yeah
because that would be all the coverage
of the State of the Union and he does so
flip the out yeah it prevents it
prevents him from having sort of a
credible general election me message
about working together and whether that
would ever be credible Trump announced
an open question but it just hangs
over enforces a big moment for him to be
also about the crimes he committed as
opposed to the proposals who's
gonna blab about I mean I do think you
know to go back to we said there's
obviously there's a legal strategy or
there's there's sort of legal issues
that are dictating the timeline here but
there's also a pot you know a strategy
or a political strategy on behalf of the
Democrats and I sort of think they're
caught in a catch-22 here like there's
this New York Times story a couple weeks
ago about how all of these moderate
Democrats or at least Democrats who find
themselves in more conservative
districts are not there yet on
impeachment and they say you know
they're they're getting some pressure
from constituents they were getting some
pressure in town halls over and during
the August recess but you know they're
all saying ah I haven't heard enough
evidence yet to put me there and the
problem is you're not going to get these
people on board if no one is making a
constant persuasive public case for
impeachment but there's not enough
people who want to make that case and so
these denver everyone's like afraid of
talking about impeachment and because
they're afraid of talking about impeach
meaning they don't talk about that much
of course all of these members who
aren't there yet
aren't going to ever get there like
people have to step up at some point and
make a consistent daily case for what
and and start connecting the dots for
between all of these different
impeachable offenses crimes abuses of
power that the president is committing
so that there's a drumbeat so that the
that they can move the debate so that
they can get more of the members on
board to vote for it otherwise we're
just sort of ambling through this we you
know used to say in the White House a
lot that no decision is worse than a bad
decision and I think that's a little bit
where the Democrats are here like we
don't know whether impeachment is going
to end up being good politics or bad
politics but I do know that the current
path they are on is the worst of both
worlds it is you're gonna get whatever
downsides may exist from doing
impeachment giving your Republican
opponent ability to say Democrats are
impeaching Trump and then of the upside
of yanking the microphone from Trump's
hand and having a national
televised trial of trumps crimes
interruption and so we're sort of its
we're like in a world of it almost feels
like the French you check the
impeachment box like look stop bothering
us about it we're doing this thing and
then if some people who don't want it to
do it you can just tell them we're not
doing it and it just doesn't work that
way pick a side
defend take a position defend your
position and and do it probably and
that's not what's happening right now
that can change they're coming back on
Monday and so we should yeah see where
we are a week from now but the early
signs are concerning to me I would say
the least again like you know I see
impeachment proceedings as a frame in
which to fit all of these daily outrages
by the president that we have seen pile
up over the last couple weeks that you
know if they're not in sort of set in
one frame they just kind of you know
they come and they go right and they
sort of just like disappear but I think
like ask yourself if you know over the
last month right like has the political
environment felt better for Democrats
when we've been focused on Donald Trump
and all the crazy horrible he's
been doing or was it better when you
know Democrats were arguing with each
other in the last primary debate on
stage or when we were having debates
about you know a border funding bill or
the squad or all this kind of stuff like
like you just this is felt like a better
political environment over the last
couple weeks because we have been
focused on Donald Trump and all the
crazy he's done and that's what
impeachment hearings would provide and
they would provide that at a critical
time as people are starting to pay
attention to you know the Democratic
primary and the presidential race and
you know I just it's to me it's just a
it's not just like a constitutionally
you know I'm sorry it's not just the you
know morally right thing to do but it's
sort of an opportunity we're missing
here that's right angry but just
hopefully right but that's not what
we're doing right now it's know we need
to do it right so one other development
on this front it was reported this week
that the Judiciary Committee is going to
be holding hearings into the president's
alleged involvement in his scheme to
make hush money payments to women who
say they had affairs with him a crime
that Trump's former attorney Michael
Cohen is currently in jail for Dan
what's the significance of this
development and is it a good move
politically for the Democrats to do this
very good book I think it's all we've
always thought it was very important
that anything that was in the
neighborhood of an impeachment inquiry
or the quasi impeachment inquiry we're
currently and be more broad based on
just the Moller report yeah and this the
the Constitution refers to high crimes
and misdemeanors and this is a crime
this is not just like resistance Twitter
saying what Trump is doing is a crime
this is a crime for which if Trump were
not president since he would have been
indicted and possibly in jail for this
is he broke the law he performed the
service of becoming president and that
is something that the Juche Eric's maybe
should look at it also helps greatly
because it because it is a crime
committed before he got into office his
ability to use executive privilege to
prevent people from testifying is
limited to 0 right so Michael Cohen is
an option David Becker from American
media incorporated National Enquirer who
was involved in this these are people
who could be subpoenaed in Trump cube
there's nothing Trump can do about it to
stop them and so I think it's very smart
I'm glad they're doing it yeah again I
will say the I mean this only works as
an investigate its great that they're
doing this but this only works as an
investigation if at the end of this
investigation that the House Democrats
are conducting into this impeachment is
an option or impeachment happens right
because this like you just said this is
a crime that the president committed we
know that because his former lawyer is
in jail for it
and he and there's mountains of evidence
the donald trump directed his former
lawyer to commit this crime which makes
it a crime for him as well but unless
Democrats are willing to say yeah we're
gonna do this investigation and we're
gonna televise these hearings about this
but then you know if if it's true
although all the evidence at the SDN why
that sdn why collected is is true then
you know impeachment is going to be an
option here but they have to leave that
open otherwise why are we doing this
hearing
now in the meantime the the president's
corruption and lawlessness continues
apace this week the administration was
forced to defend a travel schedule that
sent Vice President Mike Pence hours out
of his way
so he could stay at a trump owned
property during an official visit to
Ireland pence had meetings in Dublin but
stayed on the other side of the country
at a Trump golf course in Doon bag pen
Street of staff marked short said the
president suggested he stay in Doon bag
where it pence apparently has distant
family like it's an ancestral home for
the Pence's apparently later the White
House said that Trump never told pence
to stay there
dan what do you think about this one how
unusual is all of this for the vice
president to stay across a country
across the country of Ireland from where
he was having official meetings what's
that I don't know if you've talked to
the staff but for our San Jose Show
we're gonna stay in Seattle $0.00 and it
is part of a massive corruption scheme
that has been going on where Republican
politicians Republican political
committees Republican campaigns
lobbyists foreign governments funnel
money into the into Trump's pockets via
his hotels and this is not just that's
just like Mike Pence is going to get a
room when the vice president goes all of
the staff who travel to press president
have schoo which includes the Secret
Service it includes the military staff
who have to staff the vice president it
includes the vice president staff the
press people the advance people the
foreign policy people it includes the
White House communications they're gonna
fill up an entire wing of this Trump
golf club paid for with taxpayer dollars
which will make Trump's family richer it
is massive corruption that is happening
right before our eyes yeah I mean and
they often have to just rent out for
security reasons floors and floors of
these hotels even if they're empty rooms
I mean it's a it is a it is a lot of
money that the Trump Organization gut
because Mike Pence decided to pick that
location at Trump suggestion and it is
your money it is
tax dollars that are now making Donald
Trump richer he gets to be rich from his
job as the President of the United
States that's what we're talking about
here the president states getting richer
personally because of his public office
and your tax dollars are going towards
that that's what's happening plain and
simple
never happened before never happened
before with any other president
Republican or Democrat and look this
isn't just like something to yell about
and complain about we tested this
message about Donald Trump personally
profiting from his public office in our
poll in Wisconsin a state where we're
the same poll came out and you know he
had a pretty good approval rating in
that poll and yet this message about
Donald Trump was one of the most
effective messages against Donald Trump
that we tested and so you know it seems
like Democrats should talk about this
quite a bit don't you think yeah I think
it is a very tangible easy-to-understand
example of corruption that's happening
in trumps Washington then he is abusing
his office to enrich himself yeah people
can see that is a believable thing about
Trump but it's the thing that like Mike
Pence being America's worst bagman made
it so that this one got attention this
is happening 24/7 every time Trump
vacations at his hotels this happens
every time the Department of whatever
host a party at one of trumps hotels he
is getting rich off of it and there's
tax payer dollars it just happened like
this one's getting more attention
because it crossed the level of such
across the level of incredible absurdity
and so it was getting attention but it's
an opportunity to take this and use it
to drill this message home in the minds
of voters the Attorney General of the
United States Bill Barr the nation's
chief law enforcement officer paid
thirty thousand dollars out of his own
pocket to host a party at the Trump
Hotel to host a holiday party picked the
Trump Hotel I wonder why he picked the
Trump Hotel so the so the so the the
Attorney General has just paid the
president thirty thousand dollars
it is it is at his private company like
no one sees the problem there what the
 and Republican the RNC hosts all of
their events at the Trump Hotel over the
last five years it's been like 20
million dollars that Republican
campaigns and committees have spent the
trumpet oh so that is so you're taking
money from the Treasury from taxpayers
and putting it on target but also all
the people who are writing checks
whether it's the donate five dollars on
my own whatever else to help this elect
Trump in defeat Democrats are also
having that money ripped off and put in
Trump's pocket like he is is getting
rich coming and going or getting richer
coming and going off of this whole
corruption scheme and I hope that if and
when we transition from a zombie
impeachment inquiry into a real one this
will be a huge part of it because under
an impeachment inquiry there are emails
within this White House about this
decision right we want to see what those
emails say did Trump trouble obviously
told pence to do this but we there can
be contemporary as' females or notes
that tell us that we will only get that
information in the context of an actual
impeachment inquiry not through the
general traditional oversight where
they'll justice executive privilege the
courts will be bottom up in the courts
forever and we won't find out so this is
yet another argument for a basement and
I hope that the this the Trump Hotel
based corruption scheme it's a big part
of said impeachment inquiry yeah I mean
this is just this is like such a
softball for Democrats you know like in
democratic candidates to you go out
there especially you know if the economy
starts softening
it's like oh how have you done under
terms presidency Trump has done great
Trump's gotten richer off of your tax
dollars but how have you done have your
wages gone up are you still paying too
much for health care
are you working two or three jobs
because Trump's doing great he actually
used this office to make himself in his
family Richard and you paid for it I
don't know I mean that's - I'm new to
politics Dan but it seems like that's a
pretty effective message it wouldn't
hurt to try it I'll say that
all right let's talk about the special
election that will be held in North
Carolina's ninth congressional district
next are we gonna gloss over the trunk
committed yesterday forgot yeah let's
back this train up because we have we
have one more one more scandal to talk
about here so here's what here's what
here's what we're dealing with in the
United States this week the president
United States decided to spread false
information about a hurricane and and
say that hurricane durian could
potentially affect the state of Alabama
when that was never the case
official models never really had Alabama
in its path so did the president say oh
you know what mistake on my part I'm
sorry about that I I messed up no no he
didn't he didn't Ben he has basically
been tweeting about it for the last
several days and then yesterday at the
White House in the Oval Office where
presidents do the nation's business the
president sat there on camera held up
the national weather forecast map which
had the path of the hurricane and on the
path of the hurricane someone took a
sharpie and extended the path of the
hurricane so that it covered Alabama so
that the N and so that the president
could say that he was right all along
and that happens to be illegal to
falsify a national government weather
report and you know the president's
still yelling about it this morning on
Twitter that's that's the USA this week
then that's the presidency yeah I
definitely think taking a Sharpie to a
weather map is more in the misdemeanors
in the high crimes part of the
Constitution yes sure but it would it
would be like Exhibit A in a 25th
amendment proceeding cuz just think
about like what is the conversation
that's happening like Trump is getting
ready to go out to do this hurricane
briefing saying in the Oval Office
and someone shows him the map that he's
gonna show and he looks at it and
realizes that Alabama is not on that map
and so you have two options at that
point one is take a sharpie and doodle
on the map to make it look like you were
right the other one would be don't bring
a map he opted for the former and no one
on his staff can tell him that that was
a bad idea
it's it's also important in evidence
here because now there is the who drew
it you know who wrote on the map is a
big question that no one will answer
Trump only uses a sharpie like that's
how he signs notes
it's how he doesn't which is also sort
of funny because the sharpies like an
adult crayon it sort of makes sense that
it is from pain of choice I just you
know people judge was asked about this
on CNN today and you know he I saw like
headlines that he said you know I feel
sad for the president I really pity him
and you know my first reaction when I
just saw the headlines was I mean come
on and feel sad for him let's actually
make fun of him here this is a joke but
I listen to Mary Pete's full answer and
it's a really good answer you should
check it out because it really is like
we can laugh about it but it's also it
is quite sad and disturbing that someone
who is so deranged I mean he is he has
serious problems like see we know this
of course but like taken out him with
all that's going on in the country right
now everything that's happening a
hurricane that has already caused deaths
that is still threatening the East Coast
all the other that's going on and
this is what he's focused on you
know I mean that goes in it goes back to
you know I talked to acts there about
this this week you know Axelrod's theory
of the case here on Trump which is
there's an exhaustion factor and whether
you think Trump's done a good job or a
bad job whether you're Republican
Democrat independent at some point you
wake up and think like with all the
problems we're facing in the country
right now do we need to deal with this
 every day don't we want to have
someone who at least will focus on the
problems we're facing and not be
taken out sharpies and drawing on a map
also seems like an effective message
what it if you think like we've worked
in white houses and you you have there's
a lot to do yeah jobs and so over the
last like 72 hours think of the amount
of time and energy that has been wasted
by the by the White House staff the
administration the people whose actual
jobs it is to help prepare the parts of
the country where the hurricane is
actually going think of all the time
energy they have spent retconning his
stupidity right the White House trusted
Harry's tweeting out like old water maps
are like weeks old that show Alabama
possibly in the path I mean it is just
like there are real things to do and
we're everything is about trying to make
Trump's idiocy see and less idiotic and
which isn't a possible path they are
pushing a boulder up idiot hill
essentially yeah and it also it steals
attention I mean we're all talking about
it everyone's but you know reporters are
talking about it everyone's talking
about the last couple days it steals
attention from other issues other abuses
of power you know there's an AP report
out yesterday about how you know all of
these these children that were separated
from their parents by the Trump
administration have you know emotional
and mental trauma that may last a
lifetime I mean it's a heartbreaking
story to read it this was only like one
of many cruel moves the Trump
administration is made on immigration
over the last several weeks including
you know kicking sick migrants out of
the country people who were asked to
come here by US doctors to participate
in medical trials and as a result of
their participation the doctors were
able to find cures or you know for for
various diseases and then they get a
letter from the United States government
saying you have three days to leave the
country because by the way we don't want
to have immigrants here anymore
who aren't American citizens even if
they're here to be in medical trials
that we ask them to come do that was
something that happened this week to
just just write out just just goes right
away because all of us every single
 day have to be focused on Donald
Trump's latest antics it's
crazy
or or Donald Trump's feeling
from military daycare centers to pay for
all his wall yeah don't need that's one
that's one to which start to Titus in a
bow is the argument for in a pitcher net
choreography we're just living in this
Cheesecake Factory menu worth of crimes
and you need some way to organize it
that makes sense and in at each an
inquiry will be the opportunity to do
that you could like segment and out
where you sure you'd probably do it over
a long period of time like we're gonna
do like X days like three hearings over
a week on it obstruction of justice
we're going to do three hearings a week
on emoluments and corruption via the
Trump Hotel is going to do three days a
week on unconstitutional uses of
executive authority and do it that way
yeah and so that and tell everyone the
order it's going to be in how it's going
to work
preview it do it like a potentially like
a crime novel and present it to American
people that way spaced outs are
high-profile witnesses and it could be I
think it has a chance to it has an
opportunity to be quite powerful yeah
and again and and and make sure that
it's not just focus on Trump's
wrongdoing but the impacts of Trump's
wrongdoing on and abuses of power on
everyday people make again we're like we
always have to keep connecting those
dots that this isn't just about Trump
breaking the law and you know abusing
his power it's the effects that that has
on the country on our security on
people's lives and and all of that and I
think that that's does almost just as
important here all right let's talk
about the special election that will be
held in North Carolina's ninth
congressional district next week on
Tuesday September 10th this is
essentially a do-over of the 2018
election for the seat that was ordered
by state officials after it was revealed
that Republican Mark Harris who was
initially ahead of Democrat Dan McReady
by what appeared to be 905 votes had
hired a political operative who stole
ballots
it is a batshit crazy story that you can
hear more about on our August crooked
miniseries rigging North Carolina hosted
by Shaniqua McClendon our political
director and North
native so check that out for the full
story of what happened but anyway
fast-forward now Dan McReady and his new
challenger Trump loving state senator
Dan Bishop our neck and neck in the
polls ahead of this special election on
Tuesday and president Donald Trump will
be holding a rally in North Carolina
right before election night dan what's
your take on this race how close is this
thing
it seems very close they're polling that
that has leaked out shows it essentially
tied which is good news for the
Democrats in the sense that this is a
district the Trump won by nearly 12
votes 12 percent and 12 percent and
sorry thank you this is a district that
Trump won by 12 votes have been quite
close this is the Trump won by nearly 12
percent in 2016 the so it's very
winnable and that is a positive sign for
Democrats we will see how this ends up
pulling in special elections is always
iffy to say the least
but the fact it's competitive I think is
something that is at this point
worrisome to Republicans which is why
they've been pouring money into this
district like there was no tomorrow yeah
let's talk about that I mean it looks
like that Dan McReady
out raised his Republican opponent but
when you as is often the case when you
factor in outside money Republicans and
Republican groups have just been pouring
money into this race it's an extremely
expensive special election and so I do
think and I think they said something
like you know 2/3 of all the outside
money is in favor of the Republican
opponent so that's not great and they're
doing that look like that was me what
they want to win the seat they would
like one more vote that gets them one
vote closer to taking the house back at
some point in the future but what the
reet what is driving the Republican
investment in this race is there are all
these Republicans who may or were
thinking of retiring we've had a bunch
over the last few days but there were a
whole bunch you were sitting out there
who the leadership is very worried they
retire because serving in the minority
with a criminal doofuses president is
not a good way to autumn is that an
enjoyable way to serve the country and
their minds a lot of these Republicans
and if the Democrat were to win this
race the fear is this will push a lot of
Republicans over the line cuz it would
be a sign that it's gonna be a very
tough 2020 for the house I don't know
that actually will mean that but
typically the the impact of these
specials is as much in that in the sort
of emotional well-being of the caucus
that comes up short than it is in the
actual as an actual predictor of what's
gonna come in American politics yeah I
mean I think obviously this this phrase
matters sort of beyond just the
additional seat in the house
it's it's a test of you know has the
energy and enthusiasm from 20:18
continued even though in 2018 you know
MacCready was down by about 900 votes
you know it's it's a it's a question of
that it's in a it's an ax pivotal state
for 2020 because North Carolina will be
competitive in the presidential race at
all so they're you know Tom Tillis the
senator from North Carolina Republican
senator is up for reelection and is one
of the potential potentially flippable
seats for Democrats so you know it'll be
it'll be a test there I also think it's
a test of sort of both sides
dueling messages ahead of 2020 I mean a
lot of these a lot of the outside money
that's been pouring into this race on
the Republican side has been doing
everything the Republicans and Trump
have said they're gonna do when it comes
to taking on Democrats in 2020 which is
call them socialists call them radicals
all of their xenophobia on
anti-immigrant stuff you know they've
got ads there with you know the squads
faces on them all everything they're
gonna throw at the sort of democratic
candidates in 2020 they're they're
trying to test here and maccreedy who is
a more moderate Democrat he's a Marine
veteran and he's a little more moderate
has been focused sort of exclusively on
a health care message he's not for
Medicare for all but he's been talking
about you know sort of protecting the
Affordable Care Act so it is sort of a a
test of messages to do you think that's
fair yeah I think both messages and then
also turnout strategies and models for
the state of North Carolina and twice I
like you there's a lot to learn from
these special elections I think that's
very important and that's true
regardless of the result but you like
you'll learn a lot from it and to go
back to the point that Trump is coming
oh yeah I can so yeah in some ways that
can help because it's a more Republican
and Democratic district so drawing
attention to it should increase turnout
which should theoretically help the
Republican but there are two ways in in
which it hurts one who knows what Trump
could say or do that could cast it in
controversy you can still be yes who
knows uh so he nation is two-front war
against the National Weather Service and
Debra Messing but the other reason the
more serious reason as to why I think
it's a bad idea is presidential visits
suck up all the logistical abilities of
campaigns it's just it's a massive
undertaking to put a rally together for
a president and I've never worked on a
campaign that would ever want the
president there the night before a house
race right you don't like you would
rather have your team doing you're
getting ready for geo TV then making
sure that you have the right number of
red hats behind Trump at the event and
so I do think that that is a potentially
challenging logistical timing for them
because the democratically working their
ass off preparing for geo to be an
election day and the Republican staff
will be making sure that Trump has a
good picture which is very limited in
its value in election that's gonna start
12 hours later so what do you think 60%
chance in his rally speech there he
mentions the weather map and maybe like
a 30% chance he mentions Debra Messing I
would flip it I think it I think there's
a higher percentage he goes after Debra
Messing oh you think so yeah maybe he's
still in the war with war against Debra
Messing on it's also about five days
from now so who knows where right what
will be on we could be in a dark new
place so you do not have to live in the
North Carolina ninth to get involved to
learn more about the race you can go to
vote save America
calm / states and go to directly to Dan
McReady calm to donate or find ways to
volunteer your time all hands on deck
effort here let's let's help Dan McReady
pull out the win on Tuesday okay let's
talk about the Democratic primary and
the ten candidates who participated
Wednesday in a series of CNN town halls
on the climate crisis an event that
lasted for seven hours Dan seven hours
how many hours how many hours of the
seven did you watch so we had it on in
the office sort of in the background
during the day yesterday in Tommy and I
were kind of we had it on on mute and
then we would like turn it on once in a
while so we sort of caught parts of it
and then I went home like 6:00 or 7:00
Pacific time and so I watched a couple
of the candidates it's uh some of Buda J
just a bet oh so a little bit of Booker
I caught some of Warren's but I thought
some of Harris's during the day I don't
I caught some of Biden's too so I got a
good number of them yeah I'm on the East
Coast right now so the and I had another
thing to do last night so I sort of
haven't I have I've done the redzone
version of the climate townhall I think
I've seen all of the highlights and all
the bloopers but I didn't mean I didn't
sit from the TV for seven hours I mean
so you know it wasn't the formal climate
debate that many activists have pushed
for but I thought that most of the
questions and the answers were
incredibly thoughtful and detailed what
did you think was this a was this a
decent substitute for a climate debate
or no yes I think so I mean I still
think a climate David how many climate
babies would be better than having no
climate debate yeah but I think we
should applaud CNN for doing I do give
him seven hours to it for a substantive
climate discussion is a big deal and I
thought the questions were good and they
were about solutions that like just the
the science of climate change was
appropriately accepted as fact and the
questions were less about politics if
they too often are when climate change
comes up in debates like how are you
going to explain higher you
Bill's or how are you convinced this
co-worker about this it was about how
we're going to solve we're gonna solve
the melting of the planet and I thought
that was very good yay good I think
someone who watched the seven hours or
however many hours someone wash is
better often knows more about the
positions of the candidates than they
would in a debate right like a town
halls a better format to learn things
because it's not no one's answering in
30 seconds or 90 seconds or whatever
absurdly short time framework is being
imposed on them what the problem is a
debate will have more viewers right if a
debate would probably have 10 million
viewers like some of these other debate
them I don't know what the viewership of
the climate southouse worth but I'm sure
it was not 10 million people no I mean I
do I think that the the weakness of it
is and I just want to say too I seen it
does get a ton of credit for this and
it's not just the sheer amount of time
they devoted to it but you know it was
not long ago that CNN and a lot of other
news channels were you know every time I
had to put a proponent of you know I'm
sorry every time that someone who was
dedicated to climate change was on
television they had to have like a
climate denier to balance it out you
know and there was the the like you said
the acceptance of the science as sort of
the starting point for the CNN Town Hall
and you know they called it climate
crisis that was like a you know big
phrase up that was in the background the
whole time the thoughtfulness of the
questions like we said it was just it
was very very well done that said I
think in some ways it made the case for
why a climate debate a formal climate
debate would have been better because
the most people in this country can't
watch anything for seven hours
everyone's busy we we cover this for a
living this is our job and we didn't
watch all seven hours right so I do
think and we did start to see even
though a lot of these candidates running
have very similar climate plans and are
on the same page you know we started to
see some differences between the
candidates that I think it could have
been better
elucidated during a debate and that
would have done and also it made me
think look I know that the DNC's problem
here was if you do one debate on climate
then do you have to do one big a debate
on guns then do you have to do one
debate on this and I think maybe that's
not such a bad idea to do single issue
debates I think you learn a lot I don't
know about the ratings but I think
diving into a a single issue and maybe
it's not a single issue debate maybe
it's a debate that's just about two
issues and then another debate about
another two issues I don't know but I
think it's it helps you learn a lot and
I don't think it's anything to be afraid
of and I also think climate is one of
those issues that look we saw we heard
the economy come up we heard
transportation come up we heard
the environment come up we had like all
kinds of different issues you know
climate sort of involves and so you know
I think I think I still think a climate
debate would be a great idea but I
thought last night was yesterday and
last night was pretty good yeah great we
should with the week we can have boats
we can have a climate Town Hall in a
climate debate yeah and it is a credit
to the sunrise movement and all of the
climate activists that that happened
last night I was reading we're gonna
talk about what's his name Michael grunt
Mike run walls sorry we're gonna talk
about my Grunwald piece but in the in
the piece he noted that in the past
climate change has been such an unsexy
campaign issue that there has never even
been a question about it in a general
election debate I couldn't believe that
in 2012 apparently Candy Crowley said
she considered including one for quote
you climate change people but decided it
would have distracted from the focus on
the economy like I didn't even know that
and so to go from that in 2012 and I
think there was one question in the 2016
debates to seven hours on no Wednesday
is is is a testament to all of these
climate activists pushing really hard
for this to happen yeah it's a positive
step in the right direction for sure any
reactions to any of those specific
candidates what did you think how
significant are the differences between
them two I I mean there are there are
very real differences in their plans
with with the important caveat that all
of them
are so much more aggressive to anything
we've talked about in the past
right so the Overton Window has shifted
so far in the right direction on what is
a appropriate serious response to
climate change like we have finally sort
of in the context of campaign proposals
acknowledged the crisis and demanded the
candidates put for us plans commiserate
with that crisis now they run the gamut
from you know Joe Biden's plan and
Klobuchar plan to Bernie Sanders plan
the context in 16 trillion dollars but I
would say that the people who had the I
thought did the best last night in the
parts that I saw was I thought Elizabeth
Warren did very very strong
I thought Bernie was get a very
passionate defense of his clan I thought
in terms of moment Kamala Harris saying
that she would push to remove the
filibuster love that green New Deal was
a very notable moment I was they had had
50 couple errands campaign is they are
very good at making news at these things
yeah that was a good piece of news that
over they sort of drove discussion of
her debate I thought that was smart yeah
I thought I thought warns moments that
you never talking about is is worth
talking about you know she was asked
even there were there were some of these
questions which is in the flavor of like
well you know what are you gonna make
individual people do what kind of
sacrifices can we all make for this and
you know they talked about sort of you
know should the government tell you
which lightbulbs to use and you know
instead of just answering it straight on
she sort of stops and she like goes
right at the context of the question you
know and she said this is exactly what
fossil fuel companies want us to be
talking about your light bulbs your
hamburgers all of this kind of stuff
they want to stir up a lot of
contributions that you straws and she's
like but we need to remember that even
though all of us have a role to play
and you know climate change and and
fixing this it's it's still three
industries we're talking about they
contribute over 70% of the carbon
emissions and they want us all to be
arguing about straws and hamburgers and
they're the ones who are actually
contributing the most and they're the
ones who have to contribute to the
solution the most and let's not forget
that and I thought it was just it's
absolutely right we're gonna talk about
the politics of climate change in a bit
but to me it's a it was an effective
example of cutting through the
of politics to talk about what's really
going on and I think any time a
candidate can do that you know better or
works been doing that on guns Elizabeth
Warren did that in the climate Town Hall
sometimes you hear people judge do that
by reframing a question like it's just a
really effective way of breaking through
the noise the best politicians call out
the game they don't play the game and
that's what warrant if I find it
something that Obama did very well over
the years and that's the game we're
gonna is transit take the issue from the
literal survival of the planet to the
price of a hamburger and there's there's
a load of and it was war for not an
economic interest behind the people
trying to take the conversation from
this serious to the trivial yeah what
did you think of what do you think of
Biden had a moment there where he was
asked by a Bernie Sanders supporter in
the audience about the fact that he was
going to a fundraiser afterwards that
was being hosted by a fossil fuel
executive now Biden seemed confused
about that because he said you know I
didn't I didn't know that we I don't
think that's true
so it turns out that this guy who had
been a by an advisor for years even
before he became vice-president was a
co-founder of a company that works on
natural gas exporting facilities but the
no no money from fossil fuel executive
pledged that they all sign basically
says you're not allowed to take money
from any SEC identified exec
for fossil fuel companies so this guy
Andrew Goldman is not in fact an SEC
identified executive of fossil fuel
companies but you know he co-founded
this natural gas oriented company so
Biden gets a bit confused onstage about
this says he didn't know that his staff
told him this whatever blah blah blah
and then Anderson Cooper later says
actually you're right he's not involved
in day-to-day operations of this but of
course you know he's a he's a founder of
a natural gas firm nonetheless what did
you make of that whole thing I think I
think it's it's sort of impossible to
expect a presidential candidate whether
it's vice president biden or anyone else
who's running to - no off the top of
their head who is hosting their next
fundraiser and so he was he was caught
up he actually didn't know what was
going on and then what's he knew who the
person was he tried to respond to it it
was bad luck in a lot of ways he got
nailed and I got a question I think I
guess the only thing I would say is it
probably like yes as I understand it
this does not technically violate the
pledge right but knowing that this had
been a point of controversy for the
campaign previously scheduling this
fundraise of the day whatever it is the
day after or whatever the climate forum
was a risky move and they paid for
taking that risk I guess yeah like I was
trying to walk through it as you know
what it would have been like for us
being staffers on a presidential
campaign
right so like the first thing you do is
you say okay we're gonna make sure our
gonna go through every single donor and
make sure that none of the donors are
identified by the sec as fossil fuel
executives because that's the pledge we
sign so you get researchers do that the
staff does that they go through they do
it and it checks out and on that the
Biden campaign is correct the guy was
not identified by the sec but then
someone many people know that there's a
fundraiser that he Andrew Goldman is one
of the hosts of the fundraiser they
think about him as an old-time by an
advisor which he is but you know then
you have the research team sort of look
at the host of the fundraiser and be
like let's just make sure let's look at
all the connection
that everyone has toasting the
fundraisers since we're doing this
tomorrow since you know it's a potential
political exposure for us and usually
when you do that it comes up it's pretty
easy when you Google Andrew Goldman to
find out that yeah he's this hedge fund
guy but he did have this connection with
a natural gas company and you just take
care of it they did not do that that is
a little curious yeah yeah well campaign
like it
campaigns are enterprises where you have
too few people doing too much work and
things fall through the cracks and
sometimes those things fall through the
cracks and nothing ever happens you know
there are no consequences from it and
this is one time where something fell
through the cracks and they got they got
nailed for the long-term consequences of
this I doubt they're significant but
it's like this is like this was an
opportunity poor Biden who has taken
criticism for not being progressive
enough generally and specifically on
climate change even though by any
previous definition his plan is quite
aggressive just not anywhere near as
aggressive as some of the folks on the
other end of the spectrum like Sanders
Morin and Harris and others but it's a
missed opportunity so now instead of
saying Biden make a strong case for why
he would be the right person to lead us
on climate change we're talking about
this and I think we should also just
like him with his goal I think was to
make the point that climate change is an
international issue
it requires mobilizing the countries of
the world together and that he is the
person best suited in the field to do
that because of the relationships he has
an experience he has and instead of
talking about that we're talking about
this so it's there's a measure of bad
luck mixed with you know an error from
the campaign yeah I also think stepping
back from it it sort of highlights an
opportunity that Warren and Sanders both
have by sort of swearing off any of
these high-dollar fundraisers which is
sort of the major difference one major
difference between the two of them and
most of the other candidates running
because it's not just Biden khamel
Harris Pete Budaj edge they they also do
a lot of these sort of high-dollar
fundraisers which are you know
the usual it's what happens in campaigns
but as people get more fed up with money
in politics and the influence of money
and politics people like Warren and
Sanders have decided to swear off these
fundraisers which involves which comes
at a risk for them and is not cost-free
but if it's not cost-free on one side
you want to have sort of a political
advantage on the other side and this is
the political advantage to be up for
both of them to be able to go out there
and say well we don't have to worry
about who were like Palin around with
after a climate debate because we don't
hold those kinds of fundraisers so a few
of the candidates Warren Camilla Booker
Bernie Pete announced their climate
plans in last week or so
Warren basically adopted jay inslee plan
while adding a few provisions of her own
would you think that was smart of Warren
to adopt NZ's plan I am in awe of how
clever it is it is so smart yeah
because for the following reasons one
jay Inslee although his campaign did not
take off he successfully branded himself
as the climate candidate kissed him too
he had a really good plan just praised
by most people as being very soft in his
and wet and and when he got out of the
race all the other candidates praised
him for being mr. climate with a very
good climate plan Elizabeth Warren who
has doesn't has enough plans of her own
that she can just adopt this and it
makes it very hard for people to
critique it it was just so smart you
know it comes with this infra mater of
legitimacy from the quote unquote
climate candidate that all the other
candidates have praised as the climate
candidate just so smart yeah it was it
was very smart and you know James Lee
has said to basically it's an open
source document and anyone who wants to
use it can use it and you know think one
of the great things about Inslee's
campaign he was still like on the day he
announced he was getting out of the race
I think earlier in that day he announced
another plank of his climate plan like
it's so thorough and detailed his plan
that basically he just kept churning out
policy on his climate plan throughout
the his whole campaign and so I think
it's gonna
matter who you know which Democrat wins
it's gonna serve sort of as a blueprint
and and potentially the gold standard on
what the next Democratic president
should do on climate change now the
question is will they be able to achieve
all that so we talk about the politics
of climate change you know my Grunwald /
Politico who's one of the best climate
reporters around publish a big story
where he argued that climate change
could pose a political problem for
Democrats
he wrote that even though progressive
and moderate voters see climate change
is a problem and want it to be a
priority there is a deep divide on how
they want to approach it with
progressive supporting aggressive plans
like the green New Deal and moderates
supporting more targeted piecemeal
solutions and meanwhile you've got Trump
and the conservative propaganda machine
you know spending all their time telling
Americans that Democrats are radical
socialists who want to ban cows and
planes what did you think of grunwald
piece and and do you have any fears in
general about the politics of the
climate debate for Democrats I saw the
headline on Twitter and I almost threw
like laptop across the room I was like
what a typical Politico headline
that's like not even certain current
political that's like what we know we
said I thought political was like like
10 years ago
yeah then I click on the link which you
know good for me I saw this girl wall
too has more than enough credibility as
someone who age who's taking climate
seriously to you know have this you know
to raise this discussion and he's not
wrong I mean yes I worry about climate I
also worry about health care and I worry
about Russia interfering I worry about
everything right that's our motto worry
about everything panic about nothing and
so yes we worry about it I think a
couple of points on that is one I worry
more about the planet than I worry about
the politics of climate change and so we
should be urgent
and aggressive in making climate change
an issue in this campaign because if we
want to do something when we get
office you have to campaign on it now
you can't pretend like you can't run on
like small-bore solutions and then get
the opposite support the green new deal
that is not that is a political disaster
you have to try to change people's minds
and convince them in the campaign trail
so I think that where we are right now
on the politics of climate could be very
different from where we are in November
of 2020 if Democrats aggressively make
the argument about why this is original
why these are the right solutions so I
I'm worried but not panicked I thank you
the Landsat yeah I mean look he notes in
the piece you know that he says the most
prominent Democratic dispute about
climate policy is whether it should
focus exclusively on climate or whether
it should take on broader issues of
economic justice which is what the green
new deal does and you know I've heard
some good progressives and and and good
you know very smart climate folks say
yeah well this is like a a liberal wish
list right that's attached to climate
policy in the green new deal and if we
really think that the climate is an
existential threat and we focus
exclusively on climate and carbon
pollution and not have a larger plan
that also talks about you know job
guarantees and health care and all that
kind of stuff and I completely disagree
with this and it's not like look I think
the green new deal is the right thing to
do but I also think just from a raw
political calculus it is a smarter way
to frame this issue than to talk about
it as what do we all have to do and give
up and sacrifice to save the planet and
bring down uh you know and sorry and an
eliminate carbon pollution and make sure
that we're you know we keep warming
under two degrees Celsius like I think
if you only focus on that basically it
is a message to people that yeah you
know we have this existential threat to
humanity and here's all the things you
have to do and give up and sacrifice to
fix it and I don't think that's a is
powerful a message as yes this is an
existential threat and yes the
is gonna be sacrificing cost involved
but this is also an incredible
opportunity to build a more just society
and to also bring people along in this
who have not been there with us right a
lot of people in old energy industries
are as we transition gonna have to find
new jobs and if we're not willing to
take care of those people if we're
willing to make these people hold on
these in these people who are in these
industries hole then we're not gonna be
able to build the political coalition
necessary to get this done this is still
about politics and persuading people to
to join us in this effort and the people
who are on the front lines of climate
change the people who are getting
devastated by these storms who are
living in coastal areas people who are
working in the coal industry people who
are working in the oil industry like we
have to be able to say to all these
people we can do this together and it
can be a win-win for everyone and that's
sort of the theory behind the green new
deal and I think it's a politically
smart theory whether you are a candidate
who is for the green new deal or
something more moderate right the blue
shot again someone who chooses a more
moderate approach to climate change is
going to have 80% of a political
liability of the candidate who is for
the green you deal right
right it's not like this is not on the
level right like this is going to
regardless of what your position is this
is going to be about higher utility
bills hamburgers your constitutional
right to have a plastic straw and all
this other and regrets which
position it so you might as well go big
you might as well try to push the debate
in a bigger bolder Russian because
substantively that's where we have to go
and when you get down to the brass tacks
I'm trying to pass legislation in a
Senate with an eliminated filibusters
God willing it may be different you may
only be able to get some portion of it
but if you don't whatever the actual law
that passes is going to be somewhere
closer to the middle than why you
campaign on so you might as well
campaign on the big
boldest solution that's impossible you
also it's like fight Biden's plan it's
1.5 trillion or something in Bernie's
plan is 16 trillion Bernie's planned if
not 16 times more politically risky than
Biden's it's like yeah 10% more
photoquai risky than Biden
you also have to paint a picture of the
future that is inspiring enough that you
can build a movement right I mean that's
just this is just basic if all you if
your entire climate message is only
about staving off disaster that's sort
of only that's what you're only doing
half the work there because it's the
truth is it's not just about staving off
disaster it's about like building a new
economy for the future that is going to
produce high-paying jobs in you know
whether it's retrofitting buildings or
solar panel construction or all the
other kind of things that we haven't
even thought about yet that are gonna
happen industries that are gonna be
created jobs that are gonna be created
by transitioning to a clean energy
economy there's a lot of opportunity
here for the United States there's a lot
of opportunity to create jobs to create
good jobs for people and by talking
about that and making that part of your
climate plan you're going to be able to
build a bigger coalition and when you
even pull sort of like individual parts
of the green New Deal things like
federal job guarantees and training and
investing in education and investing in
benefits for people and all that kind of
stuff
they pull quite well because a lot of
you know you have to speak to people's
day-to-day concerns about their lives
and I think one of the I mean we saw
this challenge back in in 2008 when we
were and when we were on the Obama
campaign one of the challenges with
climate is if you only talk about
climate and in the environment you're
gonna get you know some people who are
committed to this but if you make it a
message about jobs and the economy as
well it's going to be more popular and
you're gonna build a bigger coalition
and you're gonna be able to get it done
last thing I'll say on this is think
about how far we have come on the
politics of climate in just such a short
period of time so as you pointed out no
questions to a seven-hour Town Hall too
worrying about even supporting
cap-and-trade to the green you deal and
so this there's nothing to say that with
that this is this is not heading in the
right direction if we keep pushing it
and that the politics can be coming on
in the unalloyed benefit going forward
and but the only way to do that is to
keep organized and keep arguing keep
pushing and see if there's no other
option this is like simply there's no
other option
this is the only planet we have yeah I
mean the the plans are all very radical
but the science right now is pretty
 radical too you know and so the
you have to have policies and a movement
that's commensurate with the size of the
challenge right now and it is an
existential challenge that is just the
facts so we can either face that and and
push as hard as we can for it or we can
accept the president course we're on
which is you know devastation and we
don't want to do that so dark dark dark
don't want to do that but that but you
know what I'm hopeful after yesterday it
was everyone has a great plan I mean you
know data for progress our friends over
there it's a you know very progressive
very very liberal think tank they rated
all of the plans of all the people who
were on stage yesterday with the
exception of Amy Klobuchar as either
very thorough or thorough so they
thought they gave everyone you know a
clean bill of health there there's all
they have great plans the questions were
great the answers were great and so you
know I'm definitely more hopeful about
the about the future around climate
after after watching that yesterday so
that's good all right anything else any
other stupid controversies we
didn't cover no I I just I just effect
checks whether had we seemed it not
there's some of the same old stupidity
has continued to be stupid since we
started this podcast but there's no new
stupid that I can find no new stupid
will take that as a good sign all right
and I will I'll talk to you next week
and we'll see you we'll see you later
everyone
you
