now it's time for okay stop this week
Don jr. also known as the hot one Oh God
he went on Laura Ingram's program to
give his take on the Cummington Catholic
school boys and answer the question
literally no one wanted to know when is
he running for office but haha let's
roll the clip you had some Catholic
school boys okay stop listen I don't
want to get us all bogged down in how
the video looks but here's the thing as
the beard movement has spread like a
virus from you know the the elite
corners of Brooklyn and and Seattle and
Portland and an Echo Park and gotten
further and further and further away the
beards have gotten worse and worse and
worse and the less suited your politics
are to the beard the more you start
looking like that magnet thing where you
drag the little bar there like Ted Cruz
John jr. they look like somebody took a
magnet to the top of their head and
dragged some of the filings around their
chin and not at adults a child did it he
looks like he sleeps in a rustic casket
[Laughter]
right-to-life March okay they were
wearing a Mogga hat they had to pounce
because the media wants that to be true
they want a bunch of nice Catholic kids
happen to be white they want them to be
the enemy this is what they've created
up I'm from 30 minutes away from where
this happened is where I spent birth to
18 they don't just happen to be white
that is everyone there is white it's not
a coincidence it's a it's a it's it's
farm the media has done this to
themselves they have shot themselves in
the foot time and time again because
they so desperately want this to be the
truth as opposed to saying you know what
Trump's doing a darn good job
hard turn Donny what if that was the
news what if someone got on the
news and was like you know what Trump's
not a darn good job as president that's
it
hi I'm Jake Tapper today on the lead I
don't care what my honchos say above in
the in the c-suite table Trump's doing a
darn good job I'm Jake Tapper here to
talk about it some Yahoo's Harris was
out there today she's announcing that
she announces she's gonna run for
president let's listen it's gonna be
about talking with people about the fact
that right now we have an administration
that has waged a full-on assault on
American values and American ideals now
Don when you hear a sitting senator say
an assault on American values and
American ideals your dad's called a
racist I've known him for 20 years
I'm sorry and I'm more Ingram and so you
think I don't know what a racist is got
another in common
my friends are racist I'm a racist
everyone I work with many of them are
racist so if you're gonna come in here
and tell me that I can't tell if raises
from I'm not races you got to know that
I'm Laura Ingram I gave I gave a
Nazi salute at the RNC and people aren't
totally sure I didn't do it on purpose
that does you have to be for someone
prefer to be a genuine open question as
to whether you gave a Heil
Hitler
on national television it's like a it's
a question mark you're gonna be pretty
goddamn racist he is there you saw this
with the social media platforms
attacking the word family because god
forbid you have family right what did
that happen people attacking the word
family cuz I feel like there was a
little bit more of just the open racism
that was the problem I mean I don't know
if you're wearing the racism hat at a
sexism rally yelling at a brown guy
families like far down the list right I
hate their families I guess though fair
enough it's always important to remember
that this is a person who goes on
television to do an impression of Donald
Trump to prove to Donald Trump that he's
worth loving but that's it that's the
goal like literally like that's why he's
there he doesn't he's wasn't running a
sham business he's got a ham business
draw my appendix just burst when you
talk about this economy not working for
the American working class I mean Donald
Trump's the first president to speak to
the American worker in generations it's
wild
does that mean speak to the avarage also
he's destroying all of the American
workers at this very moment it's like
I'd like the Republican just like series
of assertions kind of technique it's
like he's not racist I know him just
fizzle off like he's talking to the
American worker she also never even said
that he wasn't racist she just said if
you think he's racist I'm sorry
I'm sorry yes like it's a bad thing I'm
sorry you think he's racist I know he's
racist
[Music]
