good evening everyone I'm Lester Halton
the first democratic debates in the 2020
race for president Savannah Guthrie and
tonight it's our first chance to see
these candidates go head-to-head on
stage together we'll be joined in our
questioning tonight by our colleagues
Jose Diaz Villard Chuck Todd and Rachel
Maddow voters are trying to nail down
where the candidates stand on the issues
what sets them apart at which of these
presidential hopefuls has what it takes
it's time to find out New Jersey senator
Cory Booker former housing secretary
Julian Castro New York City Mayor Bill
DeBlasio former Maryland Congressman
John Delaney Hawaii congresswoman Tulsi
Gabbard Washington governor jay Inslee
Minnesota senator Amy Klobuchar former
Texas congressman Beto Aurora Ohio
congressman Tim Ryan at Massachusetts
senator Elizabeth Warren from NBC News
decision 2020
candidates debate live
reached the performing arts center in my
[Applause]
to the palace
Center and all across the country
tonight we're going to take on many of
the most pressing issues at the moment
including immigration the situation
unfolding at our border and the
treatment of migrant children and we're
gonna talk about the tensions with Iran
climate change and of course we'll talk
about the economy those kitchen table
issues so many Americans face everyday
some quick rules of the road before we
begin 20 candidates qualified for this
first debate will hear from 10:00
tonight and ten more tomorrow the
breakdown for each was selected at
random the candidates will have 60
seconds to answer and 30 seconds for any
follow-ups because of this large field
not every person will be able to comment
on every topic but over the course of
the next two hours we will hear from
everyone we'd also like to ask the
audience to keep the reactions to a
minimum we are not going to be shy about
making sure the candidates stick to
talking tonight all right so with that
business out of the way we want to get
to it and we'll start this evening with
senator Elizabeth Warren senator good
evening to you thank you you have many
plans free College free child care
government health care cancellation of
student debt new taxes new regulations
the breakup of major corporations but
this comes at a time when 71 percent of
Americans say the economy is doing well
including 60 percent of Democrats what
do you say to those who worry this kind
of significant change could be risky to
the economy so I think of it this way
who is this economy really working for
it's doing great for a thinner and
thinner slice at the top it's doing
great for giant drug companies
it's just not doing great for people who
are trying to get a prescription filled
it's still great for people who want to
invest in private prisons just not for
the African Americans and Latin X whose
families are torn apart whose lives are
destroyed and whose communities are
ruined it's doing great for giant oil
companies that want to drill everywhere
just not for the rest of us who are
watching climate change bear down upon
us when you've got a government when
you've got an autonomy that does great
for those with money and isn't doing
great for everyone else that is
corruption pure and simple
we need to call it out we need to attack
it head-on
and we need to make structural change in
our government in our economy and in our
country
[Applause]
you called programs like free college
something you might do if you were quote
a magic Genie to be blunt
are the government programs and benefits
that some of your rivals are offering
giving your voters and people a false
sense of what's actually achievable well
first the economy but we know that not
everyone is sharing in this prosperity
and Donald Trump just sits in the White
House and gloat about what's going on
when you have so many people that are
having trouble affording college and
having trouble affording their premiums
so I do get concerned about paying for
college for rich kids I do but I think
my plan is a good one
and my plan would be to first of all
make Community College free and make
sure that everyone else besides that top
percentile gets help with their
education my own dad and my sister got
their first degrees with Community
College there's many paths to success as
well as certifications secondly I've
used Pell grants I double them from
6,000 to $12,000 a year and expand it to
the number of families that get covered
to families that make up to $100,000 and
then the third thing I would do is make
it easier for students to pay off their
student loans because I can tell you
this if billionaires can show off their
yacht students should be able to pay off
their student loans
that's time thank you
[Applause]
what we've just been discussing and
talking about is how much fundamental
change to the economy is desirable and
how much is actually doable in that vein
some Democrats want a marginal
individual tax rate of 70 percent on the
very highest earners those making more
than 10 million dollars a year would you
support that and if not what would your
top individual rate be this economy has
got to work for everyone and right now
we know that it isn't and it's gonna
take all of us coming together to make
sure that it does necesito mas in queer
cada persona en el éxito de este pono
Mia
pero si quiere Moses arizo necesitamos
include cada persona in Westra
democracia cada votar caca de votante
necesitamos la representación acara voz
necesitamos escuchar right now we have a
system that favors those who can pay for
access and outcomes that's how you
explain an economy that is rigged to
corporations and the very wealthiest a
two trillion dollar tax cut that favored
corporations while they were sitting on
record piles of cash and the very
wealthiest in this country at a time of
historic wealth inequality a new
democracy that is revived because we
return power to the people
no pacts no gerrymandering automatic and
same-day voter registration bring in
more voters and a new Voting Rights Act
to get rid of the barriers in place now
that's how we each have a voice in our
democracy and make this economy work for
everybody that's my answer
ten seconds to answer if you want to
answer the direct question would you
support a 70% individual marginal tax
rate yes/no or pass I would support a
tax rate and a tax code that is fair to
everyone tax capital at the same rate
that you you tax ordinary income take
that corporate tax rate up to 28% you
would generate the revenues you need to
pay for the programs we're talking
that's time Thank You senator Booker
there is a debate in this party right
now about the role of corporations as
you know senator Warren in particular
put out a plan to break up tech
companies like Facebook Amazon and
Google you've said we should not quote
be running around pointing at companies
and breaking them up without any kind of
process why do you disagree I don't
think I disagree I think we have a
serious problem in our country with
corporate consolidation and you see the
evidence of that in how dignity is being
stripped from labor and we have people
that work full-time jobs and still can't
make a living wage we see that because
consumer prices are being raised by
pharmaceutical companies that often have
monopolistic hold on drugs and you see
that by just the fact that this is
actually an economy that's hurting small
businesses and not allowing them to
compete one of the most aggressive bills
in the Senate to deal with corporate
consolidation is mine about corporate
consolidation of the AG sector so I feel
very strongly about the need to check
the corporate consolidation and let the
free market work and I'll tell you this
I live in a low income black and brown
community I see every single day that
this economy is not working for average
Americans the indicators that are being
used from GDP to Wall Street's rankings
is not helping people in my community it
is about time that we have economy that
works for everybody not just the
wealthiest in our nation but quickly
senator Booker you did say that you
didn't think it was right to name names
to name companies and single them out as
Senator Warren has briefly why is that
well again I will single out companies
like Halliburton or Amazon that paid
nothing in taxes and our need to change
that and when it comes to antitrust law
what I will do is number one appoint
judges that will enforce it number to
have a DOJ
and a Federal Trade Commission that will
go through the processes necessary to
check the
kind of corporate concentration at the
end of the day we have too much of a
problem with corporate power growing we
see that with everything from citizens
united and the way they're trying to
influence Washington is about time that
we have a president that fights for the
people in this country we need to have
someone that's a champion for them Thank
You senator senator Warren I mentioned
you are you picking winners and losers
so the way I understand this is there is
way too much consolidation now in giant
industries in this country that hurts
workers it hurts small businesses it
hurts independent farmers it hurts our
economy overall and it helps constrict
real innovation and growth in this
economy now look we've had the laws out
there for a long time to be able to
fight back what's been missing is
courage courage and Washington to take
on the Giants that's part of the
corruption in this system it has been
far too long that the monopolies have
been making the campaign contributions
have been funding the super PACs
have been out there making sure that
their influence is heard and felt in
every single decision that gets made in
Washington where I want to start this is
I want to return government to the
people and that means calling out the
names of the monopolist and saying I
have the courage to go after them Thank
You secretary Castro the next question
is for you Democrats have been talking
about the pay gap for decades what would
you do to ensure that women are paid
fairly in this country thank you very
much for that question Lester you know I
grew up with a mother who raised my
brother Joaquin and me as a single
parent and I know what it's like to
struggle I know what it's like to rent a
home and to worry about whether you're
gonna be able to pay the rent at the
first of the month and to see a mom
worked very very hard and know that moms
across this country are getting paid
less simply because they're women I
would do several things starting with
something we should have done a long
time ago which is to pass the Equal
Rights Amendment
and also pursue legislation so that
women are paid equal pay for equal work
in this country it's past time that we
did that and you know we have to do this
if we want to be the most prosperous
nation in the 21st century we need to
make sure that women are paid what they
deserve all right thank you but the same
question to congresswoman Gabbard your
your thoughts on equal pay well first of
all let's recognize the the situation
we're in that the American people
deserve a president who will put your
interests ahead of the rich and powerful
that's not what we have right now
I enlisted in the Army National Guard
after the al Qaeda terror attacks on
9/11 so I could go after those who had
attacked us on that day I still serve as
a major served over 16 years deployed
twice to the Middle East and in Congress
serve on the Foreign Affairs and Armed
Services committees for over six years I
know the importance of our national
security as well as the terribly high
cost of war and for too long our leaders
have failed us taking us from one
regime-change war to the next leading us
into a new Cold War and arms race
costing us trillions of our hard-earned
taxpayer dollars and countless lives
this insanity must and as president I
will take your hard-earned taxpayer
dollars and instead invest those dollars
into serving your needs things like
health care a green economy good-paying
jobs protecting our environment and so
much more Marilyn fatigue you're the
mayor of the biggest city in the United
States but it's also one of the cities
in the country with the greatest gap
between the wealthy and the poor how
would you address income inequality well
we've been dressing income inequality in
New York City by raising wages by
raising benefits by putting money back
in the hands of working people $15
minimum wage paid sick days pre-k for
all things they're making a huge
difference in working people's lives but
let me tell you what we're hearing here
already in the first round of questions
is that battle for the heart and soul of
our party I want to make it clear this
is supposed to be the party of working
people yes we're supposed to be for 70%
tax rate on the wealthy yes we're
supposed to be for free college free
public college for our young people we
are supposed to break up big
corporations when they're not serving
our democracy this Democratic Party has
to be strong and bold and progressive
and in New York we proven that we can do
something very different we can put
money back in the hands of working
people and let me tell you every time
you talk about investing in people and
their communities you hear folks say
there's not enough money what I say them
every single time is there's plenty of
money in this world there's plenty of
money of this country it's just in the
wrong hands cuz emma Kratz have to fix
that
Carthage I need you Bri I think we need
to do real things to help American
workers in the American people right
this is the issue that all of us here on
the campaign trail we need to make sure
everyone has a living wage and I've
called for a doubling of the Earned
Income Tax Credit raising the minimum
wage and creating paid family leave that
will create a situation where people
actually have a living wage that gets
right to workers then we got to fix our
public education system it's not
delivering the results our kids needs
nor is college and post high school
career and technical training programs
doing that you know I'm very different
than everyone else here on the stage
prior to being in Congress I was an
entrepreneur I started two businesses I
created thousands of jobs I spent my
whole career helping small to mid-sized
businesses all over the country 5,000
5,000 of them I supported the Obama
administration gave me an award for
lending to disadvantaged communities I
know how to create jobs we need a
short-term strategy which is to put
money in the pockets of workers with the
Earned Income Tax Credit raising the
minimum wage and created paid family
leave and then we need to have a
long-term strategy to make sure this
country is competitive and we're
creating jobs everywhere in this country
governor Inslee how would you address
income inequality well I'm a little bit
surprised
I think plans are great but I'm a
governor and we got to realize the
people who brought us the weekend unions
need are going to bring us a long
[Music]
and I'm proud of standing up for unions
I've got a plan to reinvigorate
collective bargaining so we can increase
wages finally I'm marched with the SEIU
folks it is not right that the CEO of
McDonald's makes two thousand one
hundred times more than the people
singing hash and McDonald's and the next
thing I'll do is put people to work in
the jobs of the present and the future
look at Donald Trump is simply wrong
he says wind turbines cause cancer we
know they caused jobs and we know that
we can put millions of people to work in
the clean energy jobs of the future
carpenters ibw is members machinist were
doing it in my state today and then we
can do what America always does lead the
world in invent the future and put
people at worst so we're gonna do
congressman Ryan president Trump and you
just referred to him promise that
manufacturing jobs were all coming back
to places like your home state of Ohio
can can you make that same promise yes I
believe you can but first let's say the
president came he said don't sell your
house to people in Youngstown Ohio and
in his administration just in the last
two years we lost $4,000 of 4,000 jobs
at a General Motors facility that
rippled throughout our community General
Motors got a tax cut
General Motors got a bailout and then
they have the audacity to move a new car
that they're going to produce to Mexico
I've had family members that have that
unbolt a machine from the factory floor
put it in a box and ship it to China my
area where I come from in Northeast Ohio
this issue we're talking about here it's
been going on 40 years this is not a new
phenomenon in the United States of
America the bottom 60% haven't seen a
raise since 1980 meanwhile the top 1%
controlled 90% of the wealth we need an
industrial policy saying we're gonna
dominate building electric vehicles
there's gonna be 30 million made in the
next 10 years I want half of them made
the United States
I want to dominate the solar industry
thank you manufacture those here
are they coming back are these jobs
coming back so we've had an industrial
policy in the United States for decades
now and it's basically been let giant
corporations do whatever they want to do
giant corporations have exactly one
loyalty and that is to profits and if
they can save a nickel by moving a job
to Mexico or to Asia or to Canada
they're going to do it so here's what I
propose for an industrial policy start
with a place where there's a real need
there's going to be a worldwide need for
green technology ways to clean up the
airways to clean up the water and we can
be the ones to provide that we need to
go tenfold in our research and
development on green energy going
forward and then we need to say any
corporation can come and use that
research they can make all kinds of
products from it but they have to be
manufactured right here in the United
States of America and then we have to
double down and sell it around the world
there's a 23 trillion dollar market
coming for green products we should be
the leaders and the owners and we should
have that 1.2 million manufacturing jobs
here in America we're gonna turn to the
issue of health care right now I really
try to understand where there may or may
not be daylight between you many people
watching at home have health insurance
coverage through their employer who here
would abolish their private health
insurance in favor of a government-run
plan just to show hands start out with
all right well senator klobuchar let me
put the question to you you're one of
the Democrats who wants to keep private
insurance in addition to a government
health care plan why is an incremental
approach in your view better than a
sweeping overall I think it's a bold
approach it's something that Barack
Obama wanted to do when we were working
on the Affordable Care Act and that is a
public option I am just simply concerned
about kicking half of America off of
their health insurance in four years
which is exactly what this bill says so
let me go on beyond that there's a much
bigger issue in addition to that and
that is pharmaceuticals the president
literally went on TV on Fox and said
that people's heads would spin when they
see how much he would bring down
pharmaceutical prices instead 2,500
drugs have gone up in double digits
since he came into office instead he
gave a hundred billion dollars in
giveaways to the pharma companies for
the rest of us for the rest of America
that's what we call it home all foam and
no beer we got nothing out of it and so
my proposal is to do something about
Pharma to take them on to allow
negotiation under Medicare to bring in
less expensive drugs from other
countries and Pharma thinks they own
Washington
well they don't own their time as that
Thank You senator Warren you signed on
to Bernie Sanders Medicare for all plant
it would put essentially everybody on
Medicare and then eliminate private
plans that offer similar coverage is
that the plan there were paths that you
would pursue as president so yes I'm
with Bernie on Medicare for all and let
me tell you why I spent a big chunk of
my life studying why families go broke
and one of the number one reasons is the
cost of health care medical bills and
that's not just for people who don't
have insurance it's for people who have
insurance look at the business model of
an insurance company it's to bring in as
many dollars as they can in premiums and
to pay out as few dollars as possible
for your health care that leaves
families with rising premiums rising
cope
and fighting with insurance companies to
try to get the health care that their
doctors say that they and their children
need Medicare for all solves that
problem and I understand there are a lot
of politicians who say oh it's just not
possible we just can't do it have a lot
of political reasons for this what
they're really telling you is they just
won't fight for it well health care is a
basic human right and I will fight for
basic when you ran for Senate you also
praised a bill that would replace
private insurance this year you're
saying you're no longer sure can you
explain why my goal is to ensure that
every American is well enough to live to
their full potential because they have
health care in Laredo Texas I met a
young man 27 years old told me that he'd
been to a doctor once in his life and on
that visit he was told he had diabetes
he's told he had glaucoma and he was
told untreated because he doesn't have
healthcare he'll be dead before the age
of 40
so getting to guaranteed high quality
universal health care as quickly and
surely as possible has to be our goal
the ability to afford your prescriptions
and go to a primary care provider the
ability to see a mental health care
provider in Texas the single largest
provider of mental health care services
is the County Jail system today and
healthcare also has to mean that every
woman can make her own decisions about
her own body and has access to the care
that makes that possible
our plan says that if you're uninsured
we enroll you in Medicare if you're
insufficiently insured you can't afford
your premiums we enroll you in Medicare
but if you're a member of a union that
negotiated for a healthcare plan that
you like because it works for you and
your family you're able to keep it we
preserve choice by making sure everybody
has time is up congressman but I do want
to ask a follow-up on this one just to
be just to be very clear I'll give you
ten seconds would you replace private
insurance no I think the choice is
fundamental to our ability to get
private insurance is not working for
tens of millions of Americans when you
talk about the co-pays the deductibles
the premiums the out-of-pocket expenses
it's not working
that's not working they can choose
Medicare for the coronary workers in new
godess acknowledging the associates
working for people they're able to keep
them why are you saying like their
private health insurance by the way it
should be noted that 100 million
Americans I mean I think we should be
the party that keeps what's working and
fixes what's broken doesn't mean we
should give everyone in this country
health care as a basic human right for
free . but we should also give them the
option to buy private insurance why do
we have to stand for taking away
something from people and also it's bad
policy if you go to every hospital in
this country and you ask them one
question which is how would it have been
for you last year if every one of your
bills were paid at the Medicare rate
every single hospital administrator said
they would close and the Medicare for
all bill requires payments to stay at
current Medicare rates so to some extent
we're basically supporting a bill that
will have every hospital closing my dad
was a union electrician right I actually
grew up in a working-class family he
loved that health care that the IBEW
gave him and I just always think about
my dad and anything I would do it from a
policy perspective he'd look at me and
he'd say good job John for getting
health care for everyone are you taking
my let this play out a little because it
son fascinated to hear though daylight
between you congresswoman Gabbard while
you weigh in here I think we're talking
about this in the wrong way you're
talking about one bill over another bill
really what we're talking about is our
objective making sure that every single
sick American in this country is able to
get the health care that they need I
believe Medicare for all is the way to
do that I also think that employers will
recognize how much money will be saved
by supporting a Medicare for all program
a program that will reduce the
administrative costs reduce the
bureaucratic costs and make sure that
everyone gets that quality health care
that they need I also thank you if you
look at other countries in the world who
have universal health care every one of
them has some form of a role of private
insurance I think that's what we've got
to look
taking the best of these ideas but
making sure unequivocally that no sick
American goes without getting the care
that they need regardless at our sons
your little money they have in their
pocket senator corker on this senator
broker explain to me where you are this
is hugely important to people so tell us
where you are absolutely well first of
all we're talking about this is of
health care issue but in communities
like mine low-income communities is an
education issue because kids don't have
health care are not gonna succeed in
school it is an issue for jobs and
employment because people that do not
have good health care to not succeed at
work it's even a retirement issue
because in my community
african-americans have a lower life
expectancy because of poor health care
and so where I stand is very clear
health care it's not just a human right
it should be an American right and I
believe the best way to get there is
Medicare for all but I have an urgency
about this when I am president the
United States I'm not going to wait we
have to do the things immediately that
are gonna provide better care and on
this debate I'm sorry there are too many
people profiteering off of the pain of
people in America from from
pharmaceutical companies to insurers
literally the overhead for insurers if
they charge is 15% while Medicare
overhead is only at 2% we can do this
better and every single day I will be
fighting to give people more access and
more affordable costs until we get to my
goal at this time which is every
American
and that is that the insurance companies
last year alone suck 23 million dollars
in profits out of the health care system
23 billion dollars and that doesn't
count the money that was paid to
executives the money that was spent
lobbying Washington we have a giant
industry that wants our health care
system to stay the way it is because
it's not working for families but it
sure as heck working families come first
it should not be an option in the United
States of America for any insurance
company to deny woman coverage for their
exercise of their right of choice and I
am the only candidate here who has
passed a law protecting a woman's right
a reproductive health and health
insurance and I'm the only candidate who
has passed a public option and I respect
everybody's goals and plans here but we
do have one candidate that's actually
advanced the ball and we got to have
access for everyone
I just want to say there's three women
up here that have fought pretty hard for
a woman's right to choose I'll start
with that
we share the goal of universal health
care and the idea I put out there the
public option which the governor was
just talking about this idea is that you
use Medicare or Medicaid without any
insurance companies involved you could
do it either way and the estimates are
thirteen million people would see a
reduction in their premiums twelve more
million people would get covered so I
think it is a beginning and the way you
start and the way you move to universal
health care this windows for you all of
you on stage support a woman's right to
an abortion you all support some version
of a government health care option would
your plan cover abortion mr. secretary
yes it would I don't believe only in
reproductive freedom I believe in
reproductive justice you know what that
means is that just because a woman or
let's also not forget someone in the
trans community but trans female is poor
doesn't mean they shouldn't have the
right to exercise that right to choose
and so I absolutely would cover the
right to have an abortion
more than that everybody in this crowd
and watching at home knows that in our
country today a person's right to choose
is under assault in places like Missouri
in Alabama in Georgia I would appoint
judges to the federal bench that
understand the precedent of roe v wade
and will respect it and initially that
make sure that we fight hard as we
transition our health care system to one
where everybody can get and exercise
that right Senator Warren would you put
limits on any limits on abortion I would
make certain that every woman has access
to the full range of reproductive health
care services and that includes birth
control it includes abortion it includes
everything for a woman I want to add on
that it's not enough for us to expect
the courts to protect us 47 years ago
Roe vs. Wade was decided and we've all
looked to the courts all that time as
state after state has undermined Roe has
put in exceptions has come
right up to the edge of taking away
protection is up senator we now have an
America where most people support Roe
versus Wade we need to make that thank
you thank you I want to kind of come
back on a discussion we were having
about health and the oeid opioid crisis
you represent a state where 14 of the
twenty eighth largest pharmaceutical
companies are based should
pharmaceutical companies that
manufacture these drugs be held
criminally liable for what they do they
should absolutely be held criminally
liable because they are liable and
responsible this is one of the reasons
why well before I was running for
president I said I would not take
contributions from pharma companies not
take contributions from corporate tax or
Pharma executives because they are part
of this problem in this opioid addiction
in our country we in cities like mine
have been seeing how we've tried to
arrest our way out of addiction for too
long it is time that we have a national
urgency to deal with this problem and
make the solutions that are working to
actually be the law of our land and make
the pharmaceutical companies are
responsible help to pay for that
congressman O'Rourke how would you deal
tonight in this country you have 2.3
million of our fellow Americans behind
bars it's the largest prison population
on the face of the planet
many are there for nonviolent drug
crimes including possession of marijuana
at a time that more than half the states
have legalized it or decriminalized it
and yet despite what Purdue Pharma has
done their connection to the opioid
crisis in the overdose deaths that we're
seeing throughout this country they've
been able to act with complete impunity
and pay no consequence is not a single
night in jail unless there's
accountability and justice this crisis
will continue in my administration we
will hold them to account we will make
sure that they pay a price and we will
help those who've been victims of this
malfeasance in this country get them
treatment and long-term care I know
immigration is not a lot of your minds
here
and I want to talk about it we're gonna
talk about the moment we need to take a
break we'll be back with more from Miami
after this
you
you
[Music]
turn to an issue that has been in the
news especially this week there are
undocumented children being held alone
in detention even as close as Homestead
Florida right here less than 30 miles
from where we are tonight fathers and
mothers and children are dying while
trying to enter the United States of
America we saw that image today that
broke our hearts and they had names all
scouted mightiness and his 23 month old
daughter valaria died trying to cross
the river to ask for asylum in this
country last month more than 130,000
migrants were apprehended at the
southern border secretary Castro if you
were president today oh yeah
what would you specifically do thank you
very much plus a I'm very proud that in
April I became the first candidate to
put forward a comprehensive immigration
plan and we saw those images watching
that image of Voskhod and his daughter
Valeria is heartbreaking
it should also piss us all off if I were
president today and it should spur us to
action if I were president today I would
sign an executive order that would get
rid of Trump's zero-tolerance policy the
remain in Mexico policy and the metering
policy this metering policy is basically
what prompted both Scott and Valera to
make that risky swim across the river
River they have been playing games with
people who are coming and trying to seek
asylum at our ports of entry well Scott
in Valletta went to a port of entry and
then they were denied the ability to
make an asylum claim so they got
frustrated and they tried to cross the
river and they died because of that on
day one Sunday want ask that would do
that executive order that would address
metering and then I would follow that up
in my first hundred days with
immigration reform that were onerous
Island planes that would put
undocumented
immigrants as long as they haven't
committed a serious crime on a pathway
to citizenship and they look good to the
root cause of the issue which is we need
a Marshall Plan for on dudas and what
Kamala and infallible so that people can
find safety and opportunity at home
instead of coming to the United States
to seek it senator Booker what would you
do on day one and this is a situation
that the next president will inherit the
situation or order is inacceptable s de
Presidente attactive o demon Azad o los
immigrant aces inacceptable a voyeur can
be arrested on day one I will make sure
that number one we end the ice policies
and the customs and border policies are
violating the human rights when people
come to their country they do not leave
their human rights at the border number
two I will make sure that we reinstate
daca that we reinstate pathways to
citizenship for daca recipients and to
make sure that people that are here on
temporary protective status can stay and
remain here and then finally we need to
make sure that we address the issues
that made Oscar and valaria come in the
first place by making major investments
in the northern triangle not like this
president is doing by ripping a way the
resources we need to actually solve this
problem we cannot surrender our values
and then think that we're gonna get
border security we actually will lose
security and our values we must fight
for both this is an important point you
know my plan and I'm glad to see that
Senator Booker senator Warren and
governor Inslee agree with me on this my
plan also includes getting read rid of
section 1325 of the Immigration and
Nationality Act to go back to the way we
used to treat this when somebody comes
across the border not to criminalize
desperation to treat that is a civil
violation
and here's why it's important we see all
of this horrendous family separation
they used that law section 1325 to
justify under the law separating little
children from their families and so I
would challenge every single candidate
on this stage to support the repeal of
section 39 5/32 my friend here said I
agree with him on that issue but folks
should understand that the separation of
children from families doesn't just go
on at our border it happens in our
community is his ice or ripping away
parents from their American children
spouses and the like and are creating
fear in cities all across this country
where parents are afraid to even drop
their kids off to school or go to work
we must send those policies as well
about emigrate mayor this country
because look at the bottom line here
those tragic that tragic photo of those
have parent that child and I'm saying
this as a father every American should
feel that in their heart every American
should say that does not America those
are not our values but we have to get
under the skin of why we have this
crisis in our system because we're not
being honest about the division that's
been fomented in this country the way
that American citizens have been told
that immigrants somehow created their
misery and their pain and their
challenges for all the American citizens
out there who feel you're falling behind
to feel the American Dream is not
working for you the immigrants didn't do
that to you the big corporations
the 1% did that to you we need to be the
party of working people and that
includes a party of immigrants but first
we have to tell working people in
America who are hurting that we're going
to be on their side every single time
against those big corporations who
created this mess to begin with and
remind people we're all in this together
if we don't change that debate that
politics that's holding us back we won't
get all these reforms people are talking
about that's what we need to do as
Democrats OBC talk to white people
if I could I'm sorry Oh Clarissa tell
Roarke carry of telling el primero Diaz
you tell Presidente so really that South
Korean dough what would you do
congressman day one at the White House
vamos a tratar con la persona con el
respeto y de vida que medicine como uma
knows we would not turn back malaria and
her father Oscar we would accept them
into this country and follow our own
Asylum laws we would not build walls we
would not put kids in cages in fact we
would spare no expense to reunite a lot
of them have been separated already
congressman you're not listening
exhausting to live in a family because
he was fleeing the violence to repeal
the first two 1324 secretary finishing I
will give you this policy yes we would
not detain any family fleeing violence
in fact fleeing the deadliest countries
on the face of the planet today we would
implement a family case management
program so they could be cared for in
the community at a fraction of the cost
and then we would rewrite our
immigration laws in our own image free
dreamers forever from any fear of
deportation by making them US citizens
here in this country invest in solutions
in Central America work with regional
stakeholders so there's no reason to
make that 2,000 mile journey to let's be
very clear the reason that they're
separating these little children from
their families is that they're using
section 1325 of that act which
criminalizes coming across the border to
incarcerate the prayer the parents and
then separate them some of us on this
stage have called to end that section to
terminate it some like congressman
O'Rourke have not and I want to
challenge all of the candidate
I just think it's a mistake Beth oh I
think it's a mistake and I think that
that if you truly want to change the
system then we got to repeal that
section if not thank you closely let me
respond to this very briefly actually as
a member of Congress I helped to
introduce legislation that would ensure
that we don't criminalize those who are
seeking asylum and refuge in this
country if you're clean if you're
fleeing the desperation then I want to
make sure with respect I'm still talking
about everybody else you're looking at
just one small part of this I'm talking
about a comprehensive rewrite of our
immigration laws to folks a lot of folks
that are coming are not seeking asylum
and a lot of them are undocumented
immigrants right and you said recently
that the reason you didn't want to
repeal section 1325 was because you were
concerned about human trafficking and
and drug trafficking but let me tell you
what section 18 so I got title 18 of the
u.s. code title 21 and title 22 already
covered this is an issue that we should
and could be talking about for a long
time and we will for a long time we talk
about the conditions are coming here
let's let I know it's just we could go
on but rather than talking about
specifically envisions we really have to
talk about why these people are coming
to our country and what are we're gonna
do to actually make a difference in
these countries when you get your chance
let's continue the discussion senator
Klobuchar yo let's talk about what
secretary Castro just said he wants to
no longer have it be a crime to
illegally cross the border do you
support that do you think it should be a
civil offense only and if so do you
worry about potentially incentivizing
people to come here immigrants they do
not diminish America they are America
and I am happy to look at his for foe
but I do think you want to make sure
that you have provisions in place that
allow you to go after traffickers and
allow you to go after people who are
violating the law what I really think we
need to step back and talk about is the
economic imperative here and that is
that 70 of our fortune 500 companies are
headed by people that came from other
countries 25% of our us Nobel laureates
were born in other countries we have a
situation right now where we need
workers in our fields and in our
factories we need them to start small
businesses we need their ideas and this
president has literally gone backwards
at a time where our economy needs
immigrants and so my proposal is to look
at that 2013 bill that passed the Senate
with Republican support to upgrade that
bill to make it as good as possible and
get it done it brings the debt down by a
hundred fifty eight billion dollars and
it gives a path to citizenship for
citizen for people who can become
citizens and it was so much better for
our economy in America that's time thank
you
congressman Ryan same question should it
be a crime to illegally cross the border
or should be a civil offense only well I
agree with secretary Castro I think
there are other provisions in the law
that will allow you to prosecute people
for coming over here if they're dealing
in drugs and other things that's already
established in the law so there's no
need to repeat it and I think it's a
porn we're talking about this father who
got killed with his daughter and and in
the issues here away these kids are
being treated if you go to Guantanamo
Bay there are terrorists that are held
they get better health care than those
kids that have tried to cross the border
in the United States that needs to stop
and I think the president should
immediately ask doctors and nurses to go
immediately down to the border and start
taking care of these kids what kind of
country are we running here where we
have a President of the United States
who's so focused on hate and fear and
division and what has happened now the
end result is now we've got kids
literally laying in their own snot with
three week old diapers that haven't been
changed we've got to tell this president
that is not a sign of strength mr.
president that is a sign of weakness if
you're president on day one what will
you do with the facts that you will have
families here there's been a lot of talk
about what you'll do in the first 100
days about legislation
what will you actually do with these
families how will you care for them will
they be detained or will they not be
well this is a related and brief point
because what we're talking about what
secretary castro and i are talking about
is that we have the power to better deal
with this problem through the civil
process than the criminal process i have
been to some of the largest private
prisons which are repugnant to me that
people are profiting off of
incarceration and their immigration
lockups our country has made so many
mistakes by criminalizing things whether
it's immigration whether it's mental
illness whether it's addiction we know
that this is not the way to deal with
problems there is a humane way that
affirms human rights and human dignity
and actually solve this problem Donald
Trump isn't solving this problem we've
seen under his leadership a surge at our
border we solve this problem by making
investments in the northern triangle to
stop the reasons why people are being
driven here in the first place and we
make sure we use our resources to
provide health care to affirm the values
and human dignity that people that come
here because we cannot sacrifice our
values our ideals as a nation for border
security we can have both by doing this
the right way on this what would you do
on day one same question I just asked
Cory Booker I have yet to hear an answer
there anyone on this what we do with the
families that will be here there is no
reason for the detention and separation
of these children they should be
released pending their hearings and they
should have a hearing in the law should
be followed that's what should happen
and we should do what we're doing in
Washington State I'm proud that we've
passed a law that prevents local law
enforcement for being turned into many
ice
I'm proud to have been the first
governor to stand up against Donald
Trump's heinous Muslim ban I'm proud to
be a person who has not only talked
about dreamers but being one of the
first to make sure that they get a
college education so that they can
realize their dreams these are some of
the most inspirational people in our
state and I'll leave you with this
thought if you want to know what I think
Donald Trump the other die other day
tried to threaten me he thought it was a
threat to tell me that he would send
refugees in Washington State if we
passed a law that I passed and I told
him that's not a threat at all we
welcomed refugees into our state we
recognized diversity as a strength this
is how we built America that tradition
is going to continually separated from
his family we're gonna talk about Iran
right now because we've working against
the clock tankers have been attacked the
US drone has been shot down there have
been disturbing threats issued by both
the US and Iranian leadership I'd like
if you can't just for a moment to put
aside how you think we may have gotten
here but what I want to know is how do
you dial it back so a show of hands who
is president would sign on to the 2015
nuclear deal as it was originally
negotiated that's it well senator Rooker
why not may I address that first and
foremost it was a mistake to pull out of
that deal and one of the reasons why
we're seeing this hostility now is
because Donald Trump is marching us to a
far more dangerous situation literally
he took us out of the deal that gave us
transparency into their nuclear program
and pushed back a nuclear breakout 1020
years and now we see Iran threatening to
go further and who were pulled being
pulled and further and further into this
crisis we need to renegotiate and get
back into a deal but I'm not gonna have
a primary platform to say you know
laterally I'm gonna rejoin that deal
because when I impress the United States
I'm gonna do the best I can to secure
this country and that region and make
sure that if I have an opportunity to
leverage a better deal I'm gonna do it
all right senator Clovis I'd like you to
answer the question
you've said you said you wouldn't ago
she ate yourself back into the Iranian
agreement can you argue that that
nuclear pact as it was ratified was a
good deal yes it was it was imperfect
but it was a good deal for that moment I
would have worked to get longer sunset
periods and that's something we could
negotiate to get back in the deal but
the point is Donald Trump told us when
he got out of it that he was going to
give us a better deal those were his
words and now we are a month away from
the Iranians who claim now that they're
going to blow the caps on enriching
uranium and the Iranians have told us
this and so that's where we are right
now he has made us less safe than we
were when he became president so what I
would do is negotiate us back into that
agreement is stand with our allies and
not give unlimited leverage to China and
Russia which is what he has done and
then finally I would make sure that if
there is any possibility of a conflict
and we're having this debate in Congress
right now that he comes to Congress for
an authorization of military force I
would do that and this president is
literally every single day ten minutes
away from going to war one tweet away
from going to war and I don't think we
should conduct foreign policies in our
bathrobe at 5:00 in the morning jabbers
you've said you've said you would you
would sign back on to the 2015 deal
would you would you insist though that
it addressed Iran's support for
Hezbollah let's deal with the situation
where we are where this president and
his chickenhawk cabinet have led us to
the brink of war with Iran I served in
the war in Iraq at the height of the war
in 2005 a war that took over 4,000 of my
brothers and sisters in uniforms lives
the American people need to understand
that this war with Iran would be far
more devastating far more costly than
anything that we ever saw in Iraq it
would take many more lives it would
exacerbate the refugee crisis and it
wouldn't be just contained within Iran
this would turn into a regional wolf war
this is why it's so important that every
one of us every single American stand up
and say no war with Iran we need to get
back into the Iran nuclear agreement and
we need to negotiate how we can improve
it it was an imperfect deal there are
issues like their missile developed
their missile development that needs to
be addressed we can do both
simultaneously to prevent Iran from
developing a nuclear weapon and
preventing us from going
timeis it was a very quick follow-up
well what would you redline be that
would that for military action against
Iran
look obviously if there was an attack
against the American our troops then
there would have to be a response but my
point is and it's important for us to
recognize this is Donald Trump and his
cabinet Mike Pompeo John Bolton and
others are creating a situation that
just a spark would light off a war with
Iran which is incredibly dangerous
that's why we need to deescalate
tensions Trump needs to get back into
the Iran nuclear deal and swallow his
pride put the American people first
we'll continue our questioning next with
Chuck Todd Rachel Maddow's stick around
we'll have a lot more with some very
anxious candidates just
you
[Applause]
you
[Music]
[Applause]
first Democratic presidential debate
from The Art Center in Miami and as we
continue the questioning time to get
more members of our team in the mail so
right now let's turn it over to Chuck
Todd and rich all matter take it away 20
candidates qualified for this first
democratic debate we're gonna hear from
10 tonight 10 more tomorrow the
breakdown for each night was selected at
random now the candidates will have 60
seconds to answer 30 seconds for a
follow-up if necessary and we will be
ruthless if necessary and we've got a
lot of ground to cover we're gonna be
talking about guns and climate here up
top a whole lot more in this hour
obviously because of the size of the
field not every person will be able to
weigh in on everything but over the
course of this next hour we will hear
from everyone
I promise everybody and to begin with
we're gonna go with guns and Senator
Warren I want to start with you we are
less than 50 miles from parkland Florida
we're 17 people were killed in a school
shooting last year and where there has
been significant activism on gun
violence ever since many of you are
calling for a restoration of an assault
weapons ban but even if implemented
there will still be hundreds of millions
of guns in this country should there be
a role for the federal government's in
mike serone
everybody's mics are on I think we have
a I heard that too that's okay I think
we had a little mic issue in the back
control room we've got yeah we have the
audience ID now right so the question is
simply this we're talk we're from I
apologize you guys didn't get to hear
this the first part of the question
obviously we're not far from parkland
Florida gun activism has become a big
part of high school life up there in
Broward County many of you are calling
for tighter gun restrictions some of you
calling for the restoration of the
assault weapons ban but even if it's put
in place are still going to be perhaps
hundreds of millions of guns still on
the streets is there a role for the
federal government in order to play in
order to get these guns off the streets
we are what is happening we are hearing
our colleagues audio I it's a control
room if the control room can turn off
the mics of our previous moderators we
will guess what guys we are gonna take a
quick break we're gonna get this
technical situation fixed we will be
right back
you
[Music]
we believe we have the technical
difficulties never say that never say
never but we will we will march forward
here and I will lean forward here a
little bit senator Warren we're gonna
get to the gun question here in parkland
Florida it's just north they here in
Broward County as you know it has
created a lot of teenage activism on the
gun issue it has inspired a lot of you
to come out with more robust plans to
deal with guns including assault weapons
ban but even if you're able to implement
that what do you do about the hundreds
of millions of guns already out there
and as a federal government have to play
a role in dealing with it so in this
period of time that I've been running
for the president I've had more than a
hundred town halls I've taken more than
two thousand unfiltered questions and
the single hardest question I've gotten
I got one from a little boy and I got
one from a little girl and that is to
say when you're president how are you
going to keep us safe that's our
responsibility as adults seven children
will die today
from gun violence children and teenagers
and they won't just die in mass
shootings
they'll die on sidewalks they'll die in
playgrounds they'll die in people's
backyards gun violence is a national
health emergency in this country and we
need to treat
[Music]
[Applause]
we can do the things that are sensible
we can do the universal background
checks we can ban the weapons of war but
we can also double down on the research
and find out what really works where it
is that we can make the differences at
the margins that will keep our children
safe we need to treat this like the fire
killing our children you didn't address
you do you think the federal government
needs to go and figure out a way to get
the guns that are already out there what
do you think we need to do is we need to
treat it like a serious research
problems we have not done you know guns
in the hands of a collector who's had
them for decades who's never fired them
who takes safety seriously that's very
different from guns that are sold and
turned over quickly we can't treat this
is it across the board problem we have
to treat it like a public health
emergency
that means bring data to bear and it
means make real change in this country
thank you whether it's politically
popular or not senator Booker you have a
program Booker you have a federal
government by that program in your plan
how is that gonna work well first of all
I want to say my colleague and I both
have been hearing this on the campaign
trail but what's even worse is I hear
gunshots in my neighborhood I think I'm
the only one I hope I'm the only one on
this panel here that had seven people
shot in their neighborhood just last
week someone I knew she had Smith was
killed with an assault rifle at the top
of my block last year for millions of
Americans this is not a policy issue
this is an emergency and for those who
have not been directly affected they're
tired of living in a country where their
kids go to school to learn about reading
writing and arithmetic and how to deal
with an active shooter in their school
this is something that I'm tired of and
I'm tired of hearing people all they
have to offer his thoughts and prayers
in my faith
faith without works is dead so we will
find a way but the reason we have a
problem right now is we've let the the
corporate gun lobby frame this debate it
is time that we have bold actions and a
bold agenda I will get that done as
president United States because this is
not about policy this is personal Thank
You senator Booker just mentioned there
the idea of active shooter drills in
schools a school shooting seemed like
and almost every day or every week
occurrence now they don't make a
complete news cycle anymore no matter
the death toll as parents are so afraid
as their kids go up to school that their
kids will be caught up in something like
this next and nothing has changed in
federal law that might affect the
prevalence of school shootings is this a
problem that is going to continue to get
worse over our lifetimes or is there
something that you would do as president
that you really think would turn it
around yeah Rachel I the dad of a
ten-year-old girl Catina who's here
tonight and the worst thing is knowing
that your child might be worried about
what could happen at school a place
that's supposed to be safe the answer to
your question is no we don't have to
accept that and I believe that on
January 20th 2021 at 12:01 p.m. we're
going to have a Democratic president a
Democratic House and a Democratic Senate
[Applause]
the activists of parkland folks from
moms demand
britain up across the united states and
inspired so many people you know we may
not have seen yet legislative action but
we're getting closer the house took a
vote in the Senate the question often is
if it's if the decision is between sixty
votes a filibuster or passing
common-sense gun reform
I'm gonna choose common sense gun reform
so I believe that we're gonna be able to
get that done in 2021
briefly thirty times for follow up on
that question on that answer from
secretary Castro congressman Ryan you're
talking about in the schools these kids
are traumatized I support all the gun
reforms here we need to start dealing
with the trauma that our kids have we
need trauma based care in every school
we need social and emotional learning in
every school ninety percent of the
shooters whose view school shootings
come from the school they're in in
seventy-three percent of them feel
shamed traumatized or bullied make sure
that these kids feel connected to the
school that means a mental health
counselor in every single school in the
United States we need to start playing
offense if our kids are so traumatized
that they're getting a gun and going
into our schools we're doing something
wrong - and we need reform around trauma
base
Tyson O'Rourke you're a Texan is
campaign and campaign all over the state
in 2018 in the most conservative parts
there what do you tell a gun owner who's
may agree with you on everything else
okay but says you know what the
Democrats if I vote for him in there
they're gonna take my gun away and even
though I agree with you only these other
issues I get how do you have that
conversation here's how we had that
conversation in Texas I shared with them
what I learned from those students who
survived the Santa Fe High School
shooting young student named Bree her
friend Marcel who survived another
shooting the mother of a victim who lost
her life Rhonda Hart they talked about
universal background checks where you
close every loophole we know that they
save lives talked about ending the sales
of assault weapons into our communities
those weapons of war were
designed to kill people as effectively
and as efficiently as possible they
should belong on the battlefield and not
in our communities red flag laws so that
if someone poses a danger to themselves
or to someone else they're stopped
before it's too late and what I found
and each one of those 254 counties is it
Democrats and independents and
Republicans gun owners and non-gun
owners alike agreed but this effort must
be led by the young people that you
referenced at the beginning of this
issue those students from Marjory
Stoneman Douglas led the charge here in
Florida and they've been able to change
those laws they're making our democracy
work ensuring that our values and our
interests and our priorities are
reflected in the laws that we pass let
me let me give 30 seconds senator
Klobuchar the Iron Range I'm curious
gun confiscation right if the government
is buying back how do you how do you not
have that conversation
confiscation you give them the offer to
buy back their gun but I'll say this I
look at these proposals and I say does
this hurt my Uncle Vic and his deer
stand
coming from a proud hunting and fishing
state these proposals don't do that when
I was a prosecutor I supported the
assault weapon ban when I was in the
Senate I saw those moms from Sandy Hook
come and try to advocate for change and
we all failed and then now these park
Lincoln's from Florida they started a
literally and national shift you know
why it's just like with gay marriage
when kids talk to their parents and
their grandparents they say I don't
understand why we can't put these
sensible things in place they listen and
if we get bested by a bunch of 17 year
olds it's the best thing that ever
senator Mitch McConnell says that his
most consequential achievement as Senate
Majority Leader was preventing President
Obama from filling a Supreme Court seat
having served with Republicans on the
Judiciary Committee do you believe they
would confirm your court nominees
I'm gonna use 25 seconds just to say
there's one thing we don't all agree
with when it comes to guns and I think
it's common sense and over 70% of
Americans agree with me if you need a
license to drive a car you should be the
license to buy and own a firearm and not
everybody in this field agrees with that
but in states like Connecticut that did
that they saw 40 percent drops in gun
violence and 15 percent drops in
suicides we need to start having bold
agendas on guns when it comes to the
Supreme Court very clearly we I agree
with my friend secretary Castro we are
going to get to 50 votes in the Senate
this is a team sport
whoever is our nominee needs to campaign
in places like South Carolina because we
can elect Jamie Harrison they need to
campaign in places like Iowa because we
we can win a Senate seat there
this is about getting us back to having
50 votes in the Senate and more so that
we can not only balance the Supreme
Court but start to pass an aggressive
agenda that frankly isn't so aggressive
because most of America agrees with the
policy objectives of our party
[Applause]
[Music]
congressman Delaney you'll have some
time in a moment Rollie congressman
Delaney I'll give you some time in a
moment mayor de Blasio is an executive
in the largest city in this country you
are used to saying what you want to have
happen and having it happen if you
nominate a Supreme Court nominee as
president of the United States and mitch
mcconnell's still Senate Majority Leader
what makes you believe that he would
allow you to make a nominee Rachael I am
chief executive the nation's largest
city and I also want to just say
something quick on the gun issue and
come to your question look I run the
largest police force in America too and
if we're going to stop these shootings
we won't get these guns off the street
we have to have a very different
relationship between our police and our
community I also want to say there's
something that sets me apart from all my
colleagues running in this race and that
is for the last 21 years I've been
raising a black son in America and I
have had to have very very serious talks
with my son Dante about how to protect
himself on the streets of our city in
all over this country including how to
deal with the fact that he has to take
special caution because there been too
many tragedies between our young men and
our police too
as we saw recently in Indiana so we need
to have a different conversation in this
country about guns but also a different
conversation about policing that brings
police and community together we've done
that in New York City and we've driven
down crime while we've done it but to
your question about Mitch McConnell
there's a political solution that we
have to come to grips with it the
Democratic Party would stop acting like
the party of the elites and be the party
of working people again and go into
states including red states to convince
people we're on their side we could put
pressure on their senators to actually
have to vote for the nominees that are
put forward
decent jurist deserve that right make
America black
I'm gonna get you I will get you 30
seconds I promise let me get let me get
this question we're trying I know you
guys we got other issues we're trying to
get to including a big one coming up in
a minute but Senator Warren I want to
continue on the Mitch McConnell thing
because you have a lot of ambitious
plans you have a plan for that okay we
talked about the Supreme Court do you
have a plan to deal with Mitch McConnell
if you don't beat him in the Senate if
he's still sitting there as the Senate
Majority Leader it's very plausible you
be getting elected president with a
Republican Senate do you have a plan to
deal with Mitch McConnell
ideas
[Applause]
we are democracy and the way of
democracy is supposed to work it's the
will of the people
matters now we've for far too long have
had a Congress in Washington that is
just completely dismissed what people
care about across this country they have
made this country work much better for
those who can make giant contributions
made it work better for those who hire
armies of lobbyists and lawyers and not
made it work for the people well here's
how I see this happening
number one short I want to see us get a
Democratic majority in the Senate but
short of the Democratic majority in the
Senate you better understand the fight
still goes on it starts in the White
House and it means that everybody we
energize in 2020 stays on the front
lines come January 2021 we have to push
from the outside have leadership from
the inside and make this Congress
reflect the will I'm gonna get to people
I'm gonna get a couple of you in here
I'm gonna give you a couple in here
thirty Seconds congressman Delaney you
seem to believe you can do everything in
a bipartisan manner Mitch McConnell
doesn't operate that way he operates
differently why do you think he is going
to conform to your style I think we need
to get things done that's why I believe
we need to operate in a bipartisan
manner
listen I'll sign into law pills that
come to the White House that are passed
on a party-line basis absolutely but all
the big transformative things we've ever
done in this country's history have
happened when huge majorities of the
American people get behind them which is
why we need real solutions not
impossible promises we need to put forth
ideas of work whether it's on health
care
creating universal health care so that
every American's health care but not
running on making private insurance
illegal the gun issue is related the gun
safety issue is related because I can't
tell you how many times I've been with
folks in Western Maryland
and they've said to me you know
Democrats don't do anything for us
Republicans don't do anything for us you
fight all the time
so they vote on that single issue okay
we become the party of
things done and for the American people
whether real soldiers not promises to
30s here how many think senator Booker
30 seconds you how do you deal with
myths Mitchell you've been in the Senate
you can't get bills on the floor right
now with Mitch McConnell presidents
can't do it is President Booker gonna
get his bills on the floor with Senator
McConnell you know when I got to the
United States Senate going back to what
de Blasio said is an African American
man in an African American dominated
community I knew one of the biggest
issue was criminal justice reform from
police accountability to dealing with
the fact that we have a nation that has
more African Americans under criminal
supervision than all the slaves in 1850
and when I got to the Senate people told
me we could not get a comprehensive
criminal justice reform bill done as my
colleagues in the Senate know I fought
on that bill from the day I got to the
Senate build coalitions across the aisle
and today we passed the first step act
it's not as far as I want to go but
thousands of people you'll be liberated
I have gotten I've taken on tough
problems we've said we cannot achieve it
and I've been able to get things
accomplished Thank You senator Booker
Rachel's got the next question you're
gonna be happy with where we go governor
Inslee the second is to you you got me
you have staked your candidacy on the
issue of climate change it is first
second and third priority for you you
said it's all the issues let's get
specific we're here in Miami which is
already experiencing serious flooding on
sunny days as a result of sea level rise
parts of Miami Beach and the keys could
be underwater in our lifetimes does your
plan save Miami yes first by taking away
the filibuster for mitch mcconnell to
start with we have to do that we are the
first generation to feel the sting of
climate change and we are the last that
can do something about it our towns are
burning our fields are flooding Miami's
is inundated and we have to understand
this is a climate crisis any last chance
in the administration next one to do
something about it and we need to do
what I've done in my state we've passed
a 100% clean electrical grid bill we now
have a vision statement and my plan has
been called the gold standard of putting
people to work but the most important
thing on this in the biggest decision
for the American public is who is gonna
make this the first priority and I am
the candidate and the only one who's
saying this has to be the top priority
of the United States the organizing
principle to mobilize the United States
so that we can do what we've always done
lead the world and invent the future to
put eight million people also put out a
big climate change plan from your
campaign you want some big changes in a
pretty short period of time including
switching to a renewable energy pushing
to replace gas-powered cars in favor of
electric ones what's your message to a
voter who supports the overall goal of
what you're trying to do but suddenly
feels as if government's telling them
how to live and ordering them how to
live what is that balance like I think
you've got to bring everybody in to the
decisions and the solutions to the
challenges that we face that's why we're
traveling everywhere listening to
everyone we were in Pacific Junction a
town that had never meaningly flooded
before just up against the Missouri
River
in Iowa and every home in that community
had flooded there were farms just
outside a Pacific Junction that were
effectively lakes those farmers already
underwater in debt their markets closed
to them by a trade war under this
administration and now they don't know
what to do
we in our administration are gonna fund
resiliency in those communities in Miami
in Houston Texas those places are on the
front lines of climate change today
we're gonna mobilize five trillion
dollars in this economy over the next
ten years we're going to free ourselves
from a dependence on fossil fuels and
we're to put farmers and ranchers in the
driver's seat renewable and was in
sustainable agriculture to make sure
that we capture more carbon out of the
air and keep more of it in the soil
paying farmers for the environmental
services that they want to provide if
all of us does all that we can then
we're gonna be able to keep this planet
from warming another two degrees Celsius
and ensure that we match what this
country can do and live up to our
promise and our potential thirty-seconds
secretary Castro does who pays for the
mitigation to climate whether it's
building sea walls for people that are
perhaps living in places that they
shouldn't be living is this a federal
government issue that needs to do that
do they have to move these people what
do you do about that where maybe they're
they're building a house someplace that
isn't safe who pays to build that house
and how much should the government be
bailing them out well I don't think that
that represents the vast majority of the
issue in fact you know my first visit
after I announced my candidacy wasn't to
Iowa or New Hampshire it was to San Juan
Puerto Rico because people should know
that
I'm elected president everybody will
count and you know I'm one of the few
candidates in this race with executive
experience with a track record of
getting things done when I was mayor of
San Antonio we moved our local public
utility we began to shift it from
coal-fired plants to solar and other
renewables and also created more than
800 jobs doing that and when I was HUD
secretary we worked on the National
Disaster resilience competition to
invest in communities that were trying
to rebuild from natural disasters in a
sustainable way okay that's the way that
we're gonna help make sure that we're
all safer in the years to come and that
we combat climate change pain if I'm
elected president the first thing that I
would do right like senator Klobuchar L
think you said is signed an executive
order re committing us to the Paris
climate Accord so there were a full
question for you here which is simply
this you're there are a lot of the
climate plans include pricing carbon
taxing carbon in some way this type of
proposal has been tried in a few places
whether it's Washington State where
voters voted it down you've had the
yellow vest movement we had in Australia
one party get rejected out of fear of
the cost of climate change sort of being
put on the backs of the consumer if
pricing carbon it's just politically
impossible how do we pay for climate
mitigation well there's a variety of
different ways to pay we talked about
different ways of raising revenue and I
think we've got to build our way out of
this and grow our way out of it but let
me just talk real quick to the previous
question about real politics we could
talk about climate we could talk about
guns we could talk about all of these
issues that we all care about we have a
perception problem with the Democratic
Party we are not connecting to the
working-class people in the very states
that I represent in Ohio in the
industrial Midwest
we've lost all connection that we have
got to change the center of gravity of
the Democratic Party from being coastal
and illegal ëletís an Ivy League which
is the perception to somebody from the
Forgotten communities that have been
left behind for the last 30 years to get
those workers back on our side
we can say we're gonna build electric
vehicles we're gonna build solar panels
but if you want to beat Mitch McConnell
this better be a working-class party if
you want to go into Kentucky and take
his rear end out and if you want to take
Lindsey Graham out you got to have a
blue-collar party that can go into the
textile communities in South Carolina if
we don't address that fundamental
problem with our connection to workers
white black brown gay straight
working-class people comes none of this
is going to get done Chuck Chuck thank
you very much the only bipartisan carbon
tax bill 37 30 seconds ago all the
economists agree that a carbon pricing
mechanism works you just have to do it
right you can't put a price on carbon
raise energy prices and not give the
money back to the American people my
proposal which is put a price on carbon
give it dividend back to the American
people it goes out one pocket back in
the other thank you can get that past my
first year as president with a coalition
of every Democrat in the Congress and
the Republicans who live in coastal
states thanks Republicans that Florida
they actually care about this issue this
has got to be our way forward if we're
actually serious about this issue
congresswoman Gabbard move here one of
the first things you did after launching
your campaign was to issue an apology to
the LGBTQ community about your past
stances and statements and gay rights
after the Trump administration's roll
backs of civil rights protections for
many in that community why should voters
in that community or voters that care
about this issue in general trust you
now let me say that there is no one in
our government at any level who has the
right to tell any American who they
should be allowed to love or who they
should be allowed to marry
my record in Congress for over six years
shows my commitment to fighting for
LGBTQ equality I serve on the Equality
caucus and recently voted for passage of
the Equality Act maybe many people in
this country can relate to the fact that
I grew up in a socially conservative
home held views when I was very young
that I no longer hold today I've served
with LGBTQ service members both in
training and deployed downrange I know
that they would give their life for me
and I would give my life for them
it is this commitment that I'll carry
through as president of the United
States recognizing that there are still
people who are facing discrimination in
the workplace still people were unable
to find a home for their families it is
this kind of discrimination that we need
to address but it's not you know it's
thank you sombre so if I can add to this
effort it's very important not enough
look civil rights is some place to begin
but in the african-american civil rights
community another place to focus almost
to stop the lynching of African
Americans we do not talk enough about
trans Americans especially
african-american trans Americans and the
incredibly high rates of murder right
now we don't talk enough about how many
children about 30 percent of LGBTQ kids
who do not go to school because of fear
it's not enough just to be on the
Equality Act I'm an original co-sponsor
we need to have a president that will
fight to protect LGBTQ Americans every
single day from violence Thank You
senator
[Applause]
you see with civil rights for decades on
the issue of civil rights and
demographics honestly and politics for
decades the Democratic Party has counted
on African American voter turnout as
step one to winning elections on a
national level Democrats are counting on
the Latino community now and in the
future in the same way what have you
done for black and Latino voters that
should enthuse them about going to the
polls for you of here your party's
nominee my life and my career and my
work in the Senate has been about
economic opportunity and to me this
means better childcare for everyone in
this country and when you want to have
economy that works
you need to have retirement that works
you need to have public schools that
worked and you also need to make sure
that that those communities are able to
get those jobs of the future the STEM
jobs in fact Donald Trump one of the
first bills that he's signed of the 34
he signed where I was the lead Democrat
okay that's a first up here was one that
was about that making sure minority
community members could share in those
jobs so to me this is about a few things
it's about a african-american woman that
goes to a hospital in New Orleans says
her hands are swollen and then doctor
ignores her and her baby dies it's about
the fact that African American women
make 61 cents for every dollar a white
man makes so in short we need to 1 and I
will do this in my first 100 days as
president we will work to make sure
everyone can vote at this table
everyone can vote in this country that's
how we will also go to the next step of
criminal justice reform senator Booker
and I worked on that first step back but
we should go to the second step back
which is to help all our communities our
senators thank you very much 30 second
follow-up to you secretary Castro this
is a 70% Latino City here in Miami you
are the only Latino Democrat who is
running this year in the presidential
race
what senator Klobuchar is describing
there an economic justice agenda is that
enough to mobilize Latino voters to
stand with the Democratic Party in a big
way well I also think that we have to
recognize racial and social justice and
you know I was in Charleston not too
long ago and I remembered that Dylan
roof went to the mother Emanuel AME
Church and he murdered nine people who
were worshiping and then he was
apprehended by police without incident
well but what about Eric garner and
Tamir rice and laQuan McDonald and
Sandra bland and pamela turner and i'm
vanya odyssic I'm proud that I'm the
only candidate so far that has put
forward legislation that would reform
our policing system in America and make
sure that no matter what the color of
your skin is that you're treated the
same including Latinos who were
mistreated too often times by police
secretary Castro thank you let me go
over to Lester Holt who's got a question
I believe a you a question I'm over here
Chuck thanks we asked voters from across
the country to submit their questions
the candidates will be read one now this
comes from John in New York who
submitted this question he asks does the
United States have a responsibility to
protect in the case of genocide or
crimes against humanity do we have a
responsibility to intervene to protect
people threatened by their governments
even when atrocities do not affect
American core interests I'd like to
direct that question to congressman or
work John I appreciate the question the
answer is yes but that action should
always be undertaken with allies and
partners and friends when the United
States presents a united front we have a
much better chance of achieving our
foreign policy aims and preventing the
kind of genocide to which you refer the
kind of genocide that we saw in Rwanda
the kind of genocide we want to stop
going forward but unfortunately under
this administration President Trump has
alienated our allies and our friends and
our alliances he's diminished our
standing in the world and he's made us
weaker as a country less able to
confront challenges whether it's Iran or
North Korea or Vladimir Putin in Russia
who attacked and invaded our democracy
in 2016 and
president Trump has offered another
invitation to do the same he's embraced
strongmen in dictators at the expense of
the great democracies as president I
will make sure that we live our values
in our foreign policy I will ensure that
we strengthen those alliances and
partnerships and friendships and meet
any challenge that we face together that
makes America stronger what about the
War Powers Act being a part of that
equation with deep respect to the
congressman look we've learned of
painful lessons as Americans that we've
gone to war without congressional
authorization and look this is very
personal for me I know the cost of war
my dad served in the Pacific in World
War two in the US Army Battle of Okinawa
had half his leg blown off and he came
home with scars both physical and
emotional and he did not recover he
spiraled downward and he ultimately took
his own life and that battle didn't kill
him but that war did and look even in
the humanitarian crisis and I think we
should be ready congressman to intervene
god forbid there is a genocide but not
without congressional approval Democrats
and Republicans both in the Congress
have not challenged presidents and have
let them get away with running the
military without the congressional
approval we learned a lesson in Vietnam
we seem to have forgotten and the
decisions
mr. congressman Ryan today the Taliban
claimed responsibility for killing two
American servicemembers in Afghanistan
leaders as disparate as President Obama
and President Trump have both said that
they want to end US involvement in
Afghanistan but it isn't over for
America why isn't it over why can't
presidents of very different parties and
very different temperaments get us out
of there and how could you I appreciate
that question so I've been in Congress
17 years and 12 of those years I've sat
on the Armed Services Committee they're
the Defense Appropriations Committee or
the Armed Services Committee and the
lesson that I've learned over the years
is that you have to stay engaged in
these situations nobody likes it it's
long it's tedious but right now we have
so I would say we must be engaged in
this we must have our state department
engaged we must have our military
engaged to the state to the extent they
need to be but the reality of it is this
president doesn't even have people
appointed in the State Department to
deal with these things whether we're
talking about Central America whether
we're talking about Iran whether we're
talking about Afghanistan we've got to
be completely engaged and here's why
because these flare-ups distract us from
the real problems in the country if
we're getting a drone shot down for a
hundred and thirty million dollars
because the president is distracted
that's a hundred and thirty million
dollars that we could be spending in
places like Youngstown Ohio or Flint
Michigan or reap or rebuilding
harnessing government building I'm gonna
give you 30 seconds actually to jump off
what he said
engage people tell the parents of those
two soldiers who were just killed in
Afghanistan what we just have to be
engaged as a soldier I will tell you
that answer is unacceptable we have to
bring our troops home from Afghanistan
we are in a place in Afghanistan where
we have lost so many lives we've spent
so much money money that's coming out of
every one of our pockets money that
should be going into communities here at
home meeting the needs of the people
here at home we are no better off in
Afghanistan today than we were when this
war began this is why it's so important
to have a president and
commander-in-chief who knows the cost of
war and who's ready to do the job on day
one I am ready to do that job when I
walk into the I'm gonna go down the line
here well you know what you felt you
felt like she was responding you'd get
30 seconds parent appreciate that I hear
what you're saying I would just say I
just I don't want to be engaged I wish
we were spending all this money in
places that I've represented that have
been completely forgotten and we were
rebuilding but the reality of it is that
the United States isn't engaged the
Taliban will grow and they will have
bigger bolder terrorist acts we have got
to have some present there is this bit
out there long before we came in yeah
and they were yeah
well we keep us in a war people want to
Afghanistan thinking that we're going to
somehow squash this Taliban
I didn't say squash them when we weren't
in there they started flying planes into
our buildings so I'm just saying right
now the Taliban
finish up Templars protecting those
people who are plotting against us all
I'm saying is if we want to go in to
elections and we want to say that we
gotta withdraw from the world that's
what President Trump is saying we can't
I would love for us to I think I'll
Qaeda right now I want to go down to
Arabia I want to go down the line here
finished up foreign policy it's a simple
question what is our what is the biggest
threat to what is who is the
geopolitical threat to the United States
just give me one more to answer
congressman Delaney could you repeat the
greatest geopolitical threat to the
United States right now congressman
Delaney
well the biggest geopolitical challenge
is China but the okays geopolitical
threat yes
remains nuclear weapons okay so those
are do you know that's a different
question again it go ahead Governor
Inslee the biggest threat to the
security the United States is Donald
Trump
that is geopolitical price
the greatest threat that we face is the
fact that we're at a greater risk of
nuclear war today than ever before in
history
Conrad Congress senator threats economic
threat China but our major threat right
now is what's going on in the Mideast
with Iran if we don't get there try to
keep it at work or slimmer than what
we've been going here wondering where
our existential threat is climate change
we have to confront it before it's too
late
senator one yeah senator Booker nuclear
proliferation and climate change
secretary Castro say China and climate
change at congressman Ryan China without
a question they're wiping us around the
world economically and mr. Mir Russia
because they're trying to undermine our
democracy and they've been doing a
pretty damn good job at that
alright well thank you for that wide
variety of answers and I mean that no I
mean that in a that's what this debate
is about this is the best part of a
debate like this
congressman O'Rourke Special Counsel
Robert Muller's report outlines multiple
instances of potential criminal behavior
by President Trump House Speaker Pelosi
has publicly and privately resisted any
move toward impeachment in the house if
the house chooses not to impeach as
president would you do anything to
address the potential crimes that were
outlined in mr. Miller's report yes and
I'll tell you why how by the way if the
answer chance
one of the most powerful pieces of art
in the United States capital is the
Trumbull painting of General George
Washington resigning his commission to
the Continental Congress at the height
of his power submitting to the rule of
law in the will of people that has
withstood the test of time for the last
243 years if we set another precedent
now that a candidate who invited the
participation of a foreign power
a president who sought to obstruct the
investigation into the invasion of our
democracy if we allow him to get away
with this with complete impunity then we
will have set a new standard and that is
that some people because of the position
of power and public trust that they hold
are above the law and we cannot allow
that to stand so we must begin
impeachment now so that we have the
facts and the truth and we follow them
as far as they go
and as high up as they reach and we save
this democracy and if we've not been
able to do that in this year or the year
that follows and under my administration
our Department of Justice will pursue
these facts and ensure that there are
account there are consequences there is
accountability and there is justice it's
the only way that we save this country
Thank You congressman our work
[Applause]
congressman O'Rourke was just describing
there and the real political landscape
in which Nancy Pelosi is saying that
impeachment will not be pursued in the
house it raises the prospect and the
Moller report raises the prospect that
President Trump could be prosecuted for
some of those potential crimes down the
line no US president has ever been
prosecuted for crimes after leaving
office do you believe that President
Trump could or should be the first I
guess there's always a first I don't
think anyone's above the law I don't
think anyone is above the law including
a president I support speaker Pelosi's
decisions that she's making in the in
the House of Representatives Peter I
think she knows more about the decision
as to whether and to impeach the
president than any of the 20 20
candidates combined conceding so but I
do think you should i do think that no
one's above the law and this president
who is lawless should not be above the
law but I will tell you Rachel the one
thing when you're out doing has been
much campaigning
I've done 400 events all 99 counties in
Iowa this is not the number one issue
the American people ask us about it's
not they want to know what we're gonna
do for health care how we're gonna lower
pharmaceutical prices how we're gonna
build infrastructure what we're gonna do
to create jobs in their communities you
know last year in our country eighty
percent of the money for start-up
businesses went to 50 counties in this
country there's over 3,000 counties in
this country that's what they care about
they care about what's going on in the
public schools they care about what's
going on with jobs and their communities
with their pay with their health care
with infrastructure these are the issues
these kind of kitchen-table pocketbook
issues are actually what most Americans
we we let the Republicans run our
election got to and if we do not do
something about ruts and interference in
the election and we let me check on will
stop all the backup paper ballots then
we're not going to get what we my got a
sneaking it but we blew through a break
which is good news to give you more time
so I got a sneak one in now more of this
debate let's pick it up here it
continues right after this
you
you
don't miss night 2 of the democratic
debate as 10 more candidates battle it
out tomorrow at 9:00 Eastern on NBC
MSNBC and Telemundo
[Music]
[Applause]
in statements each candidate has 45
seconds we want to begin with former
congressman Delaney closing now closing
okay 45 seconds
we could make we could go on together we
are on a mission
we're in a mission to find the America
that's been lost lost through infighting
lost through inaction we're so much
better than this we're a country they
used to do things we saved the world we
created the American Dream from millions
of people like myself the grandson of
immigrants the son of a union
electrician who went on to become a
successful business leader and create
thousands of jobs but we did these
things with real solutions not with
impossible promises and those are the
roots that we have to get back to I'm
running for president to solve these
problems to build infrastructure to fix
our broken health care system to invest
in communities that have been left
behind to improve public education I
just don't want to be your president to
be 25 I want to be your president to do
the job thank you not about me this is
about getting America working again
thank you
[Applause]
mayor your closing statement it matters
it matters in this fight for the heart
and soul of our party that we nominate a
candidate who has seen the face of
poverty and then just talk about it but
gave people $15 minimum wage it matters
that we nominate a candidate who saw the
destruction wrought by broken health
care system and gave people universal
health care it matters that we choose
someone who saw the wasted potential of
our children denied pre-k and gave it to
every single one of them for free these
things really matter and these are the
things that I've done in New York and I
want to do the same for this whole
country because putting working people
first it matters we need to be that
party again let's work together with
your help we can put working people
first again in America thank you Merida
Blasio right on time
[Applause]
grandchildren we love them all and when
I was thinking about whether run for
president I made a decision I decided
that on my last day on earth I wanted to
look them in the eye and tell him I did
everything humanly possible to protect
them from the ravages of the climate
crisis and I know to a moral certainty
if we do not have the next president who
commits to this as the top priority it
won't get done and I am the only
candidate frankly I'm surprised I'm the
only candidate who's made this
commitment to make it the top priority
if you join me in that recognition of
how important this is we can have a
unified national mission we can save
ourselves we can save our children we
can save our grandchildren and we can
save literally the life on this planet
this is our moment in honor thank you
congressman Ryan here 45
there's nothing worse than not being
heard nothing worse than not being seen
and I know that because I've represented
for 17 years in Congress of forgotten
community they've tried to divide us
who's white who's black who's gay who's
straight who's a man who's a woman and
they ran away with all the gold because
they divided the working class it's time
for us to come together I don't know how
you feel but I'm ready to play some
offense I come from the middle of
industrial America but these problems
are all over our country there's a tent
city in LA
there's homeless people and people
around our country who can't afford a
home it's time for us to get back on
track the teacher in Texas the nurse in
New Hampshire the waitress in Wisconsin
all of us coming together playing
offense with an agenda that lifts
everybody up think I will only promise
you one thing when I walk into that Oval
Office every morning you will not be
forgotten and your voice will be heard
thank you our nation was founded on the
principles of Service Above Self people
who fled Kings who literally prospered
on the backs and the sacrifices of
people coming here to this country
instead putting in place a government
that is of by and for the people but
that's not what we have instead we have
a government that is of by and for the
rich and powerful this must end as
president our white house our white
house will be a beacon of light
providing hope and opportunity assuring
in a new century where every single
person will be able to get the health
care they need where we will have clean
air to breathe and clean water to drink
where we will have good-paying jobs in a
new green economy join me in ushering in
this new century with peace prosperity
opportunity and justice for all
congresswoman thank you
this may llamo Julian Castro
yes toi Castellano poor Presidente de
los Estados Unidos the very fact that I
can say that tonight shows the progress
that we have made in this country like
many of you I know the promise of
America my grandmother came here when
she was seven years old as an immigrant
from Mexico and just two generations
later one of her grandsons is serving
the United States Congress and the other
one is running for president of the
United States if I'm elected president I
will work hard every single day so that
you and your family can get good health
care your child can get a good education
and that you can have good job
opportunities whether you live in a big
city or a small town and on January 20th
2021 will say adios to Donald Trump
sorry the floor joists three things to
know about me first I listen to people
and that's how I get things done that is
my focus I have a track record of
passing over a hundred bills where I'm
the lead Democrat and that is because I
listened and I acted and I think that's
important in a president everything else
just melts away secondly I'm someone
that can win and beat Donald Trump I
have won every place every race and
every time I have won in the reddest of
districts ones that Donald Trump won by
over 20 points I can win in states like
Wisconsin and Iowa and in Michigan and
finally yeah I am NOT the establishment
party candidate I've got respect but I'm
not that person I am the one that
doesn't have a political machine that
doesn't come from money and I don't make
all the promises that everyone up here
makes but I can promise you this I am
going to govern with integrity I'm gonna
I'm gonna govern for you thank you son
[Applause]
fifty years ago this month my family
moved into the town I grew up in because
after being denied a house because of
the color of their skin it was activists
mostly white activists that stood up and
fought for them that's the best of who
we are as America what I got out of law
school I moved into the inner city of
Newark to fight as a tenant lawyer for
other people's rights I've taken on
bullies and beat them I've taken on
tough fights and we've won and we win
those fights not by showing the worst of
who we are but rising to who's best
Donald Trump wants us to fight him on
his turf and his terms we will beat him
I will beat him by calling this country
to a sense of common purpose again this
is a referendum on him and getting rid
of him but it's also a referendum on us
who we are and who we must be to each
other it's time we win this election and
the way I'll govern is by showing the
best of who we are because that's what
this country needs and deserves thank
you - over
our daughter Molly turned 11 this week
I'm on this stage for her for children
across this country including song her
same age who've been separated from
their parents and are sleeping on
concrete floors under aluminum blankets
tonight we're gonna be there for them
we're gonna confront the challenges that
we face we can't return to the same old
approach we're gonna need a new kind of
politics one directed by the urgency of
the next generation those climate
activists who are fighting not just for
their future but for everyone's those
students marching not just for their
lives but for all of ours we'll need a
movement like the one that we led in
Texas it renewed our democracy by
bringing everyone in and writing nobody
off that's how we beat Donald Trump
that's how we bring this great country
together again join us this is our
moment and the generations that follow
are counting on us to meet Thank You
congressman
[Applause]
seconds for the final final statement of
the evening thank you it's a great honor
to be here never in a million years did
I think I would stand on a stage like
this I was born and raised in Oklahoma I
have three older brothers they all
joined the military I had a dream
growing up and my dream was to be a
public schoolteacher but a time I
graduated from high school my family my
family didn't have the money for a
college application
much less a chance for me to go to
college but I got my chance it was a $50
a semester commuter college that was a
little slice of government that created
some opportunity for a girl and it
opened my life I am in this fight
because I believe that we can make our
government we can make our economy we
can make our country work not just for
those at the top we can make it work for
everyone and I promise you this I will
fight for you as hard as I fight for my
own family
with us tonight and that will do it for
night one of this to night event and
guess what we've got ten more candidates
tomorrow night
you
cause I think a boisterous discussion
got through tonight despite some signal
interruptions and some audio problems
which we obviously apologize for yeah
off to the races right and I think that
this field showed themselves when they
broke into Spanish when they debated the
intricacies of policy when they kept it
on what they were for and didn't end up
down the rabbit hole of what they were
against when jay Inslee had that sharp
answer of with the greatest threat to
the country in the world was and came
out with Donald Trump I mean together as
a field they strung together an
incredible story about what is possible
if Donald Trump isn't reelected to a
second term and and really it's up to
Democrats in terms of who spoke to what
they're hungry for the most I'm not sure
people like Claire probably know the
answer to that better than me yeah
senator as someone who's been in the
arena of the US Senate
I noticed the copious notes you were
taking yeah I think overall I was
surprised how little there was a
discussion of the mess in the White
House right now I was shocked that more
candidates didn't tie their policies
into the ineptitude that chaos the the
the horrible thing was this president
has done and it really was a little
surprising to me because I think most
Democrats while they want to hear policy
and they want to get to know these
candidates they also want to be
reassured that we are united that those
candidates are united in terms of Donald
Trump so that surprised me a little
I thought the folks on the end did their
best to elbow into every discussion they
could I found it mildly irritating at
times yeah maybe it's just de Blasio is
mildly irritating yeah I'm not sure but
it or maybe even more than my think that
might break down along genitally he
sounded to me like like sort of an
obnoxious
guy at a restaurant or a bar talking
really loudly on his cell phone like
everyone wants to hear what he's saying
like he I wanted to hear other people's
answers we they were spending you know
clearly his tactic just to you know
leave it's the first to butt in and then
this Annette I mean the absence of Trump
in this discussion actually surprised me
a lot I thought almost he who will not
be mentioning Sackler it was like Lord
Voldemort you know you couldn't say its
name whereas for a lot of people in the
country that is the main issue I thought
maybe looking at the individual
candidates you know Cory Booker has a
presence and a voice and a Danna
and I thought he did himself some good
potentially bad overworked I thought did
not have a good evening his answers to
me were mushy and it was hard to grasp
anything in who Leon Castro was we were
strong on the details of immigration
policy and prodded the others to be more
specific but I think Elizabeth Warren
will be happy at the end of the speech
got a lot of attention especially during
the first hour I thought in I mean look
she is the clear leader among this ten
and I didn't really think a glove was
laid on her by the others Elizabeth
Warren actually had some long stretches
of silence during the immigration debate
and it wasn't her choice it's just that
it went on without her and moderators
were handing it to other people and also
during the climate change debate to the
most important things she had I found
everything she had almost any
opportunity in there one of the things
that's that that drives the the
observation that they didn't talk about
Donald Trump very much is that most if
not all of those candidates would be
running for president tonight if someone
else was the Republican president
if we had a Republican President Bush
and so these are actual actually
positive candidacies that would be
running no matter who was in the White
House well now what Republican was in
the White House but it does seem like
the was some kind of conscious decision
made to to to basically try to advance
their candidacies as much as they could
without the use of the word trump and
here's why that might be a kind of good
experience for Democratic primary voters
they actually got a couple of hours of
concentrating on what government and the
White House and the presidency would
sound like after Trump and after Trump
they will not be talking about Donald
Trump Nicole Wallace as someone who has
worked in politics I ask you this I
noticed about midway through the evening
there is a way of answering questions
that is anecdotal and that man right
there better or Roarke in all the
answers I heard started with an anecdote
it can hamstring you into following that
style and it can sometimes allow you to
seem less than sincere if you are
preloaded with the name of the 27 year
old man who met along the Rio Grande and
so on and so on
you know I interviewed him and my sense
I'm talking to him is that it's genuine
that this is how he and his mind
organizes policy conversations that
they're organized around you know
conversations he sat on the campaign
trail at this point with twenty what
five people running I think that it's
it's like a it's like a poopoo platter I
mean if it might not be for everyone it
may not have sung for Jean but I'm not
you know in any position nope no one's
voting for many many many many moons and
these guys are gonna rise and fall
really not not necessarily based just on
what people liked and didn't like about
the way they answer questions tonight
but on the the miles that they log on
their you know commercial flights at
this point no one's flying private
except Donald Trump and we're paying for
that plane but you know this is Missouri
I mean this is the beginning of a story
that they begin to tell I mean just as
an observer to this parties process I
thought that senator Klobuchar stood out
she was distinct from a policy
perspective or answers were not the same
as the ones that the others gave and I
thought her style was very folksy and
again if you're looking for someone who
you know Donald Trump part of the reason
that Republicans went for him was that
he talked like they did he was normal he
wasn't elite Amy Klobuchar seemed very
intellectually accessible but also to
have very well-thought-out well-formed
thoughtful policies that didn't sound
like everybody else Chris my work also
had one other unique distinction tonight
he was the only one who was a target
Julian Castro Castro went right after
him on one issue and it seemed like a
the only strategic decision that I felt
I could see in this tonight was that
Julian Castro was going after whatever
the better O'Rourke vote is and whatever
that following is this was Texas versus
Texas and he went straight at that one
Chris Matthews I'd like to begin with
you by asking you about congressman Ryan
of Ohio for people who make a living
watching politics he's been an
interesting case because he challenged
later thought better of it Nancy Pelosi
for the speakership but also tonight he
echoed talking points I have heard from
you talking about Pennsylvanians Ryan
from the neighboring and similar state
of Ohio talking about the language of
actual people and not the elitism that
he he labeled he used to label the
Democratic Party what was his strong
suit for him Bryant he was talking about
the kind of people you know
I went across the industrial Midwest to
voted for Donald Trump with their sense
of cultural area alienation the sense
that they're overlooked discarded by a
party that seems to celebrate itself as
a coastal party of highly educated
people
he said Ivy Leaguers I think he was
talking about a broader sense than that
of people who just thought they're much
better than the people that they say
they want to represent I think he caught
it and no one else did I thought that
was right and I think the winner tonight
though was probably Joe Biden because to
quote Sherlock Holmes he was that the
dog wasn't barking tonight no one took
on the Democratic frontrunner the whole
two hours and I think that's a big
surprise anybody would expected of that
I thought that Senator Warren was
consistently the populist she never
changed her tone regardless of the
question she talked about big power in
economics and how she was going to break
it up
she was the Teddy Roosevelt candidate
tonight and what seven or eight answers
was always well regardless of the
question she talked about we got to
bring down the big shots and open up
American
