I don't know it for a fact I just know
it's true for example I don't know for a
fact that the recycling and the regular
garbage end up in the same place I just
know it's good I don't know for a fact
that this year's KitKat's at the dollar
store where last year's kid cats at
Target I just know it I don't know for a
fact that Felicity Huffman is trying to
bribe someone else to go to prison for
[Applause]
slow slow rising lab I don't know for a
fact that from saltshaker is filled with
crushed up adderall I just
I don't know for a fact that smoking
crack is better for kids than vaping I
don't know for a fact that the Elizabeth
Warren who waits for hours to take a
selfie with you is actually a body
double I just know it's I don't know for
a fact that Justin Trudeau used to be in
Blue Man Group I just know it I don't
know for a fact that if you drill on
Willie Nelson's ranch you'll strike CBD
oil I and I don't know for a fact that
when shredded-wheat
goes bad Post tells it as frosted
shredded-wheat
you
