Valentine's Day was yesterday did you
have a good time we thought we would and
save this for Valentine's Day it's been
floating around the internet for a
couple of months but it was an amazing
story a man bought a used car and he
found something that somebody left in
the car which was a list of 22
relationship rules that the previous car
owners girlfriend had laid out for this
guy and the guy posted it on the
internet this is real and it became
viral things like you are not to have a
single girl's phone number you are not
to look at a single girl I am allowed to
do a phone check whenever I please
you're not you are not to get mad at me
about a single thing I ever do your you
are never to take longer than 10 minutes
to text me back you are not to ask for a
head and no this was this is real so
apparently this is catching on and a lot
of women are doing this now we got ahold
of milania's list I don't know if you
but this is these are her rules
you're not to leave your girdle on the
bathroom floor
you are not to ask for hand you are not
allowed to eat Wendy's in bed tell Wendy
I can hear her you are not to ever again
mention the bride catalogs return policy
that
his name is Baron and he's our son stop
asking who's the kid you must at least
consider drinking or whatever else we'll
put you to sleep when I say I love you
do not reply with your welcome if I say
jump you ha I'd like to see that
you
