what about the governor of Virginia I
asked Rahm Emanuel and we talked about
it last week on the show Malcom Nance
was here and he said you know if you're
gonna talk about black outrage maybe you
should ask some black folks and I think
those the stat I cited with Rahm you
know 58 percent of african-americans in
Virginia believe he should not step down
your feelings your feelings your
feelings your feelings I think black
people are shocked when we find out that
folks who might have done something like
this 30 years ago we're probably the
least shot right a little bit more
pointedly because the conversation I was
just visiting my friend who lives in
Virginia and she our conversation was
like why do white people think black
people trust them I mean it's our litmus
test is we don't trust you so we're
constantly waiting to see if you're
gonna do what you said you were gonna do
in this case in this case I think that's
part of why you see 58 percent of black
Virginia saying we entrust you in the
first place John's point we want you to
make good on what you said you were
gonna do which was eliminate voter ID
which discriminates us against in terms
of our ability to vote
disproportionately that you were going
to do criminal justice reform in the
state of Virginia in other words we want
you to make good on what you said you're
going to do and we're going to hold your
feet to the fire I also think it is
absolutely right for black people to be
outraged it isn't because he wore black
face in that photo or the Klan costume
we didn't even know which one it's that
he it is imperative that we have a
discussion that says how we evolved
there's so much racism in this country
that we that it that was an opportunity
to have a conversation about here is how
I learned but because that was but
because people lose their careers megyn
kelly lost her career she liked that
that's true - okay and then she said
Santa was a white man okay
well he does live at the North Pole but
but and Liam Neeson said something last
week and he was drunk he's not lost his
job well but there's a big backlash
we'll see if he's okay but what I'm
saying is I remember when Clinton was
president he said we have to have a
dialogue on race remember Obama had the
beer summit and it was like we need to
talk I don't know if we're creating an
atmosphere where people now feel safe to
talk and I think that puts us in in the
wrong direction
I think dialogue and talking was where
the direction should go well now I think
people are like oh you know what I
should just shut up because I'm just
gonna get in trouble if I say any I'm
just excited because the Virginia GOP
said that racists don't belong in office
and so I have a good feeling that a lot
of people are going to resign so many
people because the GOP has decided that
races don't belong in office I'm just
I'm just excited for the turnover it's
gonna happen when you were talking to
the Trump administration about your
initiative on criminal justice reform it
must have been it must have helped you
that so many of the people were talking
to thought well I might be a felon one
of these days his dad was literally in
prison and and he took up the cause of
criminal justice based on that
experience and I think mostly and I
think he had the feeling that he might
be indicted himself sometime soon who
knows if I can go back to Virginia I
live in Virginia governor Northam a
friend of mine yeah and I think one of
the reasons a 58% you got the
overwhelming african-american vote in
the campaign and now they're 58 percent
of African Americans in his Commonwealth
don't want him to resign I think you all
are right but I also think people would
prefer redemption to resignation and if
if you know the governor as I do there
is nothing in the 35 years since those
offensive racist pictures nothing to
suggest he's still that person that he
has grown to change he passed as Ron
pointed out he passed Medicaid which
disproportionately helps African
Americans who's the first white
politician of Virginia that I know of
who called for those Confederate
monuments to come down he has any
obvious pledge to redeem himself even
more I think it's a father
because they're two different things
happening here
yes redemption and to the point about
the discussion the discussion has to be
a redemptive discussion his problem and
I'm not saying this because I think he
should resign because I agree if 58% of
black voters want to stay I'm not gonna
tell him he shouldn't but moonwalking
and that description of the like guitar
and that was the that was that was a
demonstration that he has not learned
that he has politics I was like he's
really not a good politician like like I
feel like the governor of the
Commonwealth of Virginia should just be
a little bit better at politics
you
