there's a segment we do on the show
called
I don't know it for a fact I just know
it's true and we thought this week of
all weeks it was perfectly applicable
because you know if they can't prove
collusion I don't know it for a fact
I just know it's true so would you like
to hear this week's version of I don't
know for a fact that last Friday Robert
Muller's wife said two years of missing
dinner for this I just know it's true I
don't know for a fact that when Donald
Trump said I've been exonerated Eric
said is that good I don't know for a
fact that sometimes the Fox and Friends
team makes up a word just to see if
Trump will repeated just know it's true
I don't know for a fact that Lindsey
Graham's ringtone is It's Raining Men
I just just know
I don't know perfection when someone
tries to take a selfie with Joe Biden he
says are you sure there's film in it
[Applause]
[Music]
enough for a fact that when a cop says
do you know why I pulled you over it's
because he's high and he forgot I don't
know for a fact that every so often the
Pope looks around the Vatican and thinks
to himself Jesus there are fewer gay
people on Broadway I don't know for a
fact that eventually the owner of a
diner in New Hampshire is going to tell
better O'Rourke dude people eat on this
table get your filthy shoes off of it
[Applause]
you
