so if I get back to Trump for a second
from time to time we do like to go down
our dictator checklist we've done this a
few times but when that when he does a
new one we like to add it to the list so
quickly the list we already have you're
a narcissist who likes putting his name
on buildings you appoint your family
members to positions of power your
rallies are scary you threaten to lock
up opponents you want a missile you want
missile parades you talk about yourself
as president for life you use your
office for your own personal financial
gain you align with other dictators you
lie so freely even your supporters don't
know when the truth is or how to expect
it you a major news station become state
TV and now we have a new one this week
timpani you give speeches that are over
two hours like Fidel Castro and I don't
know if you saw that CPAC speech gladly
but let me tell you his fans love that
seat back speech so much that they now
have you seen this ad that's been
running on TV they're selling this
what's this you've seen him deliver the
State of the Union
you've seen him address the nation from
The Oval Office but you've never seen
him like this Donald Trump live and
unscripted at CPAC two hours totally raw
totally uncut totally outrageous
you'll get Trump's at reverent takes on
the green new deal darling is the wind
blowing today I'd like to watch
television down
I never saw so many beautiful looking
machine guns how Democrats make you sad
they hate our country sad it's very sad
plus you get Trump's classic impressions
the stuffy CNN guy President Trump is
waiting for the mullah reflect the
overreaching Democrat yes Russia to come
get the email and clueless Jeff Sessions
I'm gonna recuse myself
you also get fake news fake news fake
news fake news and everybody's favorite
walk her up
[Applause]
Plus over 20 minutes of material too hot
for TV they're trying to take you out
with order now and we'll throw
in Trump's hilarious flag hugging
routine Donald Trump live in unscripted
at CPAC get yours today you know I'm
totally off script right now order now
and Mexico will pay for it
you
