area code who's this where you calling
from to one's good afternoon fans John
from San Antonio John from San Antonio
well what's the latest John yon Saturday
I posted my top 70 most flippable
districts on my Twitter page I'm not
sure if you can reference this or put it
up on the screen but it's a pin tweet so
since that post is the analyte polling
that's a vision why don't you tell
people what is your what is your handle
yeah it's raucous dendrite at
cacophonous minuti spelled them and
cacophonous minuti is about CAC o ph o
us is John what went into the idea of
making your your Twitter handle that
more that sort of I guess like
inaccessible is this a childhood screen
name from AOL or something no I mean I
just like to you know I like a lot of
abstract music so I like you know a lot
of people say like the cacophony and
it's like they think of it as a negative
thing but I mean I actually like you
know abstract music and so I I wanted to
include that and I like the minutiae
yeah so I wanted to have cacophonous
minutiae so they say raucous cacophonous
I say it again
cacophonous and the new T kakaka
okay okay cop in this menu did you find
it oh yeah you should come up to Hudson
with me for the 24-hour drone festival
next year I loved a lot of drone music
okay we can't we can't find it every
fifth time I learned something so cool
about you John Wow
I don't know why it's so spread out but
okay cacar okay go ahead John
okay so
okay so so anyway on the on the website
the New York Times websites and they've
been putting up these live polling
events since since September and so the
last few have been really good for
Democrats Michigan eighth District ELISA
slot Ken is up by seven points over
Republican incumbent Mike Bishop and you
know when we were talking about the
so-called socialist panel and you
mention how the advantage to run as a
person of color immediately I thought
yes if your contingency had a high
percentage or majority of people of
color in the district and it made me
think about what Chris Hayes is
observation about how in three districts
New York's 19th Georgia's 6th and
illinois' 14th they have two Blackmun
women and the Hispanic man running in
these districts that a majority white
districts and so I'm wondering if they
can win in these districts and according
to the latest polling you know the
question is the answer is yes and the
Siena polling in Illinois's 14th
district which is the Chicago suburbs
Loren Underwood who's a nurse and used
to work in the Obama administration into
Health and Human Resources his leading
Republican incumbent randy hogan by six
points reversing a four point lead by
the same pollster and a pulled agenda
dinner on October 8th in Georgia's sixth
Democrat Lucy Macbeth at a tragic event
in her life her son was killed at a gas
station when he played his music too
loud I mean that story made national
news in turn Nick bath into an activist
and now she's leading Republican
incumbent yeah Karen handled by two
points in the latest C in a poll this is
the district that John offs up lost in
the special election and in New York's
19th district Antonio Delgado who I have
a soft spot for because his named his
son Coltrane is up by one point
in the same poll the Siena poll over
John Faso and all these candidates are
closing strong and I hope they can win
so Democrats need 23 seats to flip the
house and I've been talking about the
the two tranches of races on this show
there are 18 races that are very likely
to flip 16 Democratic and two Republican
which would get a net gain of 14 seats
which we didn't leave for more seats for
the sort of Democrats to flip to win the
house I've added five more seats to the
races and I consider toss-up in so that
total is now thirty you asked me to
break down these races on Friday and I
didn't give you a very good answer so
I'll try again Clinton won 11 of those
districts and most of those are at the
top of the most flippable races within
the toss-up rail there are five races in
California - in Jersey - in New York you
in Texas - in Pennsylvania - in Virginia
and there's a good mix of wealthy high
educated suburbs like Illinois six
California is 45th and 48th and
districts in blue or purple states with
medium-sized cities and rural
surroundings like Iowa third in Maine
second John Doe one second let's just
it's one like this this dynamic where
where the idea of a a district that
voted for Clinton but still had a
Republican Congress person what is that
a function of is that simply because
more often than not that Congress
person's been there for a long time or
people liked the idea of a splitting the
ticket I mean what is that a function of
Trump I mean I think that that it would
I mean to me it was very obvious it was
Trump I mean he talked about the Vettes
copal you know the women that are
activated you know you didn't many
interviews with her and mentioned it on
his show I mean I think that that's a
mostly the the main thing so in other
words there there are people who did not
want to vote for Trump but they thought
okay I'll still wrote vote for my
Republican Congress person because that
will give either a balance you know
Clinton will win and the Republican
Congress will provide a check and or
they've also come to realize like hey my
congressman voted for my Republican
congressman is like voting for Trump now
and I'm not
do that yeah that's exactly right I mean
you see this all the time I mean I
tweeted this morning about how in that
NBC poll they have they actually have
that men were more activated than women
I seriously question that I don't
believe that at all I mean I just
it was 67 to 73 for men I mean I just
don't see that there's an absolutely no
way that I see that happening and I mean
the women have been I mean the numbers
are just incredible I mean the
differences and I mean the difference is
in in the men's image like like that
Delgado race you know a couple pulls
back it was plus 18 for men in delft for
daca for Delgado and no it was women and
for Delgado in plus 18 for FAFSA with
men and you see that all the time these
huge margins but I mean I just think
that women are going to be more
motivated I mean there's I just don't I
just don't think it's going to be closed
and you can see that also in the the
stats you were talking about some stats
and early voting there's like in in
Georgia the early voting stats are like
I think it was 56 to 44 I mean they were
just astounding so I mean I I think the
national numbers maybe it reflects the
point that you know a lot of rule men
yeah are gonna vote for Trump and
they're gonna run up the score just like
that's what happened in California right
sort of the opposite yeah it's quite
possible in states that are so red
turnout is is a little bit depressed but
I can tell you that the 19th district
got a couple of 19th district voters
here with us today was the district that
Zephyr Teachout
ran in 2014 and lost to Faso and the
Mercer's dumped about seven million
dollars into that race and my
understanding is I have not I'm not
aware of them doing
again this time and I don't know it's
hard for it's hard for a Republican you
know mega donors to compete with with
all the the money that's being brought
in just by individual donors I mean it's
it's I mean that's that's one of the
reasons why a lot of people are saying
well you know as you see the clothes the
the generic ballot tighten a little bit
and it's it's not tightening that much
isn't it very slightly tightening I mean
in fact uh you know it's nine point one
right now on on 538 and I think that
that's more than enough to easily win
but you know they just can't compete I
mean most of these candidates in the
into the last two weeks have had more
money than Republicans despite all the
mega donors I mean it's people power
politics versus a you know oligarchical
politics and people the people are
winning and hopefully they'll win
tomorrow well we'll see John do you have
any thing Morrie when I will talk to you
mom
okay I mean if you know just some of the
the districts that are more moderate
that you were talking about you're
talking about moderate or moderate
Republicans like Brian Fitzpatrick and
Mindy's district the first District
callers Cabello and in the the twenty
was it the 26th district of Florida you
know in a district that Clinton won by
sixteen it covers seven Miami and the
suburbs I mean those are just a few of
the moderates most of these people
aren't running against moderates they're
running against like like Baldur's and
people like that you know who are
extreme I mean that's most of the
Republican Party is we you well know so
I mean so that's so that makes it a lot
easier in my opinion for for people to
distinguish the differences appreciate
the call John
