[Music]
let's first go to the FoxNews Burnie
Town Hall play a couple of clips from
there this is its clip number three
where we had mentioned earlier that bret
baier had to sort of maintain some
semblance of being the straight news guy
and so I am NOT going to feel quite as
humiliated when I take a survey of the
audience and find that everything I've
been promoting on Fox News for over a
decade is not popular with the people
who are here for some reason now this
was done this Town Hall was in Bethlehem
Pennsylvania I don't I mean if you had
told me that this was done at the
auditorium at the University of Vermont
and that I would have been like oh that
makes sense
but this audience I don't know if Fox
News doesn't have a lot of attention but
this audience seemed to be incredibly
amenable to Bernie Sanders and his
policies which theoretically have been
maligned on Fox News for ages and here
Martha McCallum and I think this is
getting towards the end of the of the
thing where there's I think these two
hosts are got to feel like we have in
some way failed because we're not
getting that moment or the series of
moments where we have exposed Bernie
Sanders for either having policies that
don't make sense or having policies that
are not popular with this broad section
of people and and so I think there's a
lot of frustration involved in this and
you can see Martha McCallum and just
play this exchange
[Applause]
single payer program and in 2014 the
Democratic governor abandon it because
he had to raise income taxes had to
raise payroll taxes and the people of
Vermont didn't want their taxes to go
all courts and that's in it may abandon
so we're getting internal Vermont
politics of which I know a little bit
why I'm saying I don't want to be here
the governor did a rather poor job but I
think if you look at polling especially
among Democrats as I'm sure you have you
tell me strong majority of Democrats and
more than a few Republicans want to see
a medicare-for-all program what the
opponents and let's be clear about this
mother when you are dealing with health
care which is what's at 18% of our GDP I
mean we're talking about three and a
half trillion dollars again and you have
insurance companies that make billions
and billions of dollars in profit let me
give you an example if I might of the
dysfunctionality of the current health
care system recently Aetna merged with
CPS you may recall that big merger which
my view will drive health care costs up
the gentleman who was head of Aetna's
named mr. Bertolini you know what he got
from putting together that merger
he got a five hundred million dollar
bonus do you think that's how we should
spend help I mean I think everybody is
an agreement that healthcare needs to be
fixed in this country the question is
how and my question to you was it it
will drive up taxes to pay for health
care and not just the wealthy will pay
for that the middle class will also pay
for ego so how do you justify it and
Martha what are you not including in
your discussion your time I will tell
you you're not got any health insurance
premiums
[Applause]
whether it's in your income tax or your
payroll tax right look Healthcare is not
free
you never suggests that we're gonna
March you just said it was gonna be free
for everyone it's gonna be free at the
point of when you use it okay in you go
- why are you so shocked by this this is
what it's all about here's good okay
okay one good one sir watch we'll get
through this together sleep look you see
your eyes you are self-employed and you
have got a husband and two kids okay
family of four you know how much that
family is paying today for health care
family
$28,000 okay all right we're spending
$11,000 per person we are saying to that
family of four
you ain't gonna bathe that twenty eight
thousand you're not paying any more
premiums you're not paying any more
co-payments you're not paying any more
deductibles how's that twenty-eight
thousand you're not paying but does that
mean you're not gonna pay something of
course it does you're gonna pay more in
taxes and do members of Congress you now
have gold plated how's it for one second
now now this is really true fascinating
right because like that is that you can
almost see Martha like looking like a
little bit flush there right like she's
like she doesn't have anything else to
say
he's just conceded what she thinks is
this sort of likely the the you know the
the stake through the heart of this
program where he says yeah no of course
you're gonna pay more in taxes you're
gonna pay less for premiums that is the
easy calculation here and there has been
and the thing is is that there is no
there has been no one who has been able
to produce a report there's been no
research there's been no estimates even
the the Mercatus study from the
right-wing think-tank
there has been nothing released by
anyone who can rookin refute that
central dynamic
and the thing that Bernie is doing that
is different from when they talked about
where in Vermont it failed was the
governor Schulman I think it was his
name the the thing that Bernie is doing
and we used to get calls from John from
San Antonio will call in all the time
about this very point is that you must
lead with the idea that taxes are going
to be raised because taxes are going to
be raised and Bernie makes the point it
is free at the point of service and it
is free when you pay for it
but your but it's not free you're gonna
have to pay for it's gonna be in taxes
and middle-class people as well as
wealthy people are going to pay more in
taxes but the net expenditures are going
to be less because you're not going to
be paying for premiums and for basically
the prophets and the inefficiencies in
the private insurance market and then
you know it doesn't even bring up the
fact that like and then the other good
thing is is you don't have to deal with
a tremendous hassle like like I have
like spreadsheets I have Google drive's
with that I take pictures of like you
know Sol's I therapy and I take the
pictures and I upload them and then I
see if they're you know my insurance are
gonna pay for him and I got decent
insurance all right good
what does that mean you're not gonna pay
something of course it does you're gonna
pay more in taxes and do members of
Congress you now have gold-plated health
insurance well they have a special plan
that's outside Obamacare a different
plan you remember members of Kasich one
second you know who has a plan that's
outside of Obamacare most everybody
the only people is 10 million people in
this country who have a plan inside of
Obamacare and you have something like
270 280 million people covered by
insurance and this by the way unless you
want to define to Obamacare as Patient
Protection Act in which case everybody's
covered by it and everybody loves well
cancers has different health care saying
just like Bret Baier has I understand
but I'm just saying if he's using
and of course we know that in terms of
actual plans but the patient protection
component of it is national and protects
a lot of people like he's talking about
the exchanges here yeah I think
Obamacare has more than that just the
exchanges right what's Medicaid too but
I threw a question it's like why is Bret
Baier bringing this up now because like
Bernie has now destroyed Macallan's
one critique and so he's pivoting to we
can't really trust Congress people
because you guys good you're you're
you're out of this whole set you're
gonna try and be out of this whole
system that's where he's going with this
go back a little bit and you'll see this
is this is the they have now gone from
the Alamo to like the next redoubt right
like where it's like okay we're going to
go to the farthest reaches of the Alamo
because we're we need we need to figure
out some way of undercutting this and
it's the classic well we can't trust
government and because politicians all
lie it does you're gonna pay more in
taxes and do members of Congress you now
have gold-plated health insurance well
they have a special plan that's outside
Obamacare a different plan you know do
member members of Congress are they
going to do that transition is a right
of course this is where Bret Baier if
he's really on his game or McCallum i
she was really on a game she's gonna go
well cuz this is the last the last
refuges how many pages is it because
that was it that was the way that it
went with the with Obamacare right there
was a problem with the program and then
it was like well but Congress men aren't
gonna put themselves in it and then it
was it was over a hundred pages like
literally this was a talking point at
the time I and that Glenn Beck rally I
went to one of the common complaints
about Obamacare was nobody knows what's
in it and they passed it's over a
hundred pages there shouldn't be
anything everybody's the same four pages
that should be the top bus will probably
be a shorter bill come at me bro
but I want to make the point I want to
get back to the point that the mark of
race look healthcare costs money every
other country or virtually every country
does it in the same way we do education
for our kids okay when a kid walks into
school
kid doesn't have to take out a credit
card right it's paid for out of public
funds that's what most countries do so
if you're asking me if your question is
a fair question or people got to pay
more in taxes yes
but at the end of the day the
overwhelming majority of people are
going to end up paying less for health
care because they're not paying premiums
co-payments and deductibles we're going
to get it yeah there we go I'm gonna
take away that I think I handled that
pretty well yep there you go
smooth Barnard Oh Maddie and you know
that's the great ink what I love about
Bernie is like some people contrasted
spin with complexity right like oh well
if you're speaking in spin and sound
bytes then you're not acknowledging how
complicated these issues are he's great
because it's like actually a super
simple and he has great message
discipline but it's also clear and
honest and direct but the the key is
what John from San Antonio would call in
years ago to complain about I said was
there an honest leading with the taxes
and that was there was an attempt by I
think Democrats for a long time and part
of it was you know back in the day like
Walter Mondale and whatnot was if you
say you're gonna raise taxes the
American public is necessarily gonna
have a problem with it as if there is no
argument as if the American public
cannot understand the concept that right
now you're paying $10 for something and
if you we're gonna eliminate that $10
expense but it will cost you $6 and
didn't also Mondale if I didn't he's
like sort of basically say like we're
gonna just impacts us as austerity to
pay off the deficit or something if I
know that if I've heard that correctly
it was not presented as maybe something
like we need to pay for things yeah well
yeah like presented as part of a
ambitious no
your wings there was no agenda as far as
I can tell that what it's worth you
think of Obama they a soft-pedal
obamacare costing something and I'm be
much more pissed about having a having
my premiums jacked up than having my
taxes jack
oh yeah or you know getting a kind of
not that good silver plan and finding
out it still costs $100 if I need to go
to the doctor for a sick visit which is
the thing that happened to me yes and so
this was by leading with that taxes it
makes it also makes his job frankly
easier because other people have to try
and hide the ball and he's not trying to
hide the ball he's trying to say look
look at the ball that's a good
