so Josh in the last segment you
basically walk through the different
scenarios in which impeachment could
begin and processes it could follow one
would be just oversight committees
judicial committees investigating the
myriad of different things that should
be investigated in the Trump
administration the second would be a
initial impeachment inquiry which would
then determine whether hearings were
necessary and then that would kick that
bill out to judiciary and they would
start to begin hearings or go directly
to hearings and then I guess the other
alternative is just do nothing and hope
everything gets better right well but
and these are not mutually exclusive by
any means I think some people would
argue and and let's maybe address that
is what well right before we get to the
political implications about it one way
or another what's the argument to do
this impeachment in terms of like
government in terms of of holding people
to account i think it's twofold
since the Mullah report came out and
with democrats showing that they're wary
of impeachment Trump has become even
more lawless even expressed even more
disdain for the checks and balances that
Congress's oversight role he has ordered
multiple people to violate the law he
told his DHS nominee then the head of
CTB that if he violated the law and and
got in trouble Trump would pardon him
this is very serious stuff from the
President of the United States and
they're sending a signal by by
downplaying the possibility of
impeachment that he he can get away with
all this and you know the classic
formula in law enforcement is that
impunity breeds more lawlessness right
think about broken windows theory the
other point is you
on contra or savings-and-loan or
hardening from Watergate yes or impunity
first human rights violators right
missus you know we're just it yes yeah
and then the other thing is it sends a
signal to future presidents that
impeachment is too politically fraught
and they don't have to worry about it
unless the other party has overwhelming
majorities in both chambers of Congress
which is unlikely to happen given how
closely divided we are so I think it's a
very bad precedent you know there's one
one argument that I think is salient is
that the the founders I mean if you get
into the constitutional issues here the
founders did not give us many option a
wide array of options to deal with a
lawless president they foresaw the
possibility and they gave us basically
oversight and impeachment so I think
that it's important to look at this in
the context of what's happening now this
is not just about what robert muller
found the lawlessness and contempt for
the other branches of government is
happening right now and I think it's
escalating and Trump has said repeatedly
that he feels that the Supreme Court is
a backstop for him so you know you don't
have the check from the judicial branch
necessarily this is what we have okay so
in terms of I guess the I don't know if
I would call it the the moral
compunction but the ethical compulsion
to impeach let's talk about the
political realities I mean I think there
is a sense that the Democratic
leadership is afraid of impeachment the
very often we see our politicians
operate under the lessons of the you
know metaphorically speaking the last
war Bill Clinton when he was impeached
it helped his popularity in many
respects I mean I think there's really
no other way to to assess that
well what's the political argument and
give it to us whether you think that
political argument is even relevant in
light of the sort of the ethical
argument yeah I mean so first of all I
think that it's as you're exactly right
to say that they're fighting the last
war Bill Clinton we can look back on
Bill Clinton's presidency in a
retrospect and find a lot of problems
but it doesn't change the simple fact
that in late 1998 Bill Clinton had a 64
percent approval rate 35% disapproved
that's a net approval of plus 29 points
very very popular presidency at the time
in the previous 17 Gallup polls that
year his approval had dropped under 60%
in three of them 57 58 % so you're
talking about kind of the peak of his
popularity Trump on the other hand is
consistently at minus 10 net approval
he's been that way for two and a half
years and the other big difference is
that you know they went after Clinton
for lying about having sex with which
you know if we're honest I think most
adults have done at one point or another
and this is about obstructing justice
and abusing the office of the presidency
and those are things that we haven't all
done at some point so I think that it's
just a sloppy or superficial analog fair
enough okay and so and I think look the
arguments as to whether it would help or
hurt cut both ways
here is my question for you and you know
and I'm still I think formulating my
opinion but there's no doubt in my mind
that we're already you know walking down
the path of impeachment I mean the you
know it's possible all these
investigations will turn up nothing and
maybe we'll get none of this information
but in one form or another and I think
you have a compelling argument that to
use the word impeachment even if it's
just an inquiry is going to sort of L of
the importance of this investigations in
the public's mind we just have about a
minute and a half left here is my
question to you is there a danger that
you you do the impeachment process again
I think that seems to me to be a wise
course but if you hold the vote to
impeach before the election and
regardless of how it comes out we know
it's not going to go anywhere in the
Senate like you said what if Trump wins
the election again let's just assume
it's a neutral impact on his election
returns the impeachment one way or
another we can't measure it but what if
he wins
what if Democrats have in their quiver
left for the second term that's my fear
well I mean I think that the prospect of
a second term is itself terrifying and I
don't know that it would be materially
worse if they tried to hold him account
and failed before that well they can't
can can they go back I mean a can they I
imagine they could but B would they in
2021 bring impeachment hearings against
this guy even if there was more
information that came out I mean it
seems to me that the politics of that
would be extremely fraught and if we
know Democratic leadership and their
institutional concerns I would say it's
extremely unlikely it's certainly
possible there's nothing that precludes
them from doing so it's not like double
jeopardy but yeah I would think that
that would not happen and I would also
think that you know the new information
that might be revealed is not as serious
as the repeated attempts to obstruct
justice that we found here and also the
refusal to comply with with
congressional oversight so that's a
one-two punch that I think is very
powerful and so my view is that they can
damage him in hearings while the
presidential candidates the Democratic
presidential candidates talk about what
they want to do for the car
Joshua Holland I have a feeling this is
a conversation we can have again soon I
appreciate your time today
