[Music]
back Sam cedar on the majority report on
the phone it is a pleasure to welcome to
the program former US Representative for
North Carolina's 13th congressional
district serving from 2003 to 2013 and
writing in the fall 2019 this the
american prospect the 40 year war
williams bars long struggle against
congressional oversight welcome to the
program brad thank you glad to be with
you i have to tell you that in addition
to being you know some of this being
reliving some of my youth in terms of
your piece the thing that really struck
me and and we'll get into it in more
detail but i just have to say off the
top is the office of legal counsel i did
not have a sense of how how many yeah
how probable powerful but but how like
it's like so easy it is to corrupt it in
some ways but let's before we get there
maybe we're I'm getting ahead of myself
but you write that William bar this has
been part of and he is part of a 40-year
project to essentially strengthen the
power of the President I imagine that's
been an ongoing a battle since since day
one on some level but there's been we've
entered into a new era of it we have and
I think for for trop is you know
obviously not doctrinal it's entirely
opportunistic he I mean he doesn't think
about constitutional architecture which
is the the phrase that constitutional
scholars use for separation of powers
and checks and balances it isn't it is
entirely in his interest at the moment
so he thinks about it as much about as
much as my dog thinks about whether to
lick his own penis right yeah it serves
this immediate needs what to think about
but for bar and for others on the
right there has been a consistent plan a
consistent effort over the last 40 years
at least to create a very powerful
executive in a very weak well really
both the courts and Congress lose power
to the president under their
interpretation and if their preferred
constitute their preferred political
system they're a government of
government but especially Congress
especially Congress well I want to I
want to dig into the the various
examples over the course of these 40
years that you talk about but I I am I
mean I and I and I felt sort of
mystified and I knew I knew vaguely
about Bill Bar in his involvement back
in the iran-contra days but when that 16
page memo of his that he wrote saying
that that Trump wasn't was was really
incapable of being investigated or at
least a held to account because he was
president I mean since that time I've
been sort of baffled about here's a guy
who's retired who is it I mean is it
yeah where does this doctrine come from
I mean like where does is is he part of
some type of like secret Strauss Ian's
cult I mean what like like honestly like
I just like wonder like I I don't
understand that type of belief set yeah
and I don't think they all get together
and secret and perform rituals but there
is almost a cult-like belief in in a
strong executive and it and it really
the the line between the very strong
executive elected by the people and
strongman rule is really a pretty blurry
line and the the idea of democracy that
that government derives has just powers
from the consent of the governed
it really is was a radical idea back to
the end in the 18th century and it's
still a radical idea and not everyone
accepts it in a radical idea the left
not on the right people should remember
that you know originally senators were
not popularly elected and and and and so
on is actually neither were presidents I
mean they fully expected the elect the
Electoral College to be a deliberative
body they didn't I think it was
logistically possible to elect
presidents by popular vote because
there's no way in the world someone from
Georgia would know anything about
someone from New York right I mean I and
some little like that makes sense to me
in terms of like a certain practicality
it's just hard for me to imagine that
there are there are and there are people
who feel like the best thing for America
is for us to have a you know quasi
trader type of situation a man on
horseback yes but those people exist so
we got to take them at their word let's
let's go let's go back I mean you you
you sight through you know some early
history ranging from George Washington's
first term to Woodrow Wilson saying that
in forming the the the informing
function of Congress should be preferred
even to its legislative function in
other words you know things like
oversight and and whatnot and really
this turn really happened under the
Reagan administration
I'm lay out for us like you know how it
was that Reagan assembled these people
but but it really goes back I mean
before this right we're Dick Cheney sort
of I guess learn this concept under
Nixon right yeah it goes back to the
Nixon administration and you know Nick
Sounion has become a term used for
extreme present claims of presidential
power and after Watergate there were
reforms important reforms the Inspector
General statute which is what Liz led us
to the Ukraine scandal and the
possibility now their very real
possibility impeachment was a post war
reform so was a special council law
there were a lot of there were there
were several important reforms that were
designed to reign in the imperial
presidency and for bar and for edwin
meese and for others who were part of
that group of writers lawyers who came
into the Reagan administration both in
the White House and at the Department of
Justice there was a sense that the
Watergate reforms had gone far had gone
way too far and and that top just powers
the proper powers of the presidency
needed to be reformed it need to be
restored but in fact they went much
beyond that you know edwin meese gave
speeches that suggested that the
president could disregard opinions of
the supreme court with which he
disagreed that then independent agencies
or an intrusion on the president's power
over the executive branch
despite supreme court cases saying that
executive branch CP independent agencies
within the executive branch were
perfectly okay and and that was sort of
where this began was with the Reagan
administration and they began picking
fights that they did not that that went
badly for them at first all right well
let's I mean let's yeah let's talk about
those those fights because the first one
was a function of executive privilege
now yeah where did I mean this concept
of executive privilege did this come out
of case law I mean where where does this
derived because you know it over the
course of of the increase in to Donald
Trump we've seen a lot of times where
the executive does not seem to be
calling for executive privilege but
those working for him cite it even
though it has not been initiated I guess
they just sort of like think they
shouldn't talk about it just give us a
little background on executive privilege
and then what we we can go into the the
attempt by the EPA to withhold documents
from the Congress back in the early 80s
it's pretty
five presidents in the 20th century I
think Franklin Roseville and Dwight
Eisenhower both said that they would
instruct employees officials of the
executive branch not to answer certain
questions that went to their
communications with the president that
the confidentiality of communications
with the presence of the president could
make decisions with the best advice
because the advice was uninhibited to me
that's been around for a while it has
not really been recognized by the courts
until the Watergate cases in the Nixon
administration I guess one in particular
and it's never really been very well
defined but but the court acknowledged
that there probably are some
communications between some high-level
officials and the president that should
be regarded as privileged but even that
is is subject to being overridden if
there is a an obvious need for the
information and they do in in in my
experience as an oversight subcommittee
chair for four years the executive does
just throw that out there anytime they
want don't want to answer a question but
but early on in the Reagan
administration there was a scandal that
came out of the EPA Environmental
Protection Agency's ahead then was an
Gorsuch Burford yes she is
Neal Gorsuch his mother mmm or was and
she was ahead of it and it was a
question about the Superfund the
legislation to clean up waste sites
particularly contaminated waste sites
and there was a question about whether
there's corruption and how that program
was being administered and the funds
were being spent and a couple three
House committees got whistleblower
information and issued subpoenas and and
the Reagan administration folks at the
White House in the DOJ told her not to
broad the information but to assert
executive privilege and then they had
litigation over that and the court said
this is not the time to raise this the
time to Ray
this is when she is defending the
criminal charges for contempt of
Congress and she said what was it's
about criminal charges and she just
folded and they lost that battle they
lost it pretty pretty resounding Lee and
Congress got all the documents the
person under Gorsuch ooh her name was
Rita Lavelle who headed the Superfund
program ended up being conceded of being
fired then convicted to perjury and
she's sort of an active-active prison
prison sentence for for perjury for what
she had said to Congress and then and
then they had at the house the Judiciary
Committee opened an investigation into
how the Department of Justice had
handled their investigation and whether
they had obstructed the the Department
of Justice had obstructed the house
investigation and whether high officials
in the Department of Justice had
committed perjury in in fighting the
investigation so things just kind of
unraveled for the Reagan administration
in their attempt in their attempt to put
congressmen in their place at the time
well I mean you know the idea of someone
lying to Congress and going to to jail
for it the idea of Congress
investigating the Department of Justice
those things seem so far removed from
where we are today because you know what
you're outlining is like a I feel like
this happened all this stuff happened
like I don't know two years ago under
under this president right I mean we
have the EPA refusing to hand over
documents it feels like every couple of
weeks we have we have I mean we've seen
people just in their nomination hearings
lie to Congress I mean yeah but yet we
have none of those I mean well I mean
maybe I'm getting ahead of myself but
these tools seem to have gone away well
yeah I'm wondered about that why is it
so different nail that they can just
thumb their nose at Congress I'm just
wow Congress has oversight powers and
you know this
my article in American Prospect was
written before the whole Ukraine stuff
hit but every everyday your new examples
of what I wrote about in The American
Prospect peace I think one important
thing that has changed in addition just
to change in the norms and how tribal
the partisanship is now and how much
negative partisanship there is because I
don't you know I don't necessarily like
my guys but I heat your guys is that is
that the special council law enacted
after Watergate sunset at the end of the
Clinton administration the beginning of
the George W Bush administration because
the Democrats by that point hated it
because of how many investigations there
had been under Clinton and the
Republicans had always hated it it had
been what had brought the iran-contra
stuff to light and made it impossible
for the Bush administration the George
HW Bush administration to make that go
away and the old wall had a hair-trigger
requirement to report upon demand by
Congress at least a report any evidence
of possible criminal misconduct by
executive branch officials to the
District of Columbia federal court to
appoint a special prosecutor so the
special prosecutor would would
investigate and perhaps prosecute
because of a possible conflict of
interest that's expired and then to be
clear that was the Independent Counsel
law we still have special counsels but
those are appointed by the Department of
Justice like we had with robert muller
it was called the independent counsel
all that's correct and they were
appointed by the by the court itself the
Department of Justice had to provide
them resources but they acted
independently with all the powers of
Department of the Department of Justice
and that expired and you know in the and
Gorsuch Burford matter the Department of
Justice said we don't have to prosecute
or mean the statue says that we have to
but we don't have to the inherent power
of the President to prosecute or not
but but there was sitting out there that
independent council law and Congress
could have required the court to appoint
a special prosecutor and an independent
counsel to proceed or not and that's
expired and I think since then and
certainly what is happening now everyone
involved nutballs knows there's no way
in the world the Department of Justice
the bar Department of Justice is going
to bring anybody it's not gay it's going
to file a complaint against anybody for
ignoring a subpoena from any committee
of Congress except one may be headed
about Lindsey Graham and so they don't
work they don't they aren't worried
about chronic criminal prosecution
nobody's worried about going to jail and
they're so they thumbed their nose at
Congress you can't send us to jail you
can't do anything to us for you and we
should say that back in I guess it was
in 88 the the or in and the I should say
prior to that but just in that era
you're talking about the Congress had
basically raised floated the idea of an
appointment of Independent Counsel for
possible criminal charges against Ted
Olson yeah who was they had in fact done
it and and they and the DC Court had
appointed a special a Independent
Counsel and Olson and they were just
spoiling for the fight Olson and the
others of the other writers and the
administration they were spoiling for
the chance to challenge the
constitutionality of the Independent
Counsel law because from their point of
view just every syllable the law was an
intrusion on the president's
constitutional powers and they they
moved to quash the subpoena that had
been issued to Ted Olson and to declare
the Independent Counsel law
unconstitutional it went to the Supreme
Court and they got their asses handed to
them it was a seven to one decision I
think when I think Kennedy had just been
appointed the court and he didn't
participate but it was by Rehnquist and
Rehnquist said no problem here there's a
an inherent conflict of interest and
looking back at the the history of the
Constitution of convention they were the
delegates and those others at the time
were did not want that strong precedent
an unchecked president and they did want
there to be
even if circumstances suggested there
was a reason for it inter inter branch
appointment so that Congress could
appoint people who would serve in the
executive branch was just to the to the
Regan dice to the rightest and the
administration was just apostasy I mean
they got clobbered and the only the only
one who voted with him went with him was
Scalia so okay so this sets the table
obviously the the Democrats allowed this
lauda lapse because in the wake of the
Clinton years yeah it was a kid star
thing but it's not just that like
everybody administration at some point
had a special council and ran and racked
up tens or even hundreds of thousand
dollars of attorneys fees and defending
it in defending the investigations and
and a lot of them had very badly damaged
reputations and there was a sense that
it had gone too far but they went from
there to nothing right the baby was
thrown out of the bath water because in
let's talk about the OLC here because I
didn't realize that Rehnquist
you said Barra followed Rehnquist Scalia
and Olson is the head of the LLC we do
all of them were on the head of the odd
they were all heads of the OLC at one
point that is just nuts to me I mean it
really because I guess I have had just a
you know obviously John you in the Bush
administration with whip or torture
memos and and that to me was I guess was
always framed by the media at the time
as sort of an aberration that it was
like you know that it was
a one-off and it and it seems like once
the special counsel or I should say the
independent counsel law sunsets the OLC
just becomes completely right ripe for
some type of corruption because there's
no way to hold anybody to account if the
OLC and the DOJ essentially do not see
themselves as an independent watchdog of
the president correct and even even
after an administration changes it would
be very very difficult to bring a
criminal prosecution against someone who
disobeyed the law during the previous
administration if there was a no LC
office of legal counsel opinion saying
that you were doing the right thing that
the that the statute that you were
ignoring is unconstitutional so you
should do what the president tells you
and it's a essentially
get-out-of-jail-free card it's it's it's
like a prospective pardon for conduct
that has not yet been committed and yes
the potential for abuse there is
enormous and yes and the pitch that that
potential has been fully realized
repeatedly for the last 30 years okay
well let's talk let's talk about where
what bars role in this so after the
Reagan administration losses in all of
their attempts like what and and
specifically the the the Rehnquist
decision that you can have you know the
the Independent Counsel laws no problem
bar then sort of steps in at that point
and what does he do to sort of limit
that I mean this is really sort of the
beginning of the end on some level even
though we have to wait until after the
Clinton administration to get rid of
that law yeah well he became the first
head of the ALC the Office of Legal
Counsel in George HW Bush administration
and less than a year after the decision
on the only independent
a flaw worsened by olfin he wrote an
opinion as head of LC a memorandum that
was distributed widely through the
executive branch that said the name it
was 10 commonly in cruised congressional
intrusions on presidential power
something like that but it was a very
belligerent militant memo that the
Congress by statute is intruding on
presidential power and we need to be on
the Losh forward and we need to resist
it and the way to resist it isn't about
challenge challenging it in court or by
vetoing laws which could be overridden
by Congress it is by simply ignoring it
and really all of the the language from
that memo has continued to even though
that memo was supposedly pulled back in
the clinton ministration that memo has
become kind of the the touchstone for
just about every claim of executive
power by the right-wing simpson I mean
isn't that claim basically you and what
army pretty much yeah they can't do
nothing about it
so we can do what we want I mean it's
it's it's kind of given a higher tone
it's a it sounds more principled but you
know that's basically yet yeah they
can't challenge us we're the ones who
who enforce the laws and they can say
what they want but we're not going to
enforce the law against ourselves and
once once they pass or pass their laws
they're done with it and we decide what
it means and whether to enforce it or
not so I mean let's let's skip ahead
here to to present day once bar
introduces that that concept and that it
and he introduces that concept even
before the Independent Counsel law is
gone so not only has he then established
like we don't have to listen to anybody
else he what happens ultimately after
the Clinton years and maybe I don't know
I mean I'm this is complete conjecture
on my part but I wonder if part
of this push to sort of prove to the
Democrats like you don't want this
independent council law because we're
gonna abuse the heck out of it
was to get rid of it because at that
point then there's no other vehicle I
think probably that will that that may
be true but it was also just
opportunistic they were trying to do
damage as Hillary Clinton's favorite
famous phrase was a vast right-wing
conspiracy they were seized upon seizing
upon anything that smelled slightly
wrong and and suggesting that it was
there that there was evidence of
criminal wrongdoing and and asked for a
special counsel and a great many were
appointed but you know what the the
peace and American prospect does lay out
a lot of what the OLC opinions claimed
in the George W Bush administration what
I think it was really being pushed by
Cheney and all the other the at like a
doesn't matter yes Addison yes Addison
yeah I mean if you saw a movie Vice I
think those guys were just as sinister
as they were portrayed in the movie yeah
yeah I know I and and and you know you
get in a little bit into the attorney
general a firing scandal I mean this all
has to do with the politicization of the
Department of Justice right but the OLC
it to me the the the corrupting of that
process I think is is the most
problematic because there's this and
people should understand the Office of
Legal Counsel just to be clear it
basically functions as the do J's
in-house Supreme Court right I mean they
decide except for there's no you know
there's no sir you know they don't have
to grant cert cert and they don't have
to you know it's just like we have a
question on the legality of doing this
let's go down the hall and then bill
will tell us at OLC if we can do it or
not the write up a memo they they get
together they figure out you know
theoretically what the legal argument is
but there's no way to question it so it
really doesn't matter how flimsy it all
is and and we in fact don't know what
opinions say because of a very small
percentage are published I mean this is
a really messed up way of doing it so
let me ask you I have two questions I
mean one is in the in the immediate term
where obviously
laws that were passed by a Democratic
Congress cannot be passed by would not
be passed by a Republican Senate what
power does the Congress have I mean if
they have the ability before to appoint
an independent council which could then
put into a legal jeopardy these various
players who might say like hey I'm not
going to jail for Donald Trump or
whoever it is they don't have that
ability more what ability do they have
that you perceive them as not using is
it just inherent contempt no I don't
think so and and I promised Dave day and
I'll write another piece for American
Prospect on what I had well I think the
reform is coming out of this ought to be
there that are competent to the
post-watergate reforms I think there
there's a Supreme Court case and in fact
a long tradition and a recent Ninth
Circuit decision that says that courts
having inherent power to appoint a
special prosecutor for contempt of court
because contempt of court is so
important to the courts ability to exert
its own power that they can't depend
upon the president so if they turn it
over the executive branch and the
executive branch that's no we're not
going to prosecute that then the court
can appoint an independent counsel to
prosecute it for them I think that one
they ought to try that now they ought to
petition the court and say look at this
this the Supreme Court decision on
contempt of court the same thing should
apply to contempt of Congress appointing
special process and independent counsel
but even if they don't do that or they
try that and they don't win they all
enact a statute a narrower work
independent council statute for contempt
of Congress perjury before Congress
false statements to Congress obstruction
of congressional investigations
conspiracy to do any of that because
it's very clear that
executive branch cannot be made to do
that if they are willing to take the
political consequences from not doing it
and which of course the Trump
administration is doing and the Trump
administration is ignoring all
congressional subpoenas and people
weren't even in the administration there
are these two Russians who were the guys
who introduced Giuliani to Ukrainian
officials who've been subpoenaed by for
a congressional investigation they said
we're not gonna give you Dawkins we're
not going to show up get the Department
of Justice to prosecute us good luck
with that right and that you know that's
got to change because until that changes
Congress has effectively no oversight
power and I introduced legislation to do
that a decade ago and on the OLC Russ
Feingold introduced in the Senate and I
introduced a companion to the same bill
in the house that would have required
with certain narrow exceptions opinions
by the Office of Legal Counsel be
published so we could know what they're
telling what they're saying their powers
are at the very least the Congress can
do something about it and I would go
further now and I would say that an
opinion of the office of legal counsel
you cannot say that you relied upon that
in a criminal prosecution
that's a defense in a criminal
prosecution and that would greatly cut
in I think to the pieces of the OFC law
the worldly OLC well it and and a set of
House members I should tell you they are
is somewhat bipartisan I can't remember
who they are but within the last two
weeks has introduced legislation very
like what Russ Feingold and I introduced
a decade ago interesting and and what of
inherent contempt I mean assuming that
Congress doesn't pass anything in the
short term can Nancy Pelosi say all
right we're doing this you you know you
don't Mike Pompeo you don't give us the
documents I'm sending the
sergeant-at-arms to go out and put you
in the Congress the Congressional
dungeon or whatever it is or
or or we're just going to you're gonna
rack up $2,000 a day and fines and at
one point you we're gonna go to court
and you can roll the dice because maybe
in a year you're gonna oh you know I
don't know three hundred thousand
dollars or something yeah
there's also legislation to do that I
think I'm not sure it's been introduced
but there's independent group something
like good government now I think it's
the name of its proposed it but with a
limit of twenty five thousand dollars
for a civil fine and that was part of
the bill that I introduced a decade ago
as well to allow civil civil fines a
problem with inherent contempt with
executive branch officials is you're
sending out the capital police and the
sort of arms to take somebody into
custody who's got protection by law
enforcement officers from the executive
branch and I really don't like the out
of a firefight an armed confrontation
between the Capitol Police and and the
FBI or this or is the Secret Service
there's got to be a better way to do it
than that but it with respect to others
who aren't an executive branch and and
and both of them by the way would be
assuming that they were taking orders
proper orders from above right
the Capitol Police it takes somebody in
custody the Secret Service not to allow
someone to be taken into custody but
with respect to others I have suggested
within the last year during this
confrontation that like the accounting
firm czars use inherent contempt a bit
against them
and they haven't been saying they won't
turn over stuff I mean they the non
government officials are saying yeah you
just force just tell us what to do and
we'll do it we have got no interesting
one to jail over this but it there are
problems there are limits to inherent
contempt
obvi I there obviously and by the way I
thought Jerry Nadler got unfairly
criticized for not doing more about
Corey lewandowski's testimony where you
know he was just a thug thumbs his nose
and there isn't anything this
to a bench warrant there was no way that
that Jerry could have said to the
sergeant arms okay go detain him until
his attitude has improved and then and
then we'll hear his testimony there
really isn't a way to do that but there
there should be a way to get it at least
some potential witnesses in a way that
they have to worry about it yeah well I
hope at the very least what comes out of
that is is some type of reform package
for this that that passes in Congress
well it's a fascinating piece and would
love to have you back on when you do
write that piece for the american
prospect on the solutions former
representative Brad Miller the piece is
the 40 year war in The American Prospect
we'll put a link to that at majority dot
F M thanks so much again for your time
all right thanks Sam
