[Music]
Pete Buddha judge was doing a fox
townhall and he did so and I just want
to say this Pete Buddha judge
understands that there is a problem
going on a network like Fox I don't know
if he came up with this idea himself it
may have been from pushback when he
announced that he was going on he
understands that there was a problem and
so he had to go on there and show his
bona fides in terms of calling out that
network people judge has made similar
smart moves lately he was going to I
guess go on Dave Rubin show and then
somehow he found out that Mike Tsarevich
was gonna be on that show and he decided
not to go on now who could blame him
because you know Mike Tsarevich is a
smear artist who and here Matt just put
this up because I'm not sure not a
hundred percent sure how Buddha gage
Buddha judges people found out that
Serna vich was going on that day it's
it's hard to know how these things get
public Oh what's this is a tweet oh I
guess I now I remember I asked if people
voted judge knew that date rape denier
and smear merchant mike Serna was
going to be on his show that day I don't
because that we heard a rumor that that
was the case it turned out it was but it
wasn't just booking thing Pete yeah I
mean here's the thing do you really want
to accept an invitation to a show right
after Mike Serna vich has been on that
show and not on that show to be indicted
for his work but rather as a Reformation
project
I would love to know the backstory of
how that happened because some people
say certain of it you are working with
turning points I don't know if that's
true and I know that Dave Rubin was just
at a turning points event maybe maybe
that was just a suggestion anyways let's
get back to Pete Budaj
on Fox News where he realized like you
can't go on platforms that are designed
to promote some of the worst aspects of
society
and at the very least not address it and
here is Buddha judge doing that the
other thing we've got to do is we've got
to find people where they are you know a
lot of folks in my party we're critical
of me for even doing this with Fox News
and I've heard that and I get where
that's coming from especially when you
see what goes on with some of the
opinion hosts on this network I mean
when you got Tucker Carlson saying that
immigrants make America dirty when
you've got Laura Ingraham comparing
detention centers with children and
cages to summer camps summer camps then
there is a reason why anybody has to
swallow hard and think twice before
participating in this media ecosystem
but I also believe that even though some
of those hosts are not always there in
good faith I think a lot of people tuned
into this Network who do it in good
faith and and there are a lot of
Americans who my party can't blame if
they are ignoring our message because
they will never hear it if we don't go
on and talk about it and so it's why
whether it's going into the viewership
of Fox News or whether geographically
it's going into places where Democrats
haven't been seen much I think we've got
to find people where they are not change
our values but update our vocabulary so
that we're truly connecting with
Americans for coast to coast okay now I
mean I think you know and there's
there's obviously an argument like well
maybe you should also deliver certain
material benefits to those people as
opposed to messaging but let's just keep
it on the messaging front the reason why
Peabody judge would do Fox and has to
throw that in so that he acknowledges on
far
what these people are doing as opposed
to Dave Rubin is that look Dave Rubin
you're not reaching anybody who you
couldn't reach through Fox and or
through all the other mainstream outlets
so there's a fundamental difference
there in that calculation now Dave Rubin
obviously thinks very highly about his
his reach and who he is reaching and
certainly at least if you believe the
numbers on YouTube now I know there's a
lot of people out there who say things
like hey can't you buy YouTube views
yeah I just googled buy YouTube views
and you can buy YouTube views I don't
know if that's the case but let's just
assume it's not the case let's just
assume that YouTube keeps D monetizing
Dave Reubens videos according to him for
no reason whatsoever that maybe has
nothing to do with having paid views or
maybe nothing to do with what those
audience members had watched before that
tells the algorithm this material might
be very very ad unfriendly even though
on its face it doesn't appear to be you
follow what I'm saying there like for
instance I'm convinced that the YouTube
algorithm knows where our audience has
been oh yeah
and if our audience say was watching a
lot of hate videos and they came and
watched my video with Peter Dow I'm
convinced that they would that Google
would automatically D monetize because
they can't tell what I'm saying with
Peter Dow they just know that like if
these guys are watching for hate videos
a day and they go to watch the fifth
video there's good reason to believe
that fifth video might be a little bit
dubious and that seems to but now I
don't know I don't know I'm this is all
speculation or like maybe those are
recent changes until quite recently like
oh the fifth hate video that's excellent
yeah monetize
I don't think red ibly well I don't
algorithms but for some reason Dave
Rubin stuff gets demonetised a lot if
you believe his Twitter feed but also
according to his Twitter feed he gives
congratulations to Media Matters Vox and
HuffPo because Pete Buddha judge is
passing on our interview he goes on to
say it's a shame because I think he's a
decent man and we have some agreement in
some disagreement we could have opened
up a whole new audience to him I don't
think there is a whole new audience to
him I don't new but and and I think that
he as a politician has a very good
assessment as to whether it would have
been a net positive or negative 19 year
old chronic who came and
think black people are just too to say
to thank Media Matters Vox and HuffPo
for two reasons one it's it's clearly
not a function of them just saying don't
do it it's them saying like look who you
were having on Dave and also like to not
give me credit I think is also a little
offensive now let me just also dispel
one other theory there were people who
have who have deemed me and have emailed
me who say that they believe Dave had
Mike son of ajahn has a way of telling
me to eff off because he did it he
booked him right after those series of
questions why won't you talk to Sam
cedar and in public that were videotaped
and there's been some speculation that
Mike's heard of it now I just want to
say that did not work out for you Dave I
was happy to see what happened but you
made a decision to go for the clicks and
maybe there's money in it for you in
some fashion or another to have Mike's
turn of ajaan I mean because you've had
him on before it's not like Serna vich
has done anything new I don't know what
ideas you're talking about with Mike
Serna you didn't question him on
his role in his biggest failure to date
which was his work with me it's
interesting that he talked about the
James that he I listen to that full
interview and Ruben talked as if he was
going to get into all the things that
you've been doing since then some are
controversial like trolling got a deep
into the James Gunn thing didn't mention
the Sam see things yeah a little weird
about that because it wasn't like it
didn't get written up in the New York
Times in the Washington Post long as
Wikipedia there is a conflict with Sam
cedar section there's not a conflict
with James Gunn's session that's weird
but that's fake news but talking about
ideas but Dave let me just say this
sorry about Pete Budaj it's a real shame
that you don't have me on because maybe
we could agree about some stuff maybe
some of your audience would be
interested in hearing from me
oh no and so you don't have to do this
whole thing where you go and book people
who tried to get me fired publicly and
then ended up being humiliated that
whole like games play you can just be
straight with me and asked me to come on
don't be trying to get my attention
mission accomplished I will come on Dave
you just have to you just have to say
the words I think if I remind him of his
greatest matter and professional
accomplishment he'll get the message not
 with me anymore miscalculated oh
wait it didn't have its intended effect
on cedar and now I don't keep the talk
with me and Pete I lost the battle
Edward
