[Music]
talk about what we have going on in the
primary all the numbers have been
released yeah I was wondering for a
while why Warren didn't release her
number and I thought it's either bad not
like terrible bad but middling or it's
really good and she wants the day to
herself yeah
and it turned out uh it was it was
interesting it it was right a hair
beneath Bernie good numbers like for
anyone but still worse numbers than
Bernie and Bernie came right out the
gate with his numbers which was a gamble
on his team smart because presumably
they did not know for sure what Warren's
numbers were and if Warren said uh oh
that's cute 25 million I got 40 million
they would have looked like
yeah but instead that's probably just a
good outcome what's ironic here is
Warren's average donation well 26 $27
$27 was famously the burning donation
this time around
Bernie's average is 18 and he has I
think about 1.3 million donors 1 he has
1 million donors a 1.3 million was the
number of donations oh ok ok because
usually people will chip in 10 20 bucks
every time they see something that
pisses them off on the Internet
so 1 million donors and about 99 percent
of them have not maxed out so that means
that there's a lot of growth there I
don't I haven't seen the the comparable
set of numbers for Warren I think she
had something like now has close to 700
thousand donors and coming in with 24
points something million in Bernie a
formidable 5 point yes I'm curious what
the overlap is as well that would be
interesting sure if there's any way to
collate that actually there might be
because all of that it would be not only
I'm sure they well it is all public data
in fact I think they they track those I
know I've talked the promised some of
the data is corrupted you know because
people just think they enter in their
information in weird ways right and as
well I don't think for instance if I
donate to Bernie if I'm assigned an FEC
tracking number so all of my donations
have that tracking number I guess is
what I'm saying so you would have to
look up my name
so if like John's there's gonna be you
know thousands of John Smith's donating
I would like to know who these people
are who maxed out on their Bernie
donations I feel like it's literally
just the members of Vampire Weekend and
maybe some of you guys one of my
colleagues did yeah I won't tell you who
but what a my colleagues do not also
been want to maintain dear
I would not be it was not me I'll tell
you that you'll have to do some shoe
leather reporting if you want to get to
the bottom of who I know to people who I
think maxed out early early early yeah
all right well that's and we should say
Biden danc'd Biden did 15 million and
which is fine if you're not Joe Biden
right I mean if you're Pete Buddha judge
it won't really make a blue before we
what everyone can blue to judge is 19
that's that's pretty good that was the
lower than his last quarter yeah he's in
it I mean I think he has he has
resilient donors and I don't know I mean
I think it's he's a guy who's going to I
don't know what he does is it an
investment in the future you'd run
incredible race you go to you get a talk
show on MSNBC or something then you run
nationally you could run his vice
president if he doesn't get picked his
vice president my guess would be he has
to run national in a different state
because that's like why we've been doing
this whole exercise national and a
different so I'm saying he can't run for
Senate or even Congress in Indiana
presumably probably not maybe a
different guy I mean there's a reason
why this the mayor of like what is it
the third or fourth largest city in the
state is running for president it's kind
of the whole exa is kind of ridiculous
but he couldn't I don't think he would
have had a viable Senate run and if he
did he would have lost then he would be
done yeah I have no idea what his future
plans are but so all right let me ask
you this because yesterday I had on Eric
Levitz to talk about his piece I don't
know if you've read that in the I do not
and and the argument that he makes is
that at least in the context of domestic
politics cuz I think he he concedes that
Bernie has a better form
and in the context of of where American
politics will probably be for the next
president assuming it's either Bernie a
warrant that that makes a difference and
that that is I think he says you know
that is a valid sort of a place to
differentiate between the two candidates
but his argument is and I summed it up
for I gave him this analogy and and and
he accepted it as a as a basically broad
statement on his piece was that Bernie
may be going 70 miles may be a vehicle
that can go 70 miles an hour and Warren
is one that can go let's say 60 miles an
hour and Biden is one that can go 30
miles an hour but it's a 50 mile an hour
speed limit the constraints of American
politics are gonna be such on any
president that their ability despite the
fact that Bernie's plans may be more
ambitious and and more universal that
their ability to implement these you
know are going to be constrained on
either one of them well what do you make
of that argument and that the the
distinctions that people are trying to
make between Warren and Bernie are
therefore at least in domestic politics
a little bit overblown if the
constraints are the problem then remove
the constraints the fact that we have a
a react to these reactionary
institutions that would presumably
prevent even the most modest
redistribution of wealth or modest
threats to private profit or private
property in this country that's just a
reason to give up and that's that that
shows how much we suffer from a a lack
of imagination that there can be and any
economic system that is at all different
from the one that we have well and I
know in practical terms that can mean
things like statehood for DC that can
mean things like packing the Supreme
Court which thinks you could do with a
bare majority that also means realigning
things that means going to places like
West Virginia
or Kansas that used to be a little in
West Virginia's case used to be reliable
Democratic votes and that means
realigning the Democratic Party itself
so that it is not the party that just
represents coastal and college town
intellectuals well also think about
their ability to deal with these
constraints they are not the same they
don't have the same strategy they don't
have the same approach I think Elizabeth
Warren's approach is more one of
technical technocracy and plans and
Bernie's approach is one of building a
movement that lasts past the election
which is something I think he
understands better than anyone else
running by far it's something Obama
didn't really understand like it's read
some of Megan day's pieces in Jacobin I
think I'm like exactly the kind of labor
movement and the kind of grassroots
power that would be necessary for Bernie
to pass anything that he's trying to do
that just doesn't exist with anyone else
right and and and and levites address
this by saying that that that that
theory the the idea that under Stander's
you will realign the Democratic Party in
such a way that will be that will cross
the sort of the partisan lines that we
have now on some level it has been not
borne out by results in 2018 that the
the issue sets and whatnot have not gone
there his argument is that he starts it
with is that the left at this point is
not as strong as it would appear all
that procedure no base yes all
superstructure no big 2080 you still
Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer's party
sold the party of big DC donors the
party hadn't changed just because
lefties one of handful of primaries
right and I think his argument is that
that the party won't be materially
different in 2020 either
I think if Bernie Sanders were the
nominee it would be the beginning of
that process and I'm not sure how rapid
that process could take but something
that hardens me is seeing these videos
of billionaires like the billionaire
founder of home depot I forget his name
how ken Langone yeah TV and saying you
know I Bernie Sanders again sir I think
we should get rid of Bernie Sanders
right so that's it yeah Blackstone guy
that's the Blackstone guy okay look they
both said that actually Oakland said get
rid of it too much yeah they keep they
keep coming out against the guy and it's
very obvious that his message which is
specifically labor oriented he's a
threat to them I had the opportunity
last week to interview Bernie Sanders
and I don't know if you had a chance to
watch that interview no I heard it just
got released yeah I just got dropped
this morning and you know we had a
far-reaching discussion he had seen the
Joker already all the Senators get a
screener for it and yeah he's Pro he
wants all the supporters to watch it and
take their inspiration from that film he
will learn
he will reverse the Joule ban oh yeah
and yeah he's and you know he's gonna
make no I'm sorry I had a third thing
for you well but but I guess I know I
mean I anyway I'm sorry so essentially
what I asked was along these lines and
but with the context of you say you know
you want to be the organizer in chief
you know what does what does this
actually mean like what does bottom-up
political change look like what what
does labor militancy look like how does
that actually affect change how does
that relate to the institutions that a
president or a member of Congress must
navigate and how does your you and York
how do you in your campaign intersect
with that and then the in the days
leading up to that interview he had been
in Chicago where the Chicago Teachers
Union voted they had a rally John Cusack
there was there for some reason and they
voted by like ninety nine percent to
approve a strike right and he gave this
you know this this fire
and speech there where he called out
Lori Lightfoot the Democrat mayor of
Chicago by name and he told them that
you are fighting a class war then he
flew to Michigan and he spoke at a UAW
picket they're entering now the third
week of their strike against GM and he
said told him much the same thing the
labor movement what remains of the labor
movement loves Murray because they share
his conception of power and change right
and when when when he talks about labor
militancy that means a labor movement
that is not just trying to defend what
they have that's not on the backfoot
tourism yes time - exactly and yeah and
they're trying to you know they're
expanding I think and it goes beyond
it's just what they're getting right
right that that the teachers the Chicago
Teachers strike was was sort of the
modern paradigm shifter for that the the
first one yeah eight years ago right
followed by the g3 strikes at the rest
of the country the but the the point
remains I mean I think all that's true
and I think that I think that Levites
would would concede that but I think the
question is is where are we on that
point like will will we know if the left
has that strength if this strategy is
working I mean will it seems to me that
we'll know if he wins Iowa despite the
fact that the polling shows that he
won't now we'll know that I mean if he
can't win those early states is that
indicative of the fact that the left is
still not where it needs to be for that
for that attempt to be a factor in
creating legislation and policies in
these changes in the year 2021 we in
2020 to answer your question we know the
left isn't where it needs to be because
by and large the anti-capitalist left is
still mostly intellectuals college
students and like and the idea is that
like that that
very small strata downwardly mobile
millennials from the middle-class right
will do who many of whom do actually
have bit serious material concerns
they're not yeah we're not not the
working class we're just a small slice
of the working class and we need to be
the entire working class in order to win
more of the leisure class but I see what
you're saying the idea is that this
small strata links up and radicalizes
the much bigger working class space and
that hasn't happened yet but it's not
it's not a process that you know
lightning strikes and like everything
blows up but I think there are times
when nothing happens that I think
there's times what a lot of things
happen to end as well what the Bernie
Sanders campaign is that is the vehicle
to do that to bring that project into
fruition is to radicalize people because
he is a weird man he is a weird old man
who talks in a thick Brooklyn accent
Wraith dynamic a seer virgin from
Vermont but people listen to him people
perceive him as being on their side
because his entire life he has spoken
about people's material concerns he
doesn't get wrapped up in you know the
flavor of the day yeah I agree with
everything you're saying I think there's
just a there's a couple of different
things that I've gleaned from looking
over the Levitt piece so one is I think
that some of the some of it is that the
left is is weak and that's true I don't
think any even including the people he's
critiquing and Jack Abbott deny that
everybody accepts that the left needs to
be then is the theory of change
compelling then how big an actual
material difference is there in terms of
what kind of policy second get
implemented right like these are kind of
the different lanes he's dealing with
right I think that I mean and I won't
replicate what Virgil said I I'm still
compelled by the movement argument and
distinct value proposition of what
Sanders is doing just even in the sense
that I think that what he's doing is
generating you know you will talk to
people who say oh in 2016 I volunteered
for his campaign
a labor organizer you know you still get
that unparallel kind of outgrowth of
that okay all the time I think yeah
exactly I think though that there's
another kind of interesting tension in
the piece and honestly maybe I should
reread it but I'm a little confused on
because on one hand he's look I I think
that it's fine to note that Warren is
kind of playing a dual strategy where
she's running a center-left reform
campaign and then also reaching out to
Hillary Clinton and I don't I think that
that's just true right like it doesn't
need to be like sees she's a secret
sellout we hate her but I think it's
also yeah there's a different approach
here and that's fine he addresses that
he addresses it but I think it's in turn
he's doing the same well ray and I feel
like in Jean your argument on that is a
mistake because of course they're doing
the same thing in terms of reaching out
the super-delegates and so on although I
think the maybe the soliciting of
Clinton's opinion is a bit different
than having a super delegate strategy
but he goes on to say that and this is
actually where I I'm not sure I would
read this the same way because he says
that maybe maybe that in in light of
these facts it's not conceivable that a
president more closely aligned with the
Democratic Party and less openly hostile
to its key power centers would actually
be able to get senators like Jon Tester
and Kristen Sinema to swallow marginally
more progressive legislation in 2021
than a president with an independent
public ID political identity who
projected contempt for their wing of the
party and you know I see what he's
saying but I actually think that they're
there that actually loops back to the
advantage that Bernie has in a general
election with his independent brands
because when you look at people like
tester and cinema they're infinitely to
the right of Bernie but they also get a
lot of mileage themselves out of
projecting contempt on democratic power
centers and I think that that might
actually end up working like you say all
the time Sam in terms of people's less
policy more dispositional focus I mean I
that's a looping advantage in my opinion
I think I think I I mean I love is not
really making an argument about
electability in the general election
and I think that while he was thinking
about getting legislation he's talking
about legend yeah I actually think that
that could work I think a guy that could
go to a place like Montana more
plausibly and say hey John you and I
both kind of you know roller eyes a
Chuck Schumer or however the hell you
put it work with me to push this anti DC
agenda is a much more compelling way of
pressuring somebody like John tester
then John tester going like hey you know
Montana folks I'm not voting for this
big act break up bill because he's
insufficiently deferential to national
Democrats that you hate well I don't
think it's I don't I don't think that
was what I mean I think Levites would
concede that it could go either way I
think that's the thing is he's arguing
is that it is you can make a rational
argument on either way that someone who
plays an inside game has the ability and
doesn't come with the baggage of being
anti-capitalist in a you know in a
redder state that may you know or with
corporate Democrats even may may have an
easier time but I think he would also
concede it's also possible that Bernie
may speak to people there and create
more pressure for like a Joe Manchin
let's say I mean I mean I think that's
the that I mean I think it's like when
he says centrist Democrats is what some
part of our job that's just legitimately
hard right because like you know Chris
Coons yes probably more likely that he
can sit down and have a drink with
Elizabeth Warren and be persuaded on
some derivative regulation if it doesn't
contradict his donor base too much but I
think a central a centrist Democrat that
represents a place like West Virginia or
Montana it's almost entirely predicated
on somebody being able to go to that
state like that with credibility and say
work I'm against the establishment dot
time to you know put your money where
your mouth yeah here's the thing about
red states and they talk about this a
lot on trill Billie Workers Party which
is one of my favorite podcast right now
they're in Kentucky red states like
Kentucky the conventional wisdom is oh
you need to run a moderate because it's
a mixture of demo
some Republicans but like no red states
have some of the highest rates of
poverty and the lowest rates of voting
and those two things are connected so if
you have somebody who's speaking to
people's material interests who's
standing up against the Democratic Party
establishment which has screwed them
over and over again when they've been in
power that's gonna make more of a case
to people who've dropped out and who are
disenfranchised I don't know if it's
gonna work or not
there are a lot of factors working
against it I I am somewhat moved by the
idea that you're gonna do better if you
offer material benefit to people but I
mean Elizabeth Warren is you know
there's a difference between her policy
set and and Bernie Sanders but it is to
the left and naming em and enemies I
mean she she I think talks about Wall
Street yeah there been any fan I mean I
think talk about Wall Street from
different dialects you know I think
that's true I think that's why I just
don't think there are people in Kentucky
who are saying we vote for Republicans
because when Democrats are in power they
are screwing us over no no people don't
vote because Democrats are screwing them
over and they don't think either party's
gonna do anything for them and they're
usually right do you think though and
this is about turnout not persuasion
yeah I just I think Kentucky it's not
gonna how do you think though this is a
decade's long argument do you think
though if if Democrats have been
delivering over the past three decades
that you would that it was the very
least would present a real conflict for
somebody if as an example there's social
inclinations contradicted their economic
ones if they could say there is one
National Party that I disagree with
because on immigration or whatever but
they actually really are delivering for
me in terms of killing something like
NAFTA I think we would have a very
different national politics if that was
the case over the last I think I I think
even more to the point if the Democrats
had done more to support unions they'd
have an apparatus there you go people
out and I don't know that the individual
voter would be making some type of
calculation like that yeah of course
that's the thing that's what we need to
regenerate yeah I mean I mean I guess
the the point is is
point of like when I look at Warren's
you know and I I think that if there's a
20% chance or a 10% chance that Bernie's
going to be able to actually do that
realignment then it's worth it
in my mind but the the distinction
between Warren's labor plan which calls
for not all but many of the same things
that Bernie had does the I don't think
that I think both of them are going to
receive a similar reception in the
context of being able to legislate for
it now I think that I if I could jump in
here yes I I don't need to know the
details I don't care about the plans and
non-voters don't need to know the
details and they don't care either
they you vote for a representative
because you want someone to figure out
the details someone else has to figure
that out
you know it's your luck you're not
getting screwed because someone in the
bureaucracy didn't carry the - that's
not the problem here they they and I
want to know are you on my site do you
represent my interests and if you erase
class distinctions as we've done in the
past 40 years pretend that they don't
exist then everyone's gonna have a
really muddled idea of what that means
being on my side and chances are you're
just going to resort to cultural
signifiers I think that the birdee
campaign is the only one that has a
chance of breaking through that it's
it's not it's it's a process that I
think would be slow but I think that
it's already from his first campaign
through today already bearing fruit I
think it's it's already generating that
kind of change it's it's certainly
realigned the way Democrats talk about
things we'll do that guys IP boo to
judge pander to voters for instance and
ultimately I think that if the Elizabeth
Warren campaign radicalizes you it's
they radicalize you to vote for
Elizabeth Warren
if the
Bernie Sanders campaign radicalizes you
it's to join a late change opinion or
make your labor union more militant
absolutely yeah or get involved in your
local DSA chapter like I know people in
DSA who are I would say on the left pole
of DSA right now they've gone to
political ad they're like oh yeah
Bernie's not even a socialist I know now
that he's a Social Democrat and I'm a
communist they came in because of Bernie
Sanders in 2016 and that's an amazing
fact to me I think like right now
there's obviously I mean there's one
tendency which is ridiculous on the on
some of the sort of Warren adjacent to
really try to erase the vital
differences and then I think there's a
countervailing tendency in some of the
sort of not certainly not in his
campaign but in the Sanders world to
sort of exaggerate you know Warren's
negatives and these things are kind of
obvious they're expected during a
campaign but I don't neither of those
moves are necessary to really clearly
delineate some very large differences
here um and I and I think the approach
does matter a lot because there's long
term implications to it as well I
actually think Obama I mean Obama is
even more problematic because I don't
wanna did build a movement we said all
the time he built a movement that was
literally personality centric and then
dissembled it and you know that's that
is I mean that's neither warren nor what
Sanders is doing right I mean that is
just building up this beautiful car and
then saying like oh I'm on the inside
now I don't want it to compete with me I
mean literally yes we just we just built
the world's fastest it's a electric
Lamborghini all right well that's good I
I advertised yesterday that we would
have the a mirror convert a mirror image
conversation of the one we had yesterday
with a Levites I mean I think pretty
much I mean I think like the the you
know the the the the I think the
argument is is that really in my mind
that you can lose better one way than
another way and that
that losing these legislative fights
with Bernie Sanders as opposed to losing
them with Elizabeth Warren is actually
beneficial long term politics in this
country because how you lose I mean it's
on some level it's similar to my
impeachment argument they're not going
to get him out of office
yeah they are what the Democrats are
doing is they're signifying we're gonna
hold them into account and to the extent
that we can hold it to account it's
topped by Republicans here and it has
implications for politics not because
you're not going to be facing Donald
Trump but you're going to be facing
you're going to be able to do a lot more
structural difference in terms of
Republicans across the board and I think
there's a similar dynamic with Bernie
Sanders going out there having the same
exact fight that Elizabeth Warren is
having that the way that they fight and
lose will be different and will have
more value
broadly speaking to progressive politics
in the future why only you know I had
the chance to talk to Bernie for about
20 minutes they let me go a little long
and I wish I usually give me about 21
are you that's not big deal well they
did give me they did let me go long so
ultimately I got about 30 well that's
fine I mean I do my pre-interview to
write you at the divac's exclusive you
know for high donor lounge the high
donor lounge Bernie was like oh you're
gonna have Levites on the concern troll
screw you serve seven minutes but I wish
I had more time because I I would love
to hear Bernie articulate this point
further and my producer Chris we were
talking about the interview afterwards
and he said you know the one thing that
I want to answer it is okay let's say
it's it's February 20 21 and you know
you have the the the Medicare for all
bill you know banned private health
insurance to nationalize health
insurance on the floor and you know it's
it's it's it's not getting out of
committee you know you have a movement
you have an email list of tens of
millions at this point what what what's
your first email right what does that
say senator tell me where to throw a
brick
right interesting what did you ask him
about about the case we talked about
structural reform in terms of like those
did you ask him about the filibuster no
no no I didn't know no details stuff no
then in court packing I mean he is at
least projecting sort of a an
institutionalist perspective on these
things
I mean you know there's some argument as
to whether reconciliate
legislative strategy right I mean are
they interesting dialectic though I mean
like if you I'm thinking back to the
conversation which shot had Butare who
by the way we should we I should have
pulled it up he had an amazing
fundraising cycle raising fund raising
quarter and his challenge for Pelosi oh
good and his sort of articulation of
being a fusion of a Democratic Socialist
with like very strong constitutional
commitment the constitutional
protections I at the very least think
it's interesting that Bernie's
projecting that like on one hand I'm
going to be to organize her in chief I'm
gonna have a completely unparalleled
relationship to trying to essentially
mobilize millions of people to be
engaged in forcing Congress's hand we'll
see we don't know whether that will
succeed or not I think that's the only
remote path in terms of anything that
could possibly work and then on the
other hand I'm actually gonna sort of
mash that up with some institutional
respect which I think presumably he must
have just he must be speaking from the
perspective of somebody who sees that he
was able to thwart some damage at the
margins using this type of thing that
could be Mike my sort of my only guess
but I think it's an interesting argument
I will say this you remember the ACA
fight in 2017 in 2017 yes yeah the
repeal fight yeah yes and these scenes
of disability activists holding Dian's
at the at the US Capitol and being
arrested you know holed out of committee
meetings and things like that I think
that for Sanders to push his agenda I
think it would look a lot like that
where that active
fight is not it's not on the backfoot
it's not in the way that that union
movements have been the fortune what do
you call him fortress unionism I think
it would not be fortress activism where
this only comes out when what little we
have is now under fire and we should say
I mean not coincidentally Bernie was
immediately Criss crossing the country
holding rallies to protect the ACA at
that deal uh 2017 yeah he actually did
it that was a great example of him doing
that work all right
