so Jose let's let's just first start
with the California's fifty third
congressional district what can you tell
us about this district
absolutely the California 53rd district
and San Diego County is actually one of
the most progressive districts in the
entire in the entire county it is
actually the central portion of San
Diego is actually the highest one of the
highest concentrations of Bernie Dern
Bernie donors and actually the
fifty-third actually turned out forty
eight percent for Bernie in the primary
the eastern northern portions of the
district are very highly concentrated of
veterans and it is it is a community
that is really underserved in our in our
in our district and then you also have
the southern portion southeast portion
of the district which is a very high
concentration of Latinos so it's a it's
a very highly diverse district between
all demographics and it is it is highly
progressive as well so so that's kind of
the district in a nutshell okay and then
actually the second most populous
district as well and in the entire state
of California oh is that right Wow okay
so that's it yeah it's obviously it's a
big district and the the the district is
currently represented by Democrat Susan
Davis correct and and I think when we
scheduled this interview you were going
to be challenging her in the Democratic
primary that turns out to not be the
case what is what has happened well
Susan Davis has decided to not seek
reelection as of a few days ago which
was very shocking to a lot of people but
what I what I believe is that we've been
pushing her on the issues of Medicare
for all the green New Deal education for
all student loan debt forgiveness and
bringing them home bringing the troops
home with dignity and we've been we've
and we've also been supporting the
impeachment inquiries as well and we
moved around the green new deal with the
health of the sunrise movement and 350
earlier this
year and then she was starting getting
pressured by medicare-for-all so I
believe that our pressure and the way
the district is is is really shaky now I
think that they were afraid of being you
know Joe Crowley and an AOC coming in
and just taking the seat away from the
sleeping big mcwrap so I think they jump
ships so people like Sarah Jacobs who
just announced recently who is a
oligarch she is a billionaire as to the
Qualcomm fortune is now running for the
seat after she just got defeated in the
49th District up north and now was
shopping around for the 52nd district
when representative Scott Peters which I
was thinking about running for mayor of
San Diego but he decided to not do that
and stay in the seat and mantle she has
just jumped into this race which I think
it must be nice that millions of
millions of dollars to be able to move
around where everyone go
convenient well I'm very convenient so
you've grown up in this district is that
right for the most part well for the
most part I I got here from the United I
when I served in United States Navy in
2006 so since I was 20 years old I've
been in this district yes so I
originally I was in the state of Texas
well and let's let's talk about I mean I
don't generally go into people's you
know backgrounds too much I mean it's
relevant to the extent that you've had a
you know that folks have a you know set
of life experiences that inform who they
are today yours are pretty unique and I
mean tell us about that because it's
it's a fascinating story yes absolutely
well you know I grew up in the in the
state of Texas you know it's actually
interesting because when I was younger
up to the age of 5 actually grew up in
quite a with a little bit of affluence
you know we had the pools we had the
tennis courts we had a huge house but my
father was actually dealing with you
know dealing drugs and money laundering
so all that money was ill-gotten my
mother eventually was like you gotta
quit this and he didn't so she left and
then law caught up to him and he went to
federal prison thus leaving my life for
about seven years at that point then I
also then we moved to a small town in
Texas
called Mineral Wells it's like 12,000
people at the time where we went from
affluence to living in one house and my
grandparents home spanning seven people
spending three generations and me my
sister my mother was living in one
bedroom in that house and what was
interesting about that as well it was
also a very predominantly white town so
it really wasn't very nice to have Jose
Caballero is your name because the
schooling was very discriminatory they
didn't know maybe latias and talented
they allow me to do any of those things
so even with all that I still broke
conservative and after I persevered
through the discrimination persevered
through through the education system
taking college classes while in high
school to catch up to my peers I was
able to get into the nuclear engineering
program to the United States Navy where
I served six years as a reactor operator
and then that's what brought me to San
Diego and once I started going to school
and I actually took philosophy and
understood what an actual valid argument
was that's when my conservativeness
started to be challenged and then I went
independent then I went like diehard
Democrat and now on the progressive
Bernie crack so so it was a very very
long journey but that arc did happen and
now you know since then I you know what
my political science degree I've been
running campaigns across the county even
one in Connecticut and then I have now a
small business owner for a political
consulting firm where we run field
grassroots field campaigns for
candidates across the county Wow that's
just a that is a fascinating story that
is incredibly a varied and an impressive
as well and so let me ask you this I
mean when when you when you look at in
this county and as you know and I think
when people juxtaposed your description
of the county and your life experiences
it's quite clear you know how you match
up with this incredibly diverse County
said you know a huge significant you
know the highest concentration of Bernie
contributors in 2016 but also a
strong contingency of vets in the in the
community and Latinos I mean in in some
respects it seems that you have shared
experiences or shared a perspective with
just about you know the the all of the
major elements of this community
I imagine this was was one of the
reasons why a susan davis may have
gotten a little bit nervous about
running against you let's talk just a
little bit about how you think those
different experiences that you had
whether it was understanding you know
you know and obviously your five so you
don't fully understand what's going on
with your father at that time but the
idea of having your father go away and
having to move with your mother and
restart your life being in a you know in
a you know a fairly a difficult
environment in school where you know
kids can be cruel and certainly in terms
of racial issues that can be a problem
and then into the navy I'm just curious
as to the those different experiences
that you had you know how did that that
shape you as you're going through there
and how do you think that addresses a
lot of things that might exist in your
in your community but we'll take a break
soon and then when we come back we'll
talk about specific issues but I'm I'm
curious just from a yeah I'm a value set
show so I'm from a value set one thing
that I that all that all that life
experiences that I've had to fight for
everything in my life I have had the
fight I've had to prove myself I've had
to prove my my intellect
I've had to prove my strength I've had
to basically go against the grain of
everything that everybody was telling
these from the point from high school
when they were telling me you're either
going to join the military or just going
to go to Community College or just get a
job no one was telling me to go to
four-year university
right so it was me that went into the
Navy and said give me the hardest
intellectual job that you've got and I
persevered and fought for that and it
was very difficult going from mediocre
schooling to one of the elite you know
military schools in the entire country
and how
persevere through that and making sure
that I had to break through from from
the military of dealing with the traumas
and the abuse that the military is
engrained into the system itself and
having to develop a thick skin to be
able to emotionally cope with people who
don't have your best interests in mind
and wanna see you suffer we having to
persevere through and weather all of
that and then coming out of the military
with that sharp sharp edge that I had
which was which which you know most
would say PTSD or transitional issues I
had the also persevere of coming back
into civilian life and being accepted
again as another type of human which is
a veteran that that has to deal with the
the traumas of an abuse that exists
within the military structure and coming
back from that also losing two shipmates
from suicide you know was another
traumatic issue with me because I have
lost many and then had many
conversations with veterans that I
served with people who had served that I
did not serve with that have been
dealing with these issues for a long
time because we losing 20 veterans a day
in this country and for me knowing that
that plates knowing the emotional
traumas as enlisted will allow me to
give me a clear-eyed picture to talk to
the vets um and one fourth of all the
homeless vets in the entire in San Diego
our veterans so so so that's another
major issue and then going into politics
going against the establishment when I
ran for I actually ran for San Diego
City Council when I was a Bernie
supporter they al stood me because I was
a Bernie supporter and then they
supported the Hillary the the person who
is supporting Hillary at the time so
even going to convention dealing with
being the minority and during that
entire progressive movement that Bernie
started in 2016
having to deal with that as well of
being the outsider and not dealing and
not playing by the rules by way the
party says they were supposed to be we
it was my entire life has been a giant
opposition well everything that exists
so that's kind of what developed me as a
human as is the person that's going to
against the system with courage because
that's all I've been doing my entire
life
all right well Jose we've got to take a
quick break when we come back I want to
hear more about specific policy
proposals that you support
I'm Sam cedar this is a ring of fire
radio we'll be right back with jose kavi
arrow who is running for congress in
california's 53rd district in just a
moment
