we talked with Kevin Cruz and and Julian
Zelizer in their book fault lines about
the impact of the right-wing media over
the past 40 45 years in sort of driving
what has been up until I think fairly
recently an asymmetric polarization or
force that was creating polarization one
thing that did not come up and I've been
saying this for two-and-a-half years
the moment Donald Trump is gone the
media will snap back well with the
victory of the Democrats in the house
the media snapped back pretty you know
their their tendencies so dramatic in
this way to get to an equilibrium where
they can basically say a pox on both
your houses this is both your faults
here is on CNN Jim how do you pronounce
his name Kudo sciutto just sort of like
saying like look we need we need there
to be a dramatic cliffhanger here we
cannot do coverage of politics without
some semblance of us being able to
maintain arm's length from both of your
positions regardless you say Sun comes
out during the day they say Sun comes
out during the night
we can't take a position on this even
though our job is to deliver some of the
basic truths and then go from there
I mean when we talk about polarization
in this country if the media cannot as a
whole simply agree on some very basic
facts the son
is in the sky during the day it's not
during the night that's almost
definitional at least you know in New
York let's say that is a problem but
watch how Jim sciutto really tries to
make this about the now we know nothing
moved on the government shutdown when
they were Democrat when the Democrats
controlled no part of our government two
weeks ago the Republicans controlled
everything and they didn't pass a budget
they were elected to change things in
Washington to get things done they have
an ambitious agenda that extends far
beyond immigration here do they not have
the risk of being portrayed as
obstructionists here rather than then
doers what's the opposite of time
dilation like time stagnation right it
was just like I'm sorry we just had a
hiccup where you guys are out of power
for two years and we're not going to
like who will you replay that because
you know it's also amazing is there's no
it is it is the most passive voice
possibly used like what if aliens come
down here and have no sense of context
could they maybe say like you guys are
obstruction is good they were elected to
change things in Washington to get
things done they have an ambitious
agenda that extends far beyond
immigration here do they not have the
risk of being portrayed as
obstructionists here rather than then
doers what was the answer to you know
there was no say that but the guy he's
talking to Scott Jennings was a policy
director for Mitch McConnell for a long
time right I thought that was columnist
so I would imagine not much but but what
I think is for like you to picture them
like in morning prep just being like god
it's gonna feel great to be able to
repeat exactly the same thing again that
we always repeat because of these so
relaxing
like portrayed by whom like who it like
it like it like it yeah by me by me as I
am doing right now I'm trying to do this
during all this part rain in this
country I'm trying to give you a
prediction as to where I'll be tomorrow
in talking about your obstruction is
this not an opportunity for us to resort
to our absolutely mind-blowing Li lazy
cliches that we have been forced out of
by a profoundly mentally ill president i
completely forgot that the president
said i will own the shutdown in other
words i will totally own this shutdown i
completely forgot that happened i'm
sorry now that President Trump has
declared martial law the Democrats are
in charge of the house though this
wasn't exactly on their agenda is it
could this be seen as a do-nothing no
compromise Congress by a president Trump
declaring Martial Law by all of you
going into the camp's aren't you in some
way participating in this like really I
mean like look if you didn't go into the
camps maybe the camps wouldn't be full I
understand some would say in democratic
congressional offices is they're being
forced in the camps but that being as it
may the American people want action
