[Music]
so you know we're talking about how to
reorient a global leftward project from
strikes and social movements to
electoral strategy pulling voices from
activists from political prisoners to
opposition leaders and you know at the
very least one of Donald Trump's very
stupid sons is very scared because what
he sees in the Democratic Party is not
an epic struggle between a venerable
aging socialist who still is 100 percent
all their first say you know as an
example of unbelievably mediocre
gentrifying mayor South Bend or a old
guy that doesn't seem like he's aging as
well with absolutely horrifying policy
record that's not what Don jr. sees what
Don jr. sees something in the Democratic
Party that is way more insidious than
that check this out on Fox and Friends
she goes on to say I pray for the
president and the president tweeted he
says fact talking about Pelosi she goes
on to say I pray for the president the
president tweeted he says thanks I know
you truly mean it well listen I don't
think the party infanticide is exactly
praying for anyone that's not what they
do we get that they it's just a
consummate attack on American values on
on democracy honestly this election 2020
it's about communism versus freedom you
can choose that's the great thing about
our system that's what it is they want
to attack anything that has to do with
free markets anything that has to do
with freedom they need government
control because that's all they are
communism or socialism honestly at this
point it's it feels like it's going
beyond right it's just the stepping
stone we've seen this system fail time
and time again no different than Joe
Biden saying government's failed you
mean while he's been doing it for 50
years
it's like socialism is gonna work this
time it's failed a thousand times it's
killed hundreds of billions of people
but this time it's gonna work it's
nonsense
Wow it's amazing how the the
none of their dad's like weird charisma
they just suck it's amazing
they have nothing and he does is it
mirrors like he's about like tear up or
something he this entire interview he is
he was comprised when Kamala Harris
published her her tract on Communist
Asian theory and anarchism
you just plagiarize her dad she went
beyond its it's beyond communism Matt
called a lavender book I love the idea
that like he's been doing government for
50 years and he still wants to do it
therefore Joe Biden is a communist yeah
that's exactly it when the government
does things we all know this and I wish
that I had the gym buy an impression
ready for that that's why I'm a
communist folks I guess we you know the
way you solve that communism commerce
yeah
Oh bless me photo I'm a Maoist that you
know if you could if Joe bide is just
like what it was all of a sudden him
becoming a communist that would be
awesome that would make him a very
tempting vote goes beyond communism and
socialism and yet this is just a
stepping stone to that beyond it is also
no yeah it's listening to maybe he's
checking out the the dolphin
it goes beyond it's listening to the
anti Fattah the beautiful thing about
our system is you can choose liberty or
communism that's what this election
comes down to the other side wants
freedom we want to take care of the
modern-day version of kolja like do you
see like communism or socialism like
what's going to through Ducey's mind
already asked that questions like your
 is he thinking I think Ducey's Aldo
sees just like it got the morning
talking points and you know there was a
minute several years ago I was anxious
when Roger finally had to leave that I
wasn't gonna know what to say but uh
apparently things are still just rocking
and rolling
that's all they good yeah like they
think that they're going to damage
Bernie Sanders by associating him with
socialism but I think they're really
doing the opposite like the more that
these kinds of popular programs
Bernie's point for like universal health
care tuition free college etc etc are
associated with socialism the more
people are gonna like socialism agree
and also I will say this I don't think
that this is necessarily gonna pull well
I get
