Donald Trump it appears to be goading
the Democrats into impeaching him by you
know not not performing not not just all
the things he's done that our
problematic as president but preventing
Congress from performing its oversight
and from Trump's perspective he may very
well be goading the Democrats into it he
may think it might be to his advantage
you've pointed out a number of things
that that make the analogy to Bill
Clinton inoperative ranging from the
fact that Clinton was already somewhat
popular ranging from the fact that
Clinton the the issues with impeachment
were already very trivial ranging from
Clinton being able to work
contemporaneously with Republicans
during that because he's not you didn't
have the emotional maturity of the
six-year-old and so wasn't gonna go
scream to high heaven about it
constantly but the other thing is that I
think you know that Nancy Pelosi up
until now and we could get to why I say
now has not been taking into account is
there was no cost associated for
Republicans at that time we're talking
about 1996 97 98 with not attempting to
impeach where I should say impeaching
Clinton and I should make it clear I I
I'm we're talking about this with full
knowledge that the Senate it would not
convict maybe they would but but I think
you have to assume if you're gonna
assume anything that they won't there's
a real cost it seems to me for Democrats
to not impeach Donald Trump or at the
very least start the process and let's
talk about that for a moment well I
agree with you completely it first of
all let's look at the myth that the
Republicans paid for their impeachment
of Clinton they really didn't they lost
some had some seats in the 98 election
but they didn't lose their majority and
in 2000 we all know what happened i mean
george w bush
president so that you know the idea that
they're sitting around worried that oh
you know golly you know we we really we
don't want that to happen to us is kind
of ridiculous and and it's it's
overblown that there was a great price
to be paid by the room I would say I
would say that even underestimates the
advantages that Republicans got because
Democrats lost a lot of Elections in
states and you know the more local
elections the Al Gore elevated Joe
Lieberman to the heights you know made
him vice presidential nominee because he
was the big scold in the Senate of Bill
Clinton during the impeachment process
and Joe Lieberman went on to basically I
mean but you know you could blame Joe
Lieberman right now for why we don't
have a Medicare buy-in at age 55 for
gosh sakes I mean if there would have
been somebody else in there you know at
that time an on Joe Lieberman type we
would be much better off and Joe
Lieberman was elevated because of
impeachment so there's a lot of benefits
that accrued to the Republicans and
there was no downside to not doing it
exactly and you know I mean look george
w bush's motto when he ran in 2000 was
i'm going to restore honor and dignity
to the White House I mean and this sure
din a new sort of you know tidal waves
of moralizing and you remember when
Republicans used to care about that and
they you know that everything was about
religion and you know and that you know
that gave all this power to the to the
far right that they used very
effectively during the during the first
decade of the new century and and under
george w bush this you know this is a
it's a myth that the democrats have
something to fear and as you point out
it's not just that they don't have
anything to fear if that they do have
something to fear from their own base
Democrats are not in a mood for this
this idea of playing it safe and let's
all you know I mean Pelosi has been out
there she and her people have been out
there time well you know in fact one of
them the the deputy vice chair of the
Democratic caucus went on TV and said
that all this talk about oversight and
impeachment was was a distraction from
what people really care about you know
and this I just didn't rages me because
I think people do care about their
country I think they care about the fact
that we have you know basically a
criminal in the White House and they
want this stuff aired out and I don't
think I'm alone in that when you hear
even Joe Biden's crowd the biggest crowd
the biggest cheer he gets on there is
when he says you know we have got to
stop Donald Trump now I agree and we
don't have to even debate this Biden is
probably the last one to be you know
look to for guide for leadership on this
but nonetheless even he gets that kind
of response from audiences so you know
yes people care about issues and they
care about their personal lives but they
also care about the country and I think
it's really insulting to say that
Democrats are not you know desperately
concerned with what's going on in
Washington with Donald Trump and the
crimes that he's committed I agree with
you and this has been you know to the
extent that Democrats do they do so
despite the fact that the leadership of
their party Nancy Pelosi and Chuck
Schumer have been pooh-poohing it for
months and months and months and so all
right but with that said I want to take
a break I want you to join me in the
next hour if you can because I think
there has been a bit of a change in the
rhetoric that Nancy Pelosi has been
using which suggests to me that we're on
to plan B that the facts on the ground
and the political pressure has caught up
to her position and we're about to see a
change and I think part of it was also a
function of what we saw this week with
Steve minuchin with ben Carson and with
Bill Barr we got to take a break we'll
be back with more Ring of Fire
Digby will join me in the next hour
