here is Hugh Hewitt and this was what
Friday afternoon I think it was Friday
afternoon is before the the attack on
the synagogue back when there was just
12 or 13 bombs I think we're at the 13th
now but at the time I think it was 12
sent to the leaders of the Democratic
Party then some African American
Congress people perceived as the you
know at the top leadership I guess
Maxine Waters I guess part of the
leadership but then a couple other
administrative figures and of course
George Soros and here is MSNBC on Meet
the Press daily making it mostly like he
said she said type of situation a couple
of things on this here's the--here's
Stephanie cutter with Hugh Hewitt a
couple of things on this you know in
terms of what Jeff said he never gets to
the point where he follows the
traditions and conventions of how you
expect a president to act I think it's
more than that he never does the right
thing regardless of what the the
traditions and conventions are being a
president he never does the right thing
he never takes the road there are two
former presidents that were targeted but
type with pipe bombs
I can't I've worked for both of those
presidents I can't imagine either one of
them
not calling and checking on someone
making sure they're okay
showing empathy and concern we got none
of that from this president and who I
appreciate you're trying to throw
everybody into the same bucket but
that's an impossible thing to do this
president has incited violence he has
you know people at his rallies he talks
about punching people in the face
throws people out you know this is this
this is how we won the presidency the
politics of fear there is no equivalence
in the Democratic Party
there's a man screaming at Mitch
McConnell in the restaurant there is
Maxine Waters Beyonce 35:1 if we go back
to this day we can talk about that but
we're talking about the President of the
United States behavior this man has one
standard one standard incendiary
behavior by any public official make
sure that nobody screams hey Republic at
a Democratic rally we'll walk him up no
I'm in McConnell's face what did you
think of that Stephanie should he have
been arrested under 18 USC first
screaming at mr. Ponson I mean you see
what hugh hewitt's doing here first of
all QQ it doesn't even know the man's
name this man of great import who is
sending a broader message to the entire
he doesn't even know his name and he's
playing this game get Stephanie cutter
to say that this guy should be arrested
for this violation being rude to a
senator and the idea that this is being
platformed in any way because we
literally this week the conversation
they having is about what the
implications of platforming this at the
highest level of the government does to
lunatics out there but let's let's hear
Hugh Hewitt try and justify how there's
some type of equivalency here that's
that under 18 USC I think it's wholly
inappropriate I think that nobody should
act that way but I think you're right
nobody should act that way that is a
constituent or whatever you want to call
them not the President of the United
States and Colin's getting this an
envelope with rice in it right that's
that's wrong it's everywhere
just want to say right but whatever who
do you think insights that violence the
middle I do not blame the president all
not nine not that most everyone uses
this rhetoric these days a special
channel
it's just absolutely garbage and NBS and
someone like that comes on and just
delivering that guy garbage and BS why
do you let them on why do you let them
on why do you let that be just like this
is really just about who can make the
better to bait
