[Music]
now let's hear from a known a well known
legal expert Brian Kilmeade oh my god
that guy is a historian as well talking
about he's great he's great when it
comes to yeah it's great it's great it's
great it's great woody the legal expert
not so great at framing up a TV behind
it when he shoots a video call you for
advice yeah exactly I hear he is Brian
Kilmeade talking about why
representative Nunez has a right to sue
Twitter for allowing the two accounts
Devin Nunez his mom and Devin Nunez his
cow for for beef on Twitter I want to
ask you about Devin Nunez suing Twitter
for 250 million dollars because they
censored conservatives what do you say
about that and they're not cracking down
on some of these right not existing
people that are attacking him on Twitter
constantly and I think he's taking he Co
saw what happened with the Covington
kids in the lawsuit they won against
Washington Post CNN and others of
positive let me just correct renowned
legal expert and also AV genius Brian
Kilmeade here the correct way to frame
the status of the lawsuit against the
Washington Post and CNN by the Covington
kid is that they filed a suit not they
won a that's the first step to win it
really really splitting hairs here sir I
know just finally it just the filing it
was the first route filed that's one
zero we filed it good he Co saw what
happened with the Covington kids in the
lawsuit they went against Washington
Post CNN and others of to over two
hundred million dollars they said listen
this is not okay you're ruining lives
now Devin Nunez is not too worried
he knows that 50% of
50% of the country's not gonna like what
he does anyway but if you're gonna tweet
and have some of those tweets suppressed
if people say they're tweeting at you
and it's not getting through that
reminds me exactly why Don junior Trump
was on our couch two weeks ago he says
it's been happening to me the shadow
banning these the way I blues I lose all
of a sudden I lose these followers or
there's just no heat I'm not trending I
mean at CPAC o is the number one
conservative thing happening in politics
it was not trending on Twitter for a
long time it makes no sense so he's
gonna for some answers I think it's a
very courageous move I think it's about
time we had it out about the censoring
conservatives on social media what this
is I think it's about Tom we use the
courts to suppress other people's
ability to do sat talk so that we don't
have a Fifi's head on social media
because we sit in the main propaganda
network of the world run by a dangerous
billionaire possibly be that nobody
likes you that's that's impossible it
has to be a conspiracy
well first off like the idea that there
are two accounts with eleven twelve
hundred followers each that you can't
just block them like that somehow this
is inhibiting your role as a congressman
on Twitter is absurd
there is the the idea that they're being
shadow band is also just it's stunning
this is and you know this is like Dave
Reubens entire business model apparently
seems to be I mean he wouldn't have any
purpose for Twitter except to complain
about YouTube subscribers I mean it is
the a it really is just I got another
email today from a very influential
person in Silicon Valley utility that
they're doing it here is the question
that I think you know maybe we'll all
just die before we know the answer to
but is it possible to be a conservative
like to even like to identify in the
same way that all these people identify
with and hear this stuff and not just
feel so ashamed that you decide to sort
of like just move to the to the woods
and just hide in a cave like I can
imagine there are some
servitors out there who or who hear this
stuff and say these guys again I the no
one believes that Devon Nunez is being
shadow band this is absurd but I can
imagine that there must be some
conservatives like that but are there
really no conservatives out there who
are like this is so embarrassing because
everybody and the conservative movement
at least the pillars of this movement
seem to believe this is a real thing I
need to just stop whatever I'm doing and
just go away some have taken steps to
distance themselves from the worst ones
like Laura Loomer who got kicked out of
CPAC by the way which is hilarious I'm
talking about a congressman who is the
ranking member of the House Intelligence
Committee and the next thing we're going
to talking about two doors how in her
accounts name Devon Nunez his mom and
Devon Nunez his cop notice his mom that
have a little more respect he apparently
can't block and it's pissed because he's
not getting two retweets he wants to say
David
Devon Nunez the social media person is
 with unlockable dude it's one
thing to distance yourself from Laura
Loomer because she is handcuffing
yourself to the and she has no official
capacity just some random nutcase right
congressman right this is a congressman
who is in the leadership of the
Republican Party
he is the chain was the chair of the
House Intelligence Committee so as an
example much easier to dissociate for me
when I'm on TV than when I'm president
of United stage right like
I mean so good luck dissociated from
that maybe him and Laura Loomer aren't
so different but that's my point is that
the Conservatives there must be like
some conservatives out there just go
like I'm sorry I can no longer
self-identify in this way and therefore
I am going to go to the woods I look at
that as like part of this job is to
basically demoralize those people and to
disengage from politics really I mean if
if that doesn't do it if they're the
idea of their their their congressional
media complex
is pursuing and they've had hearings
about this I mean if that if this
doesn't embarrass them out of everything
you know society I don't I don't know
base though I feel like their base
probably eats it up oh we're talking
about but I'm talking yeah of course
they do but I'm just saying like they
don't care though a shadow business
there's some you know like version of
like what we do or a writer or just like
who's just like this is just too
embarrassing for me to be associated
know like that be like what like steven
crowder he's talking about how the
Democrats are for killing babies right
yeah these these people are not
embarrass appalled I think we've seen
that by now so stunning I think we
already have that right we already have
like people like from and they didn't
have the honor to go in the woods they
were just like it's a super tasteless
I'll stick around till I can shove a
knife into your progressive yeah exactly
I know my next piece is the top 10
reasons why we should poor support
on-site killing at the border or
Democrats won't pick up in the midterms
let's go
