[Music]
everything so expanding so busy
expanding getting bigger every day
new technologies and I think if you have
an Alexa or one of those things ask it
to play the a I'm quickie and and find
out if it's in your newsfeed I don't
know I tried to do it last night and did
to make a I don't even know what they
call it a skill or something and for all
I know I may have broken the whole
system taking it down from the inside
which I'm totally I'm certainly I would
be excited at that taking down Bezos
with your morning podcast if I would be
equally happy if it played as a skill or
just destroyed the entire platform
another national one of those two things
would be great and if I could do all
that with just I don't know the half an
hour that it took me to noodle around
that stuff I had to like do like a
special Terms of Service like how much
data we taking from people and I just
wanted to put like isn't there a place I
could put zero
we're not taking any data we're probably
the only app that exists that doesn't
have one of those PK kits or whatever it
is that follow you around wherever you
are that's what all the apps are about
incidentally folks in fact I don't have
time to get into this today but I
probably will tomorrow there is a report
out from Scientific American where do I
have that I'll find oh yeah here it is
Scientific American it's not I don't
think the report was from them it was a
preprint paper on x RR xiv org by
economist keith chen of university of
california and they matched up anonymous
location data from 10 million
smartphones to ninety three thousand
polling places
and and there's only 110,000 polling
places in the country voters in
predominantly black neighborhoods
weighted 29% longer on average than
those in white neighborhoods to vote
29% longer 1/3 longer they were also
about 74 percent more likely to wait for
more than a half an hour now there's two
things that I take from the survey one
our phones are a little bit terrifying
it's all anonymous doesn't have to be
that's they forgetting it and on so you
can you know but in this data they so
what happens with an app and this is
sort of a side note because I think it's
obviously the the voter suppression is
far more important in some respects but
but people should be aware of this there
are things that they build apps and they
put these like little I don't know
they're like cookies or stuff that
follow you when you browse online but
this is more it follows you when you
browse in the real world on these apps
you get a free app that's what's going
on there even paid apps they put it in
there because another source of revenue
we don't do this if I knew how to do it
I probably would if I could sell a lot
of money on it but I you know I got too
many things to do right now than to dig
into this and find out how to monetize
it but the they follow you around and
they'll sell this data to hedge funds
that are you know own like a supermarket
chain and where should we place
supermarket chain we can tell that
people are bouncing around the highest
foot traffic is around here or this is
where people are going at 3 o'clock in
the afternoon which we know from other
data sets is the height you know time
with the grocery shopping I don't know
stuff like this this is a good use of
that information to the extent if we're
going to have it long lines are
estimated to have deterred between 500
and 700 thousand people from casting
their ballot in 2012 these problems led
to the creation the president
Commission on election administration
which issued a 2014 report that set
forth a standard no citizen should have
to wait more than 30 minutes to vote but
that is should because we have no
federal right to vote in this country
because when we were in reconstruction
and we were trying to establish a
federal right to vote many of these
states we placated the southern states
and probably a certain amount of bigotry
in the north as well but particularly
the southern states there was I think
two or three options on the table as it
were as to what the Thirteenth Amendment
would be and it didn't end up being just
like you cannot deny you know basically
former slaves from voting or anybody etc
as opposed to an affirmative right that
cannot be in any way infringed upon like
you cannot have any other test thank you
it's one thing to say you can't deny
someone - the right to vote because of
their race it's another to say you can't
deny anybody the right to vote because
of their race and you can add to item of
right to vote for any reason period and
the exclusion of that latter point that
I just said was why they were able to
have from 9 to 1893 I think it is maybe
a little bit earlier through but in 1965
things like poll taxes or literary -
literacy tests to vote because they
wanted to exclude black people from
voting they were willing to exclude poor
white people in many respects - from
voting
very few people voted at that time
anyways and so we don't have no federal
right to vote in this country there are
prohibitions about what can prevent you
from voting
but we don't have the firm ative federal
right to vote and so we know from this
data that if you are african-american
you are far more likely to have
obstacles to voting and this is just
wait times at voting places I think if
they also you cross-reference this with
a a study that shows what polling places
have been closed over the course of
whenever Republican gets in charge of
the Secretary of State position you will
find the vast majority of those are in
African American neighborhoods Latino
neighborhoods
poor poor neighborhoods so this is just
one tool in which the Republican Party
exerts six dominance and I think the
Democrats have not been sufficient on
this but that is because of their
allergy to power I think they're aware
that they want more black participation
in voting not less because what Donald
Trump is polling at 2% with black people
and I think you know Bush really was
pushing the envelope I think he got to
maybe ten percent but that's that story
there so in other words we're redoing
our app
