[Music]
let's get to this
there was a teepee USA Summit this is
the turning points USA the turning
points is the organization that Charlie
Kirk heads it has had numerous multiple
scandals involving explicit racism
practiced by some of its chapters it's
all just two chapters I mean I think
there's maybe one or two guys nationally
that's Charlie Kirk and whoever the Koch
brothers have decided to install next to
him to make sure he doesn't run off with
the money
Candace Owens has since gone on are on
her own and I don't know if that was
because she was too Pro a Hitler or
there was some upset even among T P USA
chapters about her nationalism comments
I see okay now were they upset that she
had walked back those nationalism
comments or that she had actually said
them in the first place one chapter was
upset upset she said them in the first
place I'm a bit of a satellite people
and building roads it's great it's I
mean it's hard to it's hard to know
where exactly also we should mention we
mentioned the Koch brothers but Foster
Friess is really the term Foster Friess
right yes exactly I'm sorry apologies
and of course Foster Friess also
considered one of the last liberals
which is why Dave Dave Rubin now works
for these guys nevertheless Donald Trump
showed up now did he - he shows up at
the end he shows up at the end of this
clip okay so first what we're going to
see is the the video right there's about
it we'll play let some clips from it but
there's about a 13 minute intro video
that's sort of North Korea like highly
relived right Trump and everyone there
is pretty excited to see this here it is
these are the Mogga hats
[Applause]
pause it you know what I also sorry
about this but that countdown and the
the grainy feel of the of the you know
what that reminds me of ya triumph of
will or whatever that well yes this is
yes it reminds me of two other things
one it reminds me of the man in the high
castle right here a baby and also I
think I've told this story in 2002 I
traveled to Cuba with my then wife to
shoot her documentary and there was a
statue of Marti who was considered like
a Cuban for father like like a George
Washington and Marty had his hand up
statue was down from the US I don't know
if we'd they called it embassy at the
time but whatever the u.s. intersect
there or whatever it was and Marty had
his hand up like sort of like basically
saying to the United States stop and in
his hand he held a boy that represented
I thought from a distance like oh like
Cuban youth like the future of Cuba and
it was there was it was it was a copper
statue so there was green all over it I
mean it looked like it had been there
for years marty was a figure from the
eighteen late 1800s and the base of it
was made out of cement but like half of
it was sort of washed away fully
degraded and that boy was Elian Gonzalez
so the the statue could not have been
more than two or three years old at that
point and so they created this effect
that it had been there forever that it
was timeless and I found that
fascinating in terms of its propaganda
value I think the Confederate statues
that a similar thing going on maybe in
America like they tried to make him look
like they've been there forever on some
level but I mean they've been there for
several years like three years and this
was built
distressed by the way though Elian
Gonzalez is grown and sexy now well that
may also be the case but but
nevertheless that's why you put that
effect on the front of this video to
make it seem like it is he they're
they're trying to place him with
basically FDR like when you think of the
times you see that in front of a real it
immediately evokes a certain era and
they're trying to make him look like
Churchill I'm still minutes with church'
yeah I was never new wheelchair
[Music]
born and raised in the borough Queens -
a life of hard earned privilege five
children born to a hard-earned privilege
Wow there you go in the borough of
Queens to a life of hard earned five
children mother Mary and a housing
developer father housing developer the
patriarch has been described as a human
machine mine's bigger than he was a
human machine just continually looking
around at all these poor saps who are
actually gonna have to go into the army
and I wasn't what's that this is a part
we don't want to talk over okay okay
let's keep fighting sir we prevalent
young Donald's DNA he apparently loved
military school
he likes the kind of OUTFRONT I think
competitiveness of it there were so many
different ways that you could excel and
get medals and ribbons Donald Trump
thrived rising in rank and he was
socially popular with men and women
also gravitated towards or rather
winning in sports I think we saw enough
this goes on to show clips of him
beating up the other people in the
Republican President but so he comes out
and there are well I mean let's watch it
nice guy that's critics
[Applause]
oh that's why they have two presidential
seals because one is animated thanks for
my rap video
capitalist realism
hashtag free rock
[Applause]
and there's a Donald Trump walking next
to a seal and you can set as much as you
can see on this clip and then we'll
switch to the time only think of sassy
Trump when I see him in this kind of
mode just like literally sitting there
like stimuli thank you thank you
he looks so appreciative so uh
apparently someone at turning-points USA
either purposely or probably just
sloppily found a second president United
States seal that turned out to be
created by this guy Charles Lizotte he
is a 46 year old graphic designer he
throw it together after the 2016
presidential election he used to be a
Republican voted for George W Bush I
think it's gonna take maybe maybe this
seal does it where it showed up but he
made this seal it mocks President Trump
because it the eagle has in his hand
instead of instead of arrows he has golf
clubs he replaced the United States
Latin symbol that is slogan a logo a
motto I should say with apparently what
is a Spanish insult and that's it assume
pendejo i I don't know what it says
I think so and it replaced it replaced
the two-headed Eagle Imperial bird logo
or I should say it it it included a
two-headed Imperial bird which
apparently is from the Russian coat of
arms and apparently like the Washington
Post realized like hey wait a second
that's a fake logo nobody noticed the
golf clubs which is really shocked like
you know like I can't see the logo
that's just like an update of the seal
for Trump's personality because we
actually make that the seal
I like that actually that works first
hat fire that we're joking but I think
we should do this so no.1 no.1 at
turning points USA caught it and
Patriots oh I guess instead of e
pluribus unum it says 45s own TT air
which is a 45 as a puppet it's all
Russia no that
yeah no puppet you're the pan you're the
puppet the one who be greeted the seal
you're the puppet you're the puppet
so apparently turning points a USA said
that the incident was a last-minute
oversight the result of a quick online
search to find a second high-resolution
photo of the presidential seal to place
behind Trump said the mistake was
unacceptable and you fired well we've
all been there yes and we did let the
individual go the spokesman said I don't
think it was malicious intent but
nevertheless there you go
that's the way I like that that's way
but nevertheless we dropped the axe on
this guy we do not allow for mistakes
that don't involve racism in this
organization if you're going to make a
mistake
it better be racist or you're fired
folks
