[Music]
Howard Stern has a new book out kind of
a book I think that sort of I guess
reflects his new basically on satellite
radio the guy sort of reinventing
himself he's gone from sort of like a
it's kind of like a 80s and 90s shock
jock to like a almost like a earthy
Terry Gross incredibly he's really is
the guys amazing interviewer that's so
weird I mean I think he's I've I'm a big
Howard Stern fan from everything I think
he's funny and I like all the old stuff
I sometimes will go on a binge we're all
listen to like 90s Howard yeah you like
listening to him beg to see women's tits
for half an hour that's fun for you
yeah sure it's nice too if that helps
the bit no that actually isn't most of
what that content is I like like him
like bothering Jackie the joke man about
his various career schemes as an example
so and I also my favorite thing and I am
someone who should not be laughing at
this but his station manager Tom Chee
asano sent a company-wide memo and it
had a lot of grammar errors in it so
Howard had a second grade school teacher
from Long Island named mrs. D'Agostino I
think her name was come into studio and
grade the paper on air while he
terrorized the station GM and that is
one of the funniest things I've ever
heard of my life and that like holds up
from the night that's like something Sam
would do that is exactly well where do
you think Sam gets ideas like this from
it's not like Sam was listening to those
you know to do to Howard as well but
anyways there was actually something
relevant that happened to stern I guess
politically back in like 2003 2004 where
the FCC was definitely fining him in a
way that was specifically targeted to
him and it did have free speech
implications and it also was in a
context of total vertical integration of
the media landscape and in that point it
was radio under the dominance of Clear
Channel which incident
was also like incredibly xenophobic
pro-war pro-bush they weren't playing
the Dixie Chicks because the Dixie
Chicks had some mild criticism george w
bush I mean as Sam says it truly was it
it's a it now is so crazy of course but
there is an alternative there is an
ecosystem that's accessible where you
can share a community where is like
people really do I mean back then going
and reading like the blogosphere to get
the alternative perspective was really
people who were just like yeah I'm a
Democrat I don't want to cut Social
Security I don't think we should just
sort of like torture and murder people
in the middle east so but stern was fine
steadily and those fines did increase as
in that point you know not radically but
he became an outspoken supporter
basically of Democratic candidates and
of John Kerry and against george w bush
and bernie sanders plays into this so we
got a cup a little bit of a clip and
then we're gonna go within a trip down
memory lane but here is howard stern on
stephen colbert explaining his giving a
sense of his history with bernie and
then we have a throwback clip I think
from 2004-2005
of Sanders on Howard's show here is
Stephen Colbert with Howard Stern from
last night would you be excited to have
on oh gee sure why not because joe
biden's had fascinating life sure and i
think it would be interesting Bernie
Bernie Sanders for sure you know Bernie
Sanders is probably my biggest hero for
one reason and this is very self-serving
when the FCC was attacking me and they
were attempting to take me off the air
and in a big way it was almost like
racketeering they kept finding our
stations they kept keeping us from
buying on the radio stations Bernie
Sanders got up in the Senate and said I
think what you do in a Howard Stern is
wrong I believe in freedom of speech and
I want to go on record and say
I was under siege at that time I really
was and I thought it might be the end of
my career a year we're talking on Audrey
I don't even remember when he did it I
would 1963 oh wow so he really doesn't
remember it so this is actually 2005 and
this is a clip and this is great because
I do LA and again I am a Howard Stern
fan but I do love the collision in this
clip of you know and fair enough I
totally yeah like no one wants their
career under siege absolutely but I do
love like Howard's fairly specific focus
and Bernie's broader focus check this
out
everyone doesn't need to do a thing you
can do it yourself
congressman Bernie Sanders from Vermont
I don't mean to sound paranoid but ever
since I announced my satellite deal I am
now seeing the focus going to satellite
radio as opposed to terrestrial radio am
I the target of every politician no I
don't think you're the target I think
there's an effort on the part of the
extreme right-wingers and people who
think that because they don't like
something nobody in America should be
able to hear it and it's not you only
you're the only congressman that I know
of I'm gonna tell you about this guy
right here on the phone Bernie Sanders
he proposed a bill to prevent the
government from censoring the content of
cable TV shows and internet websites
yesterday yep his bill was in response
to the recently approved House
legislation increasing the FCC indecency
fines but you exactly what you talked
about
it seems to me a it's unconstitutional
the government does not have a right to
get into cable and number two if people
are paying for what they want to see
they're polite to see it many all of
this is about how it is moving us to
unless free society in many respects
cutting out different points of view if
people don't like your program anybody
else's program you know what they could
do they could turn it off I just read
about a religious broadcaster that was
fired this week because he went on and
said someone asked him do you think the
Pope will go to heaven was a theoretical
discussion and the guy said something
about how only born-again Christians can
go to heaven you know whatever he was
fired for that yeah of you and then the
guy even said that I can see I never did
anything like Howard Stern why are they
firing me because it doesn't stop with
me they're gonna censor Tony Soprano
they're good exactly what they could let
me tell you what they already do it I
don't know if you know this you've seen
this film Saving Private Ryan right
right fantastic film
right ABC showed it nationally on a
guttering today 60 ABC affiliates
refused to put it on the air because
they were afraid they were gonna beat
fine 6/0 6/0 because obviously in the
middle of a war in the film soldiers use
profanity the PPF could not recently put
it a film of distributed because in the
middle of the war Iraq bombs going off
soldiers use profanity here's the key
question how many of your fellow
congressmen who I'm actually losing
respect for how many of your fellow
congressmen are going to support your
bill now so far we've got about ten on
the bill with HR 1440 and I think when
the American people learn what's going
on and the fact that The Sopranos and
every other show that they like on cable
it could be censored then more and more
people will be supporting this bill but
we need to help the American people this
was a big this was a really big deal at
the time and they were absolutely right
I totally agree with him but I I love I
mean but even just the consistency in
terms of like from the big argument
today about reclaiming America from the
holgar key back to like look if you want
to listen to Howard make a total prick
of himself that should be your right and
I think if people wake up they demand a
lot of consistency fast-forward to the
part where Bernie rides the sibian I
remember I was driving to Burlington
Jenny McCarthy had promised to ride the
Simeon for the last three appearances
she hadn't thought it officer I thought
it was about to finally happen then it
goes silent because they decide what I
can and cannot hear
[Laughter]
so in conclusion mr. speaker bababooey
bababooey howard starred as the king of
all media we love you Robin
[Laughter]
