[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage rd report with sam sita
it is Friday March 22nd 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
looking back on the week that was or
maybe the week that will be or could I
guess we could do it monthly or in any
other timeframe Vergil Texas from the
Chapo Trap House will be here
also in the program ostensibly to give
us film recommendations for the weekend
a special haunting guests have to stick
around for that this is a there's a lot
of technology involved in this and we'll
have to see if it works it's an
extrordinary get it's literally an
extraordinary also on the program today
Trump reverses decades of US policy on
the Golan Heights with a tweet and
countries that hosted excuse me counties
that hosted 2016 Trump rallies saw a
slight 226 percent increase in hate
crimes
and meanwhile President Seuss aturday
night live boo moans campus free speech
crisis EU delays brexit until mid-april
Mississippi governor signs a law
outlying abortion essentially after six
weeks top 20 20 containers pass on the
AIPAC conference and US Marine chief
says border deployments pose a quote
unacceptable risk to Marine Corps
readiness and in Florida Florida
Republicans advance a bill to reduce
enfranchise recently and franchised
ex-felons with a modern-day poll tax and
while joe biden stacey abrams could they
have any different ideas of how
democrats win all this and more on
today's majority report yes ladies and
gentlemen welcome to the program matt is
on a special assignment where is Matt
it's out in the desert oh all right
great spiritual journeys on a Vision
Quest oh I'm glad you hear that he's
gonna meet the lizard king okay they're
all going out is he really on he's not
like Burning Man he's up burning and
where where is Matt Phoenix I believe
okay we want to document the hallways of
always I don't know yeah Brendon is on
the board and so you know it's just wrap
your seatbelt in folks could be a bumpy
ride
and Virgil will be with us shortly let's
start with this what a way to wake up in
the morning Donald Trump incidentally he
signed an executive or
that talking points USA it's not clear
to me exactly what this u.s. excuse me
what this executive order will do
although it will be problematic it is
just another tool in the arsenal to
intimidate universities if it's not a
list of potentially treasonous
professors or list devised by folks like
charlie kirk and other professors
thereof perhaps campus activists who
should be targeted it is it will be a
nefarious sort of I guess arrow and the
quiver of the right wing's
desire to to be able to continue on with
their racism without anybody criticizing
them for being racist but meanwhile
here's Pete hagseth hmm Pete hagseth was
excuse me according to what's that guy's
name Alan drew parts Aaron Rupa Aaron
Roop are according to Aaron Roop are who
I guess grew up with him and or not grew
up with him but grew up in the same
hometown as Pete in the suburbs
knowing that Pete went to Prince
Princeton here is um here is Aaron Roop
our um excuse me
Pete hexxit bemoaning the fact that
folks would actually be conscious of
their identity particularly if it was
not white in America here he is yeah
incredibly well said by the general what
makes America special is that we're an
idea we're a bunch of people with
different backgrounds different skin
colors different orientations and we all
say we're all in for the Declaration and
the Constitution this set of principles
that we can be free people that govern
Raziel I hate to be one of those
pedantic guys who talks about history
but at the time that the Declaration and
the Constitution were signed we weren't
exactly oh we weren't all in on this
it was it was an idea but the idea that
like you know all of us didn't matter
what color you were all there at the
signing of the Declaration in the
Constitution
he may want to just revisit a history
book but continue that's it that's the
social contract of America if you start
to say now I'm black I'm white I'm this
on that I'm this grievance on that
grievance I'm this identity that
identity first it all starts to break
down because you're not looking at the
center of the set of ideas that you
should share together first as he said
we've all got the same picture on our
shoulders where America first comes from
but now you have in in universities and
high schools you're telling kids to
focus on their background even all right
so there is he's concerned that
apparently in these schools these
colleges that people are being told to
focus on their background because it
takes them away from the central idea of
America which we were all apparently in
on at the founding of the country now
what's funny about pizza hexif is this
whole idea of identity do we have any
anything to just like let's just go back
take a little trip down memory line
where peak exits whose completely devoid
of any identity which of course it's
somewhat easier to do when you're white
and you the dominant force in society is
not reminding you that you're not white
via government policy or you know
depending on the any given day maybe
just the way that you you move through
society but here's peak hexif never to
think about his origins here now with my
genealogy results is the host of PBS's
at genealogy roadshow Joshua Taylor you
know there's there's all sorts of things
out there to start your family we
actually work with the 1940 census which
is a great place for anybody out there
to start researching their family and we
found your grandparents living in
Minnesota I can tell you you are behind
that document that document is online in
multiple places so you can use
commercial sites like ancestry and
FamilySearch
okay so from that document it told us
that your family has some Norwegian ties
indeed you are a hundred percent
Norwegian indeed and so how did he know
that how is that possible by playing
identity politics I guess so he's a
big-headed dope like other Norwegians I
just the the I mean that you know it
gets bandied about but the idea I mean
like will you talk about white privilege
the idea of just saying that we should
all be able to walk through society like
me
this white Norwegian from Minneapolis
that we should all be able to walk
through American society in that way
wouldn't that be nice if that were the
case but you really really have to
achieve and because I don't pretend to
have any sense of the experience of
other people as they walk through
American society but I'm aware of my
limitations in that regard Pete hagseth
is not only not aware of his limitations
in that regard he's bathing in it he's
bragging about his lack of awareness of
those limitations but a nice way to
start your morning on Fox and Friends
before we go I should say Kony further
want to remind you the majority report
today is supported by pitchfork
economics with Nick Hanauer a weekly
podcast that explores why everything you
learn in econ 101 was wrong and why if
we don't get economics right the
pitchforks are coming every week on
pitchfork economics zillionaire Investor
Nick Hanauer is joined by some of the
world's most original economic thinkers
in a convention busting exploration of
who gets what and why in the American
economy pitchfork economics explains why
a $15 minimum wage is actually good for
business
why taxing the rich Spurs economic
growth and why thriving middle class is
the primary cause of prosperity senator
Cory Booker explains why curbing
corporate greed could actually be good
for corporations in the economy
historian Yuval Harari
explains how those in power use
storytelling to shrink your paycheck an
economist stephanie kelton scolds
democrats for worrying too much about
how
we're going to pay for things and not
enough about what we need to do if you
want to learn how to make an economy
work for all Americans not just the
wealthy few subscribe to pitchfork
economics at pitchfork economics dot-com
or wherever you get and then
subsequently listen to your podcasts
pitchfork economics ladies and gentlemen
now in studio at the microphone with us
it is a great pleasure to welcome back
to the program Virgil Texas of the Chapo
Trap House Trap House yes thank you for
having me Sam by the way that's an
interesting podcast pitchfork economics
they're pretty good except they gave
capital vol 1 only five stars I was ever
out of ten so Wow is that is that
absolutely true is actually true that
I'm big on the idea like it's pitchfork
the website yes they do oh no you're
right there it's just like a like number
scale no it's a ten point scale yes but
you have like five point five whatever
that makes it a hundred points I thought
I'm sorry I'm not even I'm not even
aware of what pitch course goes out the
gate cultural literacy yeah no I don't
know any cultural reference print it's a
marathon you're right you know who's
Warren done pretty much there you go
well that is a good question that
actually brings us maybe to the one of
the first things I want to talk to you
about was to to look at the 2020 we're
now basically we're now basically all in
we're at the same point in in the
election cycle where we were in 2016
with Joe Biden who's the last I think
big contender that people anticipate to
jump into the race we're at the same
stage where we were in 2016 when Joe
Biden was floating the idea that he was
going to jump into the race and show
Elizabeth Warren and pick Elizabeth
Warren as the VP Brendan we put that up
the
Joe Biden's done this before where he
basically says he announces to everyone
hey I'm totally aware of my weakness as
a presidential candidate I know I'm weak
on certain politics and I'm were a week
in terms of on gender issues and in 2016
he knew that his weakness was I think
specifically his relationship with the
banks right and on gender issues and so
he floated the idea of Elizabeth Warren
as his VP contemplating that he might
jump into the race at one point they had
meetings I don't know if you remember
all that you don't remember that I don't
remember the meetings I remember the
floating there was no there was actually
I've always thought of them as sort of
fairly developed political enemies right
that was the idea
I remember the meetings they were very
productive from my point of view yeah so
we see we see Joe Biden do this with
Stacey Abrams give me your sense of
what's going on here with that but
whether that he's playing the hamlet act
again or well or how are you know what
what his what his game plan what his
game plan is you know obviously we don't
know but for what I've read they're
considering these you know
out-of-left-field ideas which is very
strange for a guy who's pulling at the
top right now maybe their presumption is
that well we you know just by looking at
the numbers we're best positioned you
know to be the nominee to win this thing
but we think as as you know I think
that's these numbers of ethereal they're
gonna vaporize like they did for Joe
Lieberman who at this point was polling
at what 50 percent right and that's you
know probably just old name recognition
at that point right I think there's got
to be a huge name recognition and people
have not seen him campaign in really I
mean as a presidential candidate in 16
years I actually have that true no no I
ears 10 years 10 years later tenure I
actually have no idea where this idea
that Joe Biden is a great
hey nur comes from III maybe that's the
case but I mean I don't remember that
being the case when he ran for president
2008 his numbers would not indicate that
he was a great there is a middle
position
we're just if we're just talking about
him as a campaigner politics is politics
or trash but I think did like the caller
from Scranton the other day you know to
this show and it was fun to literally
have a caller from Scranton that could
back your point hey I think it's
somewhere in between I think some of it
will evaporate because his record is
horrible by any metric but I think no I
mean he does have a certain type of
charm which i think is like I would
imagine in this audience tons of Bernie
people good amount of Warren people
probably even some baito people with
that sort of Gen X version of sort of
empty rhetoric but I think Biden is
exactly the type of person that people
like us will totally not get but there
is actually a market for well of course
there's some market but i but not at
Lieberman like total implosion but is
this a is this bargain defined by
geography is it defined by racial
identity by working-class identity no
it's defined by age but the story about
Biden is oh he's the white working-class
whisper that's wrong he was supposed to
get these white working-class voters who
were skeptical of Obama right that's
well I mean I think I think I mean on
some level I think that was I think
there was maybe some accuracy to that
that I think that the the idea that he
provided some ballast to that concern
probably was was probably the case they
don't know if that's the case because
for one you know that I don't think the
vice presidential pick ever ever ever
matters I don't think it matters but I
do think that it I don't think it
matters in terms of getting votes but it
does it matters I think in terms of
creating narratives like I think that
Sarah Palin for instance with with John
McCain I think that it it in many
respects made it impossible for him to
get the drubbing that he was going to
get yeah he hadn't picked Palin but it
also made it impossible for him to win
the election like it did both yeah I
mean that's that's a good way of looking
at it I don't know what the academic
literature says I would
probably gravitate just you know after
watching the past few years to the
former interpretation that that was the
necessary ballast that kept McCain
afloat a guy who was not really liked by
his base not even that much so liked by
the establishment but I want to wheel
back to your original question here one
of the things that I've seen reported
from you know Biden's campaign staff is
there booting the idea of picking a
running-mate
before the primary start which is very
baffling to me as a guy who you know
polls as the front-runner because that
is of course what Ted Cruz did right
before is you know campaign ad right it
is a desperate act I mean that's what I
did Hail Mary that's why I don't I don't
I don't think it's anything other than
an advertisement to his weaknesses and I
also think that it's a you know plant
pretending to that he may do the pic and
pretending that he's looking at Stacey
Abrams I think is really just his way of
signaling like I'm not he is trying to
deal with his liabilities before he
enters to the race which is smart thing
to do right we turn is in 2016 that's
exactly hit me most with that's like the
bankruptcy that's exactly that's exactly
right that's exactly I was saying his
weaknesses were on gender and I'm
banking and so I meet with a woman who
is very strong on banking and in this
instance I think he perceives himself as
having issues on gender and on race and
on the idea of mobilization because
Stacey Abrams is all about mobilization
where is Joe you know Joe Biden
supposedly about I can convince these
these these Trump voters to come back to
the Democratic Party or so a segregation
desegregation split the difference there
as well it's I honestly I'm
I can talk probably the least about
Biden because I just reflexively ignore
every news article about it right I'm of
the mindset that you know this this
isn't fun or interesting just run
already and as Matt put it to me the
other day let's see if the majority of
Democrats actually do want to embrace
oblivion right now right I don't think
that's going to happen
I do think that he probably does also
have a a floor I don't think I think
it's probably like a third of what he
he's pulling at maybe it's a little bit
lower even than that he's I mean he's
he's in the race like he's firmly there
he can't really be forced out but I
think if he experiences a media
environment that is so totally hostile
to him which I think he will I think
he'll get the scrutiny that Hillary
Clinton did not receive in 2016 from the
you know friendly liberal sources I feel
like that's just going to suck up all
the oxygen he would need so in that I
don't know if I would call it you know
in that Lane but it you know sort of
around that Lane I think Beto O'Rourke
announced this week that he raised 6.1
million dollars in 24 hours in a weirdly
weirdly in unique contributions versus
unique contributors which is sort of an
odd a weird thing to present in terms of
like a statistic because really it's
like you want who in the first 24 hours
is repeatedly donating that's weird
yeah are you implying that he asked
people to structure their donations
I don't I do I'm not I'm I'm not that's
I don't know what is it's not that I'm
applying anything it's that there's an
implication I think to saying unique
contributions as opposed to donors right
like because when most people come out
and announce I don't think there's
anything nefarious I don't think they
have some type of bot but it's just a
weird thing to do because when most
people come out and maybe he's just
doing it so that I don't know people
like me say well how did you say
contributions and then they come out go
oh okay contributors same number it's
quite possible that was part of it but
it's a weird thing to do nevertheless
it's still a lot of money yeah a lot of
people try to parse spend a lot of time
parsing that bado email just because
well you know he ostensibly top Bernie
by two hundred thousand dollars right by
you know and
I mean that self-reported we could find
out at the first you know the first
quarterly reports when they come in that
oh he just lied or that includes like a
million dollar transfer from his Senate
campaign there's some people who
speculated the reason why Biden is
waiting is to get past the first quarter
reporting deadlines so that he can he
can maybe fudge the numbers a little bit
until he actually has to report because
the you know they're playing some type
of like narrative about but but let me
ask you this just more broadly and then
I'm gonna get back to Beto does this
matter as much as it used to because it
used to be we're gonna announce our
fundraising because this is a way of
signaling to other fund or other money
people like give us money it's not a bad
investment I'm not gonna be dropping out
of the race in three weeks and the money
that you're giving me is not to pay for
bills that I expended six months ago I
mean it but it matters in the sense that
you need enough to keep the lights on it
also depends on what your overall
strategy is gonna be keep this in mind
we don't know when the New Hampshire
primary is going to be I'm not sure
they've even fixed the date of the Iowa
caucus and a lot of states and including
you know New York State they have not
they require an active legislature to
fix the date of their primary we don't
know what the schedule is and we could
be in a case where I believe California
moved up their date they did all that
while people are caucusing in Iowa early
people are mailing in ballots
simultaneously in California early
voting period has already begun and if
you want to compete you can come you can
with a few million dollars you can
compete in a place like Iowa you can't
compete in a place like California right
no is that really the case I didn't
realize that they had not set the date
yet for demux I like they've set the
date for California which is on Super
Tuesday
yeah I believe they move that up right
it's on super to California is now part
of Super Tuesday with Texas South
Carolina I know it's not South Carolina
Texas well Texas and California the big
ones and then I think there's like three
or four other five other states maybe so
the first four are fix Iowa New
Hampshire South Carolina and Nevada
they're fixed in that order though I
you'd think Nevada South Carolina swap
but the exact days I believe are not
fixed and New Hampshire of course has to
be the first primary so they have to
wait for everyone else to settle their
calendar before they do it
okay interesting all right well but
nevertheless that's the order in which
goes but we know generally where it's
gonna be it's gonna be in the first you
know couple months of you know it gets
conceivably Iowa could be you know at
the end of of this year but we know
there's gonna be first couple months of
2019 and the the time that people have
to spend in there I mean I guess my
point is there used to be this other
primary right the donor primary yeah and
that to me seems less relevant because
the the the way that that small donors
are impacting these races well keep in
mind when we're talking we're when we
talk about the invisible primary right
now in and we are pretty much just
talking about this as a kind of crypto
poll measure of what small donors
believe in the party of what the base
believes in the party when we really
only started talking about this stuff in
2004 right that's when it was the big
obsession how much money Howard Dean was
raising remember the freaking baseball
bat right mm-hmm he carried that thing
around and that was like a thermometer
that was a thermometer online that was
the very first thermometer to be awesome
and I also think yeah I think that that
was the beginning of it and I think
really clearly now like in this cycle
the it obviously we're talking about the
enthusiasm of smaller donors so it's not
just the raw number like if Biden comes
out and kills it and it is clearly
without you know individual donations
versus unique donations it's just know
this guy got like a bunch of you know
all the guards to max out that's not
necessarily a great news cycle for him
well he's going to he's gonna come out
and he's gonna say his numbers and he
may not give a full count right stuff is
not as important I don't care a sure
yeah for sure but I'm saying that was
never a question so even as far as I can
find online Iowa caucuses are Monday
February 3rd New Hampshire's Tuesday
February 11th Nevada is a February
22nd South Carolina is the 29th and then
Super Tuesday comes with California
Texas Massachusetts Alabama North
Carolina Minnesota Oklahoma Tennessee
and Vermont in Virginia so that's that's
March beginning of March and that is the
like literally March 3rd and so
California is huge these are these are
you need a lot of money to stay in the
race and to compete after March 3rd like
presumably right a bunch of people who
drop out after Super Tuesday or they
just move into like I'm on book tour
mode basically oh yeah a lot of people
are the field like who's gonna Widow out
after the first you know the for tiny
states and in part of but but the other
dynamic that's different let's say from
when the Republicans were running with
so many different people or we should
get back to bed up for a second
so about at what what is your sense
about battles appeal and and and who
will reach I mean he's young and
toothsome which is about all I can say
about him and he definitely got teeth he
intimates that he is you know he's a
fresh new kind of politics he would be
the first you know
unequivocally Gen X president it's about
all looked like something out of the
onion but it was real Stereogum I
believe it said bado promises to reunite
the mars volta if elected president i
think that if you just and you know i'm
simplifying here but if you take the
premise that the main argument inside
the democratic party is between people
who understand that trump is a threat
and a crisis and he needs to be defeated
and then there's bigger long-term
structural crises that we also need to
confront and deal with and you know you
could argue to the degree like whether
it's a crisis of capitalism which i
think or even just a kind of kansian
argument about inequality that's fine
versus like you know the element of the
resistance that is really just purely
trump centric and I think bado is like
the distillation of that
perspective I mean even this morning I
just caught like praising John McCain
like he is the fulfillment of the I
don't want to think about politics I
just want to get back to HBO go and have
a nice guy in the White House it's a
sentiment and so it's total call for
normality amongst a group of people that
I think are you know generally just not
committed to the broader struggles and
dynamics well those people are split
though right between fado and Biden
because everyone all these folks just
want Obama to be President again right
they want to return to normalcy and it's
like do you want the guy who is friends
with Obama or do you want the guy who's
like a copy of a copy of a copy of a
young Obama the weird part is that
there's also polling that shows that the
Bernie shares a lot of the supporters
like a second choice type of situation
with that oh and there's and I mentioned
this the other day but I'll cite it
again Josh Marshall got a letter from
mark Heather ring ton who early on yeah
Heather ring tone who wrote a book with
Jonathan Wyler who was one of our early
guests on here talking about
authoritarianism made five years ago I
don't know I can't remember one though
wise but um and one of the things he
says that our research suggests okay so
you might be thinking he writes you
might be thinking about Beddoes
potential base of support you might not
be thinking about his potential base of
support in the right way those of us who
follow politics closely always tend to
think about the world in terms of
ideology but decades of research and
political science suggests that most
people do not think in ideological terms
and that our research suggests that
something is more fundamental what we
call worldview those who supported
Sanders have a worldview that values
nice things over mainstream things they
stream rather than using cable they
drive hybrids rather than gas-powered
cars that like underdogs and are
repelled by the establishment this crowd
not only voted for Sanders in 16 at
voted for Obama no 8 and Bradley in in
2000 for reasons that have nothing to do
the ideology we think they're going to
love bado in 2020 he's niche he's not
establishment and from this perspective
he thinks this is what's going to
devastate
Sanders candidacy what's your sense
aside I don't buy it because for one
just from what I've gathered from
hearing bado over the past few days like
this is this is very empty pandering
there's not a lot there but bernie has
the advantage but and I warned chairs
this advantage I think of having
compiled a long record of taking one
side in one specific fights and of being
associated in the public imagination and
especially to the Democratic base with
that fine
I mean the first thing that comes to
mind when you think Liz Warren is Wall
Street yep but it's just a bigger point
well so but so the your argument is that
authenticity in that respect right I
mean this is also I think is I I agree
with the premise that the median
Democratic voter is not engaged in an
ideological struggle for the heart and
soul of the party and anything like that
they have a series of concerns that they
want addressed they have a kind of you
know a quotient
you know they will sense that like
anyone they don't want to be pander to
they will be repelled if they feel that
somebody is dissembling to them so yeah
I would say that if your average voter
is essentially comparing brands in a
supermarket here then yes authenticity
is a brand well don't forget baito
is a white guy so he will probably
appeal to that slice of Bernie bros who
wants to keep a woman in or minority
which is hot which is of course most of
us but I think the point that I want to
say specifically to that number which I
think or their argument which I also
don't buy and it's and it's because and
I think this is anecdotal but it's it's
like when he's running against Ted Cruz
in Texas and he's on a skateboard and
he's occasionally making the right
noises about Kaepernick that is a
novelty in a Democratic primary against
Sanders and Warren saying sort of
generic third way claptrap that novelty
we
clear airs off and interestingly I think
Kamala Harris and her team realize this
very early on yeah which is why they're
aggressively staking out these left
positions at often niche left positions
right wait like it give me an example
wait she for one is one of the
candidates boycotting a pack right now
she won eighty came out for what drug
legalization ostensibly said sex work
decriminalization that's arguable but
still it's not something you would have
expected from her and especially it's
not something she ever in a million
years would have said in any of her
prior races right and that's also heard
trying to sort of like build some type
of firewall against her prostate as a
prosecutor right I mean like she has a
specific sort of issue set where she has
some liability particularly you know
with a guy like let's say cory booker in
the race who's who has his issue in the
same way that you know you can say banks
for elizabeth warren you could say
criminal justice reform I guess for cory
booker and whether and I would also say
charges and that's smart for a certain
kind of voter who thinks you know maybe
criminal justice form is not their
priority but they can't ignore it and
they know that this is a great moral
stain it's a second on their on the
country and they want to hear something
about that maybe they're not gonna maybe
they're not so motivated that other
candidates attack if they attacked ran
attack ads on Kamala Harris about her
time as AG maybe that's not really gonna
stick because it's not a priority but
they still want to hear something about
it and something more than just a
bromide about you know oh we got to do
something I think too
that one of the things that I don't know
if you you you've heard much out of that
book by John sides was it identity
crisis there were two other authors but
we interviewed John side so I can't
remember the other two authors I think
but one of the things that happened
during the Obama years was and then the
subsequent Trump years the the most
amazing statistic that comes out of that
keep repeating it fifty percent of white
non-college educated voters
thought the Republicans were to the left
of Democrats on race as late as the
aughts
and then Barack Obama got elected and
they were like wait a second not to the
left yeah what did the Democrats do that
they elected a black president so
everybody the people got very highly a
lot of political issues got very
racialized during the Obama years and
then of course they've gotten even more
racialized during the Trump years and
it's gone both ways
white what voters have seen you know
have have moved there's been
polarization on race and so when Kamala
Harris is is criticized about things
like poopoo and criminal justice reform
that becomes sort of associated with
race and in mean it's obviously because
it's a it's also a racial issue I I
suspect that that there's a there's
there's a lot going on there in terms of
like signifying not just to you know
signifying to the broad Democratic Party
coalition who sees you know obviously
that as a racial justice issue is is is
is big there but so what else sticks out
for you at this point like where where
is there any other candidates they're
doing stuff that surprises you as to
what positions they're taking I've got
to think about it because you know a few
more white guys have jumped in and it's
it's it's a few too many for me to keep
track of at this point I read the other
day that uh Michael Bennett is thinking
about getting in where does he squeeze
in or is he just like I don't know of
this for a I'm gonna get HUD or
something I feel like everybody who
comes into her it feel like everybody
who does that bill de blasio keeps
insisting that he's mad we're talking
about and we you know we were talking
about in terms of the debates because
they're gonna have the first debate and
they're gonna have two debates it's
chosen by lot but there's a max of ten
you know on each stage so even if you
qualify for that debate you can still be
squeezed out because they'll have to use
some kind of metric to trim the list how
many how many
donations you get is my understanding
this is the money yes how many
individual donors you have and/or
polling data right believe is what
they're going with right now and I said
some and Matt thinks you know Matt
thought you know well we could get to 20
and I said no I don't think that's gonna
be the case now I'm like we could get
the 25 right I mean well the bar to
entry drops the more people who enter
pretty I guess what I mean also sucks up
a lot of oxygen in the room cuz there's
another white guy in Colorado running
but you that's too many
yes but you but and also I talked to
people in Colorado and they hate Michael
Bennett I haven't thing is I haven't
done a deep dive into Michael Bennett or
Hickenlooper cuz I just don't have time
to that's right
I've got records to listen to yeah of
course and you haven't even heard of
Michael Bennett so excuse my ignorance
um kind of like Ned Flanders and the
Simpsons and you got pissed off at Ted
Cruz on the throw frat game you got
against the Ted Cruz very boring all
right well you know is this Mike Gravel
fellow do you do well Greg Revell oh do
you have any insider knowledge you can
share about that
not not really not really not more than
you probably know he's obviously the
best like fun candidate like I'm not a
Yank uck I'm gravel gang like these
teenagers did they hack his Twitter
account or what they there a chat boat
there are confirmed Chapo listening yeah
they are they are fans of the show
I believe there's their teens from
Westchester and they they Alexandra
Ocasio cortezes neighbors and they are
fans of the show and I guess they heard
one of us talk about my crevalle or just
allude to my crevalle we didn't do like
a Mike Ravel deep dive or anything and
they you know looked into the guy and
thought you know he sounds great and I
guess they called him up and said will
you run for president grandpa and he
said well alright sure so he handed over
his Twitter willingly I mean I assume
they made it for him but he's you know
giving it giving it his blessing wow wow
that's how does that feel for you man
knowing that you might directly
influence some ideas on the debate stage
I mean I don't know if he'll actually be
in a debate could he get 65,000
individual donors I mean I'll donate how
many people are listening to this show
right now that's the start right yeah it
is I mean I how many people listen to
chapo traphouse that's a good start I
guess I don't know what he would say
though because he's you know been out of
the public eye for ten years and then
when he was in then he was out of the
public eye for about another dozen 250
20 years prior to that that's the thing
about it 2008 I remember him in these
debates people would insure clips
especially you know when you're talking
about foreign policy in the rock war
where every single other person on that
stage perhaps with the exception of
Dennis Kucinich essentially had a view
that was identical to John McCain's
in terms of Iraq policy I would say I
would say that at the end of that race
October in the in the presidential
debates in the fall between McCain and
Obama neither that was saying anything
that was substantially different from
Yahoo well I mean I think I mean to be
fair and I don't know that it's really I
mean
and on the this is not stuff that you
brag about I think of your Obama but he
he he specifically wanted to draw down
from Iraq to reball stir the Afghanistan
war I mean that was basically what he
was running on was we drawdown from Iraq
we go back to the one that we should
have been fighting in the first place in
Afghanistan didn't work out but his he
was just basically right surged wrong
country
was his was at that point at the at that
point and I'm sorry I'm trying not to
get too bogged down on this because I
only kind of half remember it at that
point
I haven't think they hadn't both of the
candidates implicitly accepted the
premise that oh the surge was good and
it worked and we're basically on our way
out now well there was the idea that oh
the Iraqi army will stand up always the
argument was between the emphasis of
whether it was the surge or this thing
that they called kind of by awakening
which is the sort of very melodramatic
way of putting it so the argument was
literally between do we praise Petraeus
for surging troops and doing really
aggressive counterinsurgency and of
course no mention of any type of
civilian casualties or is it all just
that we like bought these people on
payments right literally we paid off
these tribal and then basically when we
left because there was no framework for
that to be durable they ended up just
getting screwed by a new government and
those remnants went into Isis but like
the argument I guess I think the bigger
point like I think the details were
important at the time but I think the
bigger point you're trying to make is
true which is that there was no argument
on the table of this is sort of
structurally wrong that we're doing it
was just is it which is the right way to
administer an imperial adventure and
then yeah we need to get out of
describing you know and I think you can
into what you're describing that they're
the the main conflict was about emphasis
there yeah well everyone accepted the
premise that oh well we're not gonna
leave tomorrow we have commitments there
so on the head of license only thing
worse than getting into Iraq foolishly
is getting out too foolishly right it's
it's it's it's it's substantially the
same thing that the your median
Republican politician was calling for as
well and Mike Ravel was the only one on
saves it says to know we should go like
tomorrow the only thing worse than
someone
dying for lost causes someone else die
for a lost cause right right and and and
I think but I original point there was
that Mike Ravel was you know as as
morally correct as he was kind of still
sounded to half way incoherent ten years
ago yes for my recollection yes I think
I mean I don't I don't think it would be
doing him a service necessarily to have
him out you know a politicking at this
point but that's what happens when Matt
Chrisman is too cowardly to do that job
himself
I agree but here's the thing here's the
thing I agree that about the coward Matt
Crispin absolutely but here's the thing
as we said they're limiting that debate
stage to twenty people right so someone
like yang whose school claims to have
passed this you utterly arbitrary you
know DN C tests who get in the debates
could still by the rules that they've
said already be limited from the debate
stage be kicked off he could be kicked
off well if there's 20 other people in
front of him yes by the rules that they
said out okay but as well keep this in
mind a DNC press release isn't a binding
contract well that's right I mean the
only the only hold they have over over
the candidates are if you participate in
a in a rival debate like if you if five
of you set up another it's the only
thing that we can do is lock you out of
the official but they can lock me out of
the circumcision for a month well right
I mean another way to lock you out of it
debate just by saying we lock you out at
the base that's no no I understand that
but that's but it but I'm but usually
what happens is I mean certainly is what
happened in in 2016 was if you go to any
other forum to debate if you agree to
debate in any other forum you will be
barred from from participating in our
sanctioned debates all right well let me
ask you this that how much will the
debates matter if there are ten people
on a stage because you're talking I mean
let's say it's a hundred and twenty
minutes and then you know maybe twenty
of those minutes are tied up in
questions right as a minimum and I mean
you're talking about eight minutes per
candidate or something like that over
the course of two hours do these
debates ever really matter that much and
not unless somebody totally screws up I
feel it's what it matter it's like the
vice presidency they matter in the
negates it don't they mattered for Trump
last time run yeah like I'm just no I'm
trying to kid seriously consider the
premise that wasn't a leading question
or anything and I think yes right yeah I
would say so but it mattered not from
you know what was the entire you know
120 minutes of it it's just a handful of
specific clashes and encounters that you
know express something that's unsaid
right yeah I think that get to the
subtext of all the falsity of this and
that's what Bernie didn't in 16 that's
what Trump did in six I think in in in
primaries in particular I think they
make a big difference and because you
have much more engaged electorate and
they're they're looking for I mean
theoretically right they're looking for
they may not be looking for the the the
ideological granularity but they're
looking for they're looking for more
granularity than I think people are
looking at debates on in the general
election which is like good or bad this
one has I think at least some measure
nuanced but here's my point is that it
Bernie was able to do what he was able
to do in those debates despite the fact
that they were on it you know 3:00 in
the morning on a Saturday night or
something because there was three people
on stage or maybe you know at worst the
most it was five right when web and
changing Chafee and Martin O'Malley and
and the it was so clear that Clinton and
Sanders were gonna be the two at the end
of this race even early on that the
questions were focused there now you're
gonna have a situation where Bernie and
Warren let's say are not are gonna have
a tougher time it seems to me making
these start comparisons when did you
keep this abide Bernie had ample time
when the debates were one on one or one
on two to lay out his case lay out his
vision of America and lay out what
distinguishes him from Hillary Clinton
he's still lost like just having the you
know just having more time and the time
to yourself isn't some you know
guarantee that you're gonna win a race
oh no
no of course not of course not but I'm
saying to the extent that that Beto is
you know has isn't authentic and does
not have policies can you find that out
when he could get away with talking for
four minutes
well won't that be the chain as a debate
like I think I think an advantage on the
other hand that Sanders and Warren might
have is that all of the center
candidates will go at each other beta
will try to like fly above and then if
they coordinated correctly Sanders and
Warren can both be like dude what about
you knows the trade votes what about the
banking votes what about this this and
that you think keep in mind these are
going to centrist might to head to bado
to frankly hey they're trying to pivot
left but keep in mind these debate
stages will be decided by lot lot right
so we don't know who's gonna be on the
stage it could be you could have a stage
that's Beto and nine also-rans who are
all polling at 1% that's crazy
I'll be good I mean I mean that would be
tough to imagine like this could this
could make just just remarkable
ridiculous exchanges like you know we
can get that that that great
side-by-side image of bernie sanders and
marianne williamson
having it out over you know we do what
visualize your way to social justice
what do you think she's reading
everyone's chakras what do you think
Bernie's charge is at this point awkward
I'm seeing like his his favorability
ratings are not obviously what they were
at the end of 2016 there's a lot of
different reasons why that could be the
case and the there's some theory I guess
Harry Anton although you know Harriet
and I was a little skeptical of in 2016
when we were talking about he was at he
he was at that point at 538 I think and
Harry lately has seemed to be going more
and more in the pundit direction he's
been a little bit less little agree yeah
a little bit more of just like
extrapolating from one data point which
is the kind of thing he would have
really lectured you about doing crimes
ago right right there's I get that sense
and there is some of that he has some
but the implication is and it also he
thinks Biden is going to gonna have a
problem with this to was that he does
better when he's not considered a major
threat to win that underdog impulse here
talking right which I think it's
probably true of a lot of people here's
the thing but because this race there
are so many people in this race and
there are at least a half dozen people I
can credibly see at the end of this race
I kind of don't think there's ever gonna
be a point where he looks like this
unstoppable juggernaut okay and as well
there's always going to be a point where
like if it seems like he's getting close
to that there will be a stop burning
movement all right so that that brings
up my the the question I've been waiting
to ask all day half a dozen people who
could be in at this race at the end it's
like unlike the Republican Party we do
not have a winner-take-all in the in
terms of the delegates so virtually
every state you come out of you're gonna
have you're gonna have a distribution of
the delegates that are gonna go to
people that'll probably be I mean who
knows what that distribution is gonna be
but if you have six people at the end of
the race one can imagine what that
distribution of delegates is gonna be
nobody's gonna be even close to getting
half the delegates nobody's gonna be
even close there are there are vagaries
in the way that this is a sight it's
almost like a mini electoral college in
some states for instance in certain
states it's not just going to be you
know you get 40% of the vote you get 40%
of the tally right right that's ralph in
its it's cases like they're allocated by
congressional districts right that
variations there but nevertheless the
chances of anybody getting even close to
50% plus one seemed to me to be
extremely remote so I have kind of a
long answer to this case I thought about
this for a bit first off to to wheel
back to the core question here Bernie's
you bernie is a unique challenge every
candidate has just a basic
organizational challenge
he seems very well positioned to
overcome that right now his core
challenge is basically the same one that
he had in 2016 which is winning over
black voters he did not he got
absolutely destroyed in the South
Carolina primary it was the third after
he almost swept Iowa New Hampshire he is
destroyed by this lot
totally lopsided margin there what was
it was like 80/20 something right he's
got that enrolled 70/30 I think it was
the actual number and I'm sorry you you
can't really win the nomination in in
you know today if that's how you're
doing with black voters and he knows
that that's why right out of the gate
he's you know he's making these
aggressive appeals to African American
primary voters you know it remains to be
seen how well that will go you you know
you might be an optimist or a pessimist
about it but I don't think we are in a
position where that's comparable to say
in 1972 or I think 1988 was much the
same where there was a black candidate
who won in these states where at that
point there was a substantial number of
black Democratic primary voters there by
but but did not really win anywhere else
I'm talking about Jesse Jackson or a
shirley Chisholm so that's like that's
the first challenge and the other one is
its yeah it is it is the plurality
voting system the allocation system
he's the agreement that the DNC made in
the that unity Commission thing after
2016 really did not help Bernie at all
all it said was super-delegates don't
count on the first ballot
that's right well okay now he has to win
a majority of pledged delegates which
means winning something pretty damn
close to a majority of the popular vote
overall irrespective of how many
opponents he has a majority of the
popular vote not the plurality right I
mean the majority of we're as close to
it as possible considering the vagaries
and the fact that there are still a
couple caucuses left and it seems to me
I mean I can I can see the Warren
delegates assuming she has
how many delegates she has you know at
the convention voting for Bernie but
it's very hard for me to see a lot of
Delegates you know I mean I can see
people voting you know people who will
be Bernie friendly voting for battle
let's say or Bernie friendly voting for
other candidates but the delegates are
gonna be inclined to be you know I mean
I I think that it's very hard for me to
imagine that those other delegates who
are not like you say are not gonna
congeal around a another sort of like
not Bernie candidate at that point right
and so what we give me an idea of what
you've thought about in terms of Sanders
but basically he has to win this by a
substantial margin it can't look close
Brett he can't be one of the two in at
the end of the 2008 primary where the
Hillary Clinton campaign says you know
well there's an argument to be made that
she actually won the popular vote
overall he can't be bogged down in that
cuz he's going to lose that because the
machinery of the party is opposed to him
how big a margin you think though I
don't know but I mean it's it's I mean I
mean if he won 50 and every and and
nobody's close to that I'm sure sure 50
yeah but there I think there has to be
some in-between number that we stake in
terms of like building legitimacy on
that argument I just want to say I know
I always say this but this is really
important I mean it goes out saying he
needs to do well and frankly everybody
if you want to win the Democratic
primary or become president as a
Democrat needs to do incredibly well and
not only with african-american voters
but actually deliver materially for
african-american voters we should add
but you know there is not a monolithic
african-american vote and I think you
know it might just be the case like he
needs to significantly do better in
South Carolina but South Carolina across
the board is represented by relatively
speaking more conservative Democrats and
again he needs to do better but we did
see last time that when you got to the
industrial Midwest those Martin's got a
lot tighter and that isn't just cuz he
was more exposed that's also because
you're talking about a different
political tradition and I think we need
to start really disaggregating
like religious oriented politics of
South Carolina versus a labor oriented
politics in Milwaukee as an example and
simultaneously needs to do way better
but there's still going to be a tough
road to hoe in a place like South
Carolina and there isn't a monolithic
one-dimensional vote it's a very complex
demographic like any other right and as
well I don't mean to imply that the
black vote will go to black candidates
no no no I mean no of course I think I
think I mean my read is that South
Carolina and I think probably this does
work fairly well to Bernie I'm not
convinced I don't think he will win
South Carolina frankly but I don't see
he could he could well that's I mean
eyes in away Mary he certainly could and
I think that that yes that could go
there's you South Carolina is a state
where you could I think you could tick
off five or six people that I would
think like yeah that like Biden could
win it bado could win it Harris could
win it Booker could win it Sanders could
win it those are all totally smart
legitimate picks as of the information
we have now the other thing is a a lot
of the talk has been about you exactly
what we're saying right now that you
know this could be a contested
convention that when the dust settles
there could be three or more candidates
still standing with a substantial
delegate count that's just kind of the
thing we're just fantasizing about it
could also be a situation where one
candidate does extremely well in the
early states does extremely well in
Super Tuesday and becomes unstoppable
right so here's a question about that
then because when you say there's gonna
be a stop Bernie campaign that's
obviously a reference to this stop
McGovern campaign that they had in 1972
and people like to compare Bernie to
McGovern in a lot of different ways the
argument they'll make but the fact that
you know in many ways the social forces
have shifted significantly since the 70s
I mean McGovern did not have a problem
with black voters he had a problem with
white working-class voters and he was
totally abandoned by organized labor
yeah but McGovern was able more than
abandoned they worked against in my time
yeah he had worked against them he was
you
an extremely Pro Labour candidate and
they still hated him because well lots
of reasons but he was against the
Vietnam War for one but like given the
obstacles that Bernie faces right now
McGovern was able to surmount the stop
McGovern campaign and then he lost
horribly in the general but do you think
there are any lessons that we can take
from that for how to surmount any kind
of stop Bernie campaign that arises I
mean I don't know because I mean these
things are they're out of our hands
basically I mean we we can take the
immediate example of the stop Trump
campaign the never Trump people who just
embarrass themselves I mean the thing is
what was out of the never Trump people's
hands was the fact that there were two
never Trump candidates in the race right
at that point so I mean Bernie's
best-case scenario is and he's you know
he won the New Hampshire primary by
landslide last time around and he almost
won the Iowa caucus is to win both and
then post substantial margins in the
Super Tuesday primaries maybe you know
do well or limit his losses in South
Carolina uh and just by virtue of that
look good enough to the voters in the
remaining states the second best
scenario is he does some version of that
he does pretty well well enough to be
clearly ahead in the delegate counts
perhaps even a majority of the pledged
delegates up to that point not
necessarily he's like cleanly running
away with this thing and but that there
are still like four or five people still
hanging on in this race right you have
like beto and Biden and Kamala Harris
which is what loom berg to run so badly
because he has the legs just stay in the
entire time and he'll never ever get
close to the nominee right but he will
be there to just siphon off voters who
would never ever ever vote for Bernie
and if they were gonna vote for
Bloomberg they're not gonna vote for
somebody who actually has a chance to
win I think I also think a difference
just historically is like you didn't
have
of millions of irate people on social
media and other distributional nodes of
power to freak out about what was
happening to McGovern and he still did
in fact get the nomination right and
also if I mean who knows maybe Bernie
will be so damaged the poll numbers will
reverse but as of now you couldn't you
could Bernie's a totally is a very
strong general election contender if I'm
right
historically maybe it wasn't predicted
in the polls that he would lose 49
states to one but it was already really
clear that like this doesn't look good
in a general election this is like a
lamb to a slaughter type of situation
and I think that makes the calculus I
mean another reason I don't like Bernie
supporters building their arguments on
electability either I just think that
the you know if one of the reasons is
like Oh Bernie will lose nothing bears
that out and in the polling data and one
of the arguments against McGovern was he
will loose which he did yeah he was up
against a popular incumbent at a time
when the economy was relatively strong
stronger than it is now hmm but like I
did see an article you know the numbers
of the economy are pretty are pretty
yeah you know economy is gonna probably
tank I don't know how much credence you
give it that said I think it was in
Forbes that said you know all of these
short-term economic indicators are
strong and if they stay strong its
favorable to Trump winning again yes oh
yeah oh yeah absolutely no they're like
it's it's it's not gonna be a walk in
the park every do you see the though
even though the president breweries are
extremely low you look at the polling
data and you know Biden is doing the
best but the best means you know a four
percent margin right now Wow good how
accurate are the polls at this point in
time because we've seen polls be very
wrong before and it's very early still
right now so like and and then I see
Biden polling is like the front-runner
like how how much should we trust that I
mean it doesn't it has no predictive
value is the thing it's really just a
snapshot in time I I think I mean I
think they
surely they're accurately capturing
probably what it is right now the
question like you say it's it's in terms
of predictive things get pretty
predictive though pretty quickly I mean
if you go back and look at 2016 you know
where Donald Trump I mean I remember we
were talking about Donald Trump is up in
the polls and people like yeah he fades
and you go back and look at Romney
Romney also I mean if you you know the
the whoever's in the lead you know come
out of the this summer 29 18 or excuse
me 2019 you know when you start getting
around like August of 2019 you're gonna
the numbers you're starting to see
you're gonna have some predictive value
of course there's a trend but but it's
it's rare that there's a lot unless
they're but who knows this year it could
be very funny there could be a lot of
fluctuation at the end I mean we don't
know what's gonna happen at the end of
the day yes I think that's just tell
everything I really do like the at the
end of the day unless there is some
substantial you know structural change
from here to Election Day November 2020
I think that what the president gets
ultimately in the popular vote what the
Democratic nominee gets is going to fall
with an extremely narrow band in terms
of yes in terms of the popular right the
real question is the electoral vote like
we could get that twice in a row right
that would let's let's code very well I
wanna you were there's two presenter of
horrible scenarios today well I know
these are plausible I know I've got loud
pipes I'm not famous I mean nobody
should be fantasizing that Oh Bernie
Sanders will win by like a 10-point
margin which would be a landslide right
he was thinking if anybody is anybody
articulates anything remotely close to
that the first thing I would do is start
to hydrate because you're having some
type of episode it's a four point margin
in any way that would but there's two
there's two scenarios right that that
that that come up one is sort of a 1968
episode that's a you know Democratic
National Convention I type of scenario
right like I mean things got I mean I
was at the the last convention and it
was
you know there it was things got a
little bit rockets there nothing too
crazy some of the some of I thought the
protests were not effective
there was one protest out in front of
radio row where people literally put
tape on their mouths
protip radio row not the place to do a
silent protest does not get the kind of
coverage you're gonna want this is
something you want to do in front of TV
cameras or you do a louder protest in
front of radio row but putting that
aside there's the potential for that and
then you know we can talk about the
electoral college Elizabeth Warren
brought it up and and I don't think it
was I mean I think what do you make of
that because obviously that's not going
to happen right the the national vote a
popular vote compact that's off the
table at least for 2020 may be off the
table forever but it doesn't make it so
yeah I think about it the compact I what
is I actually think there's a strong
efforts made that it is unconstitutional
right even if every individual step you
know scans like that's every individual
step is acceptable the overall thing is
unconstitution and the second part is
what if you are for this to work for
this to make sense you would need swing
states what are swing states now to sign
on to it right would they want to dilute
their influence right of course and why
would it not only would they want to
dilute their influence but they're also
they're more likely to be dominated by
Republicans or at least have Republicans
who have enough power to say like wait a
second I don't want to lose right right
I mean maybe you'd like the next time
there's the Democrats you know control
everything in Pennsylvania by a wide
margin they can be strong-armed into
doing it but the other point is you know
a few candidates are talking about
abolishing the electoral college but
it's it's it's a process thing nobody
cares about a process thing but is it
doesn't it signify though to a certain
extent a certain amount of partisanship
or a certain amount of like I mean to me
I I think it's I think it's like a it's
just a signifier I mean
I think I read it right now as a you
know as a partisanship thing I don't
read it as a willingness to actually
want to transform the structure of our
governance right which obviously there's
but there is a conversation happening
about that so I don't know maybe you
know what like what what all of this
boils down to all the stuff people when
we talk about packing the courts we'll
be talking about you know limiting
Supreme Court justice terms we talk
about abolishing the filibuster these
are all means to an end and the
Democratic Party hasn't like
fundamentally embraced this notion and
certainly the the you know the
establishment the stakeholders do not
want to embrace this notion that yes the
the fundamental the these structures of
governance right now have to be either
reformed or destroyed in order to get
what we want right well there's gonna be
two possible flash points it seems to me
that that convention depending on who
ends up getting the the majority of the
delegates on the third vote that they
take a third round of voting or second
round of voting that could get that's
also why I say Bernie has to win cleanly
because if you know he gets 33% of the
vote while a Harris is 33% of vote and
better work it's 33% of the vote
okay and that goes to a contested
convention well anyone can walk out of
there and the party can more or less
stay unified but if Bernie has you know
150 percent of the popular vote but
still loses on the first ballot and then
gets screwed by the super-delegates like
that's it
for the Democratic Party yes I agree I
mean the question is what if it's in
between they're like like I agree with
you and I think it's much harder for
them to do it if he gets 50 percent of
the vote exactly or even forty nine
percent or even 47 percent like you know
made 48 percent but but if you start
getting into like you got 40 percent of
the vote as opposed to 33 percent of
like now we're in this territory where
it's like that's where it seems to me
could be the even the ugliest because at
50 percent of the vote you're gonna have
a lot of people even do people who are
just like I want the Democratic Party to
be unified to defeat Donald Trump even
if he gets 40
9% and I'm not a you know and somebody
says I'm not a Sanders fan but 49%
that's close enough let's keep the
Democratic Party unified but when you
get to 40% that's like yeah to me is
like what do you do well I mean the
thing is if he's still standing at the
end of it and he has a plurality of the
pledged delegates it's gonna be hard to
deny him the nomination even if you can
make you know some some credible
argument world we're all just discussing
arguments and spin that people will be
doing right but if he you know if he has
the most pledged delegates at the end of
this even without a majority a
substantial number of his support base
will be Bernie or bust right I agree
it's gonna come into play right that
seems like that's gonna be a major
argument that they're gonna be making
like on both sides there's gonna be like
it's at that point it's not good it's
just going to be insanity no it's just
like I do the power I think that I hate
it there I think that there should be if
there is the organizational capacity to
do this that there should be a left
ballot line in all 50 states for a
presidential candidate that is left open
pending the result of the Democratic
convention nature's name so here's a
question you said you said that most
people don't vote based on ideology they
vote based unlike other Dumber factors
like how the person seems to them and
their vibe but a lot of the Democratic
candidates this time around seemed to be
making it part of their strategy to move
to the left and take up a lot of the
things that Bernie was talking about the
last time around like are they are they
wrong are they partly wrong like how
does that track what the thing is most
people are not gonna make up their minds
until a week before Election Day
most people don't know who like
virtually all of these candidates are so
that's why you know the the the primary
polling data is is just you know it's
it's it's irrelevant it's at this point
it's always been irrelevant right now if
you're polling at 2% or you have these
obvious liabilities you
gotta start somewhere you have to do the
basic work of politics which means you
know putting together a coalition
getting people on your side and there's
plenty of people who are single issue
voters who are part of organizations
like the DSA for instance or who have
just one you know priority whether
that's reproductive rights or gun
control or something like that you know
it's a fair play to say you know well
okay I want to be the gun control
candidate I want to be the climate
change candidate and those those
potential voters are really the only
ones who are listening great yeah it's
not just potential voters know their
voters but they're potentially using
potential those but also organization in
this way of organizational capacity and
money right right yeah those people who
yeah those those sort of the the
low-hanging or yeah the low-hanging
fruit I guess in terms of like where you
know they're out there they're shopping
themselves around they want to give in
some fashion to a campaign this is the
time when you start to scoop those
people up you also want the and you also
want people with credibility in certain
fields to be on your side you want the
people who have been agitating for
something like a green new deal for for
cutting carbon emissions for several
years now and have a lot of money behind
that and have a lot of credentials to
that front to be on your side and give
you cover for these things Kamala Harris
wants people who have been criminal
justice reform advocates for their
entire lives to be on our side and give
her cover
these are endorsements that the general
public is not aware of but people who
are interested in that that that that
topic area would it would have an impact
all right well listen we're gonna take a
break a headed and we're gonna take a
break i we have a special guest you may
want to stick around for this okay
I thought I was the special guest we
have another special guest this is we
rarely do two special guests on a Friday
but this one special we're gonna have
what we're gonna do is let's take a
break
we're gonna have to dim the lights
and we're going to we're going to have
to see if we can work this out to see if
we have the I guess the technology and
frankly the spirituality to get our next
guest on we're gonna take a quick break
we'll be right back
we're all with our special get we're not
going to the fun half Oh fair enough
we're not going to the fun half we're
going to a special guest right now all
right we'll take a quick break and we'll
try and dial this person up
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen we are back Sam
cedar on the majority report so our next
guest in some respects I got the sense
that we could okay we don't need I got
the next the the sense that our next
guest could could come on the show
frankly I've been talking about how I've
not been sleeping well this may be part
of the reason Virgil you probably want
to put your headphones on I'd not sure
exactly how you will hear this person
but I don't know if the headphones will
make a difference frankly but so I've
been telling people I have not been
sleeping well maybe this is part of the
reason but I'd like to well first do we
have a clip of Donald Trump to explicate
this this is a yeah which one was it
Oh number 2 let's play number 2 this is
Donald Trump with what was his former
friend Fox News's Maria Bartiromo on the
issue of Senator McCain and replace we
would have had great health care but mr.
friendly said he can't punch back I know
you punch back he's dead I don't talk
about it people ask me the question I
didn't bring this up you just brought it
up you asked the question he talked
about it this week you asked me the
question when I went out yesterday to
the scrum they asked me the question
when they asked me the question I
answered the question but you people
bring it up I don't bring it up I'm not
a fan he was horrible what he did with
the repeal and replace it was what he
did to the Republican Party and to the
nation and to sick people that could
have had great health care was not good
so I'm not a fan of John McCain oh
that's fine
do you feel a responsibility as
president to bring the nation together I
do I do and I think I am in a certain
way bringing it together I can tell you
that a big portion of this nation is
united like it's never been United
before you look at our economy you look
at jobs you look at African American
the lowest in the history of our country
unemployment numbers the best numbers
they've ever had but that's what I miss
panic you look at Asian you look at
women the best in 65 years best numbers
and 65 years I think I am bringing it
together I think I'm bringing it
together now I was talking about John
McCain I just said you brought up a
question Maria I didn't bring it up I
didn't mention John McCain until you
asked me a question about John McCain
now I could say I have no comment but
that's not me but you shouldn't have
brought it up actually I thought you
weren't supposed to bring it up but
that's okay
you know nothing fake news it's not fake
news you just told me why you have an
issue with him it's a very serious issue
he handed something to the FBI on me
he knows was a fake he handed it to the
FBI that's an issue and now we're gonna
get hill and replace of Obama care he
campaigned for years that's an issue but
I didn't bring it up Murray you did Wow
I really feel like there's some type of
falling out there anyways like I say I
have not been sleeping well and I think
I know part of the reason I don't know
if you're there or on what device that
we could be reaching you but Senator
John McCain's ghost are you with us how
are you my friend the pipes keeping you
up at night they they are they are thank
you for for joining us I don't know
where he sounds like it can is there any
way you can turn him down I don't know
if there's a senator can you just you
know give a count going to a different
you know spiritual realm right now are
you there
I'm right here okay that sounds it to go
yeah this a problem all right well so
Senator John McCain's ghost I'm have to
ask you why why are you why are you
hunting Donald Trump in this way well my
friend as you know John McCain's Telly's
tells it like it is which is the
opposite of Donald Trump and it's a
complete lie
I haven't been haunting him at all I've
been haunting joy behar who has been a
total to my daughter on the view I
said that's who I've been haunting my
friend
and the idea that Donald Trump where was
he in Vietnam
I've been haunting joy and one night I
made whoopee think that her dreads were
that there was a bird in her dreads but
besides that it's all been joy a bird
and her dreads okay but you are you see
you tell me you haven't been I mean
because it really appears like you know
you died months ago a year ago I don't
know
and Donald Trump seems to be constantly
talking about him you telling me you
have not I mean you have not been
haunting him I have not been haunting
Donald Trump it's been a very
disorienting time for me and I'll tell
you the most disorienting part of even
realizing being of what it's been like
to be dead is a completely different
life altering experience
Donald Trump has nothing to do with it
well what has been disorienting about
being dead
well for one getting used to not having
a physical form and secondly not getting
invited on Meet the Press on a weekly
basis right that's got to be very that's
gonna be tricky but let let let's let's
be clear about something my friend
whatever it is in my spiritual form not
getting invited on Meet the Press you
know what it is what it's good for John
McCain it's good for John McCain there
was a lot of that back in the day but
all right so you have you ever
disrespected my daughter you Jew yeah I
have I'm sorry well get used to the pipe
noises and coming in and complaining
about your your back and whatever
goddamn else the one thing I like about
being dead is I could call you a Jew
like that and no repercussions no
repercussions and so tell me I mean what
you you you you you haven't been you
claim you haven't been haunting Donald
Trump but yet the only I mean we've have
at least almost a half a dozen
Republicans who have come out and said
it's inappropriate for for Trump to be
criticizing you in your death I mean no
Lindsey Graham used to ask me for
pictures back when I was in the in the
Air Force
so we can look at him no I didn't know
that you were loyal nak what's that
I'm sorry John McCain you were quite a
snack so I don't think you can really
blame him that was never in question was
that in question was in question just
asking you so now is there a is there so
you claim not to be haunting Donald
Trump but yet why is your name still why
why we talking why are we talking to you
first of all we do you went six in the
city or something did you ever do
anything notable with your life that I
would know you for well I was actually
on Sex in the City I did do a guest spot
there I'm guessing it was with the
lawyer broad and not one of the hot ones
it was with the lawyer broad yes not one
of the hot ones did you even get to
sleep with her was it sort of like a
best friend but straight guy sort of
thing originally written for a gay guy
but given to you instead is like a Jew
thing yeah I know that that that's
almost a totally accurate depiction of
the role I played yeah well I appreciate
you being straight with me so I'm gonna
give it to you straight
I haven't been haunting Donald Trump but
have you ever seen the film The Sixth
Sense I did yes actually you know how
Bruce Willis yeah didn't know he was
dead right so for several months after I
died I'm in the well of the Senate
saying that we need to give madula
Moldova's suitcase nukes to confront
Putin and Lindsey isn't even there to
give me a back massage and it was a well
how did you come to realize that you
were actually dead I realized it on the
fourth time that Chuck Todd did not
return one of my texts when I said hey
you cue ball loser where's my
spot on MSNBC and there was no response
and then what would you my daughter stop
asking me for money and that's how you
knew that you were dead at that point
and I said my friends if we don't
simultaneously bomb Libya Ukraine gives
suitcase nukes to Melda
armed an insurgency in Venezuela and
unilaterally recognize a joint state
between Saudi Arabia and Israel Putin is
one and there wasn't one media booking
but Scott did you have that moment that
I mean I remember that movie where like
Bruce Willis was completely freaked out
and he kept running around the house and
looking and replaying stuff in his head
like what did you have one of those
things I called Jeff Flake I said hey
what's up gay flake nothing
I told Cindy that her new nail job make
her look like a working woman I didn't
put it that way
nothing registered just ignored just
like totally ignored yeah as you can
imagine having a complete and our cystic
personality disorder is very difficult
when you're a ghost
can you imagine that's difficult have
you reached out to anybody else I mean
it's sort of weird that you and I would
connect cuz I was never quite the fan
well I mean I was obviously a never fan
of you I found politics aside Janeane
Garofalo to be a much more appealing
radio personality but I've always
enjoyed the company of Jews who
and whine about their health and since
Joe like Lindsey has completely
portrayed me not only chump but the
goddamn Chinese and I can't seem to get
an NBC Booker's to get booked as a ghost
but that's what working on my friend so
I would like to come in my spiritual
form and explain why of course we can
assassinate Maduro actually very easily
so you've come to me because Joe
Lieberman wasn't available is that what
you're saying is that the most insulting
thing you've ever heard in your life
well it's pretty close I mean my kids a
little bit worse but look like I bet
your facial expression which I can see
right now spiritually looks like my wife
when I tell her what her hair look like
all right well listen John McCain's
ghost thank you so much for taking the
time today maybe we will talk to you
again in the future I will see you
tonight my friend but I hope you enjoy
your
a spur mattress because no rest oh well
I appreciate that thank you very much
that's great plug John McCain's ghost
doesn't mince words he's super cranky
still he's already cancelled so he can
say whatever he wants
yeah literally cancelled when were you
on Sex in the City
that back in when I don't know when that
Sex in the City was on what were you
doing I played Letterman Lew the guy who
chewed his steak and spit it out huh I
never saw I've never seen that episode
are you sure yeah I haven't seen like
all of them us oh all right I'm always
suspect to people who have people
thought that I was joking when I said
that you were playing against type but
when have any of us ever known Sam to
not finish his steak
never never wait so why did you you chew
the steak and they spit it out yes I had
an eating disorder oh hey I was a writer
from New York who had moved to LA and I
had a eating disorder that's how I lost
weight and sold the sitcom did they play
it for Laughs or were they was more like
a serious it was a one of the few
serious sex in the city's episodes where
it was like tonight on Sex in the City
very special very special there is such
and realizes her friend has an eating
disorder there is such a stark gender
breakdown between who knows about this
scene and who doesn't I was gonna say if
you're a guy and you've watched first of
all if you're a guy and you've watched
all the Sex in the City episodes it's
shocking like it doesn't matter how how
impressive the person is like we had on
Doug Henwood and Liza Featherstone on
the edge' fada
a little while back and we were talking
about we were talking about Cynthia
Nixon at the time and you know the Sex
in the City came up and Doug had no idea
what we were talking about and Liza just
goes you don't know about Miranda I had
definitely not seen that scene until I
started out here it's a gender disturbed
I was like Jesus Christ was broke myself
until this episode of the majority
report is supported by pitchfork
economics with Nick Hanauer
podcast that explores why rising income
inequality will lead to pitchforks and
what we can do about it every week
Hanauer is joined by some of the world's
most original economic thinkers in a
convention busting exploration of who
gets what and why in the American
economy if you want to learn how to make
the economy work for all Americans
subscribe to pitchfork economics at
pitchfork economics calm or wherever you
get your podcast it's time for us now to
head into the fun half of the program
wherein we will have fun and you can
join us there by becoming a member at
joined the majority report com just
pennies a day you can support the free
show and you can get the fun half
everyday what people are coming
people are gonna join us oh hell going
there's gonna be a lot of people here in
the and the fun half we're gonna
temporally and spatially move into that
that next dimension also just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
with a coupon code majority you get ten
percent off and can joy those products
in either dimension whether it's the fun
or the you know not so fun free half all
right
good today it's Friday a Tuesday was
Tuesday what happened on Tuesday Michael
a lot of things happened on Tuesday and
you can find the full episode of the
Michael Brooks show YouTube channels
well if it's of course on patreon and
thank you we crossed another nice
threshold on our patreon over 2100 now
so thanks everybody and today released
for everybody in elicit history war
against all Puerto Ricans continued with
Nelson Dennis incredibly important
writer really important conversation
patreon.com slash T MBS to get the whole
thing I got drunk on shoes day by
accident by accident by actually get
drunk by accident I was I was at this
bar and this is this guy that I had like
I had something to do in the city and I
had like a lot of time to kill so I'm
just hanging out at a bar and this this
guy kept yelling at me and say I look
like a musician and it's a manding to
know dude that's so what I I don't he
was like a weird long hair guy from that
I met in the West Village his
fingernails were painted black it's like
an older man and then he kept buying me
drinks and I'm like all right whatever
and he started telling me about how he's
being evicted from his co-op
because of the co-op board the co-op
board organized against him for total
 reasons and that just goes to
show you that you know it's it's it's
not just it's not just capitalism its we
there's also a tyranny of the majority
he had it in a teapot vibe it's gonna
say like that sounds like an Iggy Pop
story man oh no I remember what he said
he took a photo of me uh with him and
then he was a musician of some kind
himself and I posted to his Facebook
wall and said he had met Sean Lennon at
a West Village bar and then I gave him
my phone number of some reason but he
never texted me or anything wait I
understand how did you get drunk in this
process okay he kept giving me drinks oh
I see I see what you're saying
all right well anything else you want to
talk about to promote the Chapo Trap
House guide the chapo guide to
revolution still available I say yes it
is still available I am not holding it
right now it is it's feel a little naked
without I was gonna say uh yeah you can
actually still pick up a copy of the
chapel guide to revolution a manifesto
against logic facts and reason I'll
flirt by uh Brianna gray who's now
Bernie Sanders national press director
nice and yeah that is available in
bookstores from coast-to-coast paperback
edition is coming out later this year
but it's the same same you know you've
been updating it at all uh no I wanted
to write a you know like a new
introduction but I think it's just like
an added expense for the publisher and
the write really you know that's limit
the way they were can can check people
can check out chapo Trap House via
patreon is there a via patreon yes uh go
do
I don't know chapel Trap House com I
don't I've never have to look up my own
show right I think if you google it you
could probably find I do have another
thing too
although the New York Department of
Sanitation is has a campaign to name the
members of the recycling team and you
know the team there are these uh
anthropomorphic bins that teach you you
know what to recycle and what the
compost and all that sort of stuff I did
not know that but that you don't have
they don't have names right so it's hard
to refer to them you're just like the
blue one or the green one that's clearly
a woman that kind of thing that presents
as a woman and so they're it's a
campaign to name them and you can vote
on it right right and first they're
voting on the gray one you know who you
know is sensibly the leader of the group
you know they're traditional great trash
can and the thing is they have like a
forum with just three names you know
three ballot options and they're all dog
you know one was like Captain hero like
terrible captain here nothing has
nothing to do with the backstory what's
wrong with Captain hero it's generic
yeah that's what I mean this is this is
for New York City the greatest city on
earth we should expect more right they
represent all of us and so I would like
them to name if not the great rash can
the blue recycle bin or maybe the maybe
the compost bin after me after you yep
so you can go to look up the New York
City Department sanitation on Twitter
and tell them named the can after Vergil
there's also a forum if you scroll down
a bit you can finally tweeted about it I
don't know if voting is still on but the
you can go pick up a ballot there you
know an online ballot and you know
disregard the three options they have
that staunchest there's a there's a
there's a line to give your email
address so just write in name the can
after Vergil at gmail.com and is that
actually an email address uh somebody
actually made an email address when i
said that on the show yeah and has said
they've gotten eleven responses so far
no I forget the what the exact wording
was it was like name the can after
virgil i think or name the can virgil at
gmail you know either way we're just
trying to send mostly constructed
campaign alive i wish you the best of
luck at that at that campaign caption
hero is from ridiculous some type of
like
cyclone relief in Mozambique right now
just the contrast well I mean
everybody's got their belly I actually
made this promotion on our episode the
end of our episode where we spent an
hour talking about the Christchurch
shooting well I don't get to decide when
like when the voting is happening they
think they didn't say oh we were
suspending the voting because of this
tragedy well I think our producer anti
Fattah ap Andy would be very interested
in this campaign because like many post
and our kists before him he's really he
loves trash he's really into trash he's
a bit of a free good speaking of the
anti yes I have a show called the anti
Fatih if you guys have it listen to it
you should check it out this week we had
on Le Valley who I believe did some
illustrations for the Chapo book he
didn't do Willis tration for it yeah we
talked about his recent skirmishes with
Chelsea Clinton and Meghan McCain we
also broaden it out to a wider
discussion of Jewish identity Zionism
and the Jewish Diaspora and also I
wanted to plug I was recently on an
episode of struggle session with the
great
Leslie Lee the third trying to kind of
bridge the gap between Goths and
leftists so you know clearly that person
is me and we talked about interview with
a vampire and wow I learned a lot about
vampires I gotta say I'm a little
embarrassed to be a gothic American of
this age and know so little about the
culture of my own people oh and that's
not here but people should check out
literary hangover on there on the
YouTube channel there's something
literary going on with the hangover
alright folks we're gonna take eight so
just a question you know thinking about
voting right in votes have they released
the full I don't know if you looked at
if they release muscles right it none of
the right ins for the recent Public
Advocate
New York not to my knowledge why will
you look OH I'm curious if if you know
if either of us were written in that's
right I forgot that you edged me out in
the race for governor okay
like one vote right and I play what I
owed it in the public advocate race as
you could see by this pin I and I played
it fair I I did not write myself in I
know I was tempted to well good for you
that I have not seen those yet we will
see but maybe we can talk about over the
break how you're doing in the polling
for the libertarian presidential
candidate where I think you'll find that
to the extent that it's actually legit I
am winning all right we'll take a quick
break head into the fun half six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you
[Music]
[Music]
just want to degrade the white man alpha
males
I am a total joint can we bring back the
eg dinner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation DJ dance well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break have Parkinsons
and the alpha males like
Oh almost says what
the back
the back
the back
back
Oh
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
Oh
Oh
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadist keeping it 100
[Music]
birthday to meet you boy
I have a thought expanded to foil the
alpha males black black alpha males
[Music]
around here we we are back Sam cedar on
the majority parts the fun half ladies
and gentlemen I forgot even to to call
in to the Colin system I will do that
now
well we've had a sort of a victory here
ladies and gentlemen as you know some
days ago we were commenting on the
announcement of Exodus and that's thank
you for calling into the majority report
let's just please use no speakerphone
and of your one comment or question
ready listen while out your area code
that dam will join up around here robot
voice drop it some knowledge alright so
as we said about a week or two ago I
think it was maybe less because I can't
because time is dilated we called out
the founder I think her name was
Elizabeth pip Co of Jack siddhis and
said hey that's ridiculous because why
do you have to call it a Jewish Exodus
the first one was Exodus was Jewish the
first Exodus was Jewish why does yours
have to be Jack siddhis and it was
equivalent to calling it like jizz rail
or world
Jass over you know that Jewish Passover
so are johm Kippur a Jewish Yom Kippur
that type of things it's like exactly
it's not a Shana
Josh Hashanah who had all been a little
bit redundant well ladies and gentlemen
after a after pushing and
behind-the-scenes machinations we have
some good news reported in Haaretz today
Jack siddhis we hardly knew you
right-wing Jewish movement changes name
to Exodus just to Exodus they have
dropped the J you're welcome now here's
what I'm confused about how do we know
this is about Jews well I think
obviously without the J sort of to
clearly state what we're doing here now
I'm confused about this project this
could mean young people leaving the
Republican Party it could mean people
who in general are concerned about a
more aggressive foreign policy I mean
I'm I'm at a loss unrooted
Cosmopolitan's this could be a Bob
Marley reference that's a great Bob
Marley album how is this different from
walk away why where is the people who
are gonna stand up for Brandon striding
destruction rokka rokka Ron and strong
and destruction who who was the first
person to Patent and Trademark walk away
this Exodus is just what is Exodus mean
it means walk away they should bring
back the Candace on its formula and call
it Jackson the Jewish brexit that's what
it should be Jegs it but and then of
course they'd be stepping on breaks it
but but and like what is brexit it's
just basically some type of pre-emptive
knock off of walk away I would like to
say send a message out to brand it's
rockin in that he should be suing all of
these people for copyright infringement
patent infringement trademark
infringement personal space violation
microaggression infringement all of them
new case law and microaggression
infringement all of what I think I think
that whatever you think of londun and
we've had our differences
clearly particularly on the use of the
word apathetic specifically the proper
usage of the word apathetic the just
sort of incredible disrespect of him and
the broader conservative movement is
kind of stunning it's really a shame
well maybe if he sues the brexit that
will keep it from happening when they
get the name back and then they get to
all of it all the Jegs it would have
been great I think but I think they
should just all go under his leadership
they should incorporate under Brandon's
trekkin and you know business model to
be struck and in strong and
right unity so where is the motivation
of course for things like Jegs it and
exodus and Exodus and Jacque away the
Jewish walk away movement from the
Democratic Party is coming from the the
lover of of Jews the great white joke
that would be Donald Trump here he is
responding to the fact that now we up to
four I think it is candidates Bernie
Sanders Elizabeth Warren bet O'Rourke
Kamala Harris are there others who have
decided to to a boycott muda judge
oh and Buddha judge who are what is it
boycotting that actually I actually do
need to know I guess apparently how to
pronounce this guy's last name
well eventually and boycotting the right
wing group called a PAC which is a
supportive of the Likud government in in
Israel it's a right-wing organization we
know this is the case people have known
this for years
here is Donald Trump providing analysis
as to the Democrats who are not
attending the AIPAC conference
the Democrats have very much proven to
be anti-israel there's no question about
that and it's a disgrace I mean I don't
know what's happened to them but they
are totally anti-israel frankly I think
they're anti Jewish hmm
there it is defender it does have a lot
of Jewish mannerisms but he is not
Jewish don't run off right there is
sound Trump proclaiming that the Jews
should just walk away you mean I just
wonder I don't know if I have no proof
but I am very I would be very curious to
know what Donald Trump's dad was
thinking of the Holocaust
while Bernie Sanders family was a victim
of it be very curious Fred Trump Fred no
we're here that question asked in the
debates where could Donald Trump
possibly have gotten the idea that by
not going to the AIPAC conference which
is a conference that is specifically
dedicated to supporting the right wing
in Israel where could Donald Trump
possibly have calculated the idea that
this makes someone like Bernie Sanders
who has spoken of the fact that his
family fleed the Holocaust where could
they have possibly gotten the idea that
this makes you anti-semitic I'm trying
to think oh look what happened this
morning on Fox and Friends AIPAC also is
not an extreme right-wing pro-israel
group this is the group that plays it
down the middle as best they can trying
to create a bipartisan consensus of
Republicans and Democrats if you won't
go to AIPAC you are at some level
anti-israel or anti or maybe
anti-semitic we've seen the comments I'm
not saying they are but you're you're
willing to step you're not willing to
stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our most
with our strongest ally all of them
boycotting it shows you how afraid they
are of the fringe left based mmm well
and the part of that fringe left base
includes the majority of Jews in this
country incidentally we should just say
so that fringe less based the that does
not support a pact or the right wing in
Israel so
PTX if your rabbi is calling on line one
playing identity politics people it's so
absurd like I recently watched a
documentary about who supports AIPAC and
most of the money because there aren't
that many Jews in the u.s. most of the
money comes from right-wing Christians
yeah evangelical Christians who
literally they support Israel because
they literally believe that it's gonna
play an important role in the end times
all the Jews are gonna go back to Israel
there's gonna be a battle there's gonna
be a rapture and some of the Jews will
convert and go to heaven and most of the
Jews will die and go to hell so to say
that it's anti-semitic 2/3 1/3 I think
not to ally with those people is just
like ridiculous
boy we all got here and now a burnin
I've already laid down the marker that I
would rather be on the right hand side
of God because of my eczema I'm looking
for a special dispensation not to go to
hell can we just try it can we just try
to finally put this to rest do to build
the Third Temple and get the cow I
didn't see what and just see what Apple
I can like in contact you know it seems
to me you could probably pull that off
for maybe under 10 million dollars yeah
and it would resolve a lot of questions
yes just do it and then nothing happens
well I think nothing happens and then
it's like okay we can just stop you know
doing all this I still if you're going
to go ahead with that please let me know
because I really do feel strongly about
the eternal Hellfire because my eczema
comes out with heat well there's no like
the first Sun I get of the summer I'm
gonna get eczema I got it right now
actually how much I well the eczema
well the Jews have to agree to it and
that you know the Muslims also have to
agree to it too but I think you could
make just a rational argument that let's
all as humanity just try it try it see
if we like it yeah let's try to trigger
all the end times for all the religious
I mean I'll try anything once we've
actually done I mean they have done that
to some extent in India that was a huge
thing in the 90s when they demolished
that mosque to rebuild what they claim
is like an ancient Hindu temple that I
mean
didn't end the world but it did
facilitate you know the rise of BJP or
maybe it started being the world
well I actually am receptive to that
idea because we we actually could be I
don't think we should be too
snobby about Armageddon arguments when
it's like actually happening there's
just different causation explanations
are more or less credible you own the
Israel thing when we were at CPAC
waiting for Diamond and silk for an hour
before was Israel I walked in midway
through and I was like who the hell is
this crank and they told me it's it's
Israel's ambassador to the United States
who he was who is it now I have no idea
what the guy's name is but it's Israel's
ambassador to us no I know I know back
in the day Janine and I we critiqued
Israel in 2004 the next day we heard
from the Israeli embassy and we ended up
booking a couple of debates a different
dynamic now yeah I mean it was a door
gold I don't know is that okay maíam
might be and so this is one of the worst
speeches I've ever seen and he has
slides and he is trying to prove some
inscrutable point that the the Jews have
always always been in Jerusalem or
something like that and he's arguing
against some people at the University of
Michigan that nobody cares about or has
ever heard of and he's showing these
slides of coins lately and talking about
Juan Cole's very respected scholar my
friends he's sure everything else stands
except that he is showing you know he's
showing these slides of coins and saying
look there's a you know there's a
menorah on this coin that's prima facie
evidence
now let's you know fast forward to 73 BC
yeah nobody's buying this it's just dead
air in the entire auditorium and this is
you know that see if I was the right
wing audience and I've no idea what he's
trying to accomplish here or what point
he's trying to prove because everyone
here is already on your side unless
they're you know one of the the the
young future Republican groupers who
think that you know you need to be wiped
off the map then you know he shovels off
stage and then diamond and silk come on
and they just you know they do their
whole shtick and he's do this bit and
say and they just say you know and we
always stand with Israel and just like
thunderous applause it was not on the
coin like these people on your side my
sides trying to live the other side
sending rockets he's coming in to think
that he's got to present a factual and
people are literally like facts boom
let's just do this we don't need fat no
Israel rocks guys come on that's it
that's all you guys say well that was
but that's the disjuncture like yeah you
should see me we need you may need to do
that to provide some like the Heritage
Foundation but but it's CPAC you just
need to come out it's a just cheer for
them every time a crazy Zionist tells me
that I need to get back to Israel I'm
like hey I live in a place called New
York ever heard of it that's actually a
 good point this this I'm totally
getting myself in trouble here but one
of the funniest lines I've ever read
from a Hamas spokesperson this is
several years ago when they were trying
to make their first word back when they
were funny but no they're still pretty
funny but this is when they were trying
to their their first cultivation of like
hey let's do some hits and you know the
Western press and this guy was like you
know actually you know making a broader
legitimate point of but it's basically
saying like our issue is not with Jewish
people our issue is with being dislodged
from our land and he goes as an example
if the Jew wants to live in Brooklyn
that's no problem
there is no chance that and I've been to
either city that Tel Aviv is even 1/10
as fun as Berlin hands down Berlin is
very fun Jerusalem more fun than both
true symbol all right let's go to the
phones in a little Israel humor I think
somebody snuck in first stop a spot
today come from a 509 area code this of
course a back-channel call Ronald Reagan
oh my god the conspiracy theories are
true look at you
jumping right in yeah
[Music]
but I call how that worked out I got a
you didn't interview the other day with
this guy who wrote a book called lost
connections
do you remember that yes I do we're
gonna see Ohana Hara yes I do
yeah so I went ahead and pre-ordered
that book very good interview he
mentioned something that really yeah
good anyone oh well I'm in the paperback
but go ahead go ahead yeah I think maybe
because I selected paperback okay damn
it okay well anyways Sam he mentioned
that more eighteen-month-old children in
the United States recognized the
McDonald's logo then know their own last
name that's correctly interesting yep
and it made me think about how I grew up
in a town called Albany Oregon so small
town mm-hmm and down downtown Albany
Oregon there's this old Mennonite man
named william mcdonald who had a shoe
shop a shoe repair shop right yep
and here that he had he had a big sign
outside had it like a Big M on it but
you know McDonald to prepare right and
as a kid I never I never thought for a
minute like that maybe they sold
hamburgers they're just clear that it
was a different thing right right so I
got all these David Pakman sock
puppet account coming at me on Twitter
about how there's other people who have
used panels or squares right there's a
famous Dutch artist you sort of get
these colorful bright squares right I
forget his name
Mondrian is a Paragon is also known for
that but I don't think he was Dutch but
go ahead they're missing the entire
point and by they had mean David Pakman
pretending to be like 10 other people
you guys are again I'm repeating myself
but you guys are
direct competitors writer a platform
correct it's not like his studio is
inspired by yours it's an exact replica
so again they fail over and over again
and I'm waiting to hear back from you I
told you I guess on Wednesday I you know
I'm willing to do this case pro bono
well I know I'm contemplating I mean I
could sue David Pakman of course for
infringement here's another clip of his
here's a clip of his studio that is
clearly well that's know these are old
stuff do you got to get a new pac-man
video before he stole your intellectual
property yeah yeah yeah oh geez your
theft I mean that's nuts
do you want to quit Reagan do you feel
comfortable telling a family that might
be deported that you're dropping their
case to take this on
is that how strongly so I'm picking up
I'm picking up the sound from David
Davis video that you're wearing okay
sorry
sorry about that right here yeah Michael
asked do you feel comfortable telling a
family who is maybe have family members
who are facing deportation your your
primary work is as an immigration lawyer
that you can't handle their case because
you're handling my lawsuit against David
Pakman well I see this hearing this
morning it's a lady she's been here
since 1993 her 22 year old son it has
severe down syndrome and I told the
judge I gotta get the out of here I
got a call to make because I got I mean
the bottom line is I got this cease and
desist letter locked and loaded I went
ahead working on it and so you just say
the word all right well I appreciate
that I you know I'm glad you brought
this up Ronald Reagan because there is a
there is another measure of this
controversy as you know the controversy
between David and I has grown
and I'm gonna let you go because you're
hanging up there you're getting loud but
this controversy has grown it was
covered by this guy at progressive
voices who apparently is fake news
ladies and gentlemen listen to what he
has to say at the end of his report on
this thing it's disgusting lie it's a
smear here it is pop it open we
absolutely know that he copied it
essentially but did you guys notice that
it was similar I really didn't notice
that I didn't know that until today but
look I'm actually gonna throw a
curveball at you so Sam is basically
accusing you know it's accusation but I
guess is proven true I mean David admits
that he basically copied Sam cedar but
apparently if you go back to a 2012 view
like 2012 videos of Sam cedar he just
has like a normal like wall backdrop
type of thing with like majority report
behind him so who was actually the
person who kind of I guess started that
whole panel thing I guess it's Kyle
kolinsky dude the dude with the the
massage parlor you know the the
studio is what it was you know because
it looks like looks like it's like a
massage parlor and you go like behind a
panel but listen man that was that was
really funny and yeah all right look
this guy's got it wrong it's a smear job
it wasn't the idea that Kyle kolinsky is
where what would the inspiration for
those tells you know this is the problem
when you get these younger type folks
who come around and start talking about
YouTube sets because they they have a
limited memory very very myopic I
present to you a picture of Ferren
cousins in the go left which ultimately
became ring of fire radio studios down
in Florida you will notice the
handcrafted panel behind him with the
gels
and the light now that was handmade but
that's where I stole the idea from not
from Kyle kolinsky or any type of
whatever he's got going on in his up in
New York so set the record straight and
cease-and-desist that's
I want to say Jesus and Jesus for Jews
she's in Jesus right let's go to the
phones
another 509 who's this where he come
from hey Sam it's peaceful how are you
see spa where are you coming from
I'm calling from Spokane Spokane what's
on your mind
did you happen to see your email I sent
you last night
ah no I did not I mean I I get ok
literally hundreds of emails and it
takes me like weeks to yeah that's fair
well I'm a pretty big fan of destiny are
you familiar with them yes am i familiar
with destiny yeah you know I think it
sounds familiar I feel like I looked
looked destiny every point but but I'm
not I'm not terribly familiar with okay
so he's a pretty big twitch streamer has
a lot of debating against gummy
right-wing people and does podcast
whatnot he's very very good good
basically a fan of you and a fan of
destiny so last night he was talking to
someone else they're they're developing
a podcast a political debate podcast no
good and they they're getting some
pretty big right-wing named people and
he's the main guy was telling him hey
you need to form a team said I don't
really have any what I want and he
paused and said uh actually there's two
people that I could think of but I want
to contact and I'd like to get on
Michael Brooks and Sam cedar great cool
so this could be a pretty good a pretty
good opportunity so I'd like to get you
two in contact well I mean major yeah I
mean it's I'm not hard to find I mean I
hopefully I'm hard to find Addison but
not only don't make sure that oh yeah I
want to cause you guys very interested
órale to get you two together
all right great right like you thank you
I appreciate that we should do that I'd
say I'm just calling
you got a package in the lobby come from
a 2 for 8 area code I'm saying the 2 for
8 hello hey hi first time caller I've
been watching you guys since I awoke
back just before drinks but yeah get
them well what's your name were you glad
to let you know one I'm sorry what's
your name oh yeah sure my name is Karen
and I'm calling from Michigan all right
Karen from Michigan the state yeah the
state that they purged votes right so
Bernie didn't win
so anyway I'm calling first to let you
know that I'm totally I really love
listening to you guys Michael and you
and Jamie and I'm sorry I don't remember
the other guy but anyway I'm not I
appreciate your your comments and
listening to you because you helped me
hone in and what it is that I'm trying
to express when I say that I'm
dissatisfied with the health system and
you know I've just had a feeling for a
long time that I'll pick her up they
taught me in high school is well crap
right so um yeah I I just feel I just
feel that's okay that you guys have
really helped me a lot and I can express
myself way better in writing then I used
to be able to well I appreciate the call
that's that's nice and I'm glad to hear
it thanks thank you so much Alisa
there's one more thing oh yeah okay I I
was watching David Jackson before I was
watching you guys oh right sure he he
stole your set but he considered that
imitation is one of the highest
compliments that you can get yes I know
also I think you guys need to quit
stop picking on each other well I'm
gonna let you know I'm gonna let you I
mean election and a secret about Backman
and I he is a horrible horrible person
the problem is Karen is it's not a joke
there's real fundamental moral
differences in taping each one of these
gels and you don't even see a fraction a
fraction of how many gels are in this
studio we only small pointer but if I
was to get up walk across the room in a
360 fashion you would see gels all
around the studio and that took you know
days days and hours and I'm I experiment
is like Brylcreem I and the other the
other thing more is that your set design
is way more abstract than David his is
more regular and you know organized
maybe it's not all that much of a copy I
will take I will take your advice under
advisement as it were but I appreciate
the call thanks so much have a wonderful
day care thank you there you go or Jaron
as we go called from me come from a two
one zero
area code who's this where you come from
good afternoon Sam is John from San
Antonio
John from San Antonio how are you sir
what is it what is the latest Jake is s
yeah I want to talk a little look
invention numbers here yeah I agreed
that what you're all talking about
earlier you know it's hard to say you
know how this convention is going to
turn out you know projecting into the
future but I want to talk about some
basic numbers you know there's two
hundred two thousand four hundred and
thirty seven district delegates and 841
at-large delegates and so there's also
four hundred nine
party leaders and elected officials
which at that point represents 7.8
percent of the total votes now the
number John let me just stop there just
so that people know though that figure
the four hundred some-odd you just said
is the new number for super-delegates it
used to be I think almost double that
correct no no it's actually it's
actually different this is different
these are actually pledged officials oh
okay oh yes they're include yeah they're
included in the actual totals which I
didn't even know until I didn't research
into this and so I mean which is pretty
bad because I mean that's not
necessarily going to help Bernie because
you know people are talking about
super-delegates but you know actually
the elected officials most likely aren't
going to vote for him either and like I
said they represent seven point eight
percent of the figures and so to get
50.1% you would have to get 1885
delegates if from those three figures
and I agree with what y'all are saying
it's going to be very hard for anybody
but also it's hard to predict you know I
mean the best thing is to see that
Bernie is actually ahead in in the
prediction markets you know in Iowa and
New Hampshire and no one from the
Democratic Party you know since before
68 if they've won both of those they've
always won the nomination
one good John do you know how many
super-delegates there are in 2020 I
can't find that figure it's the same
amount or is it just that they're that
they're just don't count until the
second part because my understanding is
that there was actually like maybe a
third had been lopped off I'm not sure
about that no it's it's 3768
is the number you know before the
initial vote the first ballot is going
to be 37 68 and then they're going to
add another let's see what is it 7 64 of
the super delegate
and so and so yeah I mean this is going
to be it so it's going to get another
18% so I mean the good news is that
essentially eighty-two percent of the
vote will be determined you know by the
delegates before the super dal the super
delegates so I mean it's it's really not
as that is a lot of people are making it
sound I mean Bernie's still going to
have to have a pretty significant lead
but they are going to be 82 percent of
the total balance yeah I mean I've
always contended that I find it very
hard to believe that the super-delegates
would would vote on mass for against the
candidate who was clearly in the lead
going into the convention I just think
that like that you want to talk about a
completely predictable implosion of your
political party that's the recipe for it
and theoretically most of these
super-delegates could make that
calculation if it's closed and it's like
they're one or two percentage points
apart from each other then I think it
becomes a legitimate you know like you
know this is the apparatus that we have
to decide these things and you know it's
hard to argue with that right I mean
because I mean it's just if you look at
2008 just a differences between Obama
and Clinton weren't that big you know to
where you know the difference is now
between Bernie and especially if it's I
mean between anybody but I mean
especially if it's in a roar can Biden
they're gonna be especially large and
and I mean I you talking about members
difference or you're talking about like
ideologically speaking no I'm talking
about ideologically I mean they were the
super-delegates for more in tune to
change their their original votes
because like I said there wasn't that
much of a difference where you know if
they come into play this time I mean
there's going to be you know a movement
to stop burning you know there's no
doubt about it and so so I don't know
how you know historically you know
that's gonna actually have an impact on
this year's convention so keep in mind
that virgin ilysm keep in mind that
these Palio's they're not a monolith
they are self-interested that includes
to my knowledge every single sitting
Democratic member of Congress and I I
think there's a real question of whether
there is such a strong you know --left
structure engaging in primaries and
engaging in a real project to move the
party to the left and punish those who
are ideologically out of step with where
they need to be with their seats that
would be able to apply realistic you
know pressure to say you know well get
on board with this I mean that that's
building right I mean as a Republican
part right there's not a single
Republican senator who would vote to
remove Trump from office right that very
reason yes the idea that you have like
particularly like an organizational
injustice Democrats in a OC is coming in
that and you see there's some report out
of date of progress the other day
they're talking about going after
moderates just in the context of
oversight with the Trump administration
I mean there's there's at the very least
the idea is out there in a way that it
hasn't been out there before I don't
know if the infrastructure is quite
there we don't have a club to go for
growth at this point there's also an
idea if you know a lot of these
super-delegates won't put you know just
put their finger in the wind see which
way it's blowing right that's the other
big difference between the nature of the
super-delegates that we have today as
opposed to four years ago or six three
years ago is that they're more elected
there's a higher concentration of
elected officials and so they are while
not directly elected as super-delegates
they will face the voters and there is
an opportunity there for some type of
like backlash and so they're they're
gonna be more sensitive to those things
than like a former dignitary of the
Democratic Party who's now like a
lobbyist for Raytheon or something
appreciate the call John all right thank
you Mike
calling from an 8 1 4 area code who's
this where you calling from hello Sam
big fan but today I'm actually coming to
you with some criticism and I can't
disclose my name because the subject
matter of what I'm going to be talking
about may put me in danger so I'm just
gonna go ahead and go into what I want
to ask you about do you remember the
interview that you conducted with a dr.
Horne called on the topic of Islam and
Islamophobia yes okay so basically the
criticism that I have for you is that I
believe in this interview two things
happened number one I believe that hewan
misled or lied about the Quran and
number two I believe that you didn't
know enough about the Quran to correct
his mistake but you still believed it
because it fit your agenda and with that
I believe that you perfectly exemplified
the unholy alliance between Islam and
liberalism that ex-muslims I've been
trying to expose for a while now but I
wanted to say something so just let you
there's one
III don't I don't pretend to be a an
expert on the Quran or Islam so I know I
didn't mean that you were I didn't mean
that you were an expert I mean I meant
that when he brought this idea that I'm
going to expose to you right now towards
you you didn't push back on it you I
mean right to the extent that I have any
sort of academic background in this it
was a comparative religion and religion
as a phenomena in school but I also
wouldn't necessarily I don't necessarily
you know doubt that because I you know
this was many years ago and it was an
undergrad but go ahead what is what is
your point more specifically okay so
basically 2 minutes and 22 seconds into
the video
Huang quotes verse 5 of chapter 9 of the
Quran which is commonly referred to as
the verse of the sort and this verse
goes along goes something along the
lines of one sacred months have passed
slayed the polytheists wherever you find
them and then he goes on to explain how
the polytheists referred to in this
verse where a specific group of pagans
that were hostile and then this part
what what I just said he was correct in
saying that but then the lie comes when
he concludes by saying the Quran does
not advocate killing innocents so he
uses this this verse to say that the
whole Quran does not advocate killing
innocents all right this verse is 9/5
chapter 9 verse 5 but what you see and
that him being the snake oil salesman
that he is he fails to hold on for a
second when you do me one favor who you
do me one favor here why don't you just
make your point without characterizing a
renowned professor and scholar of this
stuff in the way that you are okay
alright cuz you're just some dude who
won't give me his name on the phone so
you want to make your point okay so
basically he quotes the beginning of
that chapter to make them which is the
verse that I just talked to you about
about the polytheists but then he failed
to mention verse 29 of that chapter
which says fight those who do not
believe in Allah and who do not consider
unlawful what Allah and His Messenger
have made unlawful and who do not adopt
the religion of the truth from those who
are giving the scripture fight until
they give the jizya which is
compensation willingly while they are
humbled so the choice is giving given to
you by the Quran as a non-muslim is to
either convert pay the jizya which is
protection tax or be fought so am saying
that the quran doesn't advocate killing
of innocents is just completely wrong no
way sec it so you're equated the word
fight with the killing of innocence
because you're aware when on any given
day the number of politicians who in the
course of talking about just about any
issue say the word fight do you
the killing of innocence when people say
were fighting for a repeal and replace
of the Affordable Care Act or we're
fighting for a $15 minimum wage we're
not gonna give up the struggle do you
equate that with killing of innocents
I mean the options given forth to you or
either conversion or giving protection
money and we didn't look at it
historically what the Muslims did where
the non money from you take or make you
convert or kill you that's historical
fact you can see it and we're not
talking about we're not talking about
historical fact we're talking about the
reading done because I can tell you that
excuse me
I can tell you that when people say
we're going to fight to make abortion
illegal in this world in this country
that historically there have been people
who then say oh I'm going to go bomb a
clinic I'm going to go kill a excuse me
a an abortion doctor so now does that
rhetoric inflamed particularly when
there's knowledge that's going on
without a doubt I don't know the
historical context in which that was
written in the 'quran but if you're
asking me do people take the words of
Bibles and you know their various Bibles
as it were and use those words to
justify killing my answer would be yes
but that is very much a part of that
that is very different from saying that
is what the the the intent of the writer
was I don't know how you gleaned that if
I could respond to that quickly when I
said historically I didn't mean
historically with random factors within
Islam I'm talking about the Prophet of
Islam
he and he himself applied this verse as
I explained it to you and this is public
record any anybody could could look this
up the Prophet himself went and conquest
in places and gave him the option to
either convert
or pages yeah or die and this is also
backed up by the hadith so the history
is backing me up that the prophet did
that the hadith is saying to do this and
the Quran is also saying to do this so
you know I'm not I understand what she's
saying that the connotation of the word
fight might be different but when all
these three much when the hadith the
Quran and the Prophet himself did
whatever affirm that he did not where
where where is it where is the proof
that Muhammad that that this historical
fact that you're talking about where can
I find this if you if you you can look
you can find it in the serie of which is
my story of the Prophet you can there's
public within Islamic records there
there's a list of all the conquests that
the Prophet has has done so within those
you can see where he goes to tribes and
the might and he invades and gives them
the option of either converting paying
money or dying this is public record you
can look I mean I'm looking at public
record - I mean listen I'm looking at
public record as well and the the first
thing I find is did you know is about
Muhammad killing innocents and saying
these are the most common contemporary
allegations Levitt against the Prophet
Muhammad it's also one of the most
spurious and so what I do is I turn to a
someone who has spent literally decades
studying these things now maybe he has a
secret agenda but I mean well what I
mean great people I grew up in the
Middle East my whole life these people
doing this stuff they read this stuff
it's preached what about Muslims here
what about Muslims here I'm sorry
what about Muslims in the United States
yeah but that's one less than one
percent of Muslims worldwide well I mean
what percentage what percent of Muslims
are you talking about I mean you what
you're talking about
okay is your what you're saying that you
grow up
in a specific context where where there
was only friendly okay you grew up in a
specific context in what country I grew
up in the United Arab Emirates which is
supposed to be moderate but you know
these ideas are still widely circulated
and with within all the Arabic countries
that I've been to mister Somali I've
been to Sudan and Egypt been to UAE
Saudi all these so many countries I'll
specifically say the word since I don't
imply that all of Islam is a monolith
but within all these countries you can
go into the mosque and then you pick up
this book so so even just by by here and
then let me just let me finish let me
finish it at one point this is very
critical in all these countries you can
pick up the Quran that says that and
then you could also pick up the hadith
book which confirms us yeah dude I could
walk into any temple around the world
okay and pick up numbers one of the five
books of Moses and learn how I should be
throwing stoning women when they have
their periods
I'm not terrible yes it's terrible it's
terrible it's terrible it's terrible but
no one no one would ever describe the
essence of this and that was when I'm
saying numbers I mean this is specific
stuff this is not somebody has the
ability to interpret this stuff these
are specific like rules
like literally numbers is the census and
it comes with a bunch of rules as which
we would find absolutely grotesque today
in society today terrible right you tell
me the story you tell me the story right
in Islam that people have interpreted
the words fight as meaning killing
innocence and you suggest that it's
completely backed up
I'm sorry and the commentary has backed
it up the commentary has backed it up
and I could tell you the commentary also
in the in in the Midrash backs up a lot
of these these these very very specific
rules but the interpretation of these
things so and you cite evidence that's
so publicly available that
an expert in Islam for decades missed it
somehow even even if he's an expert he
still has a viewpoint right yeah I feel
like so that evidence is not its own
clear obviously right are you just
saying that he's completely correct it's
you I mean if I'm if I'm not saying
anything about him I'm saying oh no you
know no excuse me excuse me
I am not so old that I can't remember
three minutes ago when you said he was a
snake oil salesman now that is far less
yeah
that is far less up to interpretation to
focus on the content well you did a crab
ass job of it okay so here's your you
know like I'll tell you what you send me
an email with the citations that you're
talking about okay yeah well this is not
for you anybody can look this up okay
well I mean anybody I just told you
about that
look I send it dude I'm very sorry for
AMA but dude anybody can look up for
themselves stuff in any of these ancient
books right okay great great people
that's that's the point of the call I
mean look it up but I mean it's time to
see what your what what you're talking
about I mean you gave the game away when
you came in you said this guy was a
snake oil salesman because and you said
it specifically calls or excuse me
you said it specifically called excuse
me you said it specifically calls for
the killing of innocence the word
killing is not in there the word
innocence is not in there the word
fighting if you if you take a decoder
ring you can look at that word as
killing innocence but if we don't have
the decoder ring that you have that's
not what it says okay appreciate the
cops
you're going to say okay
honestly like you know you want to come
and you want to make an argument that
it's Lomb like every other religion not
every other religion maybe the mani
codex although I don't know but most of
the world's religions have been used as
a leverage point to kill certainly
Christianity helped with the genocide in
this country of of indigenous people and
I would imagine indigenous people all
around the world certainly Christianity
was not a total bystander to things like
the Holocaust certainly we have examples
of Buddhism that have led to jail your
mouth we have seen this with all
religions and to make this leap from
fighting to killing innocence so
casually and say that someone who
interprets fighting as not killing
innocence is a snake oil salesman I
think you give away the game I'm not
negating your experience but I think
maybe your assessment in your analysis
of your experience is not necessarily
fully equipped you for making this type
of I can understand having the
resentment I mean the no doubt if I had
grown up I mean there's there's a lot of
people who come out of let's say the
Hasidic communities to the extent that
they come out and there's a lot of
resentment there just personal trauma
cannot dictate how you approach the
politics and culture of over a billion
people and and the incredible irony of
like you know this is a good lesson in
the limits of standpoint epistemology
and identity politics and politics like
right-wing people who will not take
anybody's word for anything with their
experience of like racism as an example
out source like oh well Islam we've got
a couple of like translated quotes and
this person had a bad experience growing
up so done well that's the thing he's
like I'm not negating music oh I don't
know in the context he grew up in a
religious fanatic household of any kind
let alone a government on those
principles is super unpleasant and we
oppose it
he's just he wants to make a global
statement out of it and also undermine
somebody's legitimate scholarship that's
the problem
and my thing yeah I mean people think
that we give short shrift to the damage
done by certain kinds of religious
fundamentalism because we're all you
know in our coastal we bubble most of us
were not raised by religious
fundamentalists but like I think they've
missed the more nuanced point that we're
making which is that like yes religious
fundamentalism has caused harm and
people have grown up in a piece of
situations but what causes the religious
fundamentalism it's not simply the
religion itself it's not the text itself
it always relies on so many other
factors social political psychological
etc so the way to combat the harms done
by religious fundamentalism is not by
combating the religion itself because
that's such a nebulous thing to begin
with it's always the political I think
one also just the situational reality
that like if you take on Sunni
fundamentalism in any country where that
is in control is entirely different than
in a state that monitors and spies on
people and bombs them overseas like
there's just a total contextual
difference on that kind of discourse
depending literally on the geografía
Vitt sorry let's go let's have a palate
cleanser and hear from the the exquisite
first lady of this country who is out
there really encouraging people to be
their best ladies and gentlemen that's
what's so important in this time be your
best and here is First Lady of the
United States encouraging all of us to
be our best here is mallanna excuse me
here she is Melania Trump turned out
this past year I've had opportunity to
work with many of you traveling both
domestically
and internationally in order to promote
the three pillars of b-best
well-being online safety and opioid
abuse I don't want to get picky but
Virgil what do you think about this the
three pillars of being be best one of
them including you should you should
have abused opioids how would this work
well I'm agnostic on the opioid abuse
thing but I generally opposed the be
best priority
how will the next generation develop the
trolling skills they need to compete in
a global digital marketplace if they're
if they're being told not to harass
their classmates I mean that's it that's
a great point I'm sitting right here as
you say that actually and I am looking
at a New York Times piece from just
yesterday a new age of warfare how
internet mercenaries do battle for
authoritarian governments how are we
going to fight authoritarian governments
or support them for that matter if we
don't encourage online trolling from our
kids at an early age
we're gonna be whipped we're we're going
to be this this this next generation
we're too old to fight in the digital
wars you know as we're all approaching
they they're gonna have to pick up the
slack and they can't be you know motion
watching bunch of grass eaters you know
no that's what millennia wants you know
because the people most most susceptible
to this kind of message are probably
bleeding heart liberals and if they're
they don't raise their kids to fight you
know the authoritarian right online they
went no messenger I mean I think she's
just looking for a day total disarmament
by the United States in the in the
coming you know warfare is exactly what
her husband is trying to do with NATO
this is the good digital natal D native
vacation here is Donald Trump her
husband he is signing a or I should say
after a signing of an executive order
that would that would deal with the
crisis
that we have on our campuses thank you
wants the umbrella
dissing invitation invitations to
right-wing speakers and of course I'm
being facetious there is every reason to
believe that this is not a real crisis
that it almost decidedly could not be a
crisis almost definitionally but it just
so happens that 2018 was one of the
lowest years of disinvite ations over
like in a decade but be that as it may
here's Donald Trump and I wonder I don't
think this executive order is even
constitutional when you talk about
protecting free speech this seems to be
fundamentally a an assault on free
speech here is a Donald Trump clip
number three they we're delivering a
clear message to the professor's and
power structures trying to suppress
dissent and keep young Americans and all
Americans not just young Americans like
Ellen and Caitlin and Polly from
challenging rigid far-left ideology
people who are confident in their
beliefs do not censor others we don't
want to censor others they welcome free
fair and open debate and that's what
we're demanding under the policy I am
announcing today federal agencies will
use their authority under various
grant-making programs to ensure that
public universities protect cherish
protect the First Amendment and First
Amendment rights of their students or
risk losing billions and billions of
dollars of federal taxpayer dollars
every year the federal government
provides educational institutions with
more than 35 billion dollars in research
funding all of that money is now at
stake that's a lot of money
they are gonna not have to like your
views a lot right we will not stand idly
by and allow public institutions to
violate their students constitutional
rights if a college or university does
it allow you to speak we will not give
them money it's very simple now and I
want to take this seriously for a month
because what well in what possible
instance is there a college where they
say you cannot speak like what I'm
trying to even think of like what would
constitute that type of violation it's I
interpreted it's it's it's usually when
some college conservative group invites
a Nazi to come speak right answer or
something which as far as I know
i has any college actually ever you know
administration ever actually stopped
Richard Spencer from speaking I you know
I don't I don't I I don't know that you
can stop him from speaking you can say
like hey we're not gonna make available
to you the you know the the Blandin hall
and you're not gonna have we're not
gonna provide AV services for you we're
not gonna pay you money to come and
speak it's conceivable that certain in
certain instances like hey we can't
provide security for this so we don't
want it to have happen on campus but
these are not anyway first of all these
are not their students a right like
other speakers but every single day in
the social activities council they're
saying we're not gonna book Todd Barry
I wanna book Tom Rhodes like I could
could Tom berry like Todd berry I could
could you know a Jello Biafra sue all
these people because I haven't you know
he hasn't gotten a booking and you know
at certain college like I don't
understand
what is what is the free speech
principle here like how are these people
preventing any speech yeah yeah well I
mean there's no to my knowledge there's
no college that has you know with the
built into its rules regulations some
lying that says by the way here's the
views you can't express yeah it's very
strange the this this calculation of
free speech that that good I mean I I I
think you can't discriminate you know on
channels that are open to everyone right
like if you have like you couldn't like
deny maybe certain groups from being
there unless that they were considered
like it may be full-on hate speech or
could be inciting in their presence but
I I'm not quite sure I understand even
the dynamic but what it does is it lays
down some type of fake predicate right
like this is gonna be cited as a way of
pulling funds and really now what we're
gonna see is the government is going to
use its funds to force speech on on
schools and we already know in the
Supreme Court
they've already ruled like a missile the
whole Janis case is about you cannot
force you know you cannot use your power
to force speech and that is what
supposedly was the basis of the Janis
case you can't take money to a Union
where money is fungible even if it's
paying for for their lawyers because
that frees up other money for them to go
out and engage in political speech well
I just looked it up and colleges have
canceled appearances by Richard Spencer
in particular usually due to safety to
safety concerns I just looked up at the
University of Florida cancelled his
appearance due to safety concerns oh I
would have a specific policy yeah so
what this order would do basically is to
say screw your safety concerns you're
gonna have to have this event anyway
regardless of the potential violence
that ensues or else you're gonna lose
your funding well I I'm I'm less
concerned about that to be
then the broader implications that it
might lead into because I'm I remember
when David Horowitz was going around
college campuses when I was an
undergraduate he was a madman crazy
person with it basically his parents
were Stalinists and his whole life was
reacting against them and getting funded
by right-wing sugar daddies and he had a
thing called the student it was
something like the academic Bill of
Rights and essentially it was it was in
it it was a demand on what professors
could not say or express in class so I
think way bigger than like who comes on
campus or doesn't is the implications of
this for people who might hold well Juan
Cole's well I was just up for a position
a tenured position and anyways yeah I
was at Yale and it was I don't know if
it was a pact specifically but it was
certainly those type of folks who
basically after he had already been I
think offered a job forced the school to
roll back their offer to him and so I
mean this is an Horowitz was sued just
to be clear like it was super specific
like I wouldn't go anywhere like but my
friend Ben Burgess is an example right
he makes a point is like I teach logic I
don't necessarily express my politics in
class but would hora which you know
whatever give or take doesn't matter I
think anybody should be able to express
their political preferences when they
teach I think that's fine made certainly
made learning from people more
interesting but the stuff Horowitz was
trying to get to was like literally like
teaching that America objective facts
like a like the Constitution was an
objectively pro-slavery document until
it was changed
that's an abduction leftist opinion
right versus an objective historical and
legal reality so the game here is that
and it's gonna be serious for public
educators at universities in the
all-powerful humanities departments
which as we all know dominate modern
higher education meanwhile Donald Trump
also expressed his real concern about
the student debt crisis
in this country as you know Donald Trump
intimately aware of this this issue of
student loan debt well not so much
student loan debt more like debt and so
far debt has been pretty good to this
guy that's listening today's action is
just the beginning of our efforts to
protect free speech and advance our
students rights agenda what I've been
witnessing over the last long period of
time long before I became president what
I've been witnessing is outrageous this
order will also empower students with
vital information about the value of the
programs they take on and having to do
with that student loan debt I'm gonna
work to fix it because it's outrageous
what's happening you're not given that
fair start you're too far down it's not
right and we're gonna work very very
hard to get it fixed but we're gonna
start with 43 million people in the
United States are currently working to
pay off student loans and we'll be
talking about that very soon we're gonna
work on that very soon I've always been
very good with loans and I love loans I
love other people's money well as a
victim of student loans I find that both
extremely funny and terrifying because I
know the when they look at it they're
gonna find a way of making people and
mine and much worse situation sometimes
even much more difficult we're gonna
double how profitable these executive
there's a lot of it because they're
getting hosed by these private companies
but there's so much being left on the
table in terms of interest we got a new
plan here's the thing we're gonna have
your loan we're gonna have your your
interest but all the money's gonna go to
my family
it's called the Trump the Trump try use
you believe it's counted Trump
University bring that back and earn I
sort of feel like he's insincere on his
agenda to tackle the student loan issue
it's the first I'm hearing about it
III feel like it's probably an insincere
he's gonna need to wheel out some fake
populism issues that he can pretend in
2020 on after you know totally lying
obviously about Medicare and Social
Security all right we just have about
eight or nine minutes left here let's go
to the phone to come from a two one five
area code who's this where you're
calling from hi Mindy how are you
what's on your mind Mindy I have
absolutely nothing to say except I just
wanted to be the last caller and they
wanted to hear you say this is the last
call today I'm sorry it is not I know
you will be number twenty eighth in the
queue so I will probably not get to you
oh you could get to her but I was
hosting I'd do that for you Mindy I know
thank you
two things outs I want to say I love
virtual Texas every time he's on I just
loves true I remember that I follow him
nice and yeah he's great and the guy you
had on the other day the psychologist
psychiatrist named Johann Hari and
really I was blurred
I like thought he was amazing he was
like no sorry that expose yeah well what
is he he's just what is he later he's
journalist he's just used to saying he's
just great I just love them I thought
that was one of the best interviews you
had and I'm sorry I'm not the last call
the second call of the week but what can
you do appreciate it Mindy better luck
next time calling before seven eight
area code she was all over Twitter last
time like really really really singing
your praises last time you run come from
four seven eight area code who's this
where you come from
yes hello give
you my name would of course took my
laughing extreme danger all the regulars
got in early today what's what's on your
mind yeah big hey grab also quick
virtual fails please just take a little
photo with you we're also Brooklyn
Virgil straight to the other so keep up
great work thank you I I also just
wanted to say real quick about our talk
about Stacey Abrams sure just from my
neck of the woods and you know I'm sure
everybody saw the story that just
floated out of about bidented you're
just publicly musing about choosing her
as a vice president all right what you
guys had had to say about that and and I
gotta confess to you that you know when
I first read that headline a few days
ago as actually thought it was a pretty
positive thing it was like okay well you
know this is uh he's fainting if not
actually moved to the left to stay
stable is a fine politician for for
georgeous who would have made a fine
governor she should be the governor if
it was up to me she'd be withdrawing
into the hills of the Blue Ridge
Mountains and the armed compound
whatever set up a good read exile but
that's just not how we do things I guess
but the more I thought about it the more
I really count this me off you know I've
heard a whole lot from her camp about
how into this potential dick that she is
in into and and and it the more I think
about it the more it does strike me as
really disagree with his policies are
really quite bad yeah to cover them up
and to use a much better human being
than him to do so which is really quite
a shameful thing to do on a human level
it's not really bad politics I will go
vote for them anyway but I just urge
everyone this is not a very lucid point
I guess but not to fall for that
well you know and here's the thing she
we will never know I mean it's possible
you may hear whispers if you were you
know sort of we will never know because
there's no way that she can come out and
publicly criticize him if she wants
support from any type of institutional
support going forward or any type of
like donors there's no way that she can
come out
besides him there's no way she'd come
out and say he just I mean that's why
they do this I mean and and so yeah I
agree with you it's just not and and I
find it very unlikely that she sees any
value in it
III like I I don't think that this is
something where they would come like do
you mind us float in your name and she
like go ahead I I just like it doesn't
make sense she doesn't there's no value
to her to be tell I absolutely agree
with you I absolutely agree her politics
really just to be frank whatever would
it they're not as she's not I wouldn't
hurt are not the same political not dumb
right it's not dumb yes she knows how to
make political calculations Minority
Leader the door among other things right
like she's no fool I think I hope that
she knows that she's being used yeah I
imagine she does and I imagine she
realizes there's only so much she can do
about it and her she's probably sitting
around with advisers right now going
like how can we turn this into something
that's gonna benefit me down the road in
some fashion or another but yeah I mean
she's got really good Georgia politics
you know for Georgia statewide office
and and it's so good for her but I
appreciate the call Jeff thank you for
your tell us your name alright I think
we get time for one more call calling
from an 8 1 0 area code we have
literally six people who have been on
hold for 70 minutes and your name on a
1o is hey this is Joe and you're calling
from my flint Joe from Flint Michigan
what's on your mind Joe hey I I was
wondering I've been waiting a long time
to ask this but is there any way to get
kind of an education of conservatives
like buying a commercial on Fox News
where they show how Bregman schooled
Carlson and make people aware that he's
a fake populist who's like a millionaire
trust fund baby from Swanson Foods I
mean
yeah and you could you could I I imagine
you could buy on Google you know on
YouTube you could buy ads with something
like that but you could never get it on
Fox News but at the other point I wanted
to make was I can't believe we're in
2019 and they haven't automated
redistricting to make it fair and
impartial who's they
why why is there well just I haven't
heard anybody talking about
well that an algorithm that will
automatically oh and a lot of people in
a district we've weapons of mass
destruction yeah I'm you got to read
that book but even if even if there was
an algorithm that's not the issue the
issue isn't that you can't make these
districts fair in some fashion right
they don't want to give up the power
Supreme Court and they're just about to
do it again that you know in Wisconsin
you had 60 54% of the vote went to
Democrats and Republicans control 64 out
of I think less than a hundred seats in
their assembly and that is not a math
problem that is a political problem and
the Supreme Court is not going to allow
us to fix it HR 1 presented by the
Democrats in Congress would have would
have tackled it but I appreciate the
call
Thanks Michigan's also craft show with
that alright folks that was the last
call of the day
Virgil any closing words that you want
to offer us yeah yeah so I when I I was
originally gonna come on last week but
something came up and I was hoping to
talk about my run-in with the yang gang
which but sadly that's not a novelty
anymore because it seems more and more
people have skirmished with these
ruffians indeed well tell us who the
yang gang is these are online supporters
of Andrew yang and a substantial number
of them come from the all right come
from you know 4chan a channel places
like that who were at least claim to be
Trump supporters but they're like you
know that all right is I mean these
you know people with you know real
values that reflect the the structural
issues in this country they're just kind
of like you know boards young suburban
heights right and so wait so it does
Andrew yang have any support from like
actual voters who would normally vote in
the Democratic primary I mean it's an
old-line phenomenon right now so it's as
near as I can tell and of course the
yang gang like they're their voices are
much louder it's like it's it's it's
young people it's it's I mean
specifically you want a profile it's
it's a young male neat nerds young you
need any et not in education employment
or training I think that was originally
a British term but it uh it's it's what
you describe your average of failed son
yeah oh I see a lot of our listeners oh
right of course all of the P all of the
reactions when you because I'm just I
got we put up our first video on yang on
t MBS and like the whole template on
Twitter and on YouTube is exactly the
same as Sam Harris which is this is
totally unfair you haven't researched
enough can't believe you did this
totally wrong some sort of like the line
between hey can you research my
candidate and talk about him a little
bit more versus like the just total
emotional inability to deal with the
fact that maybe you just other people
disagree with your guy is like
non-existent line there
my colleagues have talked about yang as
a candidate before I haven't really
spoken about him yet the the thing is my
running I never said anything
uh unsolicited to andrew yang I just
asked him to pick up a copy of the
chapel guide to revolution a manifesto
against logic facts and reason and he
said he would read it actually so
excited for that he didn't ask he didn't
like send me an address to send him a
copy but as you know you can buy this
book at bookstores nationwide that's my
understanding and then you know I get
all these replies from the yang gang you
know telling me to off because
you're asking him to read yeah because
I'm asking him to read interesting well
they're not and they understand but this
is all digital you have not been
I've not been physically accosted but I
spend most of my time in the digital
realm so this is the equivalent of doing
literal violence to my person to my
purpose obviously you know we're we're
out of time and hopefully in the future
I can kind of talk about this more
because you know increasingly people are
talking about the ubi and there's a lot
of right a lot of aspects about that
right now the conversation is increases
just about the yang gang in this
becoming an online phenomenon akin to
the Burnie Bros or the Ron Paul people
or yes the the Trump original you know
Magga group or Pepe heads I want to say
that I'm calling right now on your show
for a temporary ceasefire a
non-aggression pact hopefully a more
durable non-aggression pact between the
Burnie Bros and the yang gang I don't
think that any with that that right now
at this time we can have any sort of
productive conversation or that there is
anything to be gained from this fight of
course the Bernie bros were fighting
against the DNC in 2016 the Aang gang
now will probably have to come into
conflict with the DNC if Tom Perez says
Andrew yang you know you can't debate
interesting you know in the future I
mean obviously there are there are you
know strong disagreements on the issue
of
ubi even if that seems like a
redistributed program it's I mean yang
is not a redistributionist he's not a
socialist or anything like that but in
the in the short term you know I think
we should we should put our knives away
focus on shared opponents there's you
know nothing nothing to be gained from
harassing each other in this fashion
there you go
so if you were thinking about coming out
and harassing a yang gang member he's
put on park of Twitter the enemy of my
enemy is my friend is that what you're
saying it's my yang not necessarily all
right we need a yin to the yang is what
you're saying all right oh
to be continued all right folks see you
Monday
in that state
to get to where I want
but an
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
chicken
[Music]
I could see where the choice is made
well the option where you don't get paid
[Music]
best bands with
[Music]
No
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
