[Music]
and then last night Sanders did a town
hall and I was watching to see you know
because you know it's funny the wasn't
quite February of 2015 but it was in the
summer of 2015 when two or three
protesters from black lives matters
basically rushed the stage at Netroots
nation and I remember there was a lot of
Bernie supporters who are upset about
this and from my perspective I think we
we shared this when we were talking
about this Michael was that this was a
good thing for Sanders because he
clearly had very little experience in
speaking to the concerns of African
Americans in this day and age and it was
early enough in the campaign where he'd
have the opportunity to to to adjust and
I don't know and while I think to a
certain extent he probably grew a little
bit in that respect I don't know that in
the context of the campaign that he had
enough time to understand I mean I think
you know look he has a very good record
in terms of civil rights but I also
think that we're in a different era and
there's different sensitivities and so
this was I thought one of the best
answers he gave at least in the context
of this question last night there was
another question where it was slightly
addressed where I don't think he did
quite as well but this one I thought he
did very well and you know and I'll show
you why to to an important question we
have a question from Noel Osama he's a
policy analyst here in Washington Thank
You senator Sanders there's a deep sense
of mistrust for you both by some within
the African American community many feel
you undermine secretary
Clinton after a nomination by not
showing enough support and which
contributed to President Trump being
elected along with that many also feel
that you are times racially insensitive
and by virtue of your background that
reflect their experience enough how do
you address these concerns and what's
your approach to winning their votes
well first of all I reject the first
premise that you made I knock my brains
out in fact I just saw a letter today
from Hillary Clinton which said Thank
You Bernie for working so hard in my
election all right we went to state
after state I think we had 3540 rallies
and all over the battleground states so
I do not except for one moment that I
did not do everything that I could and
then people say well you know some of
your supporters voted for Trump true but
some of Hillary supporters in 2008 voted
for McCain that's really more of those
did that then voted for me now on the
second point okay pausing for one second
I just want to just add in here because
this and this is going to come up in a
different story apparently over the
course of the three months after the
nomination to the election that would
have been October September and August
he did 39 rallies 17 rallies in the last
seven days of the campaign so that's I
mean that's pretty substantial number of
rallies it works quite hard for her I
mean people mad that he ran at all and
that's really more of those did that
then voted me now on the second point
okay we ended up winning among younger
people more votes from young
african-americans Latinos
asian-americans Native Americans then
Clinton and Trump combined all right
furthermore if you look at the polling
out there we're doing quite well with
the African American community but let
me just raise an issue here maybe I
haven't been as strong on this issue as
I should be I talked about the fact that
we have a nation of massive inequality
okay and I believe that I think that's
the most important issue we can talk
about but within that inequality we have
another inequality
and that is racial disparity and it's
important that everybody understands
that that means that the wealth gap
between a white family and a black
family is ten to one if you are a black
mother the likely it is that you are you
you will have a baby that will die your
infant mortality rate two and a half
times higher than a white mother if you
are a black businessman I remember
talking to a fellow in Milwaukee black
businessman said Bernie I can't get a
loan from the bank and his business was
pretty good because of redlining black
kids are leaving college more deeply in
debt than white kids so we have an
enormous amount of disparity in wealth
in education in health that must be
addressed and I will work as hard as I
can
number one to have a cabinet that
reflects what America is and number two
to do everything that I can in every way
to end all forms of racism in this
country and so you know that yeah and
and I think what's what's particularly
encouraging about that is that and you
know look yeah you don't want to give
somebody a cookie for doing stuff that
is sort of like baseline but saying that
he acknowledging that he could have done
better on some stuff at one point I
can't remember the exact wording but he
says you know I could have done better
on this acknowledging that he could do
better on it and indicating you know
that there is a specific element
whatever you believe the be the root
causes whether you believe that it's a
function of of class that drives racism
or not the the reality the lived reality
of people of color in this country is
that
they may be subjected to the same class
disparities but there's a whole nother
set of disparities that they have to
deal with and acknowledging that reality
is I think crucial to I mean identifying
them is crucial to dealing with them and
you certainly certainly not gonna happen
the other way you certainly can't you
know not be aware and acknowledge those
realities and hope to deal with them I
just don't think that's possible
but so both from a substantive and a
rhetorical standpoint that's a huge
upgrade Bernie 2.0 there is is a big
upgrade and that's good in that respect
I the reason I really liked it though is
the way I mean you you covered obviously
the most important part but the
seamlessness of him being able to
totally reject the first premise that
question which we explained yes I mean
it's a separate question yeah it's a
separate but it's it's an elegant to
combine those two things and it's
actually a feat to pull off
simultaneously saying that questions
total BS that other questions usually
important and let me sort of get to it
yeah the guy really pitched him a good
question I don't know whose side the DC
policy analyst is on but it worked out
really well in the end yeah and and I
think you know look I think part of the
and I don't know if the question about
Clinton is meant to be a surrogate
question for his relationship to the
Democratic Party but like you said
earlier Michael he's made a point of
saying you know show some respect to the
institution and part of the reason why I
think particularly in the context of
older African Americans I think we said
this yesterday is that the Democratic
Party means something to them because of
the material benefits that I think
particularly older African Americans are
aware of relative to you know their
their lived experience Republicans have
made it really have provided a very
stark difference for particularly
older african-americans in terms of sort
of some very fundamental rights to the
extent that the Democratic Party and
there certainly you know has has not
been as strong as it could be I mean
even you know going back to Social
Security let's say that stuff is a
little bit more subterranean but the
Republicans have been very very explicit
in their hostility to to people of color
and I don't even for what it's worth
like with with I mean I don't want to
get into the whole new deal in Roosevelt
and obviously it goes without saying
that there was huge compromises and
racism built into negotiating with
Southern Democrats like you said but
there's also the reality that under
Roosevelt there was actually a big shift
in the african-american vote towards
Democrats so even in that time actually
yes this was the party that on a
relative scale was doing a hell of a lot
better and that was registered in
support
