[Music]
there's two things a piece of
legislation you should be aware of that
are going on right now one is that the
Republicans are looking to pass what
ostensibly sounds like a an attempt to
regain authority for Congress and that
is Senator Mike Lee is drafting some
type of legislation for Congress
ostensibly to clawback the emergency
power is that the Congress has given to
the president but the fact is that
Congress doesn't need to do that
Congress could prevent President Trump
from from getting the money to build
this wall by taking it from things like
the military pension etc etc but they're
not going to do that because they're so
afraid of Donald Trump what they are
gonna do is fashion a piece of
legislation that allows Donald Trump to
do it this one time but will prevent
future presidents from doing it when
there is a Democratic president I don't
know if that's going to succeed but it
is an attempt to head off Republicans
who are voting to limit the president's
ability to do this meanwhile there's
another piece of a legislation that is
called the cradle' act and essentially
what this is is a piece of legislation
that is aimed I think at destroying
social security the biggest failure in
pensions and in 30 or 40 years has been
the experiment to do 401ks
these are not defined benefit pensions
but defined contribution pensions in
other words you've got to pay in a
certain amount and the the problem with
these are that one people have access to
this money they pull it out in times of
emergency rather than saving - they
don't contribute in the first place
so the way that they want to undercut
Social Security is by making it an
ineffective Social Insurance this is
what social insurance is you cannot
access this money until the triggering
event happens cannot pay into who fire
insurance and pull the money out because
I haven't gotten uh there hasn't been a
fire in my house and then if a fire
comes I have no home and I have no
ability to get to get into to get
another home this is what they want to
do and their couching it as if it's
providing flexibility for people as
opposed to addressing the needs that
people have in real time I think most
people would look at this as an
opportunity that they might not
otherwise have an opportunity to benefit
from payments that they've been making
already for years why is the u.s. so far
behind the rest of the industrialized
world on this issue I think that is a
really great question and that's why we
have decided now is the time to step up
and really do something about this we
think it's time to catch up with other
countries what's the like I don't even
know like the this is there is the idea
that this is somehow us catching up to
other countries to allow people to raid
there because the the questioners
question is in terms of like you know
leaving for paternal of you know for
maternal or paternal leave or other you
know sort of events like this where we
as a nation do not provide support for
people in that way our guest in Holland
they of course they do this they do this
in Germany they do I throughout Europe
they give you paid vacation when you
have a loved one that is ill you get
paid vacation or time off with the
maternity and paternity leave we're not
catching up because we're raiding the
our retirement pensions our retirement
insurance insurance that says I'm going
to pay into this as a society to make
sure that we're not leaving our elderly
in poverty that's what this is that's
what we're insuring against we're
insuring against massive rates of
poverty for our elderly we're insuring
against burdens that would be placed on
children of parents who might be living
in poverty we are that is what we're
doing to raid that and allow people to
raid that as opposed to just as a
government if we think this is an
important value to support people when
they take time off to be a mother or a
father or they take time off to care for
a loved one we should fund it because
the rest of the world does
