[Music]
you're calling from a 509 area code who
are you where you're calling from this
is Ethan I'm calling from Seattle hey
Ethan what's on your minds I just got a
couple things I thought I'd call into my
my favorite minecraft twitch streamers
to bring up Thank You anyone else oh is
great anyone elses in Seattle today at 6
o'clock downtown on jaqen there's a
protest against ice at their
headquarters right downtown if you're
getting off work it'll be six o'clock
show up so these ghouls you know like
they they face Seattle supposed to be
like really progressive or like let's
show them what that means so get out
there and protest ice today downtown on
second awesome um yeah and then the
other thing the my board jay Inslee was
doing pretty good last night he did be
happy with him as my governor props the
jeans he was last night he was right in
contrast with someone like Tulsi Gabbard
he D as governor he did come out ahead
of the pack and he said you know yeah
Syrian refugees bringing the Washington
we wanted so he's been good on that he's
been good on some other stuff it's not
gonna make like a debates in so real but
I also thought he had one of the best
hits on Joe Biden which was this climate
plan you know nothing illustrates Joe
Biden's complete and adequacy better
than that moment to me because Indu said
hey you know what guess what like your
climate change plan it actually won't do
it we need to do it won't eliminate
carpet it won't you know pivot to
alternative energy and Biden's response
was like oh yeah well how do you feel
about electric car charging station $500
your car I got 500 places you could plug
your Tesla do we after the corner we
have that so we can cuz I would like to
make a clip of that because I agree that
let's get to that after the call cuz
Inslee definitely deserves a clip and
props for that I agree so my only
question for you is and look you know
these are it's tricky cuz everybody's
got their own I think in the big picture
I know and I'm you know in the big
picture you have to deal with capitalism
you have to
transition to a post-capitalist thing
and I'm not talking about some type of
super idealized you know world I think
it will still share a lot of traits of
the world today but if you don't
fundamentally go at the market mechanism
there's gonna be elements of the climate
an ecological crisis that are just
simply incompatible with limitless
growth and that incentive right and I
say this to say that one of the reasons
that I've sort of not been as generous
to Inslee is I had somebody and now it
ridiculous because I don't remember who
but if somebody from Washington State
who I it was a credible opinion and they
basically said look the guy's state
record does not match his national
ambitions yeah and I always and you know
look that's the case Jerry Brown right
as long as you know well certainly
DeBlasio him that's a hundred percent de
Blasio I know for a fact the Blasio's I
mean housing gentrification policing
bill de blasio as mayor is not built
applause he's a presidential candidate
but even the guy like Jerry Brown Jerry
Brown has done some real work on
incentivizing clean energy that's
significant he has a terrible record on
drilling and fracking and he has no
vision of environmental justice in fact
in some ways he's been quite reactionary
and regressive even as he's centered
climate like no other frontline
politician so what is Jane's Lee's
record really like as governor on on
ecology I agree with you on refugees and
immigrants he's definitely stood out he
deserves more props generally in the
race but what about in vitally yeah I
have heard some criticisms of Inslee
from the left about like I don't recall
it's a carbon tax or there was something
at the state level he wasn't great on I
I myself hesitate to articulate those
criticisms because I'm not particularly
first and Inslee state record to be
totally honest yeah I don't follow it as
closely as I really should like I
haven't paying attention I do know those
criticisms exist and Inslee he's
definitely like of the machine but he
was the head of the Democratic Governors
Association like he's like a Democrat
and good standing with the parties for
sure and like I'm definitely a Bernie
guy yep but um you know maybe I'm not
certified you know quite
his ecological record at the state level
where I could you know accurately talk
to that like I say you've been good on
other things like I noticed when he does
good stuff
like you know he put a hold on the death
penalty like I think we do have the
definitely definitely is one just like
it wrong and better people running for
president I'm ready obvious just him
crowbar and climate into every debate is
absolutely worth like a fifteen dollar
donation in my mind I would like to see
him on the stage and said yeah any club
which are telling me that I can't get
you know college without a savings
account tax advantaged savings account I
think the other reason which these
metrics are so dumb like I you know I
obviously I wouldn't trust the
democratic committee can't make these
decisions and we saw the total
ridiculousness of how they treated
gravel but it's like if we had a
somewhat mature civic culture and an
independent non corporate media you
might just even have the capacity to say
you know like okay yeah Biden has no
ideas but he's the front-runner so he's
up on stage and then people like Inslee
like yeah you're just in the debate
because you're you hold an important
office and you're actually talking about
really important stuff and every other
metric is irrelevant yeah right like he
he is the only I mean I guess de Blasio
to a degree but it's very funny to me
like you know you have you know Delaney
and Chloe char and quick and looper mean
nothing are nothing and are simply
irrelevant bag people for a totally
discredited system and you know Inslee
yeah yeah I mean Inslee's Inslee
definitely yes he deserves he deserves
props I just want to know more about
what his actual record is yeah let's I
definitely welcome that sort of inquiry
into his background but you know as far
as Washington Democrats go he's
certainly better than like our Seattle
mayor so you know III hope that at least
is a springboard for him for the
ecological portion I agree thanks Ethan
for the call let's play this this was
also really important jay Inslee who
again I agree with Brendan I think you
know look the broader systems of how you
deal with the ecological crisis and is
incompatible the quest for unlimited
growth there's bigger things that need
to be dealt with
and at the same time you needed a
candidate who centered climate and by
the way a candidate who also sent her
climate there's not a single time that
jay Inslee doesn't talk about taking on
the climate crisis that he doesn't talk
about Union jobs that he doesn't talk
about broader systems to take on this
crisis and he is the only candidate that
is an elected Democratic office holder
who's polling at zero present and not
generating any excitement who's actually
talking about serious ideas and real
problems and I have to also just by the
way say in a you know a very
good-natured way I mean to the extent
these things matter you have this innate
repulsion from a Hickenlooper Delaney or
clos Bashara Inslee definitely comes off
as very decent decent and very good yet
a lot of decency and I agree with you
and I think you know maybe in some ways
the lack of flash is holding him back
but this is true he scored a big point
on Biden last night on climate and again
you know Biden's lack of anything is a
huge problem on human lives when it
comes to criminal justice when it comes
to a reproductive rights when it comes
to health care when it comes to climate
I mean how does this pretend middle-way
work it doesn't jay Inslee laid it out
would there be any place for fossil
fuels including coal and fracking in a
Biden administration no we would we
would work it out we would make sure
it's eliminated and no more subsidies
for either one of those either any
fossil fuel we can't we cannot even work
it out we cannot work this out the time
is up our house is on fire we have to
stop using coal in ten years and when
you're not president to do it or it
won't get done that get off coal save
this country in the planet that's known
for would there be any place no he's
good and and jay Inslee really even at
this point frankly because he's not a
top contender even regardless of the
full extent of his record and if local
journalists and activists want to
document it and help their own cause in
Washington that's great for purposes of
this campaign he is absolutely he's
doing a world of good
Center
this yeah like you can say it's just
rhetoric on the other hand this is very
useful rhetoric if you want climate
change to get addressed because what
happens is this is allows someone like
Bernie or Warren to go farther with
climate than they would otherwise that
and he's positioning himself well for a
cabinet position where if you get a
Democrat in and he's not head of the EPA
or the interior saying it's gonna be
people going what are you doing right
also just a fun fact part of a Biden's
climate plan that he touted last night
was a doubling the amount of offshore
wind turbines we currently have five so
he would make it 10 is the most perfect
that is the most perfect distillation of
Joe Biden contagious chameleon
criticizing the media for using right
wing talking points as the same type of
work that liberal media does when the
right uses that frame
