oh and lastly speaking of IDW this is um
a little bit disturbing who dug this up
wild gear ders or classic I also known
as classical liberal on YouTube will or
on Twitter sorry all right well a hat
tip this is a from a podcast in 2016
polite conversation podcast it's sam
harris being interviewed i guess by i
need
muhammad is that her yeah I know
Mohammed she wrote the play
conversations started as she was sort of
like on this new atheist type of thing
as she's a I think from Pakistan and
she's been sort of like she's been
censored by religious authorities
herself so she was sort of like kind of
on that side of things but this is about
where this split with her and sort of
sam harris comes from where it oh is
that right yeah so this this
conversation happens with sort of her as
a sort of like fan or previously a fan
of sam harris yeah and she's saying like
you know she's talking about i think
dave rubin had on this woman what was
her name
anna marie waters anna marie waters who
was the woman that nigel farage who is
you know an veralyn anti-immigrant and i
think some in britain would say who
charged him with racism is that right
nigel Ferrando says on this cliff here
it says anne-marie waters who won 21
point 3 percent of the vote in the you
Kipp leadership election said she left
after she and her supporters were
branded quote nazis and racist by nigel
farage and henry bolton now nigel franch
is somebody who i think people in
britain would also say is racist yeah
right people have definitely said that
now and so she must be if that's the
case i mean you know what is that a
second-order racist i don't know
certainly controversial without a doubt
and it's you would expect her to be
called upon that if the leader of her
own party called her uh nazis and
racists according to her so anyways
here's sam harris
conversation with Annie Mohammad and she
is basically you can almost hear this
sort of like she's hoping for him to say
the right thing and by right thing I
mean just like the humane thing and he
doesn't and I have been so happy because
you know my following of Sam Harris is
sometimes like a like a rollercoaster
didn't it one day there's like oh this
interview with Ann Marie waters is good
and I'm like oh no Sam that's another
example so that's the only thing I've
ever seen
from Ann Marie water but you see why
then God and Reuben are doing some
harmful things because they're
presenting these people in the best
light possible
posits let me just undo up on this
conversation so she sees sam Harris
tweet out this conversation with this
Ann Marie waters is interesting and good
and she says that's problematic because
she's a bad person and Harris is like
well but that's all I've seen of hers
and then she says well that's a perfect
illustration of why Dave Rubin and it
was it's odd god she's talking about are
so bad and toxic because they take this
person who is who has been called a Nazi
and racist by the UK Party in Britain
and make her seem palatable to people
like you and then theoretically you when
I even theoretically you amplify this
person in a positive light even more and
so you've got a need Bahamut here trying
to say like don't you see this is the
problem when they charge you with being
some type of gateway to the alt-right
this is exactly how you're doing it and
you cannot it's not enough and she's now
taking the tact like it's not enough to
say that just you're ignorant about this
person you're you're you are ironically
it's the whole context thing sam Harris
says I shouldn't
any extra context for this person I
should just be able to judge it purely
off of this one interview with dave
rubin i like jesus zen ting these people
in the best light possible okay but so
so but do you agree you watch that
interview right did do you agree that
that she came off but she basically
sounded like me or or douglas or someone
I mean douglas i just posit so he's not
is defense's but in that narrow context
she was good so you cannot so he is
purposely avoid evading the point she's
trying to make the point she's trying to
make is that you cannot present this
person this is what's problematic you're
presenting a person is so good when
you're not doing any research on him and
you're just relying on dave rubin and so
dave rubin is problematic because he's
taking someone who is also not good and
is is selling it to you and so his
defense is like well but you know i i
didn't know you know it was like it's
like buying like the guy showed up and
he said hey he's got a bunch of fur
coats that fell off the back of a but i
had no idea what stolen goods right i
mean it's basically like you can't blame
me for that even though i'm a scholar
but good and I know that she thinks if
you're not anti-immigration as she said
to me and Mario namazi then you're Pro
the rape of white women right but I
guess she heads this organization called
pegida with Tommy and with a white
genocide guy called Paul Weston I
believe and she Paul Weston is a guy who
thinks that no Muslims should ever be
allowed to hold public office even
Muslims like Margit Nawaz and they're
all heading this pro-freedom
supposedly organization which which is
clearly contradictory because the
positive so she is now telling him this
person's pedigree she is working with
people who are you know like walking
about white genocide she's working with
people officially working with people
who say that Muslims can't hold office
she's worried commie is that a reference
to me Robinson yes who is like an avowed
white supremacist and so this is all
this is all you know problematic stuff
listen to how Harris responds to this
it's fascinating freedom Tommy talks
about deporting Muslims Paul Weston
doesn't want them to be able to hold
public office and Murray thinks you're
Pro rate of white women if you're not
anti-immigration but we're prepared to
let rape happen and but the problem then
again and this is this is an area where
we're in you know it this is a gray area
in the sense that you know she's right
when you look at what's happened in
Europe in the last 12 months you have a
lot you have a lot of people on the Left
who are prepared to let white women get
raped by Muslim immigrants I mean
they're there there are people who are
prepared to be raped themselves I don't
know did you hear the story of the woman
who got raped by three refugees or the
three you know non german-speaking
migrants and when she reported this rape
she was so afraid to spark racial
tension that she she claims she was
raped by three German men and then she
then like it like 48 hours later she
recanted it and and she described them
accurately but that's one day there's
another story of a dozen girls now wait
a second she's gonna go back and forth
with this story but like to cite an
anecdote like that as the public
intellectual that this guy pretends to
be to site and anecdote like that let's
just assume as stipulated it's true I
don't know if it's true or not but let's
just assume it's true
to cite an anecdote that and say that
the left is Pro rape of white women if
they're allowing immigrants in or are
prepared to be pro whatever that means
to use that one example in to tarnish an
entire political ideology with that
is just absurd it's absurd
the two posit that you are some type of
public intellectual and to make those
pronunciations that is a guy who is
afraid of losing his audience I that's
the best thing I can say about that
story of the woman who got raped by
three refugees or the three non
german-speaking migrants and when she
reported this rape she was so afraid to
spark racial tension that she she claims
she was raped by three German men and
then she then like it like 48 hours
later she recanted it and and she
described them accurately but that's Amy
there's another story of a German girl
who made up a story about being raped by
Muslim immigrants when she work with but
no one is sure sure that happens that
one anecdote though shouldn't by the
same reasoning
shouldn't that tarnish all a white
people who get ready like so you are
necessarily prepared the rest of
society's rest is prepared for people to
make up who they're raped by I mean this
is absurd this is absurd this is the guy
who's desperately flailing around trying
to protect some image and and you got to
ask yourself why people ask like why I
used to call this guy a charlatan this
is why is it that what no one can
reasonably dispute now is that there
have been there's been a wave of sexual
assaults which the left feels some
obligation to not report or at least
what no one can reasonably dispute that
the left in Europe is reluctant to
report rapes because of a widespread
immigrant but first of all you go and
you look at that I was looking at their
Spiegel Online these are the the reports
of these rapes are from places like
Facebook pages
you know outfits called rape Fugees dot
and as a website these are where these
reports came from it's also the case
that some European countries have higher
reported incidences of rape because
they're better at reporting rapes and
they don't have a problem of not
reporting them I mean you know we don't
talk much about sam harris as much
anymore because he seems to be sort of
like you know I don't know maybe
re-evaluating things or just sort of
like trying to ease off when he realizes
like maybe maybe my personal wealth and
fortune is not necessarily something
that I have no idea but that's just
disgusting and I don't know how people
can say that's taken out of context I
would love to see the context I mean
it's the entire conversation
