here we have Tucker Carlson still I did
it did you get the wrong one up there
Tucker Carlson is highly invested in the
idea that we are on the verge of a race
war now I know that seems weird to you
because Tucker Carlson can't possibly on
his daily life be in any way exposed to
anything that would make him believe a
race war is imminent right I mean what
what's going on in Tucker's life now
with that said there have been a lot of
white supremacists who have had concern
about this for a long time right I mean
it's one of the staples of these sort of
like white racist groups that they're
convinced a race war is happening that
could just be a coincidence I don't know
I don't know I don't know it's weird
isn't it it's weird it's a hundred
percent projection right cuz he's like
oh well we did all these fucked-up
things to people of color it seems the
only rationale that they'd want to do
them back to us it switches and we're
and we're doing them still like we want
to do them I just think it's weird let's
watch professor Jason Nichols teaches
african-american studies the University
of Maryland's a frequent guest on the
show and he joins us tonight professor
thanks coming on Thank You Tucker so as
an almost 50 year old American I was
brought up to believe that you should
not this was a core principle judge
people on the basis of the race because
it's not a relevant criterion for
judgment and it's not something you can
control
is that still true I think it's
absolutely true that people should not
be judged on the basis of their race but
there are advantages that certain people
have on the basis of their race class
and gender and I think we need to
acknowledge that but but right I mean
that could be true in individual case it
could be but when an individual is
actually no not an individual cases
actually if you look at it with broad
strokes if if you tell me about 20
people who get born in a certain area
code versus another area code
or zip code in particular I should say
within 10 minutes I can tell you a lot
about those 10 people I might not get it
right for all 10 but I can tell you what
schools they went to what I could tell
you probably what the median is of those
10 people an income is and get it right
and get it right within like five or ten
thousand dollars is that is that just
because I'm clairvoyant I don't think so
it's an gender and I think we need to
acknowledge that but but right I mean
that could be true in individual case it
could be but when in individual cases
but when you say it's true in every case
what you're doing is judging people on
the basis of the project let me just
show a rhetorical trick that that Tucker
just used individual cases every case
there's something in between
that's called most cases most cases but
when in individual cases but when you
say it's true in every case what you're
doing is judging people on the basis of
the race which we just agreed well again
well number one I said race class and
gender and just don't you stick with
right because because class is a fluid
is a fluid thing I mean your class can
change it can sure it's rare but nobody
can it's not in your DNA I can't study
your bones and find out what class you I
would say race is not a ponzi actually
you probably could and in fact they
could do that even with mummies they
look at the bones and they say this
probably cuz of the because of the
presence of this mineral that it
suggests that they were wealthy because
they had access to these type of foods
but let's not get nitpicky continue oh
but can't it's not in your DNA study
your bones and find out what class you I
would say race is not in your DNA either
but we can win go on I'm not a scientist
but but most people can't change the
race and I don't I don't think it's
acknowledged that you can if it's wrong
to judge people on the basis of their
race and I think both of us agree we
don't want to live in a country where
people are making generalizations
negative ones especially about whole
groups of people we do
in the country thank you but we don't
want to add to that because it's wrong
so then why are all the dumb people on
television in unison attacking people on
the basis of their race and nobody's
saying anything about it well I think
again people are acknowledging the fact
that certain groups of people have more
advantages than others I mean there's
Tucker Carlson just like getting
schooled and deliberately ignoring the
reality of everything he said is true
that it's not all people all members of
a certain gender or of a certain race or
of a certain class that have these
things but the reality is is the median
gives you a very good approximation of
where they are now okay so all I need is
your zip code and that they do this as
if we don't have metrics about like
income based on these sorts of you knows
race or gender right we have all this
information so by ignoring that
information that these are unequally
distributed they're basically suggesting
that it's natural yes and there's
there's also the other trick is that
they're saying like it's you're saying
this about everyone and and really you
just have to look at like look at the
mediocre student the mediocre white male
student achieves a lot more maybe his
name is Brett maybe his name is Brett
just my boy Chad work my butt off oh
yeah I'm out about Brett Kavanaugh it
turns out remember how he said like I
got to I got to deal with no connections
turned out he had one connection he was
a legacy like so he has his day it's
great worked my butt off for that takes
work to be a legacy yeah and I'm curious
I would love to be able to go back and
see how much money
Brett's parents gave to you I don't mean
in terms of tuition I just I I can't
help but think that somewhere
may have been like well cabinet dining
hall type of situation er yeah it tends
to help polish the turd of a mediocre
legacy to have a little donation
involved there you go
Ivy League schools man so good great
system perfect Ryan from California you
definitely can study bones to tell class
I learned that in anthropology 102 in
college bones can tell how hard you
worked your diet nutrition age at time
of death disease suffered yes of course
Tucker said he wasn't a scientist I'm
not a scientist and take I didn't do
anything past 101 I thought he was gonna
get all Marxist for a second and say
class is not my identity it's a social
relation gone from
