[Music]
this is Tucker Carlson with Josh Holley
Josh Hollies the senator from Missouri I
believe he was somebody who used his own
son's medical condition in a campaign ad
to say that he would never vote to
undermine people with pre-existing
conditions then of course supported
repealing the ACA though I do think this
clip is important because I think the
standard liberal response to this is not
gonna do the job we needed to do but
let's we will note the obvious hypocrisy
of this but there needs to be a bigger
strategy let's watch Tucker Carlson and
Senator Holly what's so interesting is
the left is suddenly in the position of
defending the prerogatives of the ruling
class I mean here you are a Republican
taking up for the interests of people
who you know make 40 grand a year and
your vocals are saying you know those
people deserve no attention and stop
criticizing George Soros because every
criticized is that weird
do you think yeah oh I mean it's it's
totally weird but listen I mean the
Liberals are increasingly the party of
the elites I mean they are the party of
the ruling class and that's the point
and that's what they don't want to admit
they are the ruling class and they have
been for decades they control the
commanding heights in this country the
media the big multinational corporations
are universities I mean they have
effectively run the country the Liberals
have for decades now and there consists
there's one thing the elites hate it's
tax cuts this has given us what we have
today I mean they're the ones who are
responsible for jobs offshoring they're
the ones who are responsible for wages
flat for the the plight and struggle of
working Americans you know working
Americans ordinary Americans in places
like where I grew up in rural Missouri
they just want somebody to speak for
them and to be constantly told that
they're bigots and they're racists and
their lives don't matter and their views
that they're tired of that well you
clearly are did very quickly did it ever
occur to you to sort of put your head
down I mean they basically hit you right
in the face rhetorically the second you
gave that speech
you don't seem intimidated did did you
ever pause and think oh it's not work
that I'm gonna stop talking like this oh
no because I knew as soon as they were
hitting me that we had hit the
and that we're on the right track I mean
I new incident what we said was right
and I'm more determined than ever to
speak up for the people who don't have a
voice who have been ignored by the elite
for too long and who by the way are the
backbone of this country in men so
nicely good for you
Godspeed a charlatan man that's the word
is definitely charlatan but let's work
it backwards cuz look there's the
obvious stuff that everybody's gonna
jump to here which is okay who's
actually been in charge of the country
for decades look if you want to redefine
the word liberal and use it in its
classical sense maybe okay sure it's
been oleg arks who represent 1% agenda
exporting jobs slashing social safety
nets redistributing income to the top
and also pursuing incredibly progressive
and racialized criminal justice policies
and in fact all of the dynamics they're
talking about always hit the peripheries
first whether that's primarily white
people in Appalachia or primarily people
of color in inner cities as an example
and so and we also know how Holly votes
he doesn't he's never said I opposed the
tax cuts he doesn't have a bill to break
up Silicon Valley monopolies he doesn't
have a bill to implement a financial
transaction tax on Wall Street or a
wealth tax or anything like that we know
all of this and this is actually a very
interesting juxtaposition because Tucker
Carlson has a media personality can have
more room to occasionally deviate on
actual policy issues to feed this brand
as a politician when at the end of the
day you're a Republican so you're funded
by incredibly narrow set of elite
financial interests there's a lot less
room for the substance of pretend
populism and of course I will say even
the controversy was stoked up because
the word he used cosmopolitanism which
some people think codes for
anti-semitism I like the word
cosmopolitanism actually and I like the
connections with solidarity I will say
this this though is something that needs
to be dealt with on the merits and and
substantively right so it's like the
reality is is that if you define most
people that think still would
conventionally
in quote-unquote liberal as just
democratic leaders well that's true no
one's a bigger free trader than Barack
Obama or Bill Clinton all politicians
from both parties have absolutely
implemented a pro wall street Pro with
Silicon Valley agenda 100% that's
absolutely true and as long as you have
the politicians whether they be Joe
Biden or Christian Gillibrand or you
know whoever else who cloud the
difference on those core issues that is
gonna allow charlatans like this to
cloud the issues as well the smaller
cultural point is interesting because I
see it's so obvious when you say these
people are the backbone of America that
is white supremacists that is a dog
whistle to white identity politics and
that is the lifeblood of the Republican
Party and Holly and Donald Trump and
Tucker Carlson all of it that's
undeniable period and that can run on a
spectrum from you know I don't even get
when I'm doing racism I'm so uncultured
into it but I respond to those cues to
Stephen Miller right I have no doubt
Stephen Miller knows exactly what he's
doing
okay and and and all these other groups
and party officials at the same time
when I see a Twitter thread from a
Democrat I won't go into specifics
saying like rural Americans should shut
up and stop whining because they have it
lucky cuz of like some graph on where
gun where tax dollars go relatively
speaking trash moral intellectual and
political trash and this is another area
where if you're denying the
racialization of that rhetoric you're
denying the reality of America that's
first and foremost but secondarily if
you don't think that there is a
broad-based discourse that concentrates
in elite circles and elite circles that
obviously transcend partisan lines that
has a disdain and a disrespect and a
contempt for working people of all kinds
then you're delusional you're wrong and
it so happens right now that in a
certain part of center-right democratic
neoliberal discourse they have their own
version of the undeserving and deserving
poor and it's flipped and so now the
deserving poor is white people and
working-class people and people from
certain parts of the country that they
have disdain and contempt for and you
know what that's a big problem that's a
big moral and political problem and it's
strategically self-defeating and it
opens the room for these people to make
critiques like that and I can already
hear some people objecting and freaking
out and if you're not able to understand
that I've just said 100% that this is
also an appeal to white supremacy and I
have also given zero ground on any
policy or a cultural overture politics
to white identity politics but I have
said and I will clearly continue to
state that there is in certain quarters
of media politics obviously business and
suit and some of those people who fall
in a democratic side of the dial
absolutely have a contempt for rural for
basically poor white people however
that's defined and if you can't get over
that and realize again the very obvious
choice which is like look if you're
making forty five thousand dollars a
year and you're white and you live in
Missouri and you're voting for shrunk
because you think L on Omar's backs al
Qaeda and you want to put kids in
concentration camps it's not even that
complicated you we're gonna win
you're gonna lose we're on opposite
sides of politics and that's not the
majority of battle America that is
absolutely not the majority people roll
America but if you can't get that it
actually the majority people rural
America are people who have been
over by credit card companies and trade
agreements and all the other things that
have so hurt most people in this country
in a material real way that makes up
most of their lives and you think and
again let's be real because most of the
policy set of even so-called woke
Democrats are still actually quite
wing and quite corporate friendly you
will not only be morally and politically
and policy-wise wrong you will be doing
the work of like this because
if you had the Democratic Party of
people who speak clearly and plainly for
real people whether it's rashida to lib
or Bernie Sanders or ela Nomar whoever
and real working people in Appalachia
Missouri whatever Canarsie that would
pop the tires out of this but as
long as people indulge in that it leaves
an opening so I you know and so I'm not
gonna
especially with Tucker because it's
potent I'm not gonna just play clips and
point out that he's a hypocrite and an
 everybody knows that in this
circle Tucker Carlson is a racist he's a
hypocrite he's an how you
actually defeat him and defeat all is
gonna take some actual strategic
assessment and the reaction that people
have against rural America and a
different narrative of deserving poor
people is up stupid and gives
them room so I'll leave you with that
