[Music]
this is encouraging a lot of times
people get upset because sometimes the
people get hung up on stuff and you
can't let it go Jared Kushner who is who
was very close to MBS right they huddled
multiple times the saudis bailing out
the Cushing her family they would we
know that yeah they invest about how
much in Blackstone and what about that
666 right so the Cushing family has done
quite well with the MBS Mohammed bin
Salman he is the Crown Prince of Saudi
Arabia shall we check in on the it's he
the Crown Prince
technically Jared Kushner of our country
or similar positions very similar
position he's the son-in-law of the
president and here he is on the
president's personal spokespersons show
Sean Hannity talking about how the White
House has moved on from the murder of
Jamaal khashoggi and what's that another
area I know that you've been interested
in is the Middle East you bet on a
number of trips you've been to Jordan
Egypt Israel Saudi Arabia you have
talked to all these people it seems like
there's a moment where there is a new
alliance or coalition emerging against
Iranian hegemony and a potentially
nuclear-armed Iran has that process been
hurt as a result of the Khashoggi
killing what is the status I know
seventeen individuals of being held
responsible and do you feel that we will
get to the bottom of it if we haven't
already
I think our intelligence agencies are
making their assessments and we're
hoping to make sure that there's justice
brought where that should be
we're focused now on the broader region
which is which is figuring out how to
hopefully bring a deal together between
the Israelis and the Palestinians that
conflict has gone on for way too long
the president's been very focused on
trying to bring all the different
parties together and we're hopeful in
the next couple of months we'll put out
our art plan which again not every side
is going to love but there's enough in
it and enough reasons why people should
take it and move forward and this this
plan will keep the Israeli people safe
give them a good future but also give a
real opportunity and hope for the
Palestinian people so that they can live
much better lives they I've been saying
a lot that they're you shouldn't be
hijacking your children's future because
of your grandparents conflict and this
is a conflict that's been going on for
way too long and the way that people are
living in Gaza and in the West Bank
right now is not acceptable and there's
a lot we can be doing to improve their
quality of life but it comes with
resolving some of these core issues and
it's not just the Israelis that wanted
it's not just the Palestinian people who
wanted it's all the people I speak to
throughout the entire Middle East who
would like to see this issue resolved so
that they can start focusing on a
brighter future wait I'm sorry what was
the question again about khashoggi
someone should get on the phone to Jared
Kushner and tell him that the CIA has
made their assessments that the
intelligence agencies have all come back
and they have apparently audio tape that
Donald Trump himself said I don't want
to listen to because it's I don't need
to I've been told what it says it's
tough stuff on there and they have
reports that NBS was in direct contact I
think during the killing what do you
think is the durability of this supposed
anti-iran alliance that they keep trying
to salvage in under all these
discussions well I think there I think
that the durability of the anti Iran
there they didn't have to put it
together you know the Saudis were
already in the Israelis I mean this is
not this alliance there's no holding
this alliance together the the issue is
can they bring the Europeans on board
and how will they ever convince anybody
to to strike Iran they could give the
green light to Israel but they know the
American public is gonna be like we're
not getting engaged in that there's no
way
but they have a deep abiding interest in
keeping not just Saudi Arabia as a close
ally but MBS I I mean I think we're
gonna hear a lot more in the next couple
of weeks about the relationship between
the Trump administration and the Saudis
I I just think there's a whole nother
story line that we are about to hear
shortly I don't know why I I think it's
gonna happen soon but I don't know
