[Music]
the Iams water boat from Kashmir
Michael Tracy has brought out a darkness
in me that didn't exist before
I intend to pick on him all week
hopefully it triggers some memories from
ah yeah come on what character from the
movie ice age is written to be a schmuck
if Michael Tracy reminds me of Sid the
schmucky sloth then you're you're get
you get hashtag be best everybody yeah
best and also even if although I want to
be best can I just say I am not entire
he might crave this on some level so
just knock it off that's true he might
and so to help him with that let's just
play this one clip cuz I thought this
was actually pretty funny he is
'banahna quite a tear on twitter and i
thought this was funny now of course
I've made it quite clear and in folks
who listen to the show on a regular
basis that I'm not particularly happy
with the direction that MSNBC has
clearly gone really for two two and a
half years I mean even prior to the
investigation or maybe just leading up
to it I think when I got fired and
rehired I think I'm on record is saying
which has been basically the public
record that they have basically been
hiring a lot of Republicans and you know
in many respects hacking to the to the
to the right I think you know covering
the investigations to the extent that
they do is you know I mean yeah but in
part it's also a side from it being a
huge rating spoon also a something you
can do that without being particularly
political you know an investigation is
investigation and we don't like all of
the military-industrial complex people
and MSNBC either yeah of course I mean
it used to be owned by General Electric
it's not like that II it's not like it's
new and all of the problems are
symptomatic not caught I found this to
be somewhat I
Roenick because I've been following
Tucker Carlson's career for 20-some odd
years and back in the day when I was a
comedian and a sitcom actor and a sitcom
writer my friend Janeane Garofalo as you
know was recruited to go on to
television and talk about talk about why
we shouldn't go to war in Iraq and one
of the shows that had her on a lot was
crossfire and she became sort of
friendly with with with Tucker I think
they would would would smoke a lot of
cigarettes together back in the day like
outside of the CNN booth you know in
between and I think and oh well let's
yeah let's put them okay so but here is
here is one exchange that they have
between the two and Carlson says I
respect the opinion of many who disagree
with the idea of war in Iraq that was
back in just I think right up I don't
know if that was um let's see March 10th
2003 so that is right either at the
start of the war it is within days of it
probably days away from the the bombing
and you know I'm a little bit offended
he said by the by the constant
descriptions of motives that President
Bush must have this is all for the oil
companies it's to his avenge his father
this sort of stupid kind of psychobabble
president says in the end he's doing
this because he thinks Saddam Hussein is
a threat to the United States do you
believe it and then he goes down to talk
about how there's proof that Saddam
Hussein is training al-qaeda folks yeah
of the all the not proofs that was from
Thursday February 20th 2003 I don't know
if you
image of that but I will read from the
transcript again with Janeane Garofalo
oddly enough do you know why they
brought uni not right because of her
expertise in foreign policy
no and Janine will be the first person
to say then and now they would call her
and they'd say why don't you put on this
professor or this activist no we want
you so that we can make it like the only
people who are in any way arguing
against this war are actors or no excuse
me
actor says Hollywood liberals exactly
well then perhaps you can answer this
question why is the head of the CIA the
Secretary of State national security
advisor the Prime Minister great but all
said we have seen evidence that there
are members of al-qaeda living in
Baghdad there was an agreement between
al-qaeda and Saddam are they making it
up talky tuck tuck tuck tuck into tuck
tuck tuck tuck tuck Wow hope he's
reminding us of his own foibles when he
ruthlessly exposes the nonsense of the
Russia covered and he goes let's see a
very quick off the top of the head of
this is why what is Iraq done to us
attempted to assassinate an American
president allowed terrorists harbored to
interact to kill an American diplomat
just last year in Jordan apparently
signed an agreement with al-qaeda
trained al-qaeda web members in the use
of chemical and biological weapons this
guy got it so wrong I don't remember
exactly why I'm bringing this up oh wait
a second let's just go to the tape where
Michael Tracy is explaining what is
really at the heart of this whole Russia
gate that is so offensive Tim the point
is that this Trump Russia story is a
media failure of comparable magnitude
less death I posit I'm sorry he's saying
comparable magnitude to weapons of mass
destruction in the lead-up to Iraq and
and to his credit rewinded here he does
say but less deaths significantly less
deaths
I think I would add like hundreds of
thousands of less deaths
maybe maybe million maybe a million less
than well whatever less deaths be a
failure of comparable magnitude less
death thankfully but just as much just
total in a billion total factual
indiscretion and I feel like something
similar is going to happen where the
people who were proven decisively wrong
and have proven to have deceived the
American people for two plus years now
approaching three years actually they're
not going to pay any kind any price
they're not gonna face any consequence
if you or I or normal people failed at
their job miserably they would probably
I don't know get demoted maybe even fire
they would suffer some kind of
reputational consequence but so maybe
they get possible maybe they'd get it I
think that I'm sure we don't even have
to perform a hypothetical in this
situation because if you or I and the
you is Tucker Carlson and keep it up
because we're gonna go but the you is
Tucker Carlson what would happen if he
engaged in something like this that led
to the much more deaths hundreds of
thousands maybe million deaths well of
course what he would do is be able to
host you on television and have been on
television almost the entire time there
was a brief time where he had to start
his own company called the Daily Caller
so we don't need to hyper hypothesizes
it's amazing that we can see this type
of reaction from Michael Tracy about all
of these people and he may or may not be
right about them even if I stipulate
that he's right about them and makes it
even worse that he's going on to this
show but of course it must be from the
purest of intentions because of course
he is the most righteous he has the
truth he has known the truth all along
the
is all part of his grand plan and we
must just sit back and let it wash over
us bleah they would probably I don't
know get demoted maybe even fire they
were some kind of reputational
consequence but not so for the possibly
also the best part is the stone face on
Tucker Carlson one wonders what's behind
those eyes as he doesn't even blink I
wonder if he's going through I hope no
one has Google I hope no one remembered
mutational consequence but not so for
the media elite who have been leading
the charge of this story who had a lot
of influence on these security state
officials like Andrew McCabe who
launched the one of the investigations
in to trump at the FBI you know listen
to Andrew McCabe on his recent book tour
it almost sounds like he's a devoted
reader of David Frum at the Atlantic
who's from you know he worked for George
W Bush he helped coin the axis of evil
phrase he was a leading advocate for the
Iraq war he's also a leading advocate of
Russia Gate there's a lot of crossover
there and you know but Andrew McCabe
seemed like he was just you know
scrolling through Twitter or like
reading the New York Times or something
you didn't have any privileged
information that we know of that led him
to launch these unprecedented
investigations we'll see that's actually
like the president yeah the other clip I
would say when I just said oh because I
think that this is very this is actually
more honest and a lot more rigorous than
spreading lis nonsense about Al Qaeda
being trained by Saddam even though like
they were absolutely on different sides
of the equation politically this is this
is after the fact oh this is way and
this is this is Tucker's version of
owning up to his mistakes I see that's
how I would say and now is this what do
you know when this video was I just want
to know if it was
mm earlier
I'm just curious Lucilla no for or after
the time that he said that Iraqis were
what did he say in that tape that we
played recently dogs literate primitive
monkey okay yes semi-literate privet
primitive monkeys
okay all right finally Alan Greenspan
says in his book that yeah of course
this Wars about oil and etc etc he said
that to someone at the White House she
said we're not allowed to talk about oil
I think this war should have been about
oil I wish pause is about oil does
everybody remember what I just read in
that transcript exactly where he was
mocking Janeane Garofalo three or four
years earlier for saying it's about war
are you crazy Holly weird design yet
pretty it's about al-qaeda psychic
projection should have been about oil I
wish it was about oil we'd have lower
gas prices why would the Bush
administration say to him we can't talk
about oil as we prosecute this one
deeper question I know read time I just
I don't know why what would be wrong
with having a war over oil we have
that's a strict I mean that's it that's
in our strategic interest what would be
I mean that isn't the whole point of
wars to advance our enjoy no I know
there you go whatever
definitely definitely it now
to be fair I'm sure when Michael Tracy
goes on that show he has been able to
convince a couple of the Fox viewers
that this whole Russia thing was a hoax
so at least he's getting out there with
the word and you know doing it because
it's uh in repairing the body politic as
it were which i think was one of the one
of the issues was that what any other
burden is the phrase body politic I my
metric now is really simple it's like if
you if Michael Tracy went on Fox and
pivoted steadily to the Iran deal and
the consequences of Trump destroying
that then no problem he wants to go
there and trash the Russia thing that's
my trade off well I haven't seen any
video hi
pathetic oh yeah well that's actually
the sad point right it is a wild type of
thought total no one's done that of
course not the whole thing is just a
parable for when alt left contrarian ISM
goes wrong and when and I will say I
read a piece about New Yorker did a
piece on Tucker Carlson I think in
either the summer of 2017 maybe and what
was funny is he actually implied in that
piece I think in retrospect very
shrewdly to the person covering him for
The New Yorker he's like you know I have
a different view of Iran than a lot of
other conservatives and you're you're
gonna start we're gonna see what it's
gonna be like how Fox viewers respond
when I start doing like more nuanced
presentations of Iran essentially that
never happened but it did give him some
juicy New Yorker profile quotes for the
people reading that before that's
interest to be fair if you go back and
look at the the stories he was doing
when he launched the Daily Caller
it was to revive actual journalism on
the 1900
but of course to circle every square he
got booed at CPAC I believe when he said
that yeah everything is everything
