we have talked on this program now
already I think once or twice in 2019
and at the end of 2018 and that is
indicative of something else that seems
to be the rate of increase seems to be
on the uptick you mentioned in your
piece and in the Jacobin that the Bureau
of Labor Statistics released the
official strike data for 2018 what was
the verdict
yeah the verdict is quite clear at the
2018 saw the largest number of workers
on strike since 1986 so it's there was a
some debate last year about whether or
not there was a strike wave was it just
a blip and so now we have the official
statistics and it's quite clear that
this is a historic upsurge that we
haven't seen in decades yeah now 1986 I
mean just to remind some of our younger
listeners was during the Reagan era
where really the the the the breaking of
the strike and really the firing of the
air-traffic controllers for many people
marked the the beginning of and I don't
think it was specifically the beginning
of the end it was sort of like maybe
slightly into the the end of or I should
say the the beginning of the slow
shrinkage of of strike of union members
in this country and so 2018 it was a
huge year and the the the biggest sort
of single participants in terms of of
job was teachers yeah overwhelmingly yes
the teachers far and away surpass other
sectors although health care workers
also played a very important role and
its significance is worth saying that
you know these are professions that are
predominantly women and so there's a
real working-class female leadership
right now in the strike with which is a
contrast I think going back to the 80s
a lot of the strikes that you saw in the
80s as you sort of mentioned were really
defensive struggle older industrial
unions largely male in you know big
industry that were in a lot of times
forced to go on strike by bosses
offensive so this actually is a
different dynamic in which workers are
more aggressively proactively trying to
fight for their rights and not just
responding to what the bosses are doing
to them it also occurs to me too that
these are professions where you your
relationship to the there's a there's a
there's a sort of a I guess a public
there's a relationship to the public
that is I don't want to say unique but
is different insofar as we've seen
teachers will get support and we'll talk
about this in the context of this latest
strike that is ongoing at the moment but
teachers get support from parents from
their students and from the the broader
community I imagine there with health
care workers too we have a similar
dynamic where the patients and their
families are also sort of I guess
natural allies without having to have a
labor solidarity necessarily with folks
and it also is consistent with the
phenomena of the growth of social of
social justice unionism how much define
that term for us a little bit if you
don't mind and and how much of that is
at play here right so the the term
social justice unionism conferred a few
different things but but really at its
heart means that unions fight not just
for the demands of their own members but
really for the broader working class and
community generally so in traditionally
for the last decades at least the kind
of more business unionist moderate labor
officials had a bread and butter type at
best really the bread and butter type
unionism in which they would fight or to
be honest not often fight but at least
nominally say that
they were pushing for you know better
wages and working conditions which are
extremely important which remain
extremely important including in these
teachers strikes as the centrality of
pay shows but I think what makes them
different as you mentioned is that yet
there's a clear focus in all of these
teachers strikes and then also in the
health care strikes around tying
together the demands of workers at a
given workplace with things like lower
class sizes like we saw in LA or lower
nurse to patient ratios in a lot of
hospital strikes and it's a really
significant development because if other
workers can start doing similar making a
similar message and putting that out
there then that's the type of basis
you'll see for real broad working-class
upsurge so these were the types of
politics that were put forward in the
1930s it's not new but it was lost and I
should add - before we talk about the
specifics of the Denver's teachers
strike and also I you know I think the
last time we spoke was during the LA
teachers strike which has since ended
but we should also note too that in the
context of the government shutdown to a
large extent I think the underreported
story and the the least trumpeted story
of the ending of the shutdown was a
function of labor action by some TSA
folks some air traffic controllers and a
statement of solidarity by a private
union that being the flight attendants
Union this week they announced that they
would not be messing around and they
were preparing for a job action in the
event that the federal government was to
shut down and this is a union that is
not even a our federal employees give me
your your sense of how that how that
plays into what we're seeing here - and
we should also note and and I am not
sure of this but I suspect that the
flight attendants union is also
predominantly female yes so it
it's worth underlining what interesting
kind of a macing moment in a US history
labor history were in right now so
things like this don't happen very often
so when they do it is I think as you
mentioned worth really underscoring how
big a deal they are so yeah the shutdown
was ended by workers calling in sick and
it was ended because as you mentioned
the flight attendants Union started
organizing not just threatening but
started organizing for job actions and
it goes back to the question that you
raised earlier which is that they were
fighting not only for their own demands
but actually fighting for work people
generally because their main message was
that because of the federal shutdown
which was putting inordinate burden on
workers because they had to work several
jobs because they weren't get paid for
the federal jobs what that meant it was
actually creating a safety hazard both
for flight attendants and for passengers
so you see a similar messaging as far as
connecting worker demands to broader
working class demands and as you noted
again predominantly female and they won
the Trump administration actually had to
admit that it was because of the looming
shutdowns of airports people might
remember LaGuardia was closed that they
pulled back on the shutdown so there's
big lessons there because the
progressive movement you know for years
has tried to figure out well how do we
how do we win and it's not always clear
and I think what these recent work
stoppages have shown is that there
really is no power greater than
withholding your labor at work yeah all
right well let's take a break Eric and
when we come back let's talk about the
resolution of the LA teacher's strike
the ongoing Denver's teachers strike and
the potential for future strikes in this
sector I mean it's it's only the second
week of February and we've already seen
multiple major strikes across the
country and I think we can look back on
the summer from last year where we had
these strikes in these red states that I
think both encourage what we're seeing
now and we're a foreshadowing of what
we're seeing we got to take a quick
break I'll be
right back this is bring a fire radio
