yeah as soon as other Democrats started
to parrot the words medicare-for-all I
knew this was gonna happen they were
going to water it down take a phrase
that people like and make it mean
something totally different like oh you
want Medicare for all yours Medicare for
all
Plus extra access option right I mean
this is not I mean this is the history
of this country right the idea of health
insurance for everybody is 80 years old
and they haven't the the closest they've
been able to come as the ACA where I
guess the Medicare at least in terms of
but you know so you know this is not the
idea that it was going to be you know
that that that simply people talking
about a lot was gonna bring it about
obviously not gonna happen it's gonna be
hard here is I just say really sorry
just like 30 seconds I just as somebody
who most of my adult life and has you
know been around a lot of people who
have you know lacked health coverage for
various reasons I mean for the obvious
reasons for significant periods of time
you know I just always want to reinforce
the sort of basic moral calculus of this
- and the real you know the reason at
least I'm so uncompromising on it I just
think it's disgusting and grotesque and
actually horrifying if you've been on
the experiencial end of it to have this
even be a question and in play and of
course what Jamie saying is also true of
the green New Deal and every other
policy thing that has been sort of put
forward by progressives and now is nice
brands and good polling here is a guy
Bakari sellers and he was the former
South Carolina Democratic party chair if
I'm not saying he's the mayor of Atlanta
no no okay and I've sat on a couple of
panels with him I met I mean nice
perfectly nice guy but there is seems to
be right now a big push on trying to
draw down
the expectations for health insurance as
we enter into this campaign and it's
interesting because in 2008 this went on
but it was very quick it was very quick
and part of it was that some of the
biggest advocacy groups that were
looking for a medicare-for-all very
quickly settled on okay we're just gonna
ask for the public option which is why
it's and that should be a cautionary
tale right like the negotiation ends
when they start voting on the
legislation do not pre negotiate the
best-case scenario away not even the
best-case scenario don't don't pre
negotiate any scenarios away but so
understand that's what we're in the
midst of now like it is already the the
fight for what the Democrats will do in
2021 has already begun here is Bakari
sellers with um with his argument he is
throughout this process Democrats and
their plans and their ideas and all of
these proposals are gonna be fleshed out
and people are going to get to the root
of it but when what you saw this past
week was you saw a slight difference of
opinion because I think that Medicare
for all is the standard in the
Democratic Party now but you have
different ways in different candidates
who want to get there so I still favor
for example making sure that we still
have a healthy private insurance
industry in this country but I do
believe that we need to move towards a
Medicare for all and let private
insurance fill in those gaps and I think
that you have Kamala Harris and Cory
Booker who have sponsored bills
throughout the whole plethora or the
whole Jean or of that making sure that
we get just and if we just drop the age
limit for Medicare five years I think we
at least cover more people and we we can
at least start to have those discussions
now it's I mean there's such a weird
frame and this is why like I think
making the idea of the existence of
private insurance binary is problematic
because it is unnecessary to say that
there cannot exist any
insurance for there to be a functioning
and good Medicare for all
well they don't outlaw private insurance
and companies with single-payer they
just put them largely out of business
well exactly which is exactly my point
so the point is is like rather than guy
on the hill of whether private insurance
should exist or not that is secondary to
what the affirmative thing that we want
which is cradle to grave access to
Medicare by access I mean free free paid
for by payroll taxes okay so a taxed
based payment for health insurance
cradle-to-grave if you want to have
supplemental insurance for super wealthy
people and they need that by all means I
don't need I can have a functioning air
industry that is available to everybody
and still there can be people have their
own private jets that doesn't bother me
I mean I the the root cause of their
ability to have private jets is
something I'm gonna tackle later just
fair warning we could shoot on private
jets resurface their missiles just know
that the tape but that's the that's why
it's your own risk you pricks
that's the thing it's like you know
don't argue that part of it that may be
a result but that's not our worry well
it seemed like he was arguing to still
include the private insurers in this
universe that's exactly right and the
opportunity to do that is see by saying
by making it a a by making it a just a
pure binary choice private insurance or
no private insurance that gives the
opportunity for weasel words well I look
I think private insurance has a role
fine but the problem is is that once
that becomes the argument he's moving
he's moving the the goalposts to like
where private insurance actually it's
not necessarily a supplements complement
they work hand in hand like no no that
can't
that doesn't function this is the thing
that's the sleight-of-hand here that
does not work it does not work if you
drop the age of Medicare by five years
you're still gonna have a big problem
you because you're not gonna have the
same access to doctors you're gonna have
an increasingly number of doctors like
well you know I'm just gonna do a
younger clientele on some level and
because they're not gonna have the same
it's gonna be an easier group of people
to service I mean that's that's the
problem is that you're going to have
essentially a two-tiered system and we
don't want that yeah there is no reason
to include private insurance companies
in the universal coverage plan besides
as a handout to the private insurance
companies and then you have to look at
where people's money is coming from
these
