[Music]
Wow that's kind of a I don't know that
kind of that's amazing
yeah I know that I want to get a lot of
justice
[Music]
and then the worst cover-up ever bad
deal should have never been thought of
[Music]
and you're a cheater stop is at the deal
standpoint what they thought about it
and then the worst cover-up ever
[Music]
their deals through never been born
[Music]
propaganda manipulating liberal politics
as the moms
[Music]
says who
and he is turning over the tables in the
swamp white guys everyone knows that
and it almost wouldn't even have to be
said
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
safer in the hands of the people than in
they are we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex sama chart a
report with sam cedar this is the pike
opinion and we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn u.s.a this is
and this is the five-time award-winning
majority report I'm Michael Brooks on a
Michael Thursday hopefully we will fix
my sound shortly
on today's program Brian Muir from
Brazil wire joins us to discuss why
Bolson ro1 beyond the cliches what
happens next as thank you as the
political prosecutor who savaged the
Workers Party and made Lula da Silva a
political prisoner has just accepted a
job in the new fascist regime so uh good
stuff for everybody that unequivocal
critically promoted anti-corruption
politics and the car wash investigation
right indeed Donald Trump calls for a
constitutional protection calls
constitutional citizen protection
citizenship protections a crazy policy
early votes in at least seventeen states
have already surpassed 2014 turnouts at
this point days away from the crucial
2018 midterm elections the Fed releases
plans to loosen rules on US banks what
could go wrong
interior secretary Ryan's Enki is facing
a month-long criminal probes
apartheid Brian Kemp he just ditched out
on a debate with Stacey Abrams to
campaign with Donald Trump ditching it
at the last minute capitalizing on his
racist leader and vote suppression in an
election that Stacey Abrams will win
unless apartheid Brian steals it Scott
Walker and Tony Evers are tied in the
final Marquette poll in the 2018 Scott
Walker his attacks on public sector
unions in 2011 were a map of our
austerity authoritarian future but also
another key part of the growing response
leftist grassroots response across this
country Trump administration approves
Wisconsin Medicaid work requirements get
out and get rid of Scott Walker the
Trump Trump health official dubs
Medicare for all the scariest Halloween
costume ACA enrollment begins today and
the Trump administration of course is
not making it any easier for people to
get their health care and they promise
to redouble their efforts to get rid of
people's pre-existing conditions
coverage pre-existing conditions by the
way can mean everything from being a
woman to having diabetes is a very broad
range of things you knows and Steve King
an embattled the embattled white
supremacist Minh says Ted Cruz has
expressed support for his campaign to
supremest peas in a pod
shocking very shocking Majid nawaz
professional informant blowhard and
trihard has some static with the
straightedge Amy Winehouse herself Lily
Allen that and much much more on today's
majority report welcome everybody
good to be here we're gonna get to Brian
Mayer in a few minutes at Brazil wire
and we are all in the house besides the
four-day workweek man I thought because
I don't I don't know if we need to
pretend I'll just say I guess we entered
into a parallel universe yesterday and I
will say in that parallel universe I
thought Sam's a a seaman was inspired I
thought that was an incredible mashup of
almost like everything wrong with
YouTube and that was very funny the face
the face he was making I was killing is
he must have been really hurting his
eyes to do that and yeah it was hard to
stay in character
I liked John from was it El Paso I think
John from El Paso did a great job yeah
great job whoever you are yeah we don't
know who that is but that was brilliant
and I also really appreciate I was
saying in the office earlier we could
defend any part of that sketch besides
the Branden character which might have
been the funniest part of all of it idea
[Music]
we're safe all right
not gonna go back into that we're not
that far from that Dave Chappelle and
Jon Stewart were on CNN talking to
Christiane Amanpour Dave Chappelle is of
course one of our greatest comedians
he's incredibly insightful and
Christiane Amanpour is supposed to be
the sort of regal global sophisticate of
CNN and I've seen her do some decent
reporting from time to time she
certainly gets a lot of heat because of
her background and because of being a
woman and because she has an accent but
she's she's just not in her depth here
on this conversation about the fascist
wave the American fascist wave that
Trump is writing she's not in the
comedian's death here
she's on the comedian's depth here Dave
Chappelle certainly is some of the
things they say even when they say the
Russian ones the election it's kind of
like Russian Megan is racist is that
who's doing it okay oh my god thanks I
thought it was this if they kill the
country their way then we're the murder
weapon yeah
so we vote is the Trump era a good era
for comedians is it just unbelievable
fodder or not I would not even name the
era after him yeah he's getting too much
credit from he's he's not I'm making the
wave he's surfing it yeah they would he
just all he does is sing those people's
Greatest Hits build a wall all these
things we've heard before he just sings
all the songs he's the only one that has
been brash enough to do it that's
exactly right
in the beginning and this is actually
another good thing I think to remember
as we synthesized race and economics
into analysis of figuring out the
electorate and specifically the Trump
base I did say from the very beginning
in 2016 Donald Trump will most likely
win the Republican primary because he's
doing something brilliant from the
political perspective of a Republican
primary which is being unequivocally
racist and xenophobic and speaking that
clearly and robustly to a party who's
non oligarchs and most of their
oligarchs too frankly are built on white
identity politics and conversely he was
lying obviously but he was questioning
Republican economic orthodoxies which
normal Republican voters don't care
about I recently was canvassing in Idaho
and I met a very charming lady in her
80s and she said what do you boys want
and after telling us that she was going
to vote Republican and that Democrats
are full of and saying some
horrible things about immigration
she didn't went on to say and of course
yep I'm voting for Medicaid expansion
because people need health care and
Donald Trump tapped into that he
recognized that of course even a lot of
normal Republican voters understand that
giving money to Koch brothers and making
it easier
abused them and deregulate is bad for
them but they're also rooted in white
identity politics as well these things
are both true and Dave Chappelle pointed
out exactly the case that this is a
continuing current of American history
and Trump is this eras showman who's
known how to exploit it and there's
really nothing special about it if you
have any historical understanding of the
threat that we face and everything that
Trump in this whole gang symbolizes yeah
if it weren't him it would definitely be
somebody else and it's it's amazing how
few liberals in the media really seem to
grasp this they want to blame it all on
Trump and Russia like if it weren't for
those two actors we would be totally
fine and that's just not true yeah I
think the only the only limited way in
which that is true is that I don't think
any of the other I mean Hillary was
Hillary Elsa throws a wrench into this
but just looking at the Republican field
in general there's a reason it wasn't a
career Republican right is because you
can't like people are sick of that
right but so it had to be this this
celebrity with a built in like different
sort of constituency like reality TV
heads and and the third contingent that
will get into a Brian but it does apply
the United States as well as this
amorphous anti-corruption politics which
doesn't mean anything and is
decontextualized from politics and that
is that why anti-corruption politics
helped lead to the rise of Berlusconi it
has been instrumental in bolsa narrow
and was a man drain the swamp obviously
and he is turning over the tables in the
swamp exactly and what is core I mean
any conversation of corruption that
doesn't involve the fundamental
structure of capitalism is delusional
today's show is brought to you by Brook
linen named the winner of the best
online bedding category for Good
Housekeeping Brooklyn is a fastest
growing vetted brand in the world with
over 20,000 five-star reviews their
mission is to bring 5-star Hotel quality
sheets to every
life offering luxury sheets without the
luxury markup their method eliminating
the middleman and keeping things
personal from design to manufacturing to
customer service and beyond these sheets
are amazing until I got my Brooklyn in
sheets I didn't really get the
difference I got of course you want
cotton not polyester some things are
more comfortable than other things of
course I've never had sheets before
until I had Brooklyn and that make me
sleep better that make me fire off one
final tweet of the night to piss
somebody off and then I go into a gentle
peaceful deep and renewing slumber also
I can get up back in the morning and
watch Donald Trump do something horrible
but these sheets have totally changed
how I sleep they have the highest
quality and you can get exactly the
types that you want from style to a
texture excellent sleeping experience my
Brooke linen sheets are the best and
most comfortable sheets I've ever slept
on Brooklyn and accomm is give me an
exclusive offer just for majority report
listeners get $20 get $20 off and free
shipping when you use promo code
majority at Brooklyn and Comm
Brooklyn is so sure that you'll love
your news sheets that they offer a
risk-free sixty-ninth satisfaction
guarantee and a lifetime warranty and
all their sheets and comforters believe
me you're not gonna use it these things
are incredibly comfortable the only way
to get $20 off and free shipping is to
use promo code majority at Brooklyn and
calm that's B R oo k line2 amo code
majority Brook linen these really are
the best sheets ever and another thing I
want to tell you about in today's show
is news voice one of today's show
sponsors is news voice dot-com slash
majority we all know about the harmful
effects of media conglomerates and
today's discourse we focus obviously on
this show from the left on dealing with
the consequences of corporate media
that for decades has not covered
anything from labor issues to inequality
to u.s. foreign policy in a serious way
and now we're in all of these epistemic
bubbles and our information systems are
closed so people both on some way if
both lose access to facts and objective
analysis but also fail to have a broader
understanding of what is motivating
different parts of the American
electorate you need to understand how
everybody's thinking if you want to
figure out how the country is working
and how the world is moving you got to
get out of your filter bubble to do that
and not just ideologically but globally
as well one thing that I do and news
always helps me do is follow a lot of
global news outlets both on
international issues if I'm following
South America or in the least or Africa
or Europe or Asia but also to look at
how they're covering us because that
brings a whole different perspective as
well there's a new media company that's
come up with its own response to these
problems and it's called news voice it's
an app for oh I oh excuse me it's an app
for iOS and Android which you can access
for free if you go to news voice comm
slash majority it gives you a
personalized news feed by aggregating a
mix of mainstream media sources
international sources and independent
media sources multiple sources are
provided for each news story and that's
exactly Sam says this is exactly how we
prepare for hosting these shows you get
a range you look at you know the sort of
big traditional players how they're
covering it then you go and you find
specialists then you get other people on
the left and you're gonna look at how
the Wrights framing up and that way you
can formulate your analysis and strategy
the entire app is fueled by
crowdsourcing you can upvote stories you
think are important so people will see
them you can add stories to the app or
you can add a source that's missing for
a story it's meant to be completely and
open and democratize news aggregator
that lets you get every side of every
story they also have a video interview
seat features a series featuring guests
from Chris Hedges to Alexandria Acacio
Cortez go out download the app for free
that news voice comm / majority and
we've put a link under this video if
you're watching on
YouTube we're gonna take a brief break
we'll be right back with Brian mirror on
the majority report
[Music]
you
[Music]
welcome back to the majority report
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Bryan mere he joins us from San Paolo
Brazil and he is the co-editor of Brazil
wire his latest piece just released is
why bowls a narrow one beyond the
cliches which you can find at Brazil
wire which is I always say is really an
indispensable resource for understanding
what's happening in Brazil currently and
the history that led us to where we are
today Bryan thanks so much for being
back thanks a lot it's going pretty well
we have to we have to you know we have
to maintain our spirit how's it going
for you I would say would be a more
pertinent question with what just
happened last couple of days yeah it's
kind of stressed stressful you know
because I've been coming on Brazilian TV
bad-mouthing right rightfully so
bad-mouthing Wilson are all a year yep
and some people have even made names
with saying he's going to arrest or
exile all of the so-called communists
and his list of communists is so broad
that it includes the classical liberal
magazine The Economist right she great
she's calling that right everything's
communist them right because they didn't
today they didn't support him for
president which is essentially his
definition I mean this is I guess you
know would you do that first because
particularly we cover the United States
I think there look there obviously is a
global far-right movement and there is a
connection and a synchronization between
Donald Trump and bolson ro and it
relates to what we see in Hungary in
India and frankly in Argentina and Chile
and and and I would argue in the Gulf
and I'd argue in Russia and Park you in
some place on leadership in Africa this
is all true and we need to draw those
parallels at the same time this is a guy
who is at the forefront and you know I
know people get into pedantry of how you
define fascism this or that that really
doesn't interest me
but he is a full thoroughgoing absolute
political social ethnic cleanser
authoritarian along with being a ultra
neoliberal so just maybe just really
reenter who this guy is this isn't just
alarmism yeah well first of all you know
that I saw some stupid articles online
hair-splitting about whether he's a
fascist or not right because he's not
German and it's not the 1930s or
whatever but let's not forget that Noam
Chomsky coined the term neo-fascist
neo-fascism to describe the Latin
American military dictatorships of the
60s and 70s principally the Brazilian
one and gerbils nor was a member of that
regime and he's appointing three former
generals from that regime and so he's
literally a neo-fascist there's no you
know the term neo-fascist was coined to
describe a regime that he was part of
right okay so I don't see any and and
that's a difference between him and
someone like Donald Trump who I feel is
an opportunistic con man right you know
who's using some all right rhetoric he's
fostering Nazism neo-nazis within the US
or whatever but he's not actually you
know he didn't he didn't grow up
goose-stepping around in the midst of a
dictatorship right well he's a he's a
racist trust fund babies scumbag
slumlord who is a white supremacist and
knows how to hustle and con people and
is a far-right corporatist like the rest
of the Republican Party but not
literally a member of the military
hunter hunter that's gets let off easy
by a lot of people who say oh it was the
lightest of Latin American dictatorships
because they only killed 500 people but
that is a terrible misnomer because they
only killed 500 white middle class
political prisoners
they didn't count blacks and indigenous
people deaths in their death count and
so like on one night in 1969 a machine
gunned down an entire indigenous tribe
in the Amazon 2000 and women and
children you know and they make tortured
babies they tortured children this guy
who bowls an arrow dedicated his
impeachment vote to Dilma Rousseff for
brilliant Ewa was a head torturer who
was known for sticking Rats up women's
vaginas
you know so this guy's fascist he's a
neo-fascist
yep he's horrible you know and he's he's
using this fascist rhetoric that Hitler
did okay but the cia-trained Latin
American hunters to do during the
dictatorship in which is to transform
the arm his main goal from self-defense
into defeating an internal enemy the
eternal enemy of Hitler was the Jews and
the internal enemy that klossner is
talking about are the Communists and he
considers like the P that types of
people he labels to be communists even
McCarthy would be like whoa slow down
Posner oh right you know all the
economists communists but he's talking
about really a segment of at least 50
million people in Brazil who he's now
declaring internal enemy and he
disappointed a lieutenant colonel
former astronaut to be head of Science
and Technology and in his acceptance
speech the guy said oh yes well I'm
prepared to fight external and internal
enemies from Brazil it's like well what
position did you just accept Science and
Technology it sounds like you accepted
the you know a military command or
something so yeah I mean this is so this
is could not be more disturbing
obviously but it's also something that
people like you and and other
journalists frankly I mean between the
Brasil wire and some and reporting in
the intercept and some things that I've
done in majority report
Brook show real news I mean look these
are all independent sources obviously
but if you were looking to find out what
the real nature of this guy was and also
what led up to it you would be able to
find it in english-language news but at
the flip side and I want you to talk
about the media piece it might be harder
to find it in Portuguese news because of
the role that the media has played in
deal Ajith amaizing the Workers Party
and facilitating fascism and also and
the utter failure of the Guardian the
New York Times and also the direct
complicity of people like you know of
places like the Wall Street Journal
which are back to their old tricks and
endorsing directly endorsing fascism and
murderers well taken by three taking one
of the time brats regarding the
Portuguese language press luckily
there's a very robust alternative
leftist press in Brazil and there's some
really great publications and because of
the internet and stuff the traditional
media outlets that supported the first
military dictatorship a lot of them are
going into bankruptcy now you know and
and regularly being beaten in readership
by newer alternative press mediums like
for example forum magazine which was
created during the first world Social
Forum and has people like Leonardo Boff
John chuan Pedro Stanley who's head of
the MST lay another off a famous
Liberation Theology you know on their
board of their editorial board they're
fantastic and there's other publications
as well Brazil de facto is connected
with the MST and they have started
publishing some stuff in English if you
type in their name and English
afterwards you usually find a couple
articles a week and there they're a good
source in Portuguese but anyway that's
the Brazilian media the the mainstream
Brazilian media which supported the
military dictatorship and has been
spreading anti PT hatred for the last 15
years in the case of global
since the 1980s really they're not being
labeled as communists by Wilson ro and
Wilson are threatened to shut down the
largest newspaper in the country which
is no friend of the PT party the folio
twosome Paulo last week on live national
TV he said he's gonna shut them down so
so it's weird regarding the Anglo media
I would say total and utter failure by
the Guardian and the New York Times they
didn't just fail on this they're
complicit in the rise of fascism in
Brazil because they've lied and spread
mistruths
about the accusations against Lula and
Dilma they toned down the fact that he's
a political prisoner and they propped up
this Sergio Moro who is a US government
operative working in tandem with the
Department of Justice for years now who
has just accepted the cabinet position
of Minister of security for Bolson are
oh so he's openly joining a fascist
regime now and for the last three years
we've been hearing all these fluff
pieces about what an impartial
anti-corruption Crusader he is he
arrested the leading candidate in this
year's elections on no charges with no
physical evidence and in sentence into
nine years in jail in a sadistic manner
because Lula has nine fingers and that
was his nickname for him nine yep all
right he he prevented he illegally
prevented Lula from being released on
the habeas corpus well he was on
vacation and he really he illegally
leaked information to the press falsely
implicating Fernando Haddad and
corruption during the election campaign
directly benefiting both Nara and now
he's accepting a cabinet position so
we're gonna talk more about Mauro and in
in Lula and a bit and just again reframe
the importance of the lies and and the
u.s. relationship to to that political
prosecution and that broader political
project but
and and some of the even the kind of
delusional credulous nough Sbarro even
and you know independent outlets but
before we get there you're laying out
the myth you talked about of why bowls
narrow one and the two main issues that
we hear in still in the Anglo press even
as they've started to hand ring and
freak out about this guy they still will
say that Brazilian voters were fed up
with violence and corruption what were
the actual were those the actual reasons
that bowls an ro1 this victory because
they arrested the leading candidate was
you know polling with over double the
popular is bull cenar and would've won
in the first round even from behind bars
which was his legal right to do
that's one reason another reason is that
he committed electoral crime with
support from Steve Bannon using what's
up social media app to spread lies to
millions of people about the PT Party
and Fernando Haddad that had nothing to
do with violence or or corruption they
they spread lies trying to portray the
PT Party as a bunch of sexual perverts
we're going to force your children to
become homosexuals right that Haddad
distributed erotic baby bottles in the
South Hall a public preschool system
when he was mayor that had little
penises on them instead of nipples you
know that was spread around a film on
what's up it was a fake film that was
made so it was the lowest possible dirty
tricks imaginable that were illegally
used in violation of campaign finance
laws and violation of the internet laws
in Brazil and in violation of electoral
laws that propelled both snarl to
victory first of all and if you'd like I
could debunk the corruption and violence
yes okay well I I consider both of these
things do you have you ever read on
television by Pierre Bordeaux yes
actually back in college I had to read
something yeah
anyway he's a very great critic of the
media and he always says that people in
the media are failed intellectuals which
hurts thanks a lot I was gonna say hurts
but I know who he's talking about he's
not talking about people like us but
what he talks about a lot of these mind
stopping cliches people in the media
speaking sound bites
yeah the newspaper writers journalists
break every complex issue down to an
either/or thing and they string together
these cliches that cause people to stop
thinking and because it sounds familiar
and move on to the next subject and so
violence and corruption are mind
stopping cliches if you say people are
angry about violence
you're gonna think well everybody hates
violence you know and the same for
corruption but they don't hold up to any
scrutiny because in Brazil the state
that gave the most supportable Cynara
Sao Paulo 25% of all of his votes came
from San Paulo which is like
economically and population wise the
California of Brazil it has 20% of the
country's population living in it so he
had a quarter of his votes came from
some Oh Sao Paulo has violence rates
lower than most you know that many
places in the US the capital city of Sao
Paulo
also called Sao Paulo as a murder rate
its murder rate dropped from 60 you know
60 murders for a hundred thousand
residents in 2000 down to 7.8 in 2017
which is like less than a quarter of the
murder rate in Chicago right now and
comparable with New York or other cities
that's where he got most of his votes
the most violent states in Brazil mostly
in the Northeast all carried Fernando
Haddad so if people were voting out of
concerns for violence then Haddad was
their candidate not Olson ro you know
yeah
and then in terms of corruption both
snarls from the you spent 90% of his
political career in the most corrupt
little party in Brazil the partido
progress ista ironically called the
Progressive Party right because it's
it's an out branch from the dictatorship
the the party leader is on Interpol's
most-wanted list
Paulo Maloof and he'll be arrested the
second he steps out of Brazil he hasn't
been able to leave the country for 15
years because he stole two hundred
million dollars from Sao Paulo city
coffers in one day in the 1990s and put
it in Swiss bank accounts I said you
know that's that's a real Dutch book
both of our was in that party at the
time you know rice know like did leave
his party over that and so he's already
started naming his cabinet ministers and
they're almost all corrupt you know one
of his cap the man he wants to lead his
coalition in Congress is currently
serving four years of semi-open
imprisonment which is a weird sentencing
thing they have in Brazil where you go
to jail during the day now you're going
to jail at night and you can go out
during the day so this guy's actually be
he's in the penal justice system right
now and you know several of his cabinet
ministers have been busted taking bribes
super valuing construction projects so
it's not corruption is not an issue at
all to Brazilian voters who voted for
both snore if it were it wouldn't have
voted for him it's it's that the
corruption is like a code word for
communists no right right well that's I
want to ask I want we're gonna get
specifically to to the u.s. corporate
sector and then Mauro and political
imprisonment of Lula in a minute because
that's the other kind of important part
of the story but do you think or
integral to this story but do you think
that there's obviously my reading of
Brazilian politics and you'll know this
better than me but my reading of
Brazilian politics is that it is I mean
it's different than the United States
but there are parallels and there's just
certain structural corruptions so in
order to form a government as an example
as Lula and Dilma both had to do they
need it's a cut deal
with various smaller parties and a lot
of these smaller parties in Brazil my
reading is that they run almost just
like tributaries like oh they're tiny
like you and I like hey you know what
Brian let's form like the Progressive
Union party and we'll get a couple of
seats in parliament and then we'll just
kind of shop around for who will give us
the most bribes essentially so and
obviously the carwash investigation did
reveal some things that cut across the
political spectrum so there's a
structural corruption problem in Brazil
but even there as an example there's a
difference between personal enrichment
and realizing that you might need to
help you know get campaign funds as an
example and somehow this anti-corruption
rhetoric just became as you said it just
became a synonym for communist or to
attack the left and I do want to draw a
global comparison because it seems like
from Italy in the 90s which led to
Berlusconi and I know Mauro studied that
too even the way Donald Trump talked
about drain the swamp there's this
generic anti-corruption which doesn't
mean anything specific and then fascists
use it to destroy even the most modest
left parties yeah I agree it's it goes
back to I think the original fascism
right Mussolini and Hitler used to
accuse the Socialists that they were
murdering of being corrupt I mean it's
it's an easy way to slander somebody in
the case of Brazil yeah I mean I think
capitalism is corrupt exactly and the
main engine for corruptions the private
sector which is why I think it's so
outrageous that you have organizations
like transparency international which
receive corporate funding going around
ranking governmental officials in the
third world about how corrupt they are
and completely ignoring who was paying
them with the corrupt money you know you
completely ignore it people drive in
corruption so you know the the
organization's driving corruption in the
world are the real estate industry the
oil industry you know
the drug industry so it's a it's it's
impossible I think to have a capitalist
society that's not corrupt even Sweden
which prides itself in not being corrupt
from what I understand the Swedish
military the biggest bribe payer in
Africa yeah this is what Patrick Vance
told me anyway from University of
Johannesburg and and so yeah and
regarding like parties and coalition
building the difference between Brazil
in the u.s. is that there's just a lot
more parties and one of the reasons the
political system is so corrupt is that
they they gave amnesty to everybody who
was collaborating with the military
dictatorship and they let the two
official parties from the dictatorship
continue and when Lula took office they
were the first and second biggest
parties in Brazil the PFL which is now
called the Democrats them and the PMDB
and so it wasn't just small parties
there in order for him to get a fifty
percent majority needed to do anything
in Congress you had to go in to put
coalition with one of those two parties
that was a legacy from the dictatorship
so he chose the official opposition
party from the dictatorship the MDB and
they're the ones that eventually stabbed
Dilma Rousseff in the back that's
Michele Tamra's party you know Anand
who's the sitting president now sitting
president know the Weimar Republic of
Brazil guy right right yeah yeah just
this sort of very you know just a
two-bit corrupt austerity you know
personal enrichment and whatever US
corporations want to do to the Brazilian
people kind of guy okay so talk about
run us through the political prosecution
of Lula and Sergio Moro and the u.s.
role and and I guess and I just and I
always want to anchor I will be always
saying this now I know I'm Chomsky's
right I mean this is the most prominent
political prisoner in the world and it's
also a guy who
well you'll complicate this in a minute
because he did resist Western he did
resist Anglo capital in some ways but
was a conciliatory social get a Democrat
who made
massive social strides for his country I
mean is my understanding is I mean
certainly one of the if not the most
important and successful Brazilian
politician while cutting deals with
capital and they ruthlessly set out to
destroy him his party but also the
aspirations that he represents in the
poor and in labor and in democracy in
Brazil that's basically you summed it up
pretty well they're trying to wipe all
memory of him and his party off the map
you know Posner was son just announced
he just introduced a bill today to
outlaw communism in Brazil and they're
gonna try and include the PT party's
communist in that an outlaw party which
is ridiculous because they were never
that there's some pretty radical people
inside the party there's internal
currents every one called socialism or
barbarianism just you know hard
socialist but essentially their social
democratic party they're ideologically
aligned probably with someone like
Bernie Sanders yep anyway so Sergio Moro
has been working with the US government
since at least 2009 we know this from
leaked WikiLeaks cables and essentially
he decided along probably with the
Department of Justice people who are in
constant communication with him the
whole time as Kenneth Blanc who admitted
in a speech in the Atlantic Council last
year which you can watch online and
who's Kenneth Blanc who is he whose care
assistant attorney general of the United
States okay you know he gave a speech in
the Atlantic Council talking about the
cops and informal communication between
the DOJ and and Sergio Mora
what is Sergio morals official position
in Brazil that allowed him to launch
this investigation to target and destroy
Lula and PT he's a local
what we call a district judge okay and
so even his arrests of Lula's totally
illegal because it's not even in his
district there
Lulla committed no crimes in his
district his district is credit diba and
so originally they pressed charges
against Lula that he'd been involved in
Petrobras corruption and bribes
involving one Petrobras office in
Curitiba just so that more could justify
getting Lula into his jurisdiction but
he himself threw out his own charges of
that you know because this is the other
thing they never changed the law in
Brazil when the Inquisition ended and
the prosecutor can still a judge can
still rule on his own prosecution judges
also work as prosecutors and
investigators and they could judge their
own prosecutions with no jury and so
that's what Laura did Tallulah
after years of leaking all kinds of
phony information into the media what
much of which was reproduced
unquestionably in The Guardian in New
York Times in the Washington Post they
gave a press conference saying that Lula
was the head of a massive international
money laundering and criminal
organization and that he had 15 million
dollars in cash in his bank accounts of
when they finally seized his assets the
total amount of cash that Lula had in
his bank accounts was two hundred and
thirty thousand dollars which at the
time was half of what Obama was charging
for one speaking engagements right okay
and Lou was still living in the
apartment he's been living in since the
1980s in basically the Trenton New
Jersey of Sao Paulo's some bernardo dos
campos was like a factory suburb toxic
waste zone you know so he's not someone
who there's no evidence that he ever
made any money whatsoever through any
kind of corruption they arrested him
they they convicted him of charges
related to this apartment this this
penthouse apartment on the beach they
leaked to the media that its value was
like something like six hundred thousand
US dollars
this apartment and that he'd received
all of these illegal reforms including
the building of an elevator inside of
it's because it's a two floor apartment
of a three floor apartment or whatever
and but they refused to let the press
visit the building they refused to let
the press visit that the part the
apartment there refused to allow Lula's
team to show any photos of the apartment
and it's an apartment that basically it
seems like Lula's wife was thinking of
buying an apartment in that building and
the construction company offered her a
slightly better apartment for the same
price because they thought it would be
positive publicity to sell more units
and this is after Lula left office yep
even if he had received the apartment
there's no quid pro quo because he
wasn't in any position of power was a
civilian at the time but they never took
the offer because basically since 2005
when they tried to stage a coup against
Lula for corruption and insolence
scandal which was also fabricated by the
media and Luis political enemies
basically he was always very careful
about this kind of stuff right you know
cuz he he knew he was constantly being a
you know followed around an attack so
know they refused the apartment there's
no evidence that that he ever accepted
it there's no evidence that he owns it
it's in the the deed to the apartments
in the name of the construction company
that built it okay that he's never been
they've never been in there it's an
empty apartment and after Lula was
arrested uh so a squatters movements
called the mt st they they invaded the
building with video cameras and took
photos and video of the entire apartment
and showed Brazil it wasn't worth
anywhere near six hundred thousand
dollars that there'd been no reforms
done on it whatsoever there was no
elevator in there and so the only
evidence that Sergio Mora had to convict
Mullah was one plea bargain testimony by
a corrupt businessman who changed his
testimony three times to better fit what
was looking for in exchange for 70%
sentence reduction and transfer to house
arrest and partial retention of his
assets is illicit assets and that's the
old that's the only evidence and so in
order to convict Lula Mauro had to argue
in court that Lula was guilty because he
believed he was guilty
I have conviction that Lu was guilty hmm
and and then sentenced to nine years
noble sonars taking office Lula might
very well die in prison now over this
you know cuz they're not gonna let him
go unless unless they can get them out
before bowls narrow takes power and so
and then during the whole campaign the
Supreme Court obviously ignored
international law the UN determines if
and you know if this to be clear I mean
international law is I mean in my view I
mean international law is obviously
always subordinate to power relations
but unlike in the United States where we
pretty overtly say we don't follow
international protocols Brazil actually
has been party to these two to two you
know UN directives and has actually sort
of made a show of saying that they'll
take these things seriously and
incorporate it into law the UN and
responsible body said that Lula
absolutely had a right to run for
president and needed to be allowed to
run for president he was blocked from
running for president and then on top of
it blocked from having access to any
press even as the whole time as you said
in the beginning he led by double digits
in the polls and you know it just is
amazing that these people who you know
including plenty of people here in this
sort of Washington Post knew your time
circles who smeared Lula and didn't
study what happened in Brazil what was
happening in Brazil at all
Lula is sort of conciliatory moderate
but also I mean I guess but also
genuinely Social Democratic and Labour
based so maybe that's even too left for
them but he he would have governed as a
great national
silly like he would have been let's
reconcile Brazil and get out of economic
stagnation and get things going again I
mean it's like it's funny like PT slogan
what I think was like let Brazil be
happy again and this and this was not
good enough for the for you know the
establishment essentially and maybe this
is where you could we're gonna get some
video in a second but maybe just also
explain that as part of Lula is
reconciling so many impulses he he
appeased maybe Brazilian business while
he brought tens of millions out of
poverty but he didn't appease US
interests and that's why even though he
was getting praised and feted around the
world maybe this is why there was
support for Sergio Moro and going after
Lula and also a broader reversal of the
Latin American pink tide you know he
partially appeased us inflow interests
right that seemed good enough for a time
until they discovered massive offshore
oil deposits in Brazil and at that point
it's like no we have to have total
control over this country I think that's
I think that's what if they hadn't
discovered all of that oil maybe things
would have been very different today in
Brazil because you just look at the big
oil nations this offshore oil discovery
propelled Brazil like into the top five
or six oil-producing nations in the
world and you look at the other ones and
see how many have been invaded or had
their governments overthrown by the US
you know it's not a good position to be
in to have that much oil these days you
know but Lula Lula for example there's a
woman named Hinata Mota who's a
professor Free University of Berlin
who's Brazilian who wrote a book about
Lula's relationship with GMOs you know
and in you know he freed up GMOs which
was historically the PT was the biggest
enemy of GMO technology not because it's
unhealthy or something but because in
the way that GMOs are
used to restructure agriculture right
favorite agribusiness against family
farmers right right but then her what
she says basically Lula sacrificed every
historic objective of the PT party and
its followers
except for eliminating hunger and
poverty reduction right okay so he just
he he in his mind he was like the only
way I'm gonna get this done is by
basically selling out all of our other
ideals but but he lifted 40 million
people out of poverty and ended
practically ended hunger right and you
know hunger was a really big issue in
Brazil in the 1990s there are whole
regions of the the country where the
average person had growth stunted from
malnutrition you know and people were
starving to death so yeah but so he
threw some bones to the Americans you
know he he made Monsanto and Dow these
companies happy when he freed up GMOs he
privatized a little bit of the offshore
oil reserves Dilma privatize a little
bit more you know trying to make this
keep this balance going we're like
giving that giving the us enough giving
international enough international
capital enough that they wouldn't turn
on Brazil but I guess they you know at
some point it just got to the point
where the international capitalists in
the US states and everything we're just
like no we want at all we don't want any
more compromises from you guys we're
taking it all and that's what they did
they've got it all no yeah we won
another round of pure primitive
accumulation we're in a few minutes
we're gonna get to what we might do in
terms of a broader solidarity project
with Brazil but I do want to play this
clip and this is gonna annoy some people
and some people are gonna have a tantrum
about it because this is somebody that
people are big fans of but I do want to
play this because I want to actually
give an opportunity for you know I would
love to see if Jimmy Dore used his
platform to interview somebody like you
and explain the crisis in Brazil US
influence the
how what anything if it's even possible
to do to free Lula from prison to
protect LGBTQ and all the rest of it but
this is just another example of how even
people an independent self-proclaimed
left media fall so easily into this
delusional anti-corruption narrative
this is from 2017 this is a year after
the coup against Dilma and this is a
clip that you wanted to speak about of
the Jimmy Dore show just totally
uncritically playing this lava jato
Sergio Moro propaganda and only of
course a year later he would be
accepting a role in the fascist regime
of Boston ro so this is about two
minutes and then Brian will go to you
sensing the legal procedures but the
success of changing the mindset is
already happening we live in a window of
opportunity for changes and we are
committed to use any chance any
possibility to make things better in
Brazil and doing so is a matter that is
up to everybody
Wow that's kind of a I don't know that
kind of that's amazing
yeah no that's amazing I want to get a
lava jato t-shirt yeah me yeah I really
want so lava jato is--that's carwash I
guess in Bruce whatever they speak
Spanish but I think they speaks
Portuguese Portuguese in Brazil so yeah
lava jato so there we met those guys by
the way I got to meet those guys I
interviewed them I mean that's
incredible I mean I couldn't even see
anything like that happening in the I
mean usually in the United States where
a senator would go to jail let me just
say I actually could see it happening if
Bernie Sanders is elected president but
uh Brian your thoughts yeah well first
of all I just have to say that they it
sounds like they used erection
medication
background music right first coming at
the time that video came out to give you
an idea of what a scumbag Sergio Mora is
he'd already invited the media to
accompany the police to arrest Dilma's
finance minister Guido Mantega during
one of his wife's chemotherapy sessions
in a hospital right he'd done that
before that video came out okay and this
is the type of sadism that the
Department of Justice uses when it goes
after white-collar criminals like it did
with some of the people connected to
Enron and when they shut down Arthur
Andersen and 30,000 people lost their
jobs over something that turned out to
be a mistake they go after people and
they they scare them they're sadistic
and of course Guido Mantega it turned
out he had done nothing wrong but he was
on the news as a criminal being pulled
out of his wife's chemotherapy session
because of Sergio Moro you know so I
just don't I know that Brazil is a very
complicated country
understand Tom's job in said Brazil's
not for beginners it took me about 10
years living down here before I actually
started talking about or writing much
about Brazil except for personal stories
you know fictionalized stuff because
it's a very complicated country to get
around then then there's this massive
propaganda machine and there are all of
these interests and people who work for
corporations and get corporate funding
to infiltrate the left and to spread
these kinds of leaked these kinds of
narratives into the left so I can
understand how someone who doesn't know
a lot about Brazil is would be confused
by the erection medication music
background music maybe and getting sand
wanna buy the t-shirt but if you are on
the Left you have to you have to have
some responsibility to just speak about
things that you know about and if you
don't know enough like you don't know
what language they speak in Brazil you
shut probably shouldn't be playing up
this Department of Justice Lackey with
this stupid video if you don't even know
what language they speak there yeah
well that was one of the first
conversations that you and I had Brian I
said I'd like to talk about Lula because
I admire him I want to have a grounding
and what's happening in Brazil now and
Portuguese or Spanish Brian what can we
do I mean I on every level from I mean
maybe giving us a sense of like because
I know I mean look there's as you said
it's like 40 million people that he's
trying to criminalize obviously it's
first gonna target indigenous people and
gay and lesbian people and people on in
center left and Left parties and so on
but there's a lot of Brazilians that
obviously don't embrace the thuggery
savagery and wholesale sell-off of their
country and there have been people you
know Bernie Sanders as you know has
spoken consistently on political
imprisonment of Lula mark Pocan
congressman from Wisconsin is actually
he wrote a good op-ed about this with
Danny Glover last week on the hill
we just give us a sense of what people
in Brazil are thinking in terms of
strategies for countering this and what
we might do in the United States even on
every level I mean from even the idea of
legs you said I mean even potentially
trying to get Lule out of there before
the transition and also the longer term
strategy to save Brazil from this well
I'm gonna start with a quote from John
Ross who's a
developmentalists economist who's in
China now but he was worked for the
London city government and you worked
for Hugo Chavez in the early years a
little bit and he posted on his facebook
a couple days ago a fascist has become
president of Brazil but the fascist
regime is not yet established in Brazil
the two are not the same is a key duty
of international solidarity to aid the
brazilian people to prevent such a
regime being created okay and i guess
that's a good starting point now how how
we're gonna do it I don't know because
for example when Lula was arrested
illegally and held as a political
prisoner his defense team went to the
United Nations but this crew government
has shown that's not going to respect
the United Nations and Olson R is now
saying he's going to withdraw from the
UN and the Paris Accord okay and then
what would the next thing be the do Oh
get get the US government to step in and
defend victims of human rights abuses
well Trump's not going to do that is he
you know I think the one thing to do
would be to try and help Democrats take
Congress but Obama is the guide you know
his administration is behind the coup so
it's not just the Democrats I think who
would step in as the progressive
Democrats and so I don't know what power
the Progressive Caucus and I believe the
Congressional Black Caucus has also been
involved in a lot of solidarity for Lula
and whatnot I don't know what power they
have to do anything and I I just really
I guess the only thing you can not the
only thing maybe some people who are
listening
their ideas than me I'm just the first
step I guess would be to take back the
house so at least you could get some
people with authority and the US
government pressuring against both
snarls human rights abuses right and you
know I don't know maybe Ben Fogle said
he saw every he said get help help set
up a place for refugees to flee to or
whatever but if he's if he's really
going after everyone on the left there's
no country that can absorb that which is
why I don't I don't think he's really
gonna go that far you know in a way I'm
almost rooting for China to step in or
something you know Trump may be better
although although I think you know they
like to make deals they don't have any
problem with deals but yeah I mean I so
know but that's that's fascinating
because actually so many conversations
that we have on the show you know
there's obviously a longer term
strategies and conversations that go far
outside of the Democratic Party and the
progressive currents of the Democratic
Party and conversely this is lesson
number I mean we could take this now
from the most micro of pre I mean but
really important of millions of people
in their pre-existing conditions to you
know student loans and then we can keep
kind of inflating it out and then we go
to Brazil and it comes down to go out
there and you know vote on
Tuesday for God's sake I mean seriously
well you need to do that and I think
it's very important well I'll start
putting out more abut mark Pocan role
Khanna Bernie Sanders barbara Lee I mean
people you'd expect the good people
Keith Ellis and the good people in
Congress have talked about this I think
this does need to be something that we
pushed to you know the the left people
that haven't gotten on board yet whether
it's AOC or Elizabeth Warren but I think
also even moving forward frankly even if
it's insincere we do need to go at you
know the the Obama wing of the party and
say look I mean
in a certain way this is obviously the
bet you made and then converse and then
on the other side of it this is actually
everything that you're supposed to
support I mean this is a a moderate
multicultural you know social force that
is being totally crushed and if you have
any sincerity about your commitments to
you know non authoritarianism or women's
rights or anything you better be talking
about and working on you know protecting
people in Brazil getting rid of bolson
ro and freeing Lula even if you erred
mightily in the past repent now yeah I
guess I feel like I talked to mark
Weisbrot about this you don't yeah he
seems that the Obama administration just
basically was busy in the Middle East
and just let the career State Department
ghouls do whatever they wanted in Latin
America and that's why there were crews
in Honduras and Paraguay Brazil that
wasn't something that Obama was actively
involved in and maybe his side of the
Democratic Party could be made to feel
responsible for this and pressure to try
and at least you know I don't I don't
think you'll ever get the corporate
Democrats to pressure Brazil to like
stop privatizing petroleum you know
right restricting pesticide use in
Brazil but at the very least maybe the
pressure the Brazilian government into
not being openly overtly fascist and
committing human rights atrocities you
know the the new governor of Rio who's
one of those narrows bodies he's trying
to pass a law that allows policemen to
operate as snipers and just shoot drug
dealers as they're standing on the
corner trying to sell drugs and from a
distance yeah right now and Tamra's on
justice minister told them that's
illegal well it was also legal that you
guys had a coup and got rid of a
competent good government so great but
yeah no but I think that there has to be
some some sense of and I and I will say
before we you know wrap up I do
my Reid and you would you and Mark
Weisbrot would certainly know better
than me that yes I think and I think to
the extent that there was a senior level
administration official that was more
involved in this atrocious turn against
you know senator left governments in
Latin America it's much more Hillary
Clinton than Barack Obama which you know
doesn't doesn't you know exonerate him
he should have been doing a lot more and
he had you know he people like Lula
should have been his closest allies and
people he supported but I do think going
back to the coup in Honduras where the
Honduran coup regime hired that you know
snake phony weird creepy Lonny Davis as
a lobbyist and so an auto Reich yeah
anyway what I was thinking but well
Lonny specifically with his very weird
relationship with the Clintons you know
Hillary Clinton's a track record in
Latin America was abominable so maybe
there's a way of potentially
disaggregating some of the you know
Obama wing from the Clinton wing with
regards to that in terms of just the the
strategy just going forward even
regardless of the history well it would
be I I think honestly like the only the
best hope for any Americans the one that
shall solve their brazil's to at least
get the democrats in charge of congress
yeah so at least i mean remember in the
80s i don't know if you remember but
that it was the democratic congress that
blocked the reagan administration from
giving military aid to the Contras and
iran-contra started when they illegally
subverted that you know but at least
there were people like even john kerry
was really good on latin american in the
eighties you know you know but so
hopefully everyone will go out and vote
and everyone can convince ten friends to
go out and vote for democrats and ask
them their ten friends to convince ten
friends and the democrats can take back
the house at least and at that point i
think we could really start talking
about strategies on how americans could
help you know brazil in this fight
against fascism
and it's our fight just even with the
Amazon alone which is another time we'll
talk about that another time but Brian
Muir I really appreciate your time as
always
co-editor Brazil wire Brian I mean
sincerely solidarity and thank you for
everything you do and please stay safe
I'll try thanks for having me of course
thank you all right folks a little bit
long but I think that was I mean it's
it's just necessary I do think that's
amazing that even the Brazil
conversation ends with vote like this is
not a time to be a performative idiot
right I mean like this actually really
matters and power is power and he's
absolutely right from what I've studied
of in Latin America policy in the 1980s
you even had a guy like Chris Dodd
saying that the United States government
in the Reagan administration does not
understand the difference between Soviet
backing an indigenous insurgency and
said we should not fight the conch the
Sandinistas we should not fight them so
and they also overrode the Reagan
administration to put sanctions on South
Africa and some of these people actually
get what's going on in Brazil so at any
rate I've for patrons of TMDs you've
already seen a notification and a lot of
you have already bought tickets the
first Michael Brooke show live show
that's happening at the Bell House
February 1st in gowanus brooklyn Gowanus
part of Brooklyn special guests so far
are Bosh Cara Sin Cara Alona minkovski
T Trevor Beaulieu and possibly hopefully
big waswas Neil hombre and then of
course Mount luck and David Griscom are
with me there's two different ticket
options one where you can come and hang
out with us for a couple of hours before
the show another where you know you you
stay for the whole live show it's gonna
be where we're gonna do a lot of stuff
it's not gonna just be like a live
podcast we're gonna have like hopefully
sometimes a like games the audience is
it's going to be incredibly fun we're
mapping it out planning it now and we
just announced that just the patrons
just late
Tuesday and already a lot of people have
bought tickets so and for patrons
double-check the promo code that you got
for your deals and if you haven't been a
patron of the Michael Brooks show yet do
so at patreon.com slash TM yes and get a
full broad in global political education
but for starting tomorrow we will have
the tickets will be available for the
general public and even if you're not a
patron which God knows why you wouldn't
be it would be awesome to come to meet
you and come see us it's gonna be a
really fun show February 1st at the Bell
House the first live Michael Brooks show
with Bosh Carson Cara alone a man coughs
key Trevor
T from champagne sharks and hopefully
big was from count the digs this Sunday
we did a sort of kind of Middle East
breakdown with Mike Hanna who covers the
UN for Al Jazeera we talked about the
khashoggi murder how Turkey is using it
to leverage against the prince in Saudi
Arabia how that relates to the Qatar
blockade and the Emiratis strategy for
the region very global very high level
very Mike Hanna there was sirens in the
background as Mike Hanna said well the
interesting thing Michael I wish I could
speak with my cannon that guy is great
voice this Tuesday we're actually
unlocking the postgame with Harvey kay
subscribe to us on iTunes and watch our
YouTube channel Michael Brooks show on
youtube if you haven't become a patron
yet patreon.com slash TMDs jamie talk
about the anti Fattah
all right so yesterday on the anti
Fattah we released a very spooky
Halloween episode featuring the Lick
Creek guy very pleasant British academic
talked about Gothic Marxism how Marx
used the Gothic which was a trend at
that point in time when he was ready to
add some flair to his descriptions and
really make his ideas come alive for
people the idea that you should honor
what's going on in pop culture and not
just dismiss it when pushed shutting
some kind of left
critique is really important to this day
I think we talked about horror movies
and what they say about the society that
creates and elevates them a certain
point Jason's gonna want to take off his
hockey mask he's gonna ask themselves
this what I want to do yeah totally
after Freddy Krueger's flashes up that
party this the favor the favors gonna
break at some point right now obviously
not um we talked about Mandy and
hereditary which are two really good
horror movies this year kind of gave our
takes on them we talked about witches
zombies vampires it was super fun and
coming this weekend
I want to tease this a little bit we've
got Jay Firestone which is not his real
name who infiltrated the alt-right in
New York City and wrote a very good
article about it for kommune magazine so
we're really stoked about that
sweet Matt yeah literary hangover that
I've mentioned the Pequot War history
for members this weekend there's going
to be a conversation between me and Alex
the next full episode is going to be
pushed back a week so we can have grace
from the UK join us to talk about hope
Leslie but members is gonna be a bonus
show for you so check that out very cool
of course become a member the majority
report today majority dot F M slash
become a member it's how this show
happens subscribe to this show on iTunes
right or iTunes review subscribe on
youtube we've passed 400,000 moving
right along at a fast clip we'll see you
in the fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube he's up there buggy
with me like he's boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
you know you're nervous a little bit
upset you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you
idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur good
 exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three five times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five seven
[Music]
38:56 27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion Wow he's
the ultimate math nerd don't you see why
don't you get a real job instead of
spewing vitriolic hatred you left one
one ball everybody's taking their dumb
juice today come on Sammy
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
speech with a woman I'm hoping that more
moves to my repertoire all I have is the
dip in the swirl fine we could double
dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
and iPad use me you you all
right gonna take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already hood Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to I do see people Shitler with
such an hungry No
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
welcome to the fun half Michael Brooks
here
with Matt lek in the co-commander chair
Jamie Peck and Brendan Finn in full
effect welcome to the fun half Brendan
are the phone's up you are calling from
May 8 for 8 area code who are you where
you calling from 8 for 8 are you there
and Michael can you hear me yeah I can
hear you what's on your mind my friends
who I'm first of all what's your name
and where you calling from this is Sean
from Jersey City Sean what's going on so
I want us to talk a little bit about uh
the anti-semitism that has been that
I've noticed in New Jersey living here
of my 25 years okay yeah so in Jersey
there are a couple of pockets of acidic
populations mm-hmm most notably in a
town called Lakewood in central New
Jersey mm-hmm and they're having the
major population blew them a lot of
people are moving there and they're
moving to the neighboring towns and a
lot of the local politics in the
neighboring towns are sort of doing like
dog whistling to the residents who don't
want them to move that
mm-hmm
so one of my former teachers is running
for mayor of one of the town's mm-hmm
she she is being accused of being a
secret pathetic really
I see okay yeah mm-hmm one of the major
political don't know how you do this use
what yeah I don't know either it's uh
you know it seems pretty apparent or or
not right um no it's a very very major
they roll a parent thought the overt
nurse was sort of part of it yeah
hassid's role a parent yeah I don't know
maybe if George Soros can fund it well
yeah I was it there's a yes but I mean
so yeah I mean do you have do you want
to I guess it makes them and you want to
connect it to anything larger right I
will say I do think that there there was
a major event that in that town after
the after the shooting in the synagogue
that day fortunately the the workers
there were observing the Sabbath but one
of the locals and Scott shot up one of
the local synagogues in Central Jersey
got shot up the day after the shooting
in Pittsburgh what that storefront
a storefront what's on what they were Oh
a historic gunshot I mean yeah that's a
big to predominantly Hasidic them I mean
I guess all I can say and this is
something we'll well we should continue
to follow but I just
fascism doesn't work for Jews and
because race is in a is literally an
identity is a constructed thing and it's
not about people's personal essence
obviously what it means to be a Jew
today you know in New York and 2018 is
being a Jew II gonna impress and get you
oppressed no right but at the same time
and
you know there is a historical
continuity here that's really obvious
and people from Sheldon Adelson to the
Israeli government which is of course a
white supremacist apartheid government
have embraced coalition's with fascists
and the culture that has spawned by
fascism is always going to lead to
anti-semitism always it's completely
unavoidable unavoidable so yeah I mean I
would just say I mean I think obviously
you know people like Sheldon Adelson um
they're not gonna care about that
they're you know they're just disgusting
but maybe it's a moment for people who
it's almost like I've in my experience
with the Jewish community it's almost
like things need to be flipped because
on one hand there's this parts of the
Jewish community cuz I'm one hand you
will talk to people who have never in
their lives ever experienced
anti-semitism I mean that literally
right they could have grown up in an
environment where they've never
experienced that it's never been an
impediment on their life it's never been
an issue in any way shape or form period
it's just an objective reality and then
come and then they will say we need to
have an apartheid state in Israel in the
Middle East on ice and they can do
whatever they want to Palestinians
because of historical examples of
Holocaust and atrocity against Jewish
people right and I think what needs to
be flipped and to be like actually I the
anti-semitic currents that even if
you're not experiencing are much more
real and much more present than you may
realize even in your own immediate
vicinity anti-semitism never went away
and this government which you think is
there to protect you is aligned with the
very same forces that will portray you
murder you and will always fundamentally
hate Jews so there actually needs to be
a much more recognition of where
anti-semitism now and present reality
not as an abstraction and then
conversely a real reckoning with what
Israel is and what the present political
leadership of Israel have chosen to
align with as a result of their own
supremest
exclusionary
you know murderous politics frankly and
that's what we need to do I appreciate
the comment you're calling from a NATO
five area code who are you where you're
calling from hello hello 8:05 are you
there I have said many times and I will
continue to say my race is better than
your race I'm gonna kill you
okay bye you're calling from us no see
you're calling from an eight-six Oh area
code who are you where you calling from
eight-six oh let's go to some sounds um
let's start with was it weird call let's
start with it was either somebody who's
dumb and on our side or a dumb fascist
right
either way the caller was dumb whether
it was threat or satire theater
 but it was a quote from something
but that doesn't work you didn't stick
the land I can't play out of context
well I don't think it was a person
actually talking I think that was a clip
from something okay I mean you got to do
the work yourself guys yeah this isn't
like you know Ebaum's world yeah those
sound boards come on yeah we've it to
the professionals don't ever call the
show again maybe that's what I'll do
because people like to sometimes people
whine that I'm to click hard on callers
which first of all is a total
smear uh because there's a lot of
callers I like we get a lot of great
collars on this show and
secondly sorry this is a
broadcast so we're not trying to be
jerks we just have to like
they do something here and so I'll start
doing my criticism in a Bill Clinton
voice and like whoa well I think people
shot was an attempt I'll give you that
people should listen to the best show by
Tom Sharpe lane because the way that
they I mean I guess there were to be
disciplined collars I mean you gotta get
through a lot of calls yeah
there's there I will tell you today
there are over there's sixteen callers
and we're not gonna get to all of them
and so we got to keep it yeah we got to
keep it moving and I know some people
really cool I'm talking about the calls
you will get to maybe get to them it's
our prerogative baby that's our
prerogative any it's a little thing
called leadership Denver Dave if
Messianic Jews can accept Jesus why
can't modern and contemporary Jews
except fascism people in organizations
in Israel seem to be employing the
elements of neo-fascism I don't know
what you think you're arguing against I
I don't that's that's an annoying also
those are very different things I'm
sorry I know I remember I will trigger
people with their atheism again but
accepting a theological belief that
might very well lead to conservative
crazy politics is distinct from overtly
embracing fascism and in fact in Israel
the most dangerous parties and the
people that have dominated this process
are not the ultra-orthodox um some of
them are but you know Benjamin Netanyahu
is not a religious particularly
religious dude he's an ethnic
nationalist and you know so I don't the
impulse to know what you're trying to do
there the impulse to divine all truths
from holy books is the same impulse as a
lot of the New Atheists have in divining
all truth from biology indeed I like
that Jay cool a Halloween special is the
funniest thing I may have ever seen you
probably have to be an M BMR follower to
pick up on all the jokes but the hour
but the hour is legendary Thank You team
I think I think we did a pretty good job
we're grading ourselves I think that was
pretty funny self commissioned officer
all this talk about the global rise of
fascism is getting me down can't we just
talk
about fun things such as Thomas Friedman
looks like reza aslan and a fat suit I
see it that's fair I don't know how much
you want to talk about that I have to
bring up the picture here your show was
yesterday was hilarious but for real
Reagan is dumb-dumb John from San
Antonio just put every one of Michael's
characters in the back seat I agree that
was an act of genius and Reagan and I
had messaged about that and so we were
hitting that point where we needed to
wrap up but I was like we need to just
keep peddling for a few more minutes
here to get to this Reagan this was
gonna be amazing lava jato do you know
where I can get it don't freak out
t-shirt Sergio Morel imprisoned Lula on
files charges don't freak out
Lula is a hero man Lula is very
analogous to the Mandela of our time and
it is so goddamn depressing to me that
this guy went to jail in the 80s leaving
lat leading mass demonstrations that
were instrumental to ending the military
dictatorship and now he gets imprisoned
by this disgusting fascist class and
this scumbag yuppie us-backed special
prosecutor judge and it leads to fascism
and like everybody should be what you
know what you should be wearing a
 free Lula t-shirt instead of a
lavage a tow t-shirt and even people are
backed of that yeah this is that that to
me this is red flag all over the place
and conversely like the legitimate left
critiques of the Workers Party came
within the Workers Party I know I don't
have time for like guys a
political prayer is the most important
political prisoner in the world today
it's disgusting
moon from Lake Michigan I missed
yesterday's show due to a rare
underwater eclipse hope nothing weird
happens Mike Michael Michael Puck
Stein's okay Mike great interview today
your guest sounds like the love child of
Bernie Sanders and
Brewed on whose bird on who don't food
on who's that the French philosopher
anarchist he's the property is theft how
do we know what protons voice sounds
like it's good question maybe his his
ideas he's talking about really abstract
you're calling from a 203 area code who
are you where you're calling from
with me this is you welcome let me turn
off my speakers for one sec no worries
okay there who are you where you calling
from all right this is Liz and I'm
calling from Pennsylvania it was what's
going on um so I I've had something on
my mind a little bone to pick I guess
with the majority report
you guys are my absolute favorite
podcast i watch you all the time and um
with us all this horrible news I've had
to kind of take a little bit of a break
of course but um how do I I gotta tell
you there's something that's really
bothering me about the show lately
mm-hmm and I don't want this to sound
rude or mean or too critical or anything
but um you guys all have your own
podcast kind of like everyone's got
their little flavor and everyone does
their own thing on the side which is
great hmm and um I am sorry to say that
I can't handle all the talk about like
anarchism and and turning turning
everything into like a communist state
and and I'm all about socialism sounds
like it sounds like I can't handle so
much like I feel sometimes like I'll
hear arguments about you know capitalism
gets caught you know thrown into
everything and there's one of you who
constantly is
playing that record would you like to
have this debate directly because you
guys can I don't know man I'll sit back
for a minute thing is that yeah the
thing is that you know I think we're all
all the listeners of majority report are
on the same team like we all are down
with the whole Bernie Sanders movement
and like you know more social programs
and just less capitalism in general and
it just gets a little trying when when
we hear like the same things about
capitalism being said over and over and
over again because like we all know we
all get it and since you guys don't have
your own podcast like I know the anti
Fattah is all about that and I'm
just like you know I don't know the
majority or for is like a very very
special brand of like intelligent just
intelligent and hilarious and
informative and I don't know man like
sometimes I just feel like we we get
into these conversations that are just
super hypothetical and like in you know
in in our communist dream world and I'm
just like let me kind of figure out how
I'm gonna mediate this here but let me
Jamie's got to respond to this one I
actually figured you would be a really
good mediator for it so okay like Jamie
you're awesome you're so smart
but you know like it's just hard because
okay but all right so I feel like that's
the okay that's a very grounded point I
get I I because I think that you know I
think there's an obviously there's a lot
of different opinions in this office
about that but but so setting aside the
the ad hominem and smears you
want something that's a little bit more
reality grounded because that you expect
from those are
for it I guess that's what you're
putting across Jamie go ahead oh man
well I feel like that's a whole that's a
big big can of potato chips you just
opened up right now the con man's
there's not a touch of pop culture I
can't lead the pop culture outreach on
that I'm sorry haha I mean I think we
all represent slightly different
perspectives here at the majority report
Sam hired me in part to represent my
views and my perspective I've only been
doing this job for a year I have been a
writer for my entire life so it's been
kind of a steep learning curve and
honestly I've only been very involved on
the anti-capitalist left for a few years
so I'm still learning if I could go back
in time and you know go to college for
broadcasting and conveying leftist ideas
in a very easy to digest broadcast II
way that gets my point across without
making everyone hate me I probably would
but I'm trying my best here I think a
few things there are real differences
within the majority report ourselves as
an example Sam's a sellout as
Sam's a Shia and there are there
are real differences between leftists
and liberals that can't really be
reconciled that doesn't mean that we
cannot work together to defeat the far
greater threat of fascism but we do it
like I'm a leftist you know what I think
frustrates me sometimes what are you
that actually I feel like the majority
report listeners are I'm sorry but like
we're the like we're all really
smart we know what's going on and
sometimes Jimmy the things that you
bring up are like I wish that you would
talk about the nuances more and not so
much the like blanket of capitalism is
you know the beginning of the end
because we all agree with you I think
like you we all want to see stronger
unions and and and more support for for
the lower classes and all that stuff
like I think that's a given and I think
that some of the things that you talk
about are just preaching to the choir
and it I don't know it just it's
frustrating for me because like we are
so listening to like this horrible
horrible and and like the more
Trump just chips away at you know any
semblance of social safety net or common
camaraderie like it just kind of hurts
even more to hear these discussions
about like this utopian socialist world
that it's just it feels so far away and
I love when you talk about the DSA like
more practical stuff I think at least
for me would be a little bit more for
comfort because it's it honestly like
the roller right now everywhere and
okay maybe I'm the only one who feels
this way
well okay Jamie well it's hard right
because on the one hand we want I mean
we covered the news cycle we cover all
the trouble
it's really depressing and we
are very far away from reform let alone
revolution but I also think the problems
that brought us Trump go deeper than
Trump and they go deeper than the
Republican Party and I believe the only
way to fight the far-right is with the
far left the center cannot hold at a
certain point in time everyone's gonna
have to pick a side and I don't believe
and I don't think you believe either
that the kind of like neoliberal
clintonism is going to be
an effective long-term solution to the
intense wave of right-wing
authoritarianism that's happening around
the world so at the same time that we
want to defeat the immediate threat we
also need to look to the long term
horizon and I'm not really sure where
you disagree with me politically because
you haven't really said what your
political horizon is but I spend most of
my waking hours thinking about the fact
that if we want the human race to
survive beyond the next like twenty or
thirty years before this coming collapse
that's going to happen from ecological
crisis we need to transition to some
form of global socialism so if sometimes
I go a little hard on that it's because
it occupies my thoughts 24/7 but yes I
agree there are lots of practical things
we should be doing maybe I don't always
get the balance right but I don't know I
don't really know what to tell you
no I mean I basically just I think that
in general the majority report except
for the libertarians who like to listen
to you guys to troll you but um I think
we're like all on the same boat and and
um you know you don't need to tell us
that capitalism is bad you know I mean
well I think we're we're there I don't
know that everybody is in the same boat
precisely I think we all we have
disagreements within the crew and we
have disagreements within our
listenership I disagree with Sam for
being a sellout and and you know
there might be a lot of pain oh and we
need to transition to socialism but we
might disagree on the tactics that we
use to get there and I think also the
more to the point one of the goals of
the show I think to the extent we ever
even talk about it because mostly we're
just like doing the show is the idea
that it's actually really healthy and
cool to have disagreements inside the
same room and that makes things more
interesting and also uh you know but
look I'm not so I'm not discounting what
you're saying but it's definitely part
of what the show is and also the other
thing I think
it's a good counter counterpoint to so
much in the media today which really is
an epistemic closure and people can't
deal with the idea that like people can
actually be cool with each other and
have arguments and you know diagnose
things in different ways and so you know
there's there's balance to it yeah and
i've and i think we've already i think
all of us have you know shifted in the
last several months but hey i can't
was this a semi-successful mediation
because we do have to say utopianism is
bad or irrelevant but i think we need to
bring some kind of utopian vision to our
politics if we're gonna survive what's
happening right now
and i think that's a big project of what
kommune magazine is doing I think that's
a big project how we're plugging all
their places is their podcast
but like I think because we are so
thoroughly and collocated living under
this neoliberal capitalism that there
are no there is no alternative right
this is the way things are single-payer
will never ever happen and like like
these are just facts of nature and I
want people to be able to envision a
better world and then we are all
envisioning different built around a
profit let's yeah the further we move in
that direction I think the more utopian
we can be so maybe if it's something if
it sometimes seems like I'm overshooting
the mark maybe that's what I need to be
doing to convince people that they can
move at all but also maybe not mom
before you hang up on me on so can I
hang up please please continue to
contribute you are so far down our key
is fire this is something everybody
agrees and in my utopia there's a lot of
dinner key and I would Liz
I would suggest to you as just a little
bit of my version of what Jamie's saying
it's a super short book read capitalist
realism because there actually is
something very legitimate the idea of
our imaginations getting collapsed and I
would say that even what you're talking
about which I agree with you 100% I
think it does need to be practical and
applicable but also what's practical and
applicable can change really quickly by
the way in really bad ways - which is
mostly what's happening right now but
just as we know that you know if you're
in I don't know how you know even if
you're in your your 30s you have seen in
a positive direction the trajectory of
like like when I start on the show we
were so clearly like on the left by
essentially just having a
social-democratic show that was like we
don't like Obama droning people you
shouldn't cut Social Security of course
single-payer is the best health care
plan but no one has that on the map and
even just your Bernie opiate and now it
wasn't to a degree and Bernie Sanders
enlarge that so there is another thing
of and I'm I'm more like I'm inclined
your way I want to know like what the
what the reality is I hate you know
that's why I get so pissed off with a
lot of the criticisms I see with Lula
and you know there's real disagreements
here no doubt but conversely what is and
isn't possible is a rapidly moving
target and we better push that in our
direction because those
are they're not sitting around going why
can't we have our utopia they're elect
there they're like bringing the 70s and
the 40's back for mass murder
and so we should be you know unlocking
our own sense of you maybe you don't
have to say utopia and I would say being
ambitious being strategic having a
vision and capitals realisms is a good
little essay because it does kind of
explain like how even in pop culture
we're kind of stuck and you do need to
get a little bit out of the ruts if we
want to win and you know I'm all about
winning yeah thanks Liz appreciate the
call all right one more look that I want
to recommend
I probably recommended it before but the
dispossessed by Ursula Guin is a really
good envisioning of how since
sort of anarcho-syndicalist society
would work you know the things that
would be hard the things that would be
easier and it really got me thinking
sort of at the dawn of my political
awakening or whatever you want to call
it and it's a really fun book to read
because like I think this quote is often
attributed to Dziedzic I don't know if
it's really him but when he said it's
easier for people to imagine the end of
the world than the end of capitalism I
think that's either Fred James that
might actually be Mark Fisher I think
that is capital that's capitals realism
that's his line so I think yeah I just
want to get people thinking in these
kinds of ways and like another world is
it's possible I don't know if it's gonna
happen but it's possible
well another world is happening it's
just a bad one yeah no that's the other
thing there's multiple other worlds
possible in you we're gonna have
something else after this and it might
be worse and it might be better but I'm
not gonna be the same
fames Darwin Michael listen I'm a big
fan of memoir and I don't want to make
any waves here but I'm almost afraid and
I'm almost afraid to air my criticisms
but because you maybe get rid of that
whiny Jew is there four days a week
always talking about Social Security
maybe you should get his own podcast
thanks for considering Trump Trump's no
I don't like that that's gross
Bernie does not run if Bernie does not
run according to Jacob Robinson Warren
botched her chances who can people vote
for in 2020 I don't agree I don't think
Nathan I don't think Elizabeth Warren
but I think again people need to calm
the down
like this is like trying to guess what
Kevin Durant's can let's get through
yeah let's go through Tuesday but people
like a lot of these decisions literally
haven't been made yet right right events
it happened and people respond to those
events I I literally think about this
like NBA players that might be up for
free agency they don't know what team
they're going to either they're not
being coy when they say yeah I'm gonna
wait to see what happens right they're
gonna wait to see like who gets injured
you know who performs better right it's
no doubt the best chance of winning a
ring would yeah
well maybe I would perform like LeBron
obviously went to LA to like close out
and be nervous like you know I mean and
so with politicians it's like well let's
see how it looks and so that's why we're
critical of Hillary Clinton when she
tries to put her head out because she we
don't want her to even sniff running
again don't even sniff it and also if
you see anything negative about Joe
Biden send it out yes yeah he does that
I'm also waiting than the rest of you I
think I tend to bet on hellworld and
think that Bernie is the only candidate
who could beat Trump and even he will
have his work cut out for him but we all
get to disagree on things though it's
okay
also we need Jamie's contingent to push
us further the left so we can get social
democracy uh bronze plan hey hey team
can you explain the state bond measures
should they be used for anything other
than emergency emergencies California
has a few propositions on the ballot
that authorized bonds for things that I
agree are important housing in health
care but it seems unnecessary to me to
fund with a bond that basically doubles
the cost of the project to get immediate
funding gives half of the money to
investors interests rather the
legislature fund these projects outright
and the budget and raise taxes is
necessary is this political expediency
so we don't need to raise taxes now but
kick them down the road and if only this
and if this is the only political way
for Democrats to fund these projects and
maintain power then I'll vote for these
props but I'm conflicted
I would definitely vote for those props
if I were you to be honest I don't know
much about them but I would vote for
them I would worry about that later
and get the resources flowing but that's
just you know that's just generally how
I look at things okay let's do some
sounds here
Kanye West is on his way out he is as
was pointed out to me on TMDs he's
concerned because the easies are not
moving they ain't moving units and if
you want to shock a delusional
narcissist
who's flirting with the worst people on
earth into a jolt of consciousness show
him his sneaker sales all of a sudden
maybe the 13th amendment looks
a good thing so it sounds like a choice
right sounds like something that sounds
like a choice to me so Candice Owens who
first of all let's play this Trump clip
because we do enjoy there's a good
Donald Trump basically is sunning our
old buddy Charlie Kirk here and he's
pointing out the best thing that Charlie
Kirk ever done but then we're gonna ask
or is it and Charlie has done a very
special job you know why he found
somebody who's an incredible person
Candice Owen like Charlie may go down
his greatest achievement may have been
if I D gender I don't know that's a bad
job I stopped it sad that Charlie you're
tall freak and I just want to be a prick
I love how you even deal yeah I know
that sounds like an insult I'm gonna say
that's what I'm saying isn't actually
that bad it's not bad it could have been
much worse I could have made comments
about I don't know your jaw structure or
something I'm a bad person Charlie you
might have lost a debate to that jus but
at least you found Candice Owens yeah
you lost the debate to but you
found Shaniqua really up that's
the people who the way you tipsy fbp not
good
Pocahontas would have done better but to
be fair you're talking about loans with
the Jew so what can we expect and so
we'll start with this first clip where
Candice Owens is gonna say that the
media wait I'm sorry
Kanye's tweets so we'll work backwards
because the reason Candice is valuable
is because of this whole blogs hidden
issue that's right so this is part this
was something that was announced at the
I think it was the young black
Leadership Forum summit summit some
 that TPA USA is putting the
other at Trump was there
and they announced the bollec zit
movement which had these we don't have
it in front of us but there are hoodies
and tees that say blogs it black exit
from the Democratic Party the graphic
design just to summarize the graphic
design innovation was that all the
letters were made out of people doing
sort of YMCA style human letters exactly
GOP hype beasts gear because it's black
who hype B's that people love the wives
saying let's do it the hell yeah X I T I
remember it was it was back in the
eighties in usko YMCA and you could
dance it wait you were in victim them
from their homes they've had an Indian
chief in there they even let it yeah but
you can do that nowadays I couldn't do
that now it is political correctness
folks so yeah let's bring that back
let's bring back the Indians during the
Village People yeah whatever happened to
gay guys in the village who used to
pretend to be Chiefs environment
whatever happened to that maybe I'll
talk about that the next time I address
the Boy Scouts so so basically Kennesaw
ingest 'add are said that the design and
match is so eloquently described was
designed by Kanye West and we'll guess
we'll get to that clip in a second
because it's pretty funny
here is Kanye West's response to that
and this is after months of slavery is a
choice the 13th amendment needs to be
abolished dragon energy basically having
every single frontline entertainer in
the world publicly or privately being
like dude could you stop being such a
massive delusional and finally
this is the odd this is either at a
moment he was jolted or the moment that
it was like whoa those sneakers are not
moving Kanye tweeted this I introduced
Candace to the person who made the logo
and they didn't want their name on it so
she used mine I never wanted any
association with plugs that I have
nothing to do with it and further Kanye
wheat only not actually like the same
thread my eyes are now wide open and I
now realize I've been used to spread
messages I don't believe in I'm
distancing myself from politics
and completely focusing on being
creative I'm gonna be rich three
exclamation points because I want to
reinvest reinvent how people wear
sneakers I want I want to talk to four
Saachi I want to talk to Prada Kanye
back to is just annoying bag and Candice
Owens who realizes if Charlie Kirk is a
genius for finding me I'm a genius for
having this troubled guy go through his
college reading phase find one of my
youtube videos is my ticket to things so
 I better not totally alienate him
even though I used his name without
permission and I've pretty much just
been riding off his notoriety to build
my garbage career so Candice Owens goes
hashtag blogs it is about the beautiful
stories of so many black people who have
awakened themselves to the possibilities
of our future as Americans the press is
trying to use Kanye's name to create
drama and for their divisive 'no switch
is and this is trumpian flourish all
capital letters wrong here is a
statement of clarity from me it's not
mentioned in this little screenshot but
she also said I never once said that
Kanye designed the t-shirts for blogs it
this is a lie that seems to have made
its way around the world
so should we even read the okay so
forget it so she's so so okay so look
you know what fair enough kanye west
he's a little bit all over the place
maybe sometimes you get some things
wrong on the other hand we know that all
kinda sew ins and Donald Trump and all
of these people are pathological liars
so I'm just gonna say this and maybe I'm
tipping my hands here for the segment
whatever else you say about Kanye West
and I will say a lot and Waze said it
doesn't matter he's never coming back
home even if he's left the suck in place
I'm gonna believe crazy Kanye over socio
Candace so now we have a clip which is
going to answer the question did Candace
Owens say that Kanye West's designed
these shirts designed that logo as part
of an ongoing attempt to cash in on his
name
or as Kanye West said he had nothing to
do with this and Candice is using him
you decide Oh bye bye good bye bye bye
Candace no thank you
best thing share the kicks never done
yeah push it away by the line oh did you
get the idea you could lie I don't
understand it's like everybody thinks
they could just lie these days important
not to lie I promised that we never do
alive and I tried my heart I try my
hardest let's actually go to that we'll
go to this next let's go to uh Donald
Trump was on ABC News and this is
awesome because this is like this is
like the opposite like of the moment
like this is like I feel I feel like
this is all I don't know because Trump
probably never did this one way or
another but it almost seems like like a
husband who's philandering and six
months before when it was like she's
finally gonna just walk out on his bum
self he's like I will never ever do that
again
baby I love you I'm sorry and then six
months later he's like just walked in
like seven o'clock in the morning he
smells like perfume and he's just say
hey if I hit so here is Donald Trump on
ABC News being asked about whether or
not he lies
finally I remember you remember well in
the campaign you made a promise you said
I will never lie to you so can you tell
me now honestly have you kept that
promise at all times of you always I try
I mean I do try if you try to you say
things about me that are not necessarily
correct I do try and I always want to
tell the truth when I can I tell the
truth
I mean sometimes it turns out to be
where something happens it's different
or there's a change but I always like to
be truthful what was that King
salmon pants i'ma know something
different happen Oh something different
happened asking you guys have to do
symbolize now that's the king but you
know what I think I think actually
that's another clip that actually I have
to say is pretty uh that is part of why
he's popular yeah because that's totally
of our moment where people are so ly
saturated I think that they have gotten
I think that that has a certain currency
yeah like they especially poured in the
George Washington never know what never
tell a lie chopped down the cherry tree
type of thing yeah I mean there's this
clip and granted it's in the UK but we
run parallel in some ways and it's of
Tony Blair in the late 90s and he has on
way too much makeup and he's uh he's
basically doing an interview I think
with Paxman and it's the first scandal
since he's been Prime Minister so he's
still really popular and but it's was
the first thing that they had to deal
with I think it was a a favor that they
gave to a race car a Formula One owner
where they gave him a special exemption
to advertise cigarettes or something and
they got a massive campaign contribution
it seemed like just like basic quid pro
quo and sorry Blair looks at Jeremy
Paxman he's like I mean he's like you
know look I think people think I'm a
real straight forward kind of guy and
like it worked and I mean now the guys
just universally reviled in the UK and
like maybe liar isn't the top word
because like you know evil or corrupt
but the liar thing isn't his last name
so you do see that a lot yep blyer
they call him blyer that's their slogan
for him so I think like there is as part
of that general fatigue I think there
and also heat the weight when he puts
things like that that are in human terms
like well I think we all try what do you
guys look at Gandhi over here I don't
know about you but I'm you that is funny
that the only time that he's not saying
and he's like the best person in the
face of the earth when is when he's just
admitting to like actual bad things like
I'm the best deal maker and the best
businessman and the smartest
I mean I don't know we all lie
reflection what is
and the premise of asking that question
like what does that reveal what are you
hoping to get out of that questions like
you're almost hoping to get a rambling
funny answer that will be clipped on
YouTube yeah that's a cause I mean what
else could you possibly expect from that
yeah thanks ABC News that'll do decent
yeah we're all part of the same
hypocrisy when I was working in my last
job we we did we're still going at the
beginning of the administration and this
was right after Sean Spicer lied about
the inauguration numbers and they had a
big press conference about like what was
going like what what is this obvious lie
and John Karl had the first question he
was like asked Sara Sanders or Sean
Spicer he was like are you could be nice
to us and I was just like what are you
doing guy I don't know that is a really
weird in here
adulation I don't know definitely how
you should start with an adversarial
corrupt lying authoritarian regime out
of the gates well hey you guys gonna be
polite and I mean isn't the case
that like previously journalists had
some sort of like foreign correspondents
experience have we like aged out of
those guys yet I think so and so now we
have just guys who were like look I woke
up I to the Mike Allen newsletter
yeah like vana and I watched the war
room on a VHS in college I'm just really
excited to be here like they really read
The Drudge Report a lot like 20 years
I've read The Drudge Report and I'm just
wondering and lighted at I this new plan
to ah mass murder children at the border
um seems to be pulling well in El Paso
region in the 19th but uh that could
drive suburban moms out in Pennsylvania
and I'm just wondering what the
administration's plan on that is just
the idea that you could hurt Trump by
catching him in a lie or hypocrisy is
fairly disproven at this point in time I
think laughable and embarrassing but
let's get to you know but this is this
is actually interesting that you brought
up the Sean Spicer thing because I mean
actually it was disturbing
I didn't dismiss that one that first
half
because that was an example of Oh like
of course they're gonna lie and of
course they're gonna be right-wing and
of course they're gonna be horrific but
as trivial as it was that was an
absolute Nazi style big loss yeah like
that was a literally don't believe your
lying eyes believe a weird flustered
verge of heart attack press secretary
and then just completely made-up
nonsense to appease a very disturbed
person's ego and by disturbed person's
ego of course I'm talking about the
president but that dynamic has shown up
yesterday and over this past week in
regard to something much more serious
and of course I'm talking about the
terrorist attack at the synagogue in
Pittsburgh which where several Jewish
people were murdered in a horrific
anti-semitic attack and a lot of people
in the community did not want Donald
Trump to be there they understand that
his administration feeds off of hate
division and lies and hate division
allies feed anti-semitism in every other
form of bigotry they didn't want him
there and we played yesterday and we
will play again what the actual
reception to Trump was in Pittsburgh
Trump tweeted this out this morning
Milani and I were treated very nicely
yesterday in Pittsburgh the offices the
president was shown great respect and a
very sad and solemn day we were treated
so warmly small protests was not seen by
us stays far away the fake news stories
were just the opposite disgraceful now
of course CNN and other outlets actually
aggressively covered a massive protest
for a suburban mellow Pittsburgh
neighborhood of normal people saying get
the out and let us mourn and even
the head of the synagogue's reception of
Trump was something to the effect of I'm
not going to say no to the president
States it wasn't we really want you here
and everybody else most emphatically did
not want him in his disgusting family
there this is the clip that Trump put
out from the administration to represent
what happened
yesterday and this at the exclusion of
the protests is profound dishonesty
[Music]
so obviously if you're listening it's
essentially just a montage of um read
more to the tweets sorry
okay now let's it's just a montage of
people looking somber and welcoming and
Trump and Melania and Jared and Ivanka
if the first responders in there though
yeah greeting people and it's all sort
of appropriate laid out it actually
looks even that is insulting it of
itself it looks far more like a campaign
ad then an actual remembrance of victims
of an anti-semitic atrocity and it was
like literally two scenes it was
literally two scenes and whether or not
they managed to keep this guy from
seeing this stuff because of course he
would have a massive tantrum if he saw
it this was what was actually happening
in response to the Trump and these
people being in Pittsburgh let's listen
for a minute to this mass a huge amount
of people singing I don't know I don't
know the words unfortunately but they
are we're looking at these are peaceful
protesters walking along grieving
grieving about the tragic death of
eleven of their neighbors in a synagogue
on Saturday and protesting the presence
of Donald Trump the president in their
community today
pulling signs that say stop hate vote no
hate no guns no Trump is this the
Democrats closing message Betsy workshop
certainly seems like one that is a
highly tacky as transition there
from MSNBC maybe we can mute them and
just play out a little bit more of the
village' the visuals beautiful so maybe
we could do that that was Nicole Wallace
for anyone Wallace I'm sorry that that
happened please watch this this is
beautiful
it's an eautiful collection of people
coming out in the community anti-fur
yeah yeah there auntie fire community
United you know what that means yeah I
know that George Soros it's George
Sarris you know these Soros's yeah that
old lady - don't threaten Gavin McGinnis
on Twitter totally unfair I hope most
people can understand this in terms
other than the horse race I mean look
there's no contradiction between we
always say about the elections but that
goes far beyond a horse race as you say
absolutely
this Dennis Prager saying Jesus Christ
didn't Chapo do a good bit with Dennis
Prager where they played like Marvin
Gaye in the background and just did a
breakdown at house and as Dennis Prager
is basically like the horniest guy on
the planet
so also tax deductible dennis prager
he's taxed this you is tax
deductible Prager you is propaganda
youtube series to cede anti-science
corporate exploitation and bigotry so
history whitewashing operation be a
federally credited institution I'm
joking but I hope I mean we're probably
yeah
dennis is doing a great job by the way a
Jew I do not a fun one if you're if
you're a rich you can lower your
tax liabilities by giving money to this
guy
can't wait to take Owen benjamin's class
on the social implications of using bad
language oh yeah those dull and Benjamin
videos he knows the social implications
of definitely not as strong as the Sam
Harris material which was actually
pretty funny so this is a so okay let me
set this up a little bit say you watched
Tucker Carlson every night and you're
enraged because there's roving immigrant
hordes and Tucker has you all worked up
into a paranoid bigoted lather and he's
saying like and you're all upset and the
country's going to hell even though your
party controls all three branches of
government and your immediate life has
actually totally secure cushy and
protected in fact you couldn't have an
easier life but your blood pressure is
high you're taking all these medications
you're depressed you're angry and you're
irrationally afraid and terrified which
is why you even have to be thinking
about gypsies for God's sake which
everybody should always remember that
was literally a Tucker Carlson segment
was on the gypsies speaking of some of
the retro flavor of flavors of modern
right-wing politics so you have all this
tension built up and say you're married
presumably in a very loveless marriage
and you you sort of work your way off of
the couch there's a Hannity commercial
break here about to come back on and
figure out what you know the the new
Clinton Soros planned with the deep
state is and you got about twenty
seconds in you to relieve yourself of
your earthly burdens in your wife and
she doesn't want to because for probably
endless number of obvious reasons she is
not in the mood well Dennis Prager is
here to help you and he's on his old
buddy Tucker's Network to tell this
audience and explain Dennis Prager is
new when woman when a woman isn't in the
mood series simply offered the advice to
a woman if you love your husband and he
is a good man then don't let mood
alone determine whether or not you'll
have sex with him because it's an
important thing to him so give it a try
I don't want to jump in but it's my wife
still here so it's truly helpful so
here's the terrible part I think we
established that dude let's just you
know it's just so creepy because it's
like I don't know just that's branding
this it's three speeches under threat on
college campuses and like not like your
husband's for God's sake not to state
the obvious but women often do do that a
lot of the time and you know what it's
none of his business
come on there's a little bit left if you
love me and I'm a good man here's the
terrible part the in in Huffington Post
just two weeks ago a guy cited this from
10 years ago Prager advocates marital
rape and that's what they wrote in the
in the Colorado State University the guy
beware a guy who believes in marital
rape is coming to camp that's disgusting
yes you know can we just have a
freeze-frame on his face right after it
sort of Sandra Tucker says that's
disgusting kinda just out of can we just
have a clip of fraggers face like that
that is disgusting that's the take my
marital advice from right there it sort
of sounds like he's making a bit of a
early apology for a potential marital
rape like I said that ahead of this
divorce yeah like think about more than
your mood think about like you might get
raped in the future
I mean that's literally what he's I
think implying there well it's blaming
the it's blaming the wife if she doesn't
like control her husband's drives but
it's also like it's so it's so insidious
cuz I don't know like if you read like a
like some type of like you know
psychology book on like negotiating
relationship which I am not ashamed to
admit that I have half done and I failed
but they're like what I'm saying is he's
picking up on things that you might read
in like an actual serious book like hey
if you're in a relationship you need to
negotiate boundaries together you need
to negotiate like all sorts of
arrangements of how you spend time
together how people want to you know
touch each other and everything else
right and he's using this and then he's
turning it into a misogynist attack on
women and then it's basically subtextual
II by connecting it with campus stuff
making this like attempting to make this
like much broader indictment of
essentially just progress I don't know
if what I'm saying makes sense but it's
just like these guys are so masterful at
taking things that could be like a
conversation in one domain and then
weaponizing it because all they're like
this broader like attack all they care
about is not the conversation but what
the conversation accomplishes right yeah
so it's like we it's why you have like
Jacob wall trying to do this Robert
Moeller rape accuser thing right because
they he sees and from his perspective
he's dumb enough to believe that most of
these accusations against say Cavanaugh
were faked and made by the Democrats and
so they're like well you did that to do
this I want to do that too right I think
that's exactly it
I think it's exactly I would say it's
nauseating but if you look on YouTube
the chop a bit about Dennis Prager just
being hopelessly horny and harassing his
wife and the idea of reading Prager
passages underneath Marvin Gaye is
I mean that's sort of like the poles of
human experience right like from the
highest to the lowest depths right there
yeah yeah that is just a real it it
really it seems to speak to a certain
subsection of like maybe the men's
rights people oh yeah I think he's I
think because their model for something
sexy and healthy is not something that's
actually sexy and healthy right it's not
like I don't know John Legend and
Chrissy Teigen she's a supermodel
he's like good-looking guy they have a
egalitarian relationship no he's like a
 to them their model for who's the
man is Donald Trump right
because they don't care they don't care
about the woman's experience any of this
they care about having power over
another human being so like they can
look at Donald Trump and like his wife
is clearly disgusted by him like but
like visibly disgusted yeah and she's a
disgusting person so that says a lot
that's he's the man I would love to see
dennis prager call John Legend of Chuck
well stay tuned like in person if you
can stop talking like on a Praeger you
video if you come from the school that
considers a wife as an asset like the
 school of outright does right then
being told that your wife your asset
doesn't have to obey your commands makes
your asset less valuable to you right
yeah that's a see other human beings is
being instrumental to their idea of
being the man which is also why they
like Hugh Hefner I think because like do
you think that Hugh Hefner's girlfriends
are all like in love with him probably
not well I mean he's dead probably not
well in the in the Hugh Hefner imaginary
let's say because he lives on it's
spirit here
unfortunately he very much does and it's
more about having like money and power
over women than it is about having like
a real two sided relationship with
another human being yeah yeah that's
Chris you're calling from a 407 area
code who are you where he calling from
oh good good piece by Nathan Robinson
actually I think about um about you
Hefner I think it was Nathan Robinson
you're calling from a 407 area code who
are you where you're calling from hello
is this me yes this is you so this is
Rodrigo the Brazilian from New Jersey
hey Rodrigo how you doing man Oh
depressed as usual yeah usually I would
call it and talk about a more specific
aspect of Brazilian media that
influences Brazilian culture away but
this time I want to make more broad
based analysis on how capitalism has
managed to ruin brazilians brazil's
democracy so a lot of times you guys
mentioned what's up and what's up you
guys have met it's just a a texting and
calling service that's free but the way
once I've got the power in Brazil is a
direct is that I wrecked a failure of
capitalism and the reason is that Brazil
did not have unlimited texting or
calling until Watsa already had
implemented a monopoly on having those
two things so Zach gained that gave
wants a lot of leverage as two avenues
of communication that the Brazilian
telecom companies instead of just
competing tried to go to court to take
what's up with it's off of Brazilians
app stores because they would just say
oh they're interfering in our in our
competition this failed and then
Brazilian telecom companies lost power
but you're still forced to have a talk
calm company to have a Watts up account
and receive messages so you have this to
a deal where you're paying for your
you're paying for a telecom company to
give you service while at the same time
you're not really using its services
you're just using it to access you Watts
up and that's one aspect another aspect
is the major television
and of takaka bungee boo-boo and
KGTV spent over 15 years hammering away
at the Workers Party on their legitimacy
using selective journalism to only
really cover a large ATO in a way that
would only implicate the Workers Party
and they would do that by mentioning
this person who knows this person from
the Workers Party was now implicated in
a corruption scandal they would not say
who that person's party is or their
political vation no lesions are who
their donors are who they donate to
that's how you have a party like any
baby who we know is one of the most
corrupt parties in Brazil just in
general how they had the most indicted
people in law by John Hsu and now
Michele time it was the leader of that
party as president of Brazil right
suspiciously right and then this kind of
ties into you had a a I don't know as a
primer or what it was with that guy who
said how how the Republican Party got to
where it is by by drinking its own
kool-aid basically I was on tea MBS and
he talks about how the right-wing grift
like it there used to be hey let's sell
this nonsense the rubes and then all of
a sudden the rubes became the power base
themselves and he you in like Trump as a
prime example of that
yeah absolutely and the exact same thing
happened in Brazil but not so extreme
right percent perspective but from an
extreme center-right perspective right
and what I mean by that is that group is
not like Fox News where they constantly
will tell you that black people are evil
the other theorem TV TV stations are
like that though but what they do do is
they will do this constant according of
a moderate social democracy like the
Workers Party to an extreme far-right
regime so for example they'll say Lula
supports Venezuela well at the same time
they will they never reported on missing
that's the relationship them is saying
the people that are just still in power
from generals that sort of concludes its
leadership and etc and this constant
hammering homeless both sides are the
same both sides are corrupt
well eventually led to this this
canoeing resentment within the Brazilian
middle and upper classes that were just
raised for almost two generations now
just raised to believe that the Workers
Party is a communist cabal of sexual
deviants that are trying to to create
crime and pedophilia rings in Brazil and
the only way to stop that is by electing
a guy who they believe will just burn
down the system and install something
different yeah I got to tell you Rodrigo
between tucker carlson dennis prager and
adam carolla talking about how to harass
your wife into sex even if she doesn't
feel well and what you just outlined
about Brazil I'm not sure how much I
have left in me for the rest of today's
show but I appreciate the call and I
mean look I'm definitely gonna keep
aggressively covering this I hope now
that people who maybe several months ago
didn't understand why I was doing it you
know have a better understanding of it
now we'll keep up on it for sure and
just to end on a note of optimism yeah
Brazil has one of the most mobile
they've been quiet for a little bit but
their wait what they won't get massively
from that this election they're one of
the most mobile left spheres in the
country it's not it's actually very
interesting that Haddad had maybe less a
month and some change into his
presidential nomination almost managed
to catch up to both so model based
purely by by that left-wing mobilization
right the left-wing in Brazil isn't dead
or shattered it's there you know and we
hope that just through just through
outright sheer communal support we can
survive this this tide of right-wing
fascism absolutely and uh let me know I
hope to see you at the live show man I
hope you can make it I'm I'll try yeah
okay take care of my the similar dynamic
going on with the Native Americans in
North Dakota that they're now trying and
hopeful that they can turn that into and
a sort of motivating action and get
people signed up to vote I mean
hopefully will knock out what I don't
know if it's gonna be enough to save I
can't but then also I feel like people
over learn these sorts of lessons right
like when the mobilization after the
terrible thing happens the that's where
that's I think the kernel that the Jimmy
Dore type people see is like well now
people are paying attention well it's
like we're also behind more right on the
scoreboard yeah you advance by winning
and I've another thing that I've noticed
too it's a little bit more sophisticated
as people not being able to drive in
people have them who are you know better
than some like jimmy dore they have a
socialist analysis but they'll still say
like we're just fighting capitalism
without making a distinction between
those strains and capitalism it's
delusional
it's insane and and i and this idea of
people paying attention more just
because of an absolute crisis is I mean
first like there's nothing guaranteed
about it there's no it's like and you're
fighting back
enormous reversals like yeah that's what
you're doing
yeah like the world was a better place
in 2008 or 10 in some respects right
like Obama and Lula imagine if you had
an Obama Lula world and people got
serious about socialism I mean you could
be really really have some momentum here
yeah I mean we started to see that in
the 70s with some really radical strike
actions that were occurring in the midst
of you know a fairly strong social
democracy still or the closest that
America has come to it and unfortunately
a crisis hit right around that time that
enabled the bosses to reconsolidate
power and impose austerity and that's
been happening ever since but at the end
of the day I think the anti-capitalist
left is going to fight on whatever
terrain that it has for sure everybody
is no doubt you're gonna call you're
calling from a seven five seven area
code who are you where you're calling
hello can you hear me
yes what's up my name is Sebastian from
Florida I'm originally from New York I
just want to thank you for making fun of
Jimmy Doherty I think it's hilarious no
problem this is doable yet you know I've
watched this show before and the thing
that really annoys me is they feel I
feel like there's an unwillingness to
sort of understand that the difference
between the parties and as horrible of
the Democratic Party is that party can
actually be influenced unlike the
Republican Party and yeah I think that's
the opponent's basic business model
that's his business model and this is
stuff that like you know I figured out
when I was 16 right like this is very
simple stuff and I and I think you know
look man if everything was just personal
I always like Jimmy personally and I
think it sucks Jimmy's I think he's
funny I think he's got some showmanship
but what he's putting out and his
business model really sucks
so yeah yeah yes there has to be an
understanding like I'm in Florida now I
just voted for Dylan I'm 21 years old
and you know I know I have no illusions
about what he stands for because I know
that he's kind of a you know he's not as
restless about them
I would be but I understand that you
know the Democrats are in a much better
playing field and national politics is
in there as opposed to they from chrome
that is DeSantis did you vote for a
Nelson - that's an important one yes yes
good yeah and and so on felon voting
rights as well that's another just big
stuff in Florida people really did that
yes yeah that's great well thanks man I
appreciate Sebastian things up at all
you know you mentioned the Plainfield
that the is a bit change I would
characterize it slightly differently
that the playing field is in many ways
an awful lot worse than it's been it's a
lot worse but the players are
a lot better right like they're not the
third way is to type if they are they
have to hide it
that's the farm systems coming out the
farm systems coming up and the thing is
like again they give you if beta or
Roark and Andrews Gilliam are the new
centrist that's great
do you realize what a massive
upgrade that is even in the last couple
of years I mean at least give yourself
like read a few books about politics in
the 90s read a few books about politics
in the arts look up on Google
Joe Lieberman and Evan Bayh okay like
ironic out on Kent Conrad shoutout Kent
Conrad ironically and it was wrong then
too
but the case for there is really no
different the difference is so you you
could very strongly make that case in
parts of the 90s it would still be wrong
but you can make that in a credible way
and so and and and so there is a
significant upgrade going on right now
and even something like the vestiges of
people that are just total trash like
Chuck Schumer they're still part of that
they're part of that he came up in the
80s and the 90s and he's a wall street
third way nothing Democrat but the new
people I mean even people are pretty
like Jeff Merkley that's a decent
senator that's a guy is doing some good
stuff well I think the Democratic Party
establishment is finally moving a tiny
bit to the left is a function outside
pressures largely definitely you're
calling from a 7-3 to area code who are
you worried calling from 7:32 oh hello
oh hey Alice what's up how you doing two
things went long you're I'm calling from
Edison New Jersey
oh cool hey Alice what's going on Alex
from Edison New Jersey big New Jersey
show today without notes the show
yesterday was the funniest ever
I don't mean just Sam cedar shows I mean
all YouTube but like that's that being
said yes Jim bar is different from you
in three ways and I'll tell you three
ways you're different
number one honestly he's funnier and
these are all subjective you are so
close to getting hung up on right now
should not alone with that so now you're
on a clock you have 30 seconds left to
finish the rest of your points and begin
30 and he inspires people to give money
and it inspires me and many of my
friends to give money to these non
corporate Democrats you guys are more
serious but when you talk about Lula I'm
not reaching for my checkbook to give a
OC any money and I hope that you guys
won't spend so much time defining
yourself as a contrast to Jimmy door but
my second thing is can he do it another
impression I love you that's great
no but look here's but let me tell you
where you're wrong so first of all the
Lula coverage should inspire you to open
your checkbook up for non corporate
Democrats Brian mirror actually explain
that brilliantly today and you can write
you know what you should do is you
should write a check to mark Pocan for
if you can for 50 bucks and save a note
and say thank you for speaking out on
behalf of Brazil and for freeing Lula
that's what you should do and the thing
is sorry I - he goes on compartment
every Wednesday right so great and in
addition to that look the beef with
Jimmy Doran and it's funny even Matt
just set it off Mike but even what you
just framed like it's consumptive we're
not trying to be and I know we have a
reputation as being the most smug and
arrogant show on YouTube which is
awesome and hilarious to me I don't I
mean I kind of care like in the sense
that I think it's funny and I'm
definitely funnier and that that in and
of itself definitely undermines your
credibility but I'll try to go out on a
limb with you you know I'm just I'm just
a jerk-off caller hey well you
essentially they're like a Scientologist
you're so delusional but no
but let me just say this let me just say
this the difference is there is actually
what people don't understand and if you
recall there was a period of time where
I did stuff with Jimmy Dore and I
honestly if right after 2016 he he
didn't even have to say in my opinion I
might not be a ho totally on the same
page with Sam
if after 2016 happened he completely
turned his focus to dealing with fascism
um and continuing to support non
corporate Democrats and all the rest but
the endless what about ISM the endless
false equivalencies the endless moralism
and the endless just focus on electoral
ISM is is and it's
substantively wrong it's miss educating
people about how to think about politics
and so if there was a dude who did a
show that was less wonky than ours that
was less you know whatever the and
it was but conveying the same message
about power and strategy and capitalism
that would be awesome
I would give it nothing but props and
I'd continue to want to collaborate with
him and even the thing the way you think
about Brazil I'm sorry dude doing a
 uncritical piece of coverage
this guy will do Syria conspiracy
 and then there's a credulous
segment about a far-right fascist
facilitating project which is
imprisoning I'm sorry dude one of the
most important leaders on our planet and
if you don't care about that we're not
on the same team I mean these are
substantive problems if the guy just if
the guy was just more like meat and
potatoes that's awesome in fact
that's needed and that has never been
the beef ever it's in substance period
and by the way as far as I know Jimmy
Dore does not support Alexandria Ocasio
Cortes no well he helps her he's got her
on a show in the beginning when she ran
for office and he helped her and that's
great I'm glad he does that I think he
also had on Kanye laying that's a good
thing that he does now I don't think
it's a good thing that he immediately
starts trashing her which is probably
what Jamie's referring to as soon as he
says as soon as she says like the most
oculis thing about anything and also to
put your gun sights on Andrew Gilliam
right now in the context of the race
he's in and the implications for voting
rights 2020 not to mention the racial
dynamics of it cui bono there yeah very
 stupid so these are substantive
things they have nothing to do with how
much you curse how much you hate you
know near a Tandon or Hillary Clinton
nothing to do with whether or not you
want to be walking or not you know what
he could have done the same Brazil said
when he could he could have looked out
and he said hey Bryan Mir he's talking
about us CIA and corporate influence in
Brazil that's the kind of thing that I'm
thinking about let me have him on for
six minutes to explain why TYT giving
private positive coverage to car wash in
the mainstream media's we
should be supporting the Workers Party
that's actually his mandate so
that's the beef okay this is why people
this is why your show is great you have
a sense of criticism I think unrivaled
by anybody maybe Jake but that's
offensive maybe at best this is why I
like your show but his show is
hilariously I'm sorry
honestly oh that's great that's cool you
think is funny I don't that's great I
mean I'll joke about that all day but
that's totally secondary the be friend
this show has nothing to do with his
comedy I've done comedy bits with Jimmy
I think Jimmy is a funny entertaining
and interpersonally in my experience
nice guy but for all of the substantive
reasons he outlined those are problems
and how you're doing politics and I'm
not trying to create broad reactive
populism I'm trying to create a left
path to saving democracy and generating
some type of what we call socialism
which means different things to
different people but that's an actual
thing and a major part of that thing is
building alliances across lines that
include not unnecessarily alienating
people who has an example might support
and your Gilliam and it also includes
recognizing that in today's world the
primary threat is the fascist
running it not something that John
Edwards said in 2009 that you can make a
clip about to do a false equivalency
that's
it's wrong and it's substantively wrong
and if he swears and he's less wonky
that's great not to mention okay then
you had then you have to admit that he's
the Fox News on the left no I don't know
it's not Fox News helps win Fox News has
a strategy
Fox News is relentless do you
think Fox News would do over 70% of
their clips if they were Fox News of the
left then Fox News would have killed
Trump and they would have done its
segments every day on how he's not a
real conservative and he's a sellout
he's not Fox News on the left at all
if you mean stylistically maybe so and I
keep telling you that's the part I can't
have no problem with you're missing I
mean I admit I mean stylistically and
mathematically you know not
pragmatically not at all not at all
dude we gotta let you go any kind of
coherent socialist ideology analysis or
tactic he doesn't advocate calling him a
sellout
it's a sellout if you look at
what he said about that coherent
progressive sorry hashtag mine device
employees he used this when he said
basically because people were like well
Jimmy is an ice a problem for your
analysis about the Dems being the same
as Republicans you said well it's in
it's the employ it's the lower-level
employees of ice who really should bear
the blame because they're following
orders which like I'm all down for like
the whole following order Singh but
you're blaming the local workforce and
not the power structure that you said
wouldn't be a difference because you
need to build a scaffolding to justify
your stupid false equivalencies and
that's more exciting to people instead
of the simple we need something that's
not Hillary or Trump it transcends this
whole corrupt rotten system and the
relative choices are obvious one is less
damaging than the other and that's less
exciting and it makes less dumb people
flock and freak out on social media but
it also happens to be true
well that's it people have a lot of
opinions today on how we should be doing
our jobs that is true but I'm not I mean
I gave that's actually my most sincere
like I'm not doing again like my sincere
explanation
jimmy dore because i'm and if you're
listening and you're not like completely
in a cult you've actually heard me give
him a lot of props there and none I'll
just say this one more time none of my
problems with that dude have anything to
do with the fact that he swears or he
hates Democrats or he's enraged at the
disgusting buffoons on our cable news
networks that's all great I have a
problem with the false equivalencies
moralism electoral obsession and
standing with what about ISM for fascism
those are my problems and I I don't mean
to speak for all of us because as we've
said we have a diversity of opinions
here but I don't think any of us is too
concerned that we're punching left with
regard to Jimmy Dore I know I don't
answer it to be the no I am NOT I think
he has I think he is it has exact I
think he has opposite and reactionary
politics because he and I I bring this
up a lot of times but the way he got and
he still has us up there this fake
George Orwell quote that says a people
who elect corrupt politicians there's
the corruption again people who elect
corrupt politicians Impostors thieves
and traitors are not victims but
accomplices now I am a big horrible guy
people should probably know this about
me by now there's no way Orwell would
ever write that because he wouldn't
Center blame on the people even if you
had only read 1984 he says the people
are where the hope is and Jimmy does not
believe that no unless and so and that's
another great irony all look if you you
spent all that's and actually I have no
problem I think we can't actually have
some critiques of the electorate
sometimes to be frank but if you're
gonna spend all day literally doing
segments about why you wouldn't vote to
prevent fascism because like some
Hillary comms director tweeted something
or some and your vote shaming
that's a big phrase they like well
that's exactly what you're doing
to more people and we're doing more
people and we're doing it to nobody I
will match my support for Bernie Sanders
and that primary against anybody's and I
never was in a position of saying that
people who voted the other way from me
that were normal everyday people were
stupid or wrong or whatever I actually
said we need to do a better job to win
because that's actually what the
job of politics is you're calling from a
203 area code who are you where you
calling from yeah I know last call of
the day thank you this is Jay Jay with
the last call Jay from Connecticut how
are you yeah I was gonna call to
about the prices for your event well but
I I'll see you there I'll try to be
positive is you bastard I you didn't you
did some acknowledgments for yesterday's
surprise a show but you didn't mention
Jeff from Georgia who called in as Sam I
was a great impression I didn't know
that was him it was almost I had I had
like PTSD listening to it I was like
whoa I'm looking at Sam as a a seaman
and then Jeff is speaking like Sam is a
very traumatic event well I think Jeff
probably got into Sam's consciousness
and channeled that Sam was so distracted
by being this other character that
didn't notice that his own inner
workings were tampered with and exactly
and that's the most reasonable
explanation according to Occam's razor
razor so let's go with that exactly so I
won't about these insane practices
when I heard this the other night
yes I got I get this stabbed it's just
like here's Michael I call on the show
once he says he's excoriating me for not
coming up in and greeting him and
introducing myself at the last event at
the Bell House now you charge in $75 for
that privilege yes that's right you
snooze you lose well you're a patron
though so it's actually a lot less
expensive for you there's a promo code
which you can find in your mail that
will make that a lot less but do you
have a special promo code for for people
who have to travel from Georgia and
other places uh there are actually
things being arranged for that
fact there have been extra tickets
bought and Heiser being set up there's
actually a lot of that I can't control
all of that that's that's the wisdom of
crowds at work but actually a lot of
that is taking place and we're hoping
that that can happen all right well yeah
you're a good egg maybe you'll even
greet some of these people I will greet
some of these people I think the the
first thing is more of like a long-term
hangout and then what I'll do after the
show I probably run through I'll it'll
be like I'll just I'll just I'll do an
Obama look hey everybody and then I'll
run away and I think my mommy's gonna be
there
my mom and I'm very excited about that
so how about you sister she is she
coming for a special trip I don't know I
hope she can it's just a big event I
mean your sister would come from
California and slap you on the back I
hope she can I hope she can this is
definitely a dopeboyz listener I can
tell and but I I am Not sure I hope she
will be there my mom will definitely be
there Jay I appreciate you that in the
last call today and I do hope to see you
there I will greet you know it's blended
have a great weekend good bye Jay all
right we got to read a few Iams then we
gotta get out of here Jimmy Dore was
only good at making fun of
Representative Peter King TMDs is my jam
I don't know about that Sam out because
he an aneurysm from arguing with himself
after the show yesterday sellout
that's the only I am can Matt grow a
beard he needs one who doing doing in
Chicago can you grow a beard you need
one was the comment yeah exactly
Don in Chicago great show today one of
the best interviews Michael loved
yesterday too and good to see Sam still
has major comedy chops Stein 2020 sizzle
chest referencing sharp legs handles of
Haller's is right on I hope you start
bad companying people - what is bad
companying people do we know I don't
know if I listen enough to know what
that means but I like the idea is some
of them certainly are bad company okay
yeah alright let me see let me try to
find the final I am today again I
apologize we are not getting to all of
the many many im's this is just the way
this is just the new exponential growth
folks it's just a new reality there's
been some theories and some ideas that
people have spoken about about making
some of this stuff only for members I
believe Nick from Manitoba and on that
note I love that I just loved that I
just dropped that C cuz I could just
picture like the YouTube chappy like
what what the just like just just
so that people could have a nice little
meltdown right the you to YouTube
freebies you're probably good for a
while yeah Nick from Manitoba what's
going on Marvin Gaye's hands down one of
the greatest albums of all time
urban city blues ocv can i have my board
this is the final I am of the day
[Music]
has there ever been mass mobilization
historically without something
catastrophic happening pirate prior as a
catalyst I that's an interesting
question I think so but I need to look
into that more what's going on by Marvin
Gaye's one of the ok you already said
that Oh see this is annoying I have to
do another one because I thought this is
a long final I am but you really just
repeated the same thing all right
a angel once you start learning
about how the world actually works
smart people realize capitalism these
are those are capitalized is the root of
most issues come on substance not
message style I don't know what to say
to that oh that was a props for you oh
it was I thought therapy sarcastically
mean to me this is like how traumatized
I am from all of these people no I
I received another finally I rescind
that okay I guess we need to have
another final I am thank you thank you
for your support in these trying times
all right never kitty nephron efforts he
just made 28 Sam asked Jimmy Dirar
to sing me a happy birthday left is best
ein 2020 happy birthday to all non
 sellouts in that
to get to where I want
but I know son
[Music]
when I just got
choo-choo
feel any better
yeah I know the clock is ticking
[Music]
and
[Applause]
the choice was made
you don't get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
do you know
[Music]
she takes me
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
