with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms they are we must
guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday May 29th 2019 my
name is Sam Sita this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today bottle
of lies the inside story of the generic
drug boom with investigative reporter
fortune contributor Katherine eben also
on the program big press conference
today by robert muller Muller says
Muller time is over but is it also on
the program today shocker Mitch
McConnell is all like Merrick garland
whoo-hoo we can sit a judge in 2020 Joe
Biden announces an education plan
Sanders offers workers dividends and
borne membership meanwhile Republicans
stall disaster aid in the house again
Iran says some in the US want war and
John Bolton simultaneously pretends he
didn't sabotage the Iranian nuke deal
meanwhile Dems look at their 25:24
candidate field and tightened the
requirements for later debates Bibi
Netanyahu faces a deadline in just hours
from now to form a new government let's
hope he fails Ben Shapiro defends
himself as a convicted Nazi sympathizer
says that the non-orthodox Judas Tanner
that would be Shapiro led him to the
alt-right and to commit acts of
anti-semitism you don't say more more
people are talking about Harriet Tubman
and the Department of Energy says it's
freedom gas to you all this and more on
today's program folks we are so
jam-packed today at 11:00 a.m. a robert
muller made an announcement we have some
clips from that tomorrow on the program
marcy wheeler will be joining us very
well timed once again and we have a lot
to get through today not the least of
which Mitch McConnell of course saying
2020 we consider judge a justice then so
anticipate perhaps that is an indication
that maybe that Clarence Thomas is
deciding to retire or just that
McConnell is you know getting his ducks
lined up in the event that there is a
one of the the justices on the nominal
left end up retiring or passing or
whatever I mean so but this is this
should not be a surprise I mean anybody
who didn't even remotely surprised about
this should have their head checked and
the we should also say that
we're gonna go we're gonna do a deep
dive into the what appears to be
disturbing sort of sad bit of a
breakdown that day Reubens having it's
not funny it's a wonderful day here in
Los Angeles he had a very tough day
yesterday and you know get into this
more but I just want to make this clear
I yes I will laugh at Dave Rubin me too
but I'll laugh at myself too which is
not to say that I think that I'm Dave
Rubin but that could blow your mind if
you think about that well my point is
like I'm not going to pretend like I
don't have a laugh at other peoples
expense just like people have a laugh at
my expense as a comedian you have a
tough skin thick skin and but when we go
through this stuff I want to make it
clear that like I actually do think that
it's the least that I can do right like
I mean I think like part of what we do
here we I think we have a multi-pronged
mission that has developed over the
years one is to bring you you know works
that have been done by by people who
write about policy or who investigate
issues like what's going on with our
generic drugs we have today one of them
is to push frankly an ideology may be
sort of like a broad spectrum of left
ideologies on this program and the other
which i think is probably the I don't
know if it's dramatically different from
the the the mission I may have had
during the radio days to make Dave Rubin
feel seen well but it's not specifically
Dave Rubin but it's basically to sort of
say where what what is the most toxic
information valves of information that
people are getting that I
have I me with my little butterfly wings
have any ability to in any way curtail
and that is it extremely limited
you know mission my ambitions are not
huge Dave Rubin is not baby Hitler you
know and we're not like we don't have an
opportunity to to you know suffocate
baby Hitler here that's not what I'm
saying but I do think there are people
you know and we've we've documented it
in the past who head down a very toxic
pathway that is basically highlighted
door open by Dave Rubin and others and
we go after them as well so you know
that's that's why we do this who's
laughing now Sam well there's others too
but but we'll get to that but the
important stuff is Muller right now and
we have footage of Justin Amash
apparently a doubling down in front of
cheering crowds of his own constituents
calling for impeachment
Robert Muller today I think got up there
and basically said in a very much more
reserved way hey what more do you want
out of me I just gave you your
impeachment indictments you know uh
charges but let's go through these a
couple of these clips we also have a
clip I think that shows fairly
conclusively that the bill bars just
liar I mean let's start with Robert
Muller saying that they did not make a
determination that Donald Trump did not
commit a crime if they had they would
have said so we had had confidence
that the president clearly did not
commit a crime we would have said so we
did not however make a determination as
to whether the President did commit a
crime the introduction to the volume 2
of our report explains that decision it
explains that under long-standing
department policy a president president
cannot be charged with a federal crime
while he is in office that is
unconstitutional even if the charge is
kept under seal and hidden from public
view that too is prohibited the special
counsels office is part of the
Department of Justice and by regulation
it was bound by that department policy
posit ok
so alright take that away so there you
have it this is not an exoneration for
Donald Trump I mean he specifically came
out and said that we did not if we had
made a determination if it was really
clear that the president had not
committed a crime we would have said so
they did not determine that he made a
crime but what does he say immediately
after that the Department of Justice
says we can't make that determination it
is impossible for us to make that
determination when the investigation
starts when there is no evidence
investigated whatsoever there is nothing
that we can find that can allow us to
charge the president with the commission
of a crime and he just said or he will
in a clip in a moment he will say we
would never say that he committed a
crime because there is no judicial means
in which for him to defend himself so
we're not in a position to do that by we
he means the Department of Justice now
here is bill Barr lying about this a
couple of weeks ago now he does it very
very carefully the words but for is
something that you learn in law school
and it means that but for the existence
of something something else would have
happened that's what a but-for is but
it's it's an all-or-nothing thing and so
bill Barr thinks he's being pretty
clever here but listen to the language
he uses versus the language that Muller
is using bill Barr basically creates a
straw man but four on March 5th we
specifically asked him about the OLC
opinion and whether or not he was taking
the position that he would have found a
crime but for the existence of the OLC
opinion and he made it very clear
several times that that was not his
position he he was not saying that but
for the OLC opinion he would have found
a crime he made it clear that he had not
made the determination that there was a
crime okay so he made it clear that
there was that now that is true he may
he did not play that last just last line
again the the the the number of double
negatives that he's guys using is very
very I think specific good and he made
it very clear several times that that
was not his position he he was not
saying that but for the OLC opinion he
would have found a crime he made it
clear that he had not made the
determination that there was a crime
okay so yes he had made the
determination that there was that that
that there was not that he had he had
made the determination that there was
not so play it one more time it really
is tough to get your arms around this
but basically what Barr is saying is
that the last sentence he says is true
but that's not necessarily a function of
the sentence that precedes it he he was
not saying that but for the OLC opinion
he would have found a crime he made it
clear that he had not made the
determination that
was a cry because he couldn't ever make
that exactly and he wasn't saying that
but for the OLC opinion he would have
found a crime because that's not the
order in which this goes
he wasn't looking for a crime because he
could not look for a crime not the game
he was playing not the game he was
playing and here he is a Muller making
that point very clear today Muller has a
written statement he says he doesn't
want to testify in front of Congress
because his report speaks for itself
reports don't speak incidentally you
have to read them but that aside the
words he speaks today you know were very
specifically to address what Barr has
said about him in the past listen
carefully what he says here about why
there was no charges brought this
follows exactly after he says we did not
determine that the President did not kit
at commit a crime and we did not
determine that he did commit a crime and
if we had the former we would have said
so we did not determine that he did a
crime and then he says why and the why
is because that's not possible we are
not in a position to determine that he
he committed a crime we're not allowed
to do that we don't have that ability we
don't have that ability any more than
Sam cedar has that ability he doesn't
have Sam cedar does not have the right
the means the capacity the standing to
determine that a crime was committed
neither does Robert Muller this is all
him saying to Congress this is your job
here's the evidence but I can't do it
any more than Sam cedar could second the
opinion says that the Constitution
requires a process other than the
criminal justice system to formally
accuse a sitting president of Hanoi to
accuse he cannot accuse period end of
story
he can't even set out to accuse the
president period end of story
he is on a fact-finding mission and is
supposed to give that information to
Congress continued bidding president of
wrongdoing and beyond Department policy
we were guided by principles of fairness
it would be unfair to potentially it
would be unfair to potentially accuse
somebody of a crime when there can be no
court resolution of the actual charge so
that was Justice Department policy
those were the principles under which we
operated and from them we concluded that
we would would not reach a determination
one way or the other about whether the
president committed a crime posit how
can anybody say that that's not a but
for from those principles that we cannot
charge a sitting president with a crime
that there there's a constitutional
process and not a judiciary process for
charging him with a crime and basic
fairness says that we could not accuse
him of a crime that's a but-for well
that's his job right he's the liar
general a bill Barr
and so this is Muller got up there today
and basically said as about as
explicitly as you could there Donald
Trump could have shot somebody
we could add video tape with of it and
we could not accuse him of a crime can
that is the bottom line
and he is saying to Congress we found
the videotape
we got the testimony from the people in
the room it's your job to accuse him of
a crime and that's what what we
witnessed is today can I ask a
potentially dumb question
how did the OLC come to the opinion that
you can't indict the president cuz that
just seems super wrong to me
well that is I mean there's a there I
mean legal scholars would say that that
opinion is wrong or some some would and
we need to go to the Supreme Court and
have this argument the Supreme Court may
or may not take it up the office of
legal counsel is basically the
Department of Justice's opinion wing and
they basically say that's our opinion
and we're gonna operate under those
auspices unless a court tells us
otherwise very unlikely that a court
would say otherwise because they don't
wanna get involved in that and they say
look there's a constitutional remedy for
this it is called impeachment and that's
the way that it was set up but yeah
there's a lot of people who think that
opinion is wrong but this is where law
and sort of practicality smack up
against each other and this is what when
they say about there's a constitutional
crisis these are the type of things that
they're talking about alright fine with
the court I'd be like that's just like
your opinion man and go forward yeah I
mean I wish I mean that's not how it
works well we'll see I mean if if we get
the right president maybe we can get you
nominated hell yeah quite the twist in
my career never saw that coming
all right we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back bottle of lies with
Katherine eben
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome to the
program
investigative journalist fortune
magazine contributor Andrew Carnegie
fellow Kathryn eben and her latest
bottle of lies the inside story of the
generic drug boom
welcome to the prog of the program
Catherine thanks so much Sam for having
me I am fascinated by this stuff and
every year twice a year actually I go to
a tort lawyer conference in Las Vegas
and oftentimes many of the tort lawyers
I know it's very strange thing to do
it's even stranger if you knew me but
it's fascinating to me and many times I
hear stories of that are very similar to
the ones that you're talking about of
course yours are far more in depth and
cover more the broad I heard a story
about valsartan and a generic version of
that or the active ingredient which had
been produced in China and had been
tainted it's a hard drug that had been
tainted with jet fuel and an ingredient
that used to be used in liquid rocket
fuel and you know I that was a very
narrow story and then to see your book
and to realize that is the tip of an
iceberg it is terrifying but before we
get to the problems with generic drugs
let's start with sip la simply if I'm
saying that right this is the basically
the beginning of generic drugs tell us
the origins of generic drugs yeah so
there was an Indian company called sip
la and a very heroic CEO named Yusuf
Hamid who got the idea that it is
outrageous that all of these Africans
should be dying of AIDS while the drugs
necessary to cure them existed but were
tied up with brand name patents and so
he
came out and announced the world at
around 2001 that he was going to make
these drugs available for a dollar a day
and the brand name companies tried to
stop him because it was intellectual
property and the world basically came in
behind
Hameed and said this is the right thing
to do
eventually brand name companies caved
Hameed produced these drugs ultimately
for 38 cents a day joined by a number of
other Indian companies US taxpayers
began footing the bill to send those
drugs to Africa it's humanitarian and
the right thing to do but along the way
there was this question how do we verify
the quality of these drugs so the FDA
which is our main regulators came up
with an abbreviated process for
reviewing quality deemed the drugs okay
and that gave everybody an idea we'll
wait a second our own regulators say
these drugs are okay nobody at home can
pay brand-name drug prices why don't we
take these drugs too and that really was
the beginning of the generic drug boom
in this country and one of the reasons
why our drug supply is now 90% generic
and 40% of all those generics are
manufactured in India the majority of
all our drugs are manufactured overseas
in India and China okay so this is and
and it was that was at the hatch act
Waxman act it was that that basically
changed things or when did that kick in
yeah so that was a law that was passed
in 1984 and what that did is it created
a pathway at the FDA for generic drug
makers to come in and prove that their
drugs were bioequivalent could be
absorbed at the same into the
bloodstream at the same rate but they
didn't have to prove safety and efficacy
because the idea was well brand name
companies have already proven that
but the hatch-waxman act did something
else very important it created a huge
financial incentive for generic
drugmakers
it was called first-to-file and it said
the first generic companies to file
their application with the FDA and get
approved will get six months of
exclusivity on the market at about 80%
of the brand-name price and that just
set off this gold rush among generic
drugmakers to be first to market so as I
described in my book there were generic
drug executives camped out overnight in
the FDA parking lot sleeping in stretch
limos waiting for the doors of the FDA
to open the next morning so they could
go and file their applicants what was
the theory behind and people should know
like you know that we're just sort of
like setting the table here for for for
how we we got to where we are and I want
to circle back to the idea that you know
some some 80 to 90 percent of our drugs
are actually made overseas which is sort
of stunning when you contemplate how
much we hear about scare mongering about
buying our drugs from Canada let's say
but but but put that aside for a moment
what was the theory behind that first a
file provision in the hatch-waxman Act
so the theory was if generic companies
are going to have to brave almost
certain litigation by brand name
companies then they need a deal
sweetener they need an incentive
something that'll make it financially
worth it and this was the deal sweetener
that they could get this six months of
exclusivity and that just occasioned
this rush to file applications be first
to market and to get that six months
exclusivity what is the nature of that
litigation that was anticipated from
brand name that you guys are stepping on
our patents yeah basically that you know
print name companies erect this
barricade of patents around their drugs
they patent not just a molecule they
patent the process by which its
sure they may patent the time release
mechanism and the whole idea is just to
prevent anyone else from coming in and
making their product and so any generic
drug company that wants to make a
version of their drug is going to have
to go to court and it's going to cost a
lot of money so that was why they
introduced a deal sweetener okay and and
and I want to sort of like come back
through all this but let's also just go
back a little bit so that we just get
the idea of like where generics came
from my understanding they basically
started in India as basically a Gandhi's
you know and under the sort of the
rubric of Gandhi's nationalism right
well there is the story I described in
the book that Gandhi went to Yusef
Hameed's father to started supply and
said look it was it was World War two
the British have promised us our freedom
but in order to do that they they want
us to help out with the war effort and
they need pharmaceuticals because the
supply from Europe has collapsed so if
you can step up and manufacture drugs
for the Indian army then you this will
be going a long way to helping to lead
to a free India and that's really how it
started okay so we get the development
of the generic drugs it comes through in
the 80s the hatch-waxman act basically
provides almost a not necessarily a safe
harbor for first-to-file but an
incentive for people to withstand the
onslaught of litigation they're gonna
have to wade through if they're the
first to to release this is it these
patents that are built around just if
you could just I guess walk us through
what what's in a drug I mean I don't
think people fully understand sort of
like how could there be subsidiary
patents around it what what how is a a
generic drug structured just you know
sort of almost I guess dissect the the
generic drug for us so that we own
this sure so let's start with what a
brand-name drug is it will have an
active ingredient which is sort of the
principal molecule that that does the
healing and in addition to that it's
going to have what are called excipient
switch are additional ingredients and
then it may have some kind of time
release mechanism right and all of that
has been manufactured to be in a
specific form whether it's a tablet a
capsule injectable so and it's all been
engineered so it dissolves properly in
the body and then the way that's
measured is the the extent of the
absorption into the bloodstream so
that's a drug so the generic companies
come along and you know one common
misunderstanding is people think well
the brand company hands over the recipe
to the generic that almost never happens
instead generic companies have reverse
reverse engineering chemists who take a
brand-name drug they break it down in
the laboratory they see how it's put
together and then they try to recreate
it they're going to use the same active
ingredient it has to be in the same
format tablet capsule but they're going
to do a lot of things differently
there's going to be different
manufacturing steps there's going to be
different additional ingredients there's
probably going to be a different time
release mechanism and it's going to
dissolve differently in the body so it's
not identical it's a version of the
brand name drug is there a now I
understand at least in principle like oh
well we've already tested the active
ingredient in this and we've found
through clinical trials that it's safe
for human is there is there not any I
guess analog to testing the new
formulation like hey how do we know that
these chemists are good at their job
like they've reversed engineered it and
they've found you know the active
ingredient that's on the label but they
don't know how it's been prepared
like I I know if you slice an onion one
way you the you know it has different
implications of slicing it a different
way in terms of the way that it cooks or
something like that is there not
something equivalent in that way like
maybe if you prepare this active
ingredient in this way it actually
mutates into some other active
ingredient or if you combine it with
this mechanism for blood absorption it
actually has this side effect as opposed
to that side effect I mean do we have a
testing process of like how this stuff
is reconfigured that it might have other
implications or am I just don't know
anything about chemistry and donors I
mean I think both are possible great
it's a great question you're asking
because it takes us really to the center
of the issue which is the way that
generic companies demonstrate that their
drug is effective is through testing of
the drug so they're testing they test on
say 20 to 25 different patients the
absorption into the blood but they also
test in the laboratory how does it
dissolve how quickly does it dissolve is
it stable there's something called
stability testing where they test does
it disintegrate how quickly does it
disintegrate under what conditions does
it disintegrate and all of that all of
that testing is accompanied by data
that's really a kind of minute to minute
laboratory blueprint of the way that
that drug performs and that data is
really sacrosanct it's at the center of
the manufacturing process and the
companies have to submit that data to
the FDA to get approval to manufacture a
drug okay and so we are trusting that
they're giving us the real data before
we examine that you know that dynamic
are are there benchmarks set by the
original drug so you're saying like you
know it tests dissolution it tests
absorption all this are there are
they're public or at least does the FDA
have benchmarks of the original drug
and to the extent that the FDA does does
the generic maker know that what those
benchmarks are or they at least doing it
blind and handing it to the FDA right
well there are certain standards that
are set out by different regulatory
bodies for example like the United
States pharmacopoeia is a
standard-setting organization and that
standard-setting organizations says um
you know in order for this antibiotic to
be viable it has to contain this much
active ingredient so there are those
kinds of benchmarks that are public and
they're based on standards that are set
by the brand name companies but that's a
little bit different than just handing
over your entire cookbook your recipe of
how to make the drug okay so when this
data comes in and maybe maybe before we
even address you know the fact that you
have these drug companies saying like oh
here's our data and whether we have a
way of validating that data well why
don't you address that before we before
I ask the next question do we just
simply trust these generic drug
companies to say like oh here's our data
i we didn't we didn't look at the back
of the book and see what the answer
should be you know in terms of
absorption rates or whatnot and here
here it is we okay that is that
basically what happens you know the
answer to this question is a little bit
shocking which is that the FDA is
essentially regulating these companies
on an honor system they are reviewing
this data now in addition to that they
are also they perform what's called a
pre approval inspection which is they go
to the manufacturing plant to see if the
company can actually make the drug is it
safely run is it in an outhouse is it in
the middle of nowhere so they do a pre
approval inspection but this is a key
distinction a lot of these drugs are
made overseas and when the FDA does an
overseas inspection it is then it
notifies the companies weeks sometimes
months in advance that its investigate
we'll be coming and I think you have a I
don't know if it's quote necessarily in
the book but it's a you tell the story
that one guy said like oh we have we
have the we have access to cheap labor
that we could actually create an
entirely new facility with the amount of
lead time they give us and that one will
be good that's right I mean they can
make anything look like anything so you
know what they will do is bring in teams
to and and maybe we want to lead into
this because this is well yeah this is
where yeah this is where good things get
a little bit dark yes but let's just
start with this question before we get
there why why are and I think you said
90% of our generics are made overseas
between I guess India and China and
maybe a couple other countries in terms
of where particularly the active
ingredient is is made why is that it's
sort of out it's a long story with
globalization at its core Western
companies realize that they could slash
their labor costs supply costs if they
move manufacturing overseas there were
much looser environmental regulations
and manufacturing of drugs throws off a
huge amount of pollution so there were
all kinds of reasons why Western
companies were looking to cut their
costs and there were all kinds of
reasons why Indian and Chinese companies
wanted to get into our market which is
the world's biggest and most lucrative
well how much were they win-win for all
these companies how much were they also
conscious of the fact that being not in
close proximity to the FDA like
literally the FDA offices is going to be
is going to benefit us I mean back when
I was in show business
we would say like oh if we're gonna
shoot a show let's shoot it as far away
from the executives as possible it's
going to mean less scrutiny and I mean
how much were they conscious of that
they were absolutely conscious of that
so basically you have all these
companies who are 7,000 miles away from
Maryland where the FDA has its
headquarters
and they are able to evade scrutiny with
that distance you know and literally the
closer you move towards FDA headquarters
the more scrutiny you are under okay
it's so so let's get into a couple of
the horror stories but before we do when
people say like we can't buy drugs from
Canada because they don't have the same
standards or mechanisms to determine you
know that these drugs are pure what not
that even that seems like a lie because
I got to imagine that the Canadian that
well you tell me maybe you don't know
about Canada's procedures but the idea
that the FDA inspects your inspections
happen with significant advance warning
suggests to me that our system is pretty
weak our whole book is about that
essentially but does Canada have like do
they have a similar procedure for like
generic drugs well here's the problem
with buying your drugs from Canada if
you buy your drugs from Canada you're
probably buying your drugs from India
they're getting indian generics too and
usually when you buy from sort of online
Canadian pharmacies there's little fine
print in the disclosures which says if
we don't have this drug in stock you
authorize us to purchase it from our
offshore partners and let me tell you
what when you're buying a drug you don't
want drugs from an offshore partner so
you know I am I am skeptical about this
idea that in this you know snowy clean
place called Canada you're getting
quote-unquote Canadian drugs but in a
way that's a kind of a different
somewhat different issue but you know it
speaks to the fact that there is a
global drug supply and India and China
have become pharmacies to the world and
regulators whether they're in Canada
Europe the u.s. really don't have a firm
handle on what is going on in those
Lance and that's really the story I'm
telling in my book is there any well
let's talk about the failure of our
regiment and then we can talk about
whether it's any different than than
Canada's for that matter or I mean I
guess Canada's saying well you know we
buy it from from India from a that may
not have be subject to any you know the
Canadian version of the FDA but let's so
so let's let's talk about I guess sort
ret or sought Trek am i pronouncing that
right so try this by Ranbaxy
is that the the company yeah this is uh
you know sort of your your premier
nightmare story I guess although we can
also talk about you know the you have a
vignette of this guy Peter Baker who
basically you know I don't know that
one's almost like low-hanging fruit but
talk to us about sort rep because I
think this is indicative of a major
problem obviously sure so there is a
brand name drug called accutane and it's
an anti acne drug but it's a pretty
scary drug in that it came with what's
called a black box warning and the FDA
warned people you can't take it when
you're pregnant they warned
manufacturers we have to monitor with
how much you sell where it comes from
all of that because of the health
hazards that are associated with it it
produced increased suicidality and
teenagers so it was a dangerous scary
drug Ranbaxy got approval from the fda
to make a generic version their version
was called so threat now basically
Ranbaxy was telling the fda everything's
fine
but they had a meeting their executives
in a Boca Raton hotel in which they were
confronting internal testing of the drug
which showed their version of the drug
was failing it was dissolving
incorrectly you know this exposed
patients to incredible hazards instead
of disclosing it to the FDA and pulling
the drugs from the market which is what
the company should have done these
executives in this hotel made a secret
pact to keep the drug on the mark
and even while they're selling it to
patients to go back into the laboratory
and see if they can't fix the
manufacturing problems and the way they
fixed it is pretty scary which and they
didn't actually fix it ultimately but
the what they did was scary which is
they swapped out ingredients they took
out certain ingredients and they put in
different ingredients to try to make it
dissolve correctly the problem is you
can't make an ingredient change without
the FDA's approval and the company did
this all in secrecy and they had an
internal report in which they growed up
all of their findings about how the drug
was failing with a big cover sheet on it
that said do not share with the FDA and
when the FDA raided their offices in New
Jersey in 2007 they they got a copy of
that report and this was this was all
started from a a guy who had studied I
guess in the States right this is
it Dinesh Thakur yeah and yeah he came
in he provides a report for them and
their first reaction is how can we
destroy every copy of this report right
so what happened with Tocker
he was a young engineer who was working
at bristol-myers Squibb and got this job
offer to go to India's biggest generic
drug company so he packs up his family
he leaves New Jersey
comes to this giant Indian company and
his boss who has also come from Britain
from a brand name company begins to get
suspicious about the data that the
company is filing with regulators around
the world you know and as we spoke about
before this is quality data that has a
direct impact on whether the drugs are
okay to take or not so his boss gives
him this assignment want you to go into
every dossier for every drug we filed
around the world with regulators and
investigate
we have data that supports those drug
applications soccer gets his team
together they do this investigation and
they discover this horrible secret which
is that over 40 over 200 drug products
in over 40 countries have been filed
with either data that didn't exist and
was just fabricated or that was changed
or in some cases the company was using
brand-name drugs and running data off of
those drugs and presenting it as though
it was tests for the generic I mean
there were all kinds of substitutions
and this report that Tucker created got
shown to a committee subcommittee of the
Board of Directors and their reaction
was how do we bury this and let's
destroy the laptop on which this report
was created Wow now this company has
since been basically bought out it
doesn't exist anymore at least in that
form what's your sense of how many of
these stories are out there I mean you
tell the story of Peter Baker that I
think it opens up the book when he is
investigating you know he's there
inspecting a a manufacturing plant and
literally like I mean it it almost seems
comedic there's a guy who just like
looks like he's shady and runs away as
the inspectors coming and tries to ditch
a bag of reports that say oh there's all
sorts of horrible I think it was metal
shards in his insulin production how
much of this do you think is actually
going on like is there any reason to
believe so uh you know Ranbaxy gets
fined 500 million dollars which is
probably you know the equivalent of you
know me leaving the lights on in the
office over the weekends in terms of
like you know the cost of doing business
for them maybe there is some civil
litigation that they end up having to
pay more but they still at the end of
the day it really is just not a question
of anything other than what
profit margin going to be on this is it
going to be you know I don't know sixty
percent or you know thirty five percent
or something but what is is this fixed
like do you do you take generic drugs I
mean and really is there any reason for
us to be you know comfortable with
brand-name drugs for that matter because
they get their active ingredient from
these same places don't they so well
there's so much in what you just said so
let me let me just start with this which
is I did a big story in Fortune magazine
in 2013 about Ranbaxy which ended up
pleading guilty to seven felonies
so my question and really at the
beginning of this book project was you
know was Ranbaxy an outlier or the tip
of the iceberg and in my reporting I
began investigating the generic drug
industry and essentially through
whistleblowers penetrating these plants
overseas and what I realized is that the
behavior of Ranbaxy really reflected
more of an industry norm now Peter Baker
is one of the characters that I follow
and as you say you know the book opens
with this low speed chase through this
hallway in a manufacturing plant in a
wrong about India but what he found
Baker over five years he inspected 86
plants in India and China and he found
for outright fraud or some aspect of
data deception which was concealing or
altering the quality of the drugs or
concealing or altering the environment
in the plant data you know reflecting
the plant in four-fifths of the
companies he went into well this was 67
out of 86 plants he found fraud which
really I think tells you that this is
endemic throughout the industry Wow
and so what about
non-generic like do we have the same
problem because the active active
ingredients come from these plants right
so here is the sort of fundamental issue
to boil it down as consumers we are at
the mercy of the companies that are
making the finished dosas right so
there's companies that make the active
ingredients some of which are
contaminated with materials used in
liquid rocket fuel production and and
you know some of the companies are okay
but the ones that have the
responsibility for testing those
ingredients and formulating the finished
product we're at their mercy essentially
we have to rely on the companies that we
feel are the most responsible and
ethical in testing doing due diligence
and putting together those drugs um so
you know at the end of the day you want
to make sure that that company is
ethical that company is transparent that
company is putting patient lives ahead
of profit you know and if something goes
horribly wrong that you could sue that
company you know and that's where this
overseas production gets very tricky I
mean the Justice Department could barely
bring Ranbaxy to heel for its conduct
because it doesn't have jurisdiction you
know and and so we're in a pretty
tenuous situation relying on these
overseas companies to make life-saving
medicine for us yeah I'm a little
skeptical Katherine to be honest with
you about the the when you talk about
drug companies that are putting people's
lives over profits I have to concede
that maybe I'm just a little bit cynical
on that on that issue all right so let
me ask you this that so there's two
questions one from a sort of like a just
I guess they consumer a consumer advice
that is there must be sites where I can
go and I can see sort
like the the records of these drug
companies or where this stuff is
manufactured that gives me the origins
and then and and I'd like if you if you
have information on that to tell us but
the second would be from a legislative
perspective from a policy perspective
which i think is far more important
ultimately because you know not that
many people are going to hear this and
that's you know the way that if you
really want to impact it's got to happen
through legislation what are the best
ways to deal with this because I know
you know the VA sometimes produces
generic drugs when they're shortages as
it is now the government entity
Elizabeth Warren has a plan to do that
should we just natural should we just
basically say you know what we're not
going to leave it to India in China
they're their safety regimes to
basically you know provide medication to
us we just the government should do it
or what so well good yeah so first of
all I agree with you we shouldn't leave
it to India or China to make our
essential medicines if India gets pissed
off and says they don't want to give us
antibiotics we're really hosed I mean at
the moment we make almost none of our
own antibiotics right so that's
fundamentally a national security risk
secondly consumers right now have almost
no way to know where their drugs are
manufactured I mean you actually have to
be an investigative journalist to figure
it out unfortunately so we need laws
changed and there have to be laws
changed to disclose the location the
manufacturer of the active ingredient
and the manufacturer location of the
finished drug that needs to happen there
is no question so where does that leave
consumers right now one thing they need
to do is they need to know the name of
the manufacturer making their drugs
especially if they're on maintenance
medication that name is on the label
okay and here's why that's important
because say you take a drug month after
month week after week you have to know
is that drug
working do you have weird side effects
or is that drug having it the effect
it's supposed to right if it does you
want to stay on it but the problem is
you go back to the pharmacy and they may
switch you to a different generic
manufacturer they're just filling it
with what they have on the shelf behind
them so you need to actually make a
request to stay on the same
manufacturers drug so that's number one
number two how do you check out those
manufacturers well one way is a good
old-fashioned Google search type in FDA
warning letter and the name of the
manufacturer and then in fact you can
see what has the FDA found in these
manufacturing plants of that company if
the F is found something if the FDA has
found a problem you know there's a
problem right I mean because right I
mean like this is you know some cop once
told me like you know for every every
ticket that we give you there's some
algorithm where we know you have
committed you know a hundred different
traffic violations so if the FDA is
finding them if the FDA Flags them for a
problem they must have some real
problems that is correct because you
know that there are plenty of companies
where the yet that that had problems in
the FDA is not finding it right so you
know you want to be taking a drug made
by a relatively clean company and and
that's one way to try to start to figure
it out but you know I have to say
patients should also read my book
because they will understand how this
whole system is put together okay and so
then from a legislative fix policy
standpoint we should just we should
probably be nationalizing at least the
production of of at least
key drugs like antibiotics it seems to
me but we should also I mean we need to
do something on the policy front in a
big way in a big way and the other thing
frankly that needs to be done price
regulation is part of this I mean one
reason that we have been forced into the
arms of these low-cost providers
overseas is
because nobody can afford to pay
brand-name drug prices right I mean so
without meaningful price regulation I
think we will never we will never get
control of this and the problem right
now is that everybody is focused on the
crisis of price and it is a crisis but
what has been ignored in this is the
crisis of quality and there's a crisis
there too and you have to really
consider these two things together
bottle of lies the inside story of the
generic drug boom a Katherine eben thank
you so much for your time today really
appreciate it
what a pleasure to talk to you thanks so
much Dan all right folks we'll go to the
fun half and talk about how our
president is a criminal how's that cheer
things up a little bit fun you know I
have on occasion but modafinil from
India because I was prescribed it but I
couldn't afford to fill my prescription
and then interview makes me think it's
the same stuff that you that you were
but what do you mean that like there's
not a huge difference between the drugs
that you buy through legal means and the
ones you buy online well I mean I think
she was saying like you know part of it
is is that they're like they could all
be bad they could all be bad but I think
it makes sense particularly if you're
taking you know drugs on a regular basis
to go and just see what that
manufacturer is I mean I never even
occurred to me that there could be
variants as to you know oh I'm getting
the generic one it turns out there's not
a generic one there's different generics
and yeah great you want those generic
generics right right
all right folks I'm gonna head into the
fun half just a reminder you can support
this program by becoming a member at
join the majority report com
we don't need
any type of agency to determine the
quality of our shows every day I can
tell you a hundred percent assuredness
the show is produced from the same
manufacturing facility every single day
we are in close proximity to all of the
podcast quality investigators at
whatever uh you can come up from a place
in India that's right we do get the
clips of a place in India we do have
that source that you can become a member
I are going to join the majority report
calm when you do not only are you
supporting the free show that you enjoy
every day twice a week three times a
week once a week but you're also going
to get extra content every day so check
it out join the majority report comm
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate one of our well our
oldest advertiser really a movement
partner in many respects just talking to
Brendan today about the the the siRNA
vich episode a year or two ago and if it
wasn't for just coffee I would have been
fried they were very big the fact that
they are just sort of they are allies as
they Rubin would never say and also
great coffee and you get ten percent off
with a coupon code majority and you get
the majority Portland Michael is taking
a vow of silence for this week I'd like
to see that note EMBs well you are in a
way I haven't heard a word from him all
day
um so no tea mb/s but you can go check
out the YouTube channel catch up on all
the tea MBS is that you want he missed
he's missing out on David
imagine you were in a silent meditation
retreat and you found out somehow that
Dave Rubin was going through a
pronounced breakdown
I mean honestly that would be that would
be like that's the that's the test on
day two you find that it's like it's
like it's like a seven day fast
and all of a sudden like on day 2 or 3
they like bring in like Oh
who left these these donuts here and
Jamie you have not taken a vow of
silence mm-hmm and so what has come of
that so this week on the anti Fattah we
speak with an emergen author of republic
of lives american conspiracy theorists
and their surprising rise to power we
talked all about conspiracy theories
what is it about the US of A that makes
it such fertile ground for
conspiratorial thinking and why it's all
capitalism's fault and we will not be a
less paranoid country until we are a
fair one so check it out folks we also
have for our patrons history is a weapon
number four with Sean and Matt Chrisman
from chapo Trap House where they do
their incredible Galaxie brain grad
school drop out thing and talk about the
1970s and how they prefigured a lot of
what we're seeing today in this crazy
world Matt you also have not taken a vow
of celibacy no no or silence neither
neither of those things
uh yeah literary hangover the market for
up TV series vows l-lucy at the vow of
silence I mean it's who knows how can
you get consent nonverbal consent I
guess that's the way I do it that's a
normal consent procedure anyway thumbs
up thumbs down
that's a classic no check yes or no but
yeah check out Margaret Fuller who gave
thumbs up to her throw or not and throw
Emerson and Hawthorne but neither them
was that into her but she's a very
interesting woman she was early feminist
and then sort of a socialist type of the
four years who was the utopian socialist
before Marx she was inspired by for year
who was like the socialism is he's why
communist columns of Communists because
they want to distinguish themselves from
those
taupey and socialists hmm so she wasn't
but she was into those guys though and
they were actually a little bit more
interesting than Marx makes them out to
be but check that out
literary hangover is gonna hit it's year
birthday in two days and five away from
200 on patreon.com slash literary
hangover yeah I need to listen to that
it sounds very relevant to my interests
there is I'm just gonna say this once
I'm not no we are contemplating it
the upstairs offices are going over this
proposal but it was proposed that sun's
out guns out as a as a mechanism which
to drive membership for the show where
it would take place would apparently be
that if we get a certain amount of
members I will wear a was it a muscle
shirt tank town or a tank top tank top
in the fun half for an entire week the
tape will show I don't know if we can
find it but I was actually the first
person to go sun's out guns out on this
show actually once sun's out guns out
and you guys gave me crap for it and I
use that exact phrase actually I often
have my guns out but I think it's
different for women well there you go
sun's out guns out we may do that but in
the meantime see you in the finale
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
fun
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are back
back
the males are back back back back back
back and the alpha males are back back
back
just wanna degrade the white man alpha
males are back back I take all of the
good micro alpha males are back back
back
I am a total
can we bring back DJ Tanner yeah or a
couple you put them in rotation DJ dance
well the problem with those is they're
like 45 seconds long so I don't know if
they're enough with a break Hawkinson
and the alpha male psyche
Oh
[Music]
back
the back
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
locked alpha male
black
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadis
happy birthday to me
I have a thought expenditure for the
alpha males somebody needs to pay the
price request we around here I am a
total
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report let's just continue on with the
the clips we have from Robert Muller
there's two more clips here is Muller
saying contrary to what some people
argue that there was no evidence that
the Trump folk participated in a
conspiracy to defraud the United States
that would have been the specific charge
contrary to that assertion
Robert Muller says there was
insufficient evidence we will get to
possibly one of the reasons why there
was insufficient one of the reasons
could be didn't happen so there wasn't
enough evidence there was some but there
wasn't enough evidence to cross the
threshold of charging the president but
here's Rob ma let me say a word about
the report the report has two parts
addressing the two main issues we were
asked to investigate the first volume of
the report details numerous efforts
emanating from Russia to influence the
election this volume includes a
discussion of the Trump campaigns
response to this activity as well as our
conclusion that there was insufficient
evidence to charge a broader conspiracy
okay insufficient evidence not no
evidence which he would have said if
there was no evidence in other words
totally vindicated in other words
totally vindicated insufficient evidence
to charge a broader conspiracy and
that's not just in regards to the
president cuz we already know that in
regards to the president he cannot bring
any charges to that effect but that
means to all the people
him except for those of course like the
former campaign manager and the former
consigliere who are in jail right now
here is Robert Muller speaking to the
second half of his report which is the
question of obstruction Muller makes it
quite clear that obstruction keeps
investigators from finding the truth
struction is subsidiary to the primary
mission of the investigation but it is
specifically related to why maybe there
was insufficient evidence to bring a
conspiracy charge because of the
obstruction the idea that you need to be
found guilty of an underlying crime to
be charged with obstruction is absurd
it is absurd and anyone who says
anything differently knows it's absurd
they know that they're lying to you and
it's sad in some instances said yeah
superset here is Robert Muller speaking
specifically about the obstruction the
indictments allege and the other
activities in our report to describe
efforts to interfere in our political
system they needed to be investigated
and understood and that is among the
reasons why the Department of Justice
established our office that is also a
reason we investigated efforts to
obstruct the investigation the matters
we investigated were of paramount
importance and was critical for us to
obtain full and accurate information
from every person we questioned when a
subject of an investigation obstructs
that investigation
or lies to investigators it strikes at
the core of their government's effort to
find the truth and hold wrongdoers
accountable there you go so it strikes
at the core of those efforts this what
Muller delivered was basically a call to
Congress to begin impeachment
proceedings does it mean to actually
vote to impeach it means go over this
material it's all here in the report
Muller says that he does not want to
testify because the report speaks for
itself
frankly I don't think Maher gets to
choose a B I think there's value in
bringing Robert Muller in just to read
the report to the committee because this
is a political process this is a
political process you cannot just submit
the report and anticipate that it's
gonna do all the work now Congress needs
to do the work but part of that work is
to put on a basically an argument in
front of the American people because
this is a political process and if
driving attention to the report and I
have said this multiple times all you
need to do is read the first two
chapters but 99% of the American public
is not I would say probably that may
even be generous estimate and the way to
do impeachment is to convince the
American public at least some percentage
of them and the only way to do that is
to expose them to what's in the report
and if there's a better way to do it
than bringing the author of the report
to talk about the report then I'm not
aware of it I mean I could have just
told you everything about this book
today but I had the
author on because I don't understand
every dynamic in the book she may have
more passion she may be right the same
amount of pages for one story into
another but one may be more important to
her I mean this is fairly obvious
Robert Muller does not get to choose
whether he is used as a prop frankly or
a mechanism to inform the American
public what the president did it's not
his choice and Robert Muller has now
gone in front of Congress essentially in
front of the American people and
basically said to Congress it's your
turn I did my work well that's fine
Congress may need him a little bit more
but then there's another guy who who did
this last night I guess it was two
nights ago in Michigan a Republican now
it's hard to know who was in this in
this auditorium in Michigan he's a
Republican don't agree with him on much
some things though I mean he's one of
those guys I think probably on some of
the national Kirti issues I would agree
with it's hard to know who's in this
facility in Grand Rapids Michigan but I
saw one clip where at least one of the
he was a retired vet fought in Vietnam
was commemorating I guess it was 50
years I think he said that one of his
buddies was killed on that day and he
said something to the effect of like do
we get a do-over on our vote for the
president which suggested me at least
some of them in there were voters of
Donald Trump anyways when Amash went
into this room he got a standing ovation
for an extended period of time for
calling for impeachment and here he is
making the Kay
at a town hall I think it's really
important that we do our job as a
Congress that we not allow misconduct to
go undeterred that we not just say
someone can violate the public trust and
that there are no consequences to it and
if if you get a chance I encourage you
all to read the tweets where it lays all
of this out mothers report lays all of
this out and I'm confident that if you
read vol 2 you will be appalled at much
of the conduct and and I was appalled by
it and and that's why I stated what I
stated that's why I came to that
conclusion because I think we can't go
we can't let conduct like that go
unchecked Congress has a duty to keep
the president in check and it is a
difficult process for those who are
worried about you know Congress
intruding on the President's powers
consistently it is a difficult process
to remove someone from office it's not
easy so no one's suggesting that just
because you start some inquiry or
process that a person's removed from
office nonetheless we have a job to do
and I think we owe it to the American
people to to represent them to ensure
that the people we have in office are
doing the right thing are of good
character aren't violating the public
trust I mean Nancy Pelosi can't figure
out how to sell it to the American
public she just basically copy
everything he just said but also good
luck with that
as a Republican well yes and we'll get
to that in just a moment actually but I
mean if Justin Amash can figure it out
if he can figure out how to be
politically viable in this instance
there's no reason why the Democrats
can't and I mean he's laying out the the
path for it admit it's getting you know
one point this is the my you know this
is the you hear a lot of assessments
that I think are wrong anyways of what
happened during the Clinton years and I
certainly understand why Donald Trump
might think it's in his best interest to
get impeached he very well may be trying
to get impeached I don't know it
wouldn't be completely irrational of him
to assume that it would work out well
but the one thing that's definitively
clear that was not the case during the
Clinton impeachment is there was no cost
for Republicans to not impeach there is
a building cost for Democrats to not
impeach this stuff is not gonna go away
it's not gonna go away and to the extent
that it does go away it's only because
Trump's gonna do other horrible things
that are gonna make people to like why
didn't we deal with this like it's not
like like I'm just curious as to what
the the Democratic leadership thinks is
going to happen between now and the 2020
election that is going to mean if their
plan works and Trump you know does stuff
that's horrible and hoist himself on his
own petard that's just gonna remind
everybody that the the Democrats did not
impeach him did not even try to hold him
to account if Trump does I don't know
like he does an infrastructure bill that
everybody loves I don't think that's
gonna happen but how does that help the
Democrats like there is no it is sort of
fascinating that I understand wanting to
capture the moment
but the election is not tomorrow the
election is in 18 months and sometimes
like you you wish that everybody's
sentiments that exist today you could
freeze them in Amber and show up
November 6th or wherever it is 2020 but
that's just not the way it works if we
could just bottle the feeling that
everybody had about Hillary when she was
looking at her phone on Air Force One in
2012 yeah exactly they're so bad at this
here is Justin Amash one having to
explain to a Mogga hat-wearing
constituent that you know pretend like
things aren't as tribal as they are in
some ways and Justin Amash is in a tough
position here because he's gonna argue
that his bona fides as a Republican as
being or conservative as being you know
fiscally prudent or you know Pro
austerity or etc etc the problem is is
that like that's there's nobody else in
his ideological bent that is actually
pursuing any of that I mean I remember
back during the Iraq war when Andrew
Sullivan would refer to himself you know
or that era that Bush era is as a as a
as a conservative and it was like it's
like someone going around speaking Latin
and just wondering why no one under
status a dead language and there are
people who go and speak Latin but
they're usually like in churches and
there's a you know it's ceremonial
that's sort of like when I see Justin
Amash say what he's gonna say here
that's what it feels like to me he's
speaking Latin in some type of
ceremonial ceremony
I'm just trying to get my point across
pause it right now this is a room full
of Michiganders now maybe they're all
Democrat but this is a big auditorium it
is packed to the gills
I look at this thing it's tough to see
you know exactly but it doesn't look to
me like this is not a bunch of college
kids and this looks about as Grand
Rapids Michigan as it gets
now maybe all just all the the you know
Trump haters came out but I don't think
so but they seem to really have a
problem with this Mogga hat-wearing uh I
think a woman right here but first I
have one of the most constitutionally
conservative fiscally conservative
Bonilla regulars than any member of
Congress in either chamber since I've
been in Congress so I voted for less
spending when I got elected as part of
the Tea Party movement people cared
about limited government they cared
about fiscal conservatism making sure
that our government wasn't spending too
much under the current administration
spending is skyrocketing
so 10
and Republicans unfortunately haven't
said that much about it and I continue
to vote to reduce spending at the
federal level I talked earlier about how
I think we do too many things at the
federal level if you look at my
scorecards from conservative groups I've
bent the top of like nearly all the
scorecards so you won't you're not going
to find me nice like even a
middle-of-the-road Republican to be
scorecards I'm I'm at the top or near
the top of every scorecard president now
I heard your comments about the Mulder
report but I mean Monnaie ting right I
mean it's fascinating because the the
distance between him and the rest of the
Republican Party now I it's also sort of
just bizarre to see someone sort of like
I have consistently been on the side
that says we must create more
deprivation more we must admit more
people we must adhere to what basically
amounts to a religion that is based on
faith and has nothing to do with
real-world results and I have stayed
true to those principles and and that's
weird and then also to hear the Mogga
hat-wearing person going like yes
absolutely I was part of that tea party
thing yes absolutely
all that stuff but because you're
against the president who is doing
everything contrary to why I voted for
you I now perceive you as being the
enemy like the it is it's like a there
a snake eating its tail quality to this
but then you need a snake eating its
tail eating its tail eating its tail
it's crazy that the tea party people are
now like the moderate conservative
somehow was the same thing with what
weren't flaking sass both yeah almost
yeah yep like it kind of speaks I mean
we've never had like one class in one
party in one class in the other party in
this country quite but like it used to
be more that Republicans were like you
know the ruling class the bosses there
for the rich and austerity and fiscal
responsibility or whatever and the
Democrats were more not a labor party
but labor was certainly a strong
constituency in it and now like I mean
they talked about this in history as a
weapon like it was really is prefigured
in the 70s by Nixon but like this kind
of aggrievement
has zero links to class anymore it's
just on another level it's on a another
level I agree I I think on some well
it's zero sum that aggrievement but be
that in may since we're talking about
aggrievement let's shift shall we
well let's just talk about Mitch
McConnell first for a moment because
this is important so as you know Mitch
McConnell and I think this is probably
one of the most undersold reasons why
Donald Trump is in office Mitch
McConnell refused to provide a hearing
for Barack Obama's Supreme Court justice
pick Merrick garland
I think McConnell's was aided and
abetted by Barack Obama's failure on a
political level to deal with what
McConnell was doing Baraka
mama was quite skilled at getting
elected from a legislative perspective
not so much the ACA was a huge
accomplishment it is true but there was
a massive call for insurance reform in
this country they got about as tepid
aversion as you could get in terms of
the parties that were brought together
they saved the private medical insurance
industry which was facing a an explosion
I think of a demographic
nightmare in terms of the baby boomers
and it was enhanced by providing them
with about 10 million new customers
subsidized by the government I mean
that's basically what happened the
expansion of Medicaid a good thing but
in terms of like the politics of this
Barack Obama failed Mitch McConnell
succeeded and he got super lucky as well
but not only did Mitch McConnell get to
seat a right-wing justice in that seat
he got he didn't get just get lucky in
doing that he created some of that luck
here he is back in 2016 insisting that
you cannot seat a Supreme Court justice
or even have a hearing for one in an
election year when Barack Obama was even
running vision the Senate announced
weeks ago remains about a principle and
not a person the Senate will
appropriately revisit the matter when it
considers the qualifications of the
nominee the next president nominates
whoever that might be there you go so
that was him back in 2016 where March
2016
reiterating the principle that had
stated in February that we were not
going to to seat and
new Supreme Court justice here he is
yesterday in Paducah Kentucky asked if a
Supreme Court justice was to die next
year what would you do
Oh we'd feel like there you go he's
laughing he knows I would do my job what
are you talking about
he just knows like yeah mofos of course
I'm sorry oh when I said principal did
you guys believe me that is hilarious
right right there it is
there's the example of once Donald Trump
is gone but does he
Biden still a notion that the
Republicans fever will break will only
happen after Trump is gone
see and so trumple still be there so
he's still under the spell yeah yeah
yeah darkest before the dawn you gotta
hand it to him no he's pretty good at it
he Mitch McConnell if he wasn't if he
wasn't so turtle she looking would be a
great evil villain character he just
comes off as a little bit you'd have to
put them up the storyline would have to
be like the guy who got picked on in
school quite a bit too cute yeah really
this guy this guy is the one who's do
mean democracy maybe you could get like
a really scary looking suit or something
uh let's play this next clip this is a
weatherman he's uh where is this guy
from from Ohio I don't blame him he's a
little frustrated sort of silly though
I'm he's on the weather apparently
they're interrupting the weather
broadcast to give a tornado warning you
know sometimes folks when they read the
Twitter comments they get a little bit
too upset this heavy rain is between you
and the tornado that's why this is a
dangerous situation tonight it's dark
it's also rainy I was just taking social
media we have viewers
all ready just go back to the show no
we're not going back to the show folks
this is a dangerous situation okay it's
nice right think about that this was
your neighborhood I'm sick and tired of
people complaining about this our job
here is to keep people safe and that is
what we're gonna do
some even complain that this is all
about my ego stop okay just stop right
now it's not I'm done with you people I
really am this is pathetic Syd dangerous
situation here all right I'm sorry I did
that I'm just it just really bothers me
that we have people that don't care
about other people's safety around here
that's just ridiculous new tornado
warning here that's the same one we had
that's headed towards central and
southern Mercer County you know and and
I can understand the guys frustration I
mean he's doing something that is
legitimate has a legitimate benefit to
people and is about a public safety and
he's upset about getting a little bit of
Twitter hate now that to me as funny as
it was makes some sense this doesn't
make any sense
because Dave Rubin is not saving
anybody's life Dave Rubin is not doing a
public service Dave Rubin rails against
the idea that people always want to be
with victim class hey we're having an
ideas emergency over here exactly but I
mean Dave Rubin always talks about how
offensive it is that people would
consider themselves based upon their
victimhood if Dave Rubin got rid of his
sense of being victimized all that would
be left would be the scruffy beard that
he's trying to grow here he is walking
the streets complaining about an article
in the Colet now Matt I'm not terribly
familiar with couette I know we've
talked about it here a little bit how
would you characterize quill let is this
a left-wing magazine no it's sort of the
IDW use sort of magazine I see so it's
the ID w's yeah but there but of late
they've been
of Dave Rubin and Jordan Peterson well
isn't that the point of the IDW right
right ideas not tribal not about not
about victimhood here's Dave Rubin
taking a walk to clear his head now that
he's been criticized and very upset that
none of his friends have contact and is
this sort of sort of sad on everybody
okay so first off all right wow we got
it we got over 400 already geez
this thing's flying okay cool so first
off I would just like to say I'm having
a perfectly lovely day despite what you
might be seeing on Twitter I'm not mad
I'm having a protein shake it's a mint
chocolate something it's really good
whey protein really nice don't want to
get hit by as well let me just tell you
something about when I'm having a really
good day when I'm having a really good
day let me tell you what I don't do go
on and do a streaming video for 12
minutes talking about area but he's
being mean to me good good whey protein
really nice don't want to get hit by a
car while walking here you sure about
and you know I got into some Twitter
nonsense this morning and it's so it's
just gross it's all just gross so for
those of you that aren't playing along
on Twitter god bless you and you're
probably living your best life but
basically a Colet which is run by Clara
Lehmann who's a former guest of mine who
has been very friendly and nice to me on
go and as a former guest mean oh he's
not gonna have him back have her back on
I think that's the implication so much
about ideas folk a good in all of our
private exchanges has done about four
hit pieces on me recently where they're
really trying to single me out
out of the IDW crew that I'm somehow the
worse because I sit down and and talk to
some people that they don't like and I
talk to these people on the right and I
don't question them exactly as they want
and all of these things and they keep
this writing piece after piece now I got
a ton of haters these days which
really is just the sign that I'm doing
something good I mean you know I got
news for you just because people don't
like you does not mean you're doing
something good sometimes people just
don't like you you know apply this to
Isis right from all sides
there's brawl sides yeah husband do it's
up right good Billy is like I'm happy
with what I'm doing hundreds of
thousands if not millions of people seem
to enjoy what I'm doing I have no guilt
related to what I'm doing I'm living my
life and doing my thing I don't wander
around worrying about destroying people
and hating people and all of this
nonsense so anyway quad went after me
again a couple of days ago this one was
by a former guest of mine which is
interesting so this one it's not only
that it's in colette which Claire
Lehmann who's a former guest of mine
who's a guest after I've had people like
Molyneux and Serna vich and Paul Joseph
Watson and whoever and Lauren southern
and whoever else they're going for me
and I'm walking up a major hill I'll
just say to defend Dave they could have
mentioned it when they were on with day
that's right that's right
interesting I mean usually the idea that
they were a guest would be that gives
them a little bit more credibility Yeah
right like but God right here's what I
started running out of breath you'll
know why anyway this guest though was
was Kathy Young who was a writer I had
on the show I don't know about three
years ago or something and there's
there's so many things I could say about
her personally from my experience with
her but I'm not going to do any of that
and there might be a couple moments on
Twitter this morning where I slightly
took the low road tonight I apologize
not to her I apologize to myself and to
you guys if I did do that amazing
positive I also want to apologize to
myself if I am saying anything that is
in any way
you know rude towards Dave Rubin I want
to apologize to me and there's a lot of
things you could be saying too but
you're not going there's a lot of things
I could be saying I'm not gonna say that
but if I do and if I have I want to
apologize to me you get caught in this
nonsense but I just want to be clear
about something I have no guilt on my
conscience of anyone I've talked to or
any question I've asked or not asked
have I made that's the second time he
said no interview absolutely perfect of
course not I'm not a perfect human being
and these people who are just endless
haters it's like what are you doing with
your lives but in any of them I guess he
was addressing that to me I'm just doing
this show but raising my kids doing the
show good those haters it's like what
are you doing with your lives but in any
event what's going on here really is
that and this is the goddamn truth this
is the truth the truth the truth the
truth I have left the left and survived
and every and I've been calling out the
left as it progressive as a liberal for
years for years and years I was doing it
nice we got over a thousand people in
here that's awesome
sweet four years I was doing it I was
doing it from the left I was saying guys
let's stop calling everyone racist let's
stop calling everyone a big eight let's
make sound arguments all of these things
not everyone herbage truckers against
gay marriage it's heard for gay
marriages a homophobe unless Barack
Obama was a homophobe the first time you
ran for president as well as Hillary
Clinton Trump is not a Nazi and the
people that vote for him or not Nazis
and he's not Hitler and the more that
you guys do these types of things
instead of making sound argument the
more that you're going to man I gotta
get off this hill the more that you're
gonna pin yourself between intellectual
and what's happening is I kept making
warnings too though people started
paying attention to it every all the
things that I've been saying for years
have now burst forth for everyone to see
the left is gone completely
bananas and posits I'm so soaked Willett
is the left now yep
anybody who disagrees with him is -
laughs cool it's basically Jacobin from
Australia
yeah exactly good people that you can
leave the left and you will survive
you're gonna be okay
but that's not even it what it really is
about is I go to college campuses and
sellout comedy clubs and I was on tour
for a year with Jordan Peterson and I
met literally thousands and thousands of
good conservatives who can agree to
disagree
who I tell them that I'm gay married
they don't care or they just are willing
to live in the same society as me nice
we got our grudgingly pro-choice which
is a really hard one for conservatives
to swallow but they can agree to have a
conversation about it I'm against the
death penalty most conservatives aren't
I mean all of this that's positive
at least you know he back then you know
when a couple years ago when he
interviewed these people also would say
he was for single-payer health insurance
and limited government fascinating the
grudgingly begrudgingly for single-payer
health insurance good day over and over
and I don't get any hate from anyone on
the right and this whole idea and all of
these quality pieces the ideas are
little bridges to the right but that
somehow is bad and awful even though
most of the IDW who are on I don't know
if they really what they think person
anymore but are or at least were on the
left at one point right so the fact that
I've escaped they have to take out an
extremely high cost on me because they
can't have you knowing that you can
escape but you can't escape it's your
 life do whatever the hell you
want to do with your imagine the
delusion here imagine the delusion here
he really should have got his talking
points together a bit more before he
went a hair so to feel like the quill at
thing is trying to prove that you can't
leave the left is a weird talking point
boy alright continue I always wanted to
know what it was like to like for
instance put a photo on Salman Rushdie
that's what we're doing with Dave Rubin
yeah exactly yeah exactly
life
lived you live your life as you want so
it's like they're trying to take me out
right now and Jacob out you guys won't
do it you won't do it I'm gonna keep
doing what I think is right and I'll
talk to the people that I want to talk
to that are interesting and some of them
are gonna be shady every now and again
posit a nice you're gonna talk to shady
people I mean you could talk to shady
people but why don't you call them out
I'm there shadiness the bad thing is not
so much that he saw I mean like I I
don't know that I would do it but
certainly there are people who talk to
shady people and they one of the first
questions they're like why are you so
shady or hey don't you think this is
shady or here's what I'm gonna talk
about your shadiness
but that doesn't seem to come up yeah
David said says we're part of the new
center right exactly you're so shady
we're both basking in the shade do it do
it I'm gonna keep doing what I think is
right and I'll talk to the people that I
want to talk to that are interesting and
some of them are going to be shady every
now and again and I suspect that the
people that are always coming after me
have done some pretty shady and
childish posit and I feel like I'm
doing pretty childish right now
actually okay I'll do and anyway
it's just kind of boring more than
anything else so it's what's unfortunate
about this one is when happy was on my
show and it was after Serna was on
she never said a word to me and as I
said Claire was on my show after all of
them were on my my show she never said a
word to me either and it's like alright
you guys you want to use me okay we
could play that game I suppose but you
won't own me maybe you used me but you
won't own me so anyway so it's just
boring petulant childish nonsense and
you know I know maybe I should have let
some of it go this morning and it's
another beautiful day in Los Angeles as
it usually is and I probably should have
just let it go
but you got to defend yourself you know
we this mob rule that we lived through
is really weird
there is like a zermat behind him or the
mob rule you know equal let what is it
the mob is he singing their comments
you're saying it's mafia maybe that's
what's gonna get whacked that is some
type of money laundering Enterprise for
them for the mob that's weird
good you don't defend yourself why would
someone else defend you
you know you mean so sometimes you got
to do something that you don't
inherently want to do and I won't bow to
the tricycle that in those interviews I
could have done this or that different
I've acknowledged that repeatedly but if
she's trying to take me out you will not
take me out I'm not going anywhere if
anything in a weird way I feel I feel
bizarrely empowered right now except for
the fact I'm walking down a street
talking to my oh my gosh luck darling
empowered right now because you know
most of my haters are just YouTube
losers that want to get that want to get
clicks off me right and it's weird to be
that person like I wake up I have no
hate for anybody I wake up and I try to
do my day and then whatever I don't wake
up and be like what did this person say
I'm gonna make a video about that person
okay but I get a lot of these hey I just
want to say it's like III want to say
that I don't do that in my own defense
because I think you may be talking about
me in some respect
yeah in my own defense I never wake up
and say what did Rueben so today I don't
I don't do that
what I do is I wake up you know make
breakfast for the kids make make them
lunch walk down to work and then I walk
into the office and I go Brendan we have
producers that's exactly all right
that's fine and by the way I'm not
talking about legitimate criticism which
I acknowledge all the time if I did if I
had this person on and should I have
asked this question or that question or
if I focused too much on the left
although there's plenty of proof as
today is why I do it
I'm just talking about the endless
trolls and haters that just want cliques
and clout and all that nonsense so you
know it's a load of nonsense it's all so
I'll just dribble but you have to defend
yourself and and I do have to say
something else which is it's been really
interesting today see who has publicly
defended me and who will only privately
message me because I'm getting texts
from people that won't defend me
publicly I don't know where the whole
IDW crew has been on this I haven't
really heard from anybody that's alright
people here people are busy not
everyone's just spending all their days
in the Twittersphere thank God but I
began a lot of texts from people and
then and then a certain set of people
are defending me publicly and it's
appreciated because in these weird
moments you kind of figure out who your
friends are and I say friends not allies
I hate that word allies there was like
over that person too gay a lie like
we're going to war you got a weapon what
do you got like no I hate the phrase
allies it's so stupid but there was a
mob after him let him check some people
who actually would actually we should
play that part yeah he's about to pull a
real Michael Tracy this parts a little
bit sad and so Bridget fed Izzy today in
art ivana and Colin Moriarty as Mohammed
I'm sure I'm forgetting some some
big-time people David reporting timers
big timers I leave it there I feel bad
for him you know Ryan you know I think
there's a reason why he's wearing those
mirrored sunglasses and sometimes you
wear those now
what was also sort of amazing after a
dave rubin went on his extended sort of
walk i mean there it was fascinating
because it was in the bright sunlight
his long long walk through his
neighborhood but in sunny in many ways
he was walking through the darkness and
he said that he would more than likely
invite more shady people on to his show
and he had talked about in there how the
IDW crew hasn't seemed to even reach out
even in private to say oh my solidarity
David and and I want to make it clear
yesterday on this program
and in a tweet I reached out to David
and I said solidarity and if you wanted
to talk about it I will give you a
platform to talk about now I don't have
a million subscribers we have almost
like 550 or something like that and then
we are you know the podcast as well so
you know we're not quite a million but
close and I'd give you an opportunity
David to defend yourself against this
left-wing rag qualit
what David does apparently is choose to
reach out to Milo Yann innopolis and
it's true and sometimes folks you can't
can't go back sometimes those bridges
gets burned and so here is an exchange
that Milo put on I guess telegram or
something telegram or something like
that
Milo writes total coincidence that the
day I post about him we push Lea here I
think it was in a wasp Ashley excuse me
was it what was this on telegram or is
this on like gab or something else or
what else was he posted this I think
telegram or gab or something like that
you can go public on telegram like that
friended it out and put it up around
places okay well and so uh tota quinces
the day I post about him wapis Lee while
specially here Dave Rubin text me after
two years maybe he was still in recovery
mode for those two years of pretending I
don't exist and 7:40 p.m. now here's a
question where is Milo is he in New
York's and the East Coast
I don't know it's tough to know but I
suspect this was after Dave took that
walk and realized he had no more friends
and he wrote this still your number yeah
I'll do my low what do you want
that is very waspish ously of you to uh
your interview JP was good that's all I
was nothing but loyal helpful and
support
to you since the day we met but you
threw me to the wolves and did nothing
to defend me when they came for me over
total
then you had the hood spot to publicly
gloat about my irrelevance so why are
you texting texting me now feeling the
heat
are we they are coming for you I won't
waste energy trying to sabotage or harm
you but I sure am going to save her the
spectacle go to hell Dave Wow I love the
part - that's like he borrows that
phrase you know when they came for me
you did nothing
yeah I'm not even sure what you're
talking about I watched the interview
this weekend and thought it was
excellent that's all okay then bye Dave
you deserve every bit of what's coming
your way yeah I love the tape saying I'm
not even sure what you're talking about
I just watched the any of you I'm not
there's nothing else going out of my
life Danielle total coincidence that I'm
having to take a walk around the block
and no you know they say you gotta be
nice to people on your way up cuz you're
gonna see them on your way to wherever
alright grifters go when they get
canceled now here is a tweet by Eric
Weinstein he is of the Weinstein
brothers not the not the one that was
just went I think to go into jail or
something like that Harvey Weinstein not
that one different one yeah different
one this guy is this the guy who was the
professor no I think that's Brett so
this is the guy who's the was the works
for Peter teal yeah managing director at
teal capital so he's gonna be might be
the leftist for Dave shitty wine and
straight so Eric Weinstein says there's
something very odd and perhaps new
happening around Dave Rubin Rubin report
we we could call it hate blinding in
analogy to being left
snowblind there is now a permanent that
harassed Dave constantly seemingly to
get him to become desensitized to all
criticism this is a bizarre construction
but let's just say let's just stay with
what the hate blinding he's getting hate
now Dave Rubin of course has promoted in
various different ways between his
guests and I think his own commentary
the idea that like there's no hate
speech right you shouldn't play the
victim here is the hate blinding that is
coming that he screen grabs from Twitter
it is a Twitter guy Hasan jf I don't
know how many followers he has but he
says everybody spam quote debate Sam
cedar and quote into the chat and send
super chats it's not spam by the way
Laureen
yes exactly as Lauren Chen is
interviewing the Reuben report I guess
this was six days ago this happened and
the latest this is on you know two weeks
ago there is um four different people
take that universe oh no take that
universe scroll down click one guy one
guy okay and okay and here's here's more
okay yeah two of the people are the same
person who wrote that and then two other
people who wrote debate Sam cedar you
coward so that's the that's the blinding
amount of hate the perma swarm the perma
swarm around Dave Rubin that's real hate
folks this other stuff like the bigotry
and whatnot that's not real hate and
then he goes on to say Erica when I said
since I hold to believe a reasonable
limited and warranted critique of the
Rubin report dave has asked me if I
could come on a show to discuss what the
heck is going on from the perspective of
a good faith leftish critique of Rubin
report guests questions balance and
effect I'm gonna have on a regular guest
literally a guy who was involved in the
conversation that he referenced when he
said my brain was still in recovery mode
from taking in too many high-level
important ideas literally a guy who's
never been on
any other show to discuss this stuff
except for the Reuben report I don't
know if we'll do it but we're talking
about it certainly doesn't make sense to
have to wade through a daily miasma of
hate to get constructive criticism
miasma of perma swarm so so the argument
is is what's happening is is that this
perma swarm of hater accounts it was fun
to do afterwards and and this perma
swarm of hater accounts apparently the
idea is to get Dave desensitize
desensitize to legitimate criticism so
that he's completely in the dark
as to how to get better at whatever he
does we're doing it for his own good so
he doesn't get his feelings hurt anymore
that's another thing it could be I'm
trying to sensitize Dave I'm not trying
to desensitize Dave well that is you
know that is one dimensional chess
thinking but this dude is like 18
dimensional chess thinking and on your
behalf pretty impressive stuff pretty
impressive I can't find the I can't find
the good faith critique another noise to
signal he literally said oh my god like
just friggin shrink and transform into a
corn cob already Dave come on all right
we had to do that extended report it's a
beautiful day out here well you know
what Kanye said Dave your haters are
your biggest fans so solidarity hang in
there bud calling from a five-10 re/code
who's this thanks for holding for so
very long
I'm living my best life are you living
the best life that that's what that's
what sucks then well you know my name is
Col James cash I now I'm the host of CNN
channel tone also known as ghetto news
network man I got all shown else now
congratulations oh well thank you Sam I
took your advice you know I started my
I started my own joint you know we got
65 paste patrons in three months man is
the patron you feel me that's true you
know I you know if I get a hundred Sam
you don't gonna happen uh sun's out guns
out no man I'm not rigging man that's my
boy and I'm not very good okay so what
happened is I will I will co-host PMDs
in studio man Oh
mm yeah all right yeah no no no you
won't like it Sam so you will not like
it you know why no because if I come
through if I come through Friday morning
you will come through man I'm gonna be
passed out 40 ounces all over the place
condom wrapper stripper she'll be all
opened up here man it'll be when you
have no soul man was just a big party
there you're gonna be there for three
days because DMBS is on Tuesday nights
on Thursday night also know who won't
tell Michael we won't tell Michael that
do you did not know that you know what
man that's my fault man no um you know
Matt yeah Matt do you remember when I
remember we was kicking in a theater
right and I was like yo why you got that
places head on man right and what do you
say Matt oh I don't remember what did I
say I like Damian Lillard and you said
you said yeah exactly where is his ass
right now no probably recording some
music now Matt laughing now you and
Reagan running your mouth man yes right
sorry I had it I had to say some about
that now Sam yeah I need you you know I
need you to do something man I need you
to do something for the streets then I
need you do something for the hood all
right you know what do you need can you
do that for me now Sam I'm gonna get
familiar with them WorldStarHipHop calm
soon of course will stir yes absolutely
good good good good
so Sam it's like men I'll be seeing you
Sam I'll be seeing you on Twitter you
know sometimes I paraphrase you on
Twitter
okay yeah I paraphrase one of the
highest forms of flattery so absolutely
now what I need you to do Sam is like
man you need to you need to really flex
on your enemies man not your enemy you
should flex on people with you
when ideas you know you need to do that
man you need to look into the camera Sam
and Max you gonna impose the world star
watermark you need to look in the camera
and really let them know what time it
isn't it Sam you need it you need it you
know say let them know you perform like
Mike anyone
Serna vich tracy jordan jackson accident
pact :
ridiculous you've got a flex on the
stand let them know you pull up solo if
you got to you don't even need to click
you'll go to MSNBC any show let them
know your boss in every show any podcast
I don't know Sam look at the camera let
them know well I think I I totally agree
with Cole James Kass here
so how's that we're gonna work on
flexing yeah I'm working I get it I get
a I'm building up to super flexing right
now I'm just sort of like you know like
tremoring not full-on flex well but I've
got to save it for the sun's out guns
out I got to save it for the sun's out
guns out we already know you got the
same guns Rambo hair we talked about
that yeah you know anybody could get it
Sam you know I'm very proud of you you
know send you and you can see you can
reach me at patreon.com slash union
channel 10 we need 35 more Sam thank you
for flexing on them put that worldstar
watermark it was good alright y'all
check it out folks there you go yeah can
you Street can you stream to worldstar
yet can we stir it directly yeah we
should submit that a Dave ribbon segment
we just did
whenever I get out whenever I come home
Saul just charges at me with both his
fists out and yelled to worldstar
basically it you've learned well comment
the Internet exactly calling a calling
from an 808 area code who's this where
you come from
mmm-hmm hey Sam what's going on
yep who's this awesome
my name is camilo I'm calling in from
New Jersey nice to meet you Camilo let's
go what's on your mind and I said nice
to talk to you
so recently I've heard a couple callers
call in saying that
the one gentleman called in about
agriculture and he was hesitant to
accept socialism and another gentleman
called in an older guy and thanks that
he was kind of scared of when Jamie
talks about communism and I'm calling as
a Marine veteran myself I searched for
four years and I didn't want to say to
anybody who's listening because
obviously veterans are listening just
Ivan just dive into leftism boom one
thing I've noticed is that leftism has
really opened my eyes to I guess the
greater good of civilians and so I'm a
little nervous I'm gonna slow down a
little great but uh awesome thank you
but uh ya know and we appreciate you
guys you guys have opened my eyes to
everything there's a lot of toxicity
there's another thing I want to touch on
there's a lot of toxicity within the
military community looking up to guys
like James maddest accepting some of
trumps rhetoric just because he said it
once in a while that he likes milk Lori
whatever even though his policy is
sending troops overseas every day but
that's a whole other thing but um I
guess just wanted to toss the ball in
your guys's feeling that way yeah left
is the best time I want us to say about
that all right
well appreciate the call man thanks so
much awesome it's good advice awesome
thank you have you ever listened to
eyes left oh is he gone yep no well I
think good good podcast are you doing
here okay good if you're in the military
or ex-military is eyes left from Spencer
apone who you may know as the guy who
got kicked out of the Army for writing
communism will win on his cap at his
West Point graduation ceremony didn't
you have him on your show yeah I've
learned a lot a lot about our like all
the conflicts we're currently in that I
barely even knew about from listening to
his show awesome awesome
well yeah thanks a lot guys I appreciate
the call
yeah it is a little bit come from an a3
to area code who's this where you come
from this is Ryan again calling from
Texas Ryan from Texas what's on your
mind Ryan I wanted so you pretty much
like covered all but one of my points
that I was going to make I like my
ambassador
I mean well I'm basking my opinions on
air but so I wanted to clarify one of my
points yesterday because I didn't have
to quickly explain it so I mentioned
these historic control of the context or
control of the House of Representatives
because I thought if Democrats didn't
win the election you know they could
just cozy with impeachment then however
like after hearing your arguments how
you made the point that it would be
almost hypocritical to not be adhering
to the Constitution to basically do
pursue different teachers now however I
realized that I don't really care about
if it looks hypocritical or could the
blame power move because I think the
Republicans have created this
environment of continents like how you
were talking about how the Republicans
fever's won't break and so I just wanted
to hear your thoughts or not alright
Ryan well you have to just remind me
like I I rarely make an argument about
hypocrisy what what you're saying that I
said not necessarily hypocrisy just not
not adhering to the Constitution what do
you mean by not impeaching now or by
impeaching later but by not by not
because you laid out the argument that
we should impeach my yeah I mean look
first off if you don't impeach now how
do you like because it's a political
thing right I mean it becomes
theoretically a little bit harder to do
later right because there would have to
be new things that would lead to
impeachment
to sell it to the American public but
I'm not 100% sure I know what what the
point you're trying to make is my point
is that the if it would work it would
what partisan - - to do impeachment
atthe Europe after the elections uh but
I don't I don't really care if it looks
if it looks partisan because I think
business I think the environment for the
Republicans for yeah I don't care either
about that I mean I just think that you
you do it now ultimately because you
know I think particularly in the wake of
the Muller report and in wake of all the
obstruction that has gone on in the wake
of the Muller report in addition to the
obstruction that went on beforehand I
think there's a real cost to not
impeaching that's I mean that's
basically what I that's my argument I
also I come around to the idea of
impeachment I'm not like both the
problem I see with me living in a red
state is that I can't say I can't say
that in like my college because if I say
that in my college they would invite bad
actors who - like with strong opinions
that would then further that narrative
that oh they're going to take down
Donald Trump I see what you know I'm
saying yes yeah there's no reason to get
people who are asleep no reason to wake
up anybody if we can if there can be
some I mean you know on some level
though that's an argument that it's
gonna drive out the vote but you know I
got news for you Texas I don't think
they're quite there yet in terms of
turning Texas but appreciate the call
Ryan a problem thank you all right we
don't have too much time left I know we
have people holding for a long time come
from a three four seven area code who's
this where you come from it's Allie from
Astoria Holly what's going on I just
want to say it's been I don't know how
many hours since Lulu press conference
happened but we still haven't heard
anything from Pelosi or Schumer yet my
understand
it was a good there was a good there was
a good that that what's-his-face Nadler
was good but I haven't I haven't I
haven't seen it obviously but I've heard
that his response was pretty good good I
think I'm Twitter you saying he's gonna
do a press conference later today about
it yet well yeah it's been a little long
as I checked but Tom's been out there
from campaigns been out there with the
press Secretary's went out there I
guarantee you like the Fox News evening
shows are going to run with Muller
retiring rather than anything else
listen flabbergasted the deaf but not
trying to change the narrative at all
well I suspect we're gonna read in the
next day or two about accounts of maybe
a Democratic caucus meeting where you're
going to see more reports of people
saying to Pelosi we got to do this now
that's my guess but but who knows
they're hoping big hopes I just want to
say but I'm sorry the only person I've
been here is a new tab right now okay I
just want to say it was a Mueller
Mueller boxfish I mean I'm gonna turning
myself and it reminds me a lot of I used
to work for a DOJ as a contractor
investigating some national firms put a
lawsuit - and when it comes down to it
it's about political forces well I read
I read the Mueller report and with law
suggestions but it's it's from Greek ash
sauce I have to say like if I would know
why Euler signed up for this I didn't
believe that you could you prosecute the
president at all you know I I will say
this I am inclined to have some sympathy
for the guy some sympathy because
there's a lot of pressure this is a very
difficult situation on one hand on the
other hand you make a very very
good point like what did you see I know
what you were told to do but what did
you really see what did you really see
is your mandate I mean you you know
there is it was a book jesse eisenberg
he came on this program called the
 club and it was really about
Muller's time and commis time in the DOJ
and that is like this read and you know
this this fear of prosecution and I
think there is I think there is a big
part of that I also think look the
stakes are very high
I mean you know from a guy like this
who's probably institutionalist he's
probably nervous about it I I'm also
frankly and this is you know the those
are the two sort of like most
predominant thoughts I have about this I
also can't help but feel that there is a
significant chunk of the story that may
not directly have direct bearing on what
the investigation was about but that
involved the what was reported at the
time is this sort of mutiny coming out
of the New York FBI office that involves
Felix aider who still was supposed to
testify just sort of it just melted away
not no reporting on just melted away
Felix aider a massive lawsuit that was
being brought against Felix aider melted
away guy who was on record as being a
CIA and FBI asset to the extent that
leatherette or Lynch is writing you know
letters of recommendation to a court on
his behalf I think there was something
else that was going on that may have
nothing to do with this per se but that
Muller is you know had to tiptoe around
and I don't think we'll ever know about
it I haven't seen any reporting about it
nobody seems to even you know wonder
like where's Felix aider why didn't he
testify
who's mozi was a day away from
testifying and then of a sudden they
just punted to say that use the source
or sound of the Laden's phone one week
ago
yes he he it was reported that he was
the source for a sama bin Laden's cell
phone he clearly was involved in money
laundering
and was clearly using that as a
mechanism in which to provide the CIA
and the FBI with information about stuff
that presumably a money launderer would
pick up and so I don't know if we're
ever gonna hear about and I presumably
if Loretta Lynch is writing this stuff
from the Eastern District of New York
USA USA's office then it's the New York
FBI office that's running him and that
New York FBI office people can go back
and read in September October of 2016
there are reports they were you know
within the times in the post about like
a mutiny that was coming out of there
because they were mad at Comey and I I
just think that there's a whole part of
this story that we're just never gonna
really hear synthesised
know I don't know what it is I don't
think I don't think it's I don't think
it's you know I don't think it's crazy
crazy stuff but I think it's stuff
that's probably embarrassing to the FBI
about what they allowed Felix aider to
get away with maybe that they've turned
a blind eye to people Associates of
Felix aiders who have been committing
crimes been maybe a receptacle for money
lot money and laundered money and they
turned a blind eye to this maybe for a
decade and you know maybe that person
ends up as president and they didn't
really talk about it I don't know but
it's weird
appreciate the call it's just oh one
last thing
yeah yeah well it's still the end still
me if anybody's listening and it hasn't
registered to vote please do we have a
chance to have a really great prosecutor
happen in Queens
Tiffany Caban she's a public defender
register before the end of May vote for
her see some actually good prosecutors
for change yes register she's got the
endorsement of the DSA we've been
running canvassing operations for her
periodically I'm one of them yeah oh
hell yeah I've been knocking door yeah
are you credit thank you for your
service
good job I think
all right final call the day folks sorry
gotta wrap this up a little bit early
today got a lot of people have been on
hold for over an hour this next person
in line seven one six seven one six area
code who's this where you come from I
Sam this is Brendan from Buffalo
Brendan doesn't have one yeah so I was
gonna say one thing I saw yesterday sure
I want to say that it's really hype that
you play secret Hitler I play that game
all the time with my friends oh so much
fun yeah I played it I played it with
some some comedians it's pretty pretty
fun there you go got a pretty obnoxious
yeah it sounds like a good crowd to play
it with yeah yeah so my question is like
are you familiar with Peter Joseph and
if you are like I just wanted to know
like what your thoughts are or if Jaime
or Brendan are familiar with in there
obviously pretty common about it too
Peter Joseph yeah he's he's the creator
of the zeitgeist trilogy I know if
you're familiar with the zeitgeist film
he also has a popular youtube series
titled culture in decline seem to
remember that that was sort of big like
back I don't know a year or two ago I
don't know I remember yeah so I mean the
original zeitgeist film came out maybe
in the mid mid to late early
two-thousands like I think was oh six or
something like that yeah and in the
first film is kind of controversial but
the second and third films are less off
the rails too so to speak but she's I
don't know that he might not agree with
this but the way I might describe would
be he kind of like almost repackages
like far-left ism without using like the
term socialism and communism and like
and those ideas to like I don't know try
to make it maybe more accessible and
less stigmatized so okay I don't know I
guess I would just encourage you guys to
maybe check out some of the stuff he has
a new book out called the new human
rights movement and
and I was very solid it came out in 2017
and then like his most recent work is
that he's working on a film called
inter-reflections that's supposed to
come out with and I don't know the do
the the day line has been extended over
and over again but I'm sure once it
comes out he'd be looking for shows to
go on and things like that so I'd
encourage you to maybe keep your eyes
peeled and maybe him on the show when
the film comes out something like that
so I'm seeing here he presents
conspiracy theories does he see trying
to sell you the conspiracy theories or
is he looking at it in more of a
sociological way so I would say it's
more sociological and like that's the
thing is like the first film is so
stigmatized because he does cover topics
like 9/11 in the Fed and and like and he
has since I think changed his positions
on those topics since he was kind of
young when he made the first film but
but and yeah go on go on
I gotta say because I've done two
conspiracy theory episodes now on my
show the anti Fattah and I am definitely
interested in these things from a
sociological perspective and I think
people have a whole lot of really valid
reasons to be suspicious of the
government and the state considering all
the things we know the state has done
it's not a theory but if you talk about
this stuff without I've heard it I've
heard it put before that conspiracy
theory is Illuminati theory all that
stuff it's like the class analysis of
fools you know you need a class analysis
in there otherwise it can fear off and
some really right wing and
unconstructive direction it's also
incredibly disempowering I mean my my
take on on someone like like Alex Jones
has always been if he didn't exist
those forces that he supposedly rails
again would create him like you don't
have to think that there's some type of
special you know meeting of of the you
know the elite and they kill an owl yeah
is you can just know that like the elite
have aligned interests and it doesn't
take a genius to figure out what those
aligned interests are and maybe they run
into each other at Davos and say like
are you doing this yeah I'm doing that I
mean you know I think there are other
podcasters and and and you pick up a
couple of uh you know ideas like oh well
you should use this software or that
software I mean and it then basically
disempowers you because it takes you
down a rabbit hole chasing some type of
mysticism when in fact this is not
mystical this is not you know this is
not Star Chamber stuff it's just the way
that people with aligned interests and
if you are a billionaire your interests
are aligned with other billionaires and
completely misaligned with like ninety
nine point nine five percent of the
world and you're going to do things
you've lost touch with humanity in many
respects and you're going to do things
that are you know are detrimental to the
rest of the world and to attribute that
to some type of special you know secret
cult and they're vampires or changelings
or or whatever it is
just disempowers people but I you know
if I run across it and have some time
which never happens but if I do I will I
will check that out and make or see
we'll see I'll look into it a little bit
I mean it's frustrating it's it's so
frustrating for me because a lot I mean
different groups of people believe
conspiracy theories for different
reasons right and a lot of the people
who are most oppressed by capitalism a
lot of people in the black community
believe in certain kinds of conspiracy
theories that are based in like facts
like the government has done all sorts
of messed up things to black people that
have been documented in history on the
record and yeah and like a lot of like
teens youth believe in this stuff and
like it it's a it's a smart impulse
right it's people who are smart enough
to know that there's something messed up
happening but they don't have access to
the information about what the specifics
are so like a friend of mine did a
really cool project actually which was a
foot called how to overthrow the
Illuminati and it takes it's geared
towards teenagers and it takes their
belief in this stuff seriously it takes
the reasons behind it seriously and then
it takes you through why this is
actually not a good explanation for
what's it takes you through to an
analysis that you know actually there is
a global system conspiring to oppress
you and it's called capitalism so I hope
you check that out right all right I
gotta go appreciate the call
all right folks I'll just say really
quickly unless there's a huge difference
between the second two movies in the
first sight guys I don't think we will
be covering that on this show
all right folks got a jump that's not a
coincidence
see you tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
[Music]
I was
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made oh
the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
