CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of an ele
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it's Thursday October 17th 2019
I'm Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrial ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program princeton historian matt carp on
his brilliant new Jacobin essay on 2020
most important piece of the election so
far is this the future liberals want
we'll be talking about that and the
history of the modern Democratic Party
air Dewan continues with his vicious and
Persian in Kurdish areas of northern
Syria even as the Kurds valiantly fight
back teaming up with Assad apparently
Donald Trump's brilliant and persuasive
letter did not do much Ecuador the
agreement is reached between the social
movements and right wing president Lenin
Moreno on fuel subsidies the new IMF
World Bank austerity packages talk about
that the European Union announces a new
brexit deal with the UK Trump's meltdown
with Pelosi apparently started with her
making a Putin joke
and everybody just plays their role
[Music]
apparently Pelosi is getting a lot of
wins ex Pompeo advisor tells impeachment
investigators he was disturbed by
attempts to use foreigners to hurt
Trump's political opponents Gordon
Sunland Trump envoy and key figure in
impeachment probe facing criticisms over
a 1 million dollar taxpayer-funded home
renovation that's the spirit of this
administration
McConnell eyes a quick impeachment trial
in the Senate
CBS strike is officially on as the
Chicago Teachers Union and the mayor
failed to reach a last-minute deal
solidarity passed three months in
Afghanistan have been the deadly
deadliest on civilians in a decade time
to get out and Congressman Elijah
Cummings passed he was 68 years old
really I think admired by all regardless
where he were is clearly a very good
person and effective legislator Joe
Biden is bleeding cash but not hurting
for private jet brides talk about that
Amazon dumps 1 million into Seattle's
elections to fight a basic human agenda
Elizabeth Warren in a major mistake on
the basics of Middle East politics
revealing more concerns in her foreign
policy even as it's reported that part
of the reason for a LAN indoor L on
Omar's endorsement of Bernie Sanders is
because of her concern about war and
occupation all that and much much more
on today's majority report all right
folks
so in Turkey in northern Syria things
are still you know taking place it's a
very fluid situation the bottom
Turkey has been using far-right group
suicide bombers terrorist groups their
operations there's no doubt that his
mark games pointed out that there are
some people in the in the mainstream of
foreign policymaking who were excusing
groups like this before when they were
fighting Assad and who are now all of a
sudden correctly identifying them as
terrorist organizations as Turkey
deploys them in their attempt to
ethnically cleanse the Kurds in northern
Syria and then of course there's other
people that want to ignore Assad's
crimes against humanity as well as so
many people just continue to get Syria
wrong it's a horrifying disturbing
situation there is a resiliency in the
row job of fighting forces however and
then as always everything overlaps with
the grotesque comedy of the Trump
administration and you know just is what
it is
so we're gonna laugh at this because
this letter that Trump sent to President
air21 on October 9th is I mean beyond
laughable it's hysterical it's bizarre
what's incredible is that probably a lot
of people in the Trump cult will
actually think that this was effective
and inspired so this letter is utterly
demented and the only way to present it
is in a professional reading by the
finest Trump impersonator on the planet
Anthony is manic and and we sound like
him impersonating Trump when we say his
last name antimanic anyways he used
through the Trump show on Comedy Central
which was hilarious there should have
been a second season he this is him on
Twitter reading Donald Trump's October
9th letter to tie up their 2-1 the White
House Washington October 9th 2019 whoa
jinx his excellently recep tayyip hip
edgy gun President of the Republic of
Turkey
gate and I can dear mr. president let's
work out a good deal you don't want to
be responsible for slaughtering
thousands of people and I don't want to
be responsible for destroying the
Turkish economy and I well I've already
given you a little sample with respect
to pastor Brunson I have worked hard to
solve some of your problems don't let
the world down you can make a great deal
general Mozilla w'm is willing to
negotiate with you and he is willing to
make concessions that they would never
have made in the past
I am confidentially concluding a copy of
his letter to me just receive history
will look upon you favorably if you get
this done the right in your main way it
will look upon you forever as the devil
if good things don't happen don't be a
tough guy don't be a fool I'll call you
later
sincerely Donald jumble company oh Jesus
Christ that guy captures the absolute
essence of this
um now Donald Trump betrayed the Kurds
which by the way multiple Republicans
have going back to Henry Kissinger in
the 1970s and George HW Bush in the
early 1990s and when Trump betrays
people or when Trump gets rolled by
someone else
he blames and is a whiny little scumbag
here he is clip number two no I just
wanted to point out that that letter was
real some people aren't
oh no that's a real letter through real
what that is not satire folks that is a
hundred percent real letter that was
Donald Trump's brilliant mind and
diplomacy in action here he is
threw in the trash literally no the
turks first of all they probably had to
figure out like like alright what's the
best way to translate this
it makes doesn't make any sense and they
probably sat in fired three translators
fired three translators is what it says
then they laughed and enjoyed themselves
all right here is Donald Trump blaming
the Kurt now again the Kurds are a
historically repressed group by multiple
countries including of course Turkey in
the Middle East even and in addition to
you know some incredibly successful
innovative politics in rojava
if you were even just going to take it
from a you know the supposedly this
us-centric perspective which by the way
of course this action is is freeing Isis
people and empowering those groups so
Donald Trump is also this is in fact a
huge threat to global security how he's
done this but if you were to take that
narrow view you know of like I don't
care anything else I just care about how
they fight it ice fought Isis no one has
fought Isis more effectively than the
Kurds in northern Syria by the way
Turkish government was meeting with
forces from the YPG up until 2015 so
when they lie and say that they're
exactly the same thing as the PKK
they're lying here is Donald Trump
trashing the Kurdish people we'll see in
the meantime our soldiers are not in
harm's way as they shouldn't be as to
country's fight over land that has
nothing to do with us and the Kurds are
much safer right now but the Kurds know
how to fight and as I said they're not
angels they're not angels if you take a
look you have to go back and take a look
but they fought with us we paid a lot of
money for them to fight with us and
that's okay they did well when they
fought with us they didn't do so well
when they didn't fight with us when I
refused to allow the Americans a year
and a half ago to fight with the Kurds
against Iraq I said wait a minute this
country stupidly just spent a fortune on
fighting war with
direct nobody knows how they spent it
but they spent actually we're in the
Middle East now for eight trillion
dollars if you can believe that
stupidity but in Iraq we're in for
probably five and a half trillion so
they tell me wait a minute we just spent
five and a half trillion fighting in
Iraq and with Iraq and now we're
supposed to spend money to fight with
the Kurds against Iraq I said no thank
you
no I believe he's talking I mean I
actually don't know exactly what the
hell he's talking about
either he maybe he's talking about the
Kurdish referendum in northern Iraq
obviously the Kurds ad we're trying to
gain independence formally even though
they have a very autonomous region
northern Iraq that is a different
political faction than the ones in
northern Syria just so you know just so
you know it's crazy it's crazy but if
you look at the history there's a lot
going on today's show is brought to you
by Kerry Yuma merica which Mary Kerry
Yuma sorry today's show is brought to
you by Kerry Yuma Kerry Yuma Mary's
old-school designs with new-school
ethics they want the shoes you wear to
be made responsibly feel crazy
comfortable and provide effortless style
that's why they made their sneakers by
hand with premium natural materials like
their canvas which is made from cotton
sourced via Fairtrade initiatives or
their cleaner
premium leather which is made with water
that's been reused and treated with zero
chemical waste output their outsole is
even made out of raw natural rubber plus
they're shipping footprint balance is
zero which is amazing considering the
ship worldwide and here in the US they
even have Express shipping and can
deliver you shoes in just two to three
business days then if there are any
issues and they don't fit perfectly you
can return them free of charge these are
incredibly good-looking shoes I've
really noticed that because as Sam has
begun to wear them I don't feel
embarrassed looking at Sam's feet I feel
proud dope shoes for Sam for a limited
time our listeners can get 15% off of
their first pair
of kereama sneakers go to see a are I um
a.com slash majority that's carry Yuma
comm slash majority for 15 percent off
today and the language wars are gonna be
heating up around here soon
babble will get you speaking a new
language quickly and with confidence
choose from 14 languages including
French Spanish Italian but what else we
got wait I think there's also porch I
know this Portuguese what else the
Turkish plenty of like fascinating
options there
babbles teaching method and speech
recognition technology is proven be
effective across multiple studies
babbles lessons are lovingly created by
over 100 language experts aka real
people not by a translation machine
lessons are engaging and convenient
lasting only 10 to 15 minutes learn
through interactive dialogue so you can
perfect your pronunciation and accent
Babel is available as an app or online
and your progress syncs across all
devices I am extraordinarily excited to
I'm actually going to do this to learn
Portuguese and I have like language
learning phobias and looking at the
platform and how easy it is to use this
Portuguese to specific low man I got it
do this I've gotten a sense I looked a
little bit at the app to just try to
like get over my fear of doing it and it
looks incredibly inviting and fun
because you listen to this show babble
has a special offer for you go to babble
comm and select the language of your
choice Brazilian Portuguese for me once
you try for free and are ready to sign
up select three month option and babble
give you three additional months for
free with promo code majority that's six
months for the cost of three with promo
code majority go to babble be a bee bee
al.com and sir promo code majority
babble speak a new language with
confidence and finally one of today's
our last sponsor of the day
is better help who is giving our
audience 10% off their first month when
they go to better help calm / majority
report better help gives you access to
your own fully licensed and accredited
therapist via phone chat or video when
you sign up they'll match you with a
therapist based on your specific needs
and you'll be communicating with that
therapist in less than 24 hours if
you're not happy with your therapist you
can switch to a new one at any time for
any reason for no additional charge
they have 3000 licensed therapists from
all over the country so they have
therapists with specialties that may not
be available in your area you don't have
to drive to an office sit around in a
waiting room you can do everything from
the comfort of your own home better help
tends to be more affordable than
traditional in-person therapy and they
have financial aid options if you
qualify they're giving everyone in our
audience 10% off of our first month when
you go to better help calm / majority
report that's better
h e LP calm / majority report we're
going to take a brief break and we will
be right back with Matt carp
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Matt Carr piece an assistant professor
of history at Princeton University he's
also the Czar an ideological director of
the Jacobin magazine or also known to
the public as contributing editor and he
is the author of is this the future
liberals want a brilliant piece that
just came out in Jacobin Matt professor
thanks for being here
actually sorry I'm as a step one of my
prevention professional class
credentialism I'm going to have to
insist on being called the referred to
as an associate professor because I did
get tenure and that's of minor
significance in this in this
conversation well I don't know actually
how minor it is I've noticed some people
kind of zero in with a lot of uh there's
one Vox writer that was giving you a lot
of but yet you drive cars arguments
about your piece we'll get to that later
yeah what can I lead with him Mallette
yeah definitely not lead with him and
let's actually talk about the the nice
and smart one as well the one at New
York Magazine but before we get to all
of that let's talk about actually really
get bigger picture in terms of
contextualizing your piece let's talk
about the modern history of the
Democratic Party the New Deal coalition
what happened in the 1970s through the
rise of Third Way and where we are today
give us that broader social history if
you can yeah and I think I got to go a
little international with it too because
I mean I think this is a sort of a basic
you know kind of a historical
fundamental about modern societies in
the kind of an you know industrialized
or post industrialized world but you
know basically somehow sort of escapes
99% of our discourse but I mean like
what were the political forces that
basically built the basic infrastructure
of social democracy or the welfare state
or however you want to call it in the
United States in Europe you know
everywhere across the Atlantic world
what built the National Health Service
and
written what created unemployment
insurance free college and Scandinavia
elsewhere family leave policy and in the
u.s. our rougher state is much more
patchwork what would he produce even the
things that we do have Social Security
Medicare etc in every case organized
labor and labor struggles were crucial
central to these movements but they were
also as sort of a matter of the record
although we don't talk about this very
much
produced by political parties that were
dominated by the working class that that
in in whom the working class in European
cases were sort of formally at the
center of socialist and Social
Democratic and Labour Party but even in
the United States in the Democratic
Party of the New Deal era overwhelmingly
as a coalition from you know black
workers in Harlem who switched to the
Democratic Party under FDR through to
role farm workers and in in say New
Mexico or industrial workers in Chicago
or Cleveland you know this is a party of
work that was dominated by working
people and we don't need to be nostalgic
about this mid-century era but the that
that's what made the the New Deal itself
and including I think the the
achievements of the civil rights
movement of the you know from the 50s
into the 60s was that the Democratic
Party was a party of workers was a party
which had a close relation to the labor
movement and whose main voters whose key
constituents were workers and you know
that alignment is gone now and it's been
gone for a long time and I think you
know it's one of the main you know
things that the Laster progressives or
anyone who's trying to sort of make a
big structural change in this country
has to grapple with the passing of that
alignment that that actually produced
the fundamentals you know in our society
yeah and you make the point that even a
politician who you know frankly but a
you know pretty mediocre in many
respects and one that ended up embracing
the you know the genocide in Vietnam and
I think one of actually the ironies is
that part of the limits to these
political projects that delivered so
many gains the United States and Europe
is is the International dimension which
actually has some today and then the
other dimension of course is the is the
broader civil rights and equity
dimension which also X has echoes today
but you know a guy like Hubert Humphrey
arising from this working-class base was
actually number one was actually quite
the he deserves real credit in terms of
civil rights work in terms of especially
actual political risk in the beginning
of the year and then even through the
sixties even as he becomes the you know
subservient vice president to LBJ
embraces the genocide in Vietnam this is
still a guy who's talking about you know
free college labor policies health care
an extraordinarily progressive baseline
and that as you say is not the product
of particular qualities of leadership
it's the class configuration exactly
exactly I think we still we kind of have
this view and I think it's partly
inculcated by 50 years of of having lost
this class you know configuration that
you know political parties or even
movements within parties and frankly
this is this remains an issue you know
with the Sanders movement that I
obviously think is our you know our only
hope at this point but that identifies
kind of you know progress or possibility
with individual leaders or carry or the
character of certain politicians you
know whether that's you know whether
that's somebody like Barack Obama or
somebody or somebody like you know
Impuls with Warren whatever that we need
somebody who thinks this way but the
whole point about what Herbert Humphrey
Hubert Humphrey and sorry I'm very sorry
mr. Humphrey what Hubert Humphrey
represented was that it wasn't I mean he
did the he liked our politicians had
individual personal qualities but what
made the Democratic Party possible would
made the achievements the limited but
still real achievements of the New Deal
era possible was that this was the
baseline and it wasn't about the
politicians any old hack was going to
support uh was going to support a
national health care system you know
even if they couldn't get it through the
democratic party hacks vote
for it you know this was this was this
was I think I liked you're aware this
was a baseline and we don't have
anything like that baseline we have to
build that baseline again but we'll get
to that how does that come apart so in
one part of the story obviously and this
I think you know this is a very
important part but this is a part that
well you see it in the Democratic Party
certainly with the certainly the racial
politics that people in the Third Way
and Bill Clinton embraced in the 80s and
90s which really you know they didn't go
as far as Reagan but they were quite
comfortable making very racist and
xenophobic appeals so people know that
certainly you know the rise of Nixon and
part of the breakup of the New Deal
coalition is definitely a you know you
know apartheid as being Jim Crow as
being formally dismantled in the United
States it's of course still actually
existing in many respects but it is
being legally dismantled and then there
is a you know there is absolutely a
strong racial backlash amongst a
significant portion of white voters then
the other parallel those that we see and
and you know this is just and this is
more relevant for understanding the
current dynamics of the Democratic Party
is a rise of a professional class and a
highly educated baby boomer generation
coming out of the 60s who might even be
really correct and highly socially
progressive on civil rights and women's
rights and correct on Vietnam but have
no conception of class maybe even our
reactive and condescending and snotty
towards labor politics and then also you
know a rise of I mean you know as an
example I Adolph read talks about you
know the historical breakthrough of an
african-american mayor in Atlanta in the
70s and then who also goes on to proceed
to lay off 2000 primarily African
American public workers with devastating
effect on you know an emergent black
middle class in the south right so those
two trends start to coalesce and then we
start to get the the origins of the
Democratic Party of Chuck Schumer saying
you know for every blue-collar vote we
lose you know in in May
again I think it was we pick up an
affluent suburban night in in the
suburbs of Philly yeah exactly I mean
not that that is a culmination that
schumer quote which i think is that
goodbye edwin dell and you know half a
dozen other other of these these figures
is a culmination of this you know half
century of you know much larger
political economic social transformation
that you know is not unique to the
United States either you know the the
the broader factors that you know
America has a particular narrative and I
think the the narrative about civil
rights which I do include I think you
know and I think a lot of way to
scholarship includes as a real
achievement in some ways of this
working-class labor driven class
configuration in the mid-century you
know there's a reason why you know
nothing like the civil rights movement
was possible in the Gilded Age without
kind of anything like class voting but
leaving that aside the backlash the
civil rights very important as you as
you as you as sorry as you have laid out
there in terms of transforming the voter
bases but you know you don't actually
need the racial backlash theory to
explain this because it's been happening
in other countries that didn't have
didn't have the same racial politics as
the United States I mean it's happened
everywhere in Western Europe where
parties of the left traditional
working-class parties with the with the
rise of globalization financialization
automation etc and the sort of arrival
of new of the knowledge economy and new
professional class you know new
professional class constituencies have
gradually sort of moved away from a
working-class base ideologically they've
moved away and decisions to move right
on on economic questions on free trade
on on on Union politics that you know or
not unique to the United States
obviously you had the Third Way in
Britain and boo Tony Blair and
everywhere else
anyway these the mixture of both larger
larger restructuring of the world
economy you know in the 19th after since
since the 1960's and 1970's and this
sort of the
the the manoeuvres of the center-left
parties away from a working-class base
has really accelerated this
transformation where you now have yeah
from the party of he word Humphrey where
I think I think Chuck Schumer is a nice
analog he's neither the best nor the
worst of this new breed he's just
perfectly average as a representative
absolute like that yes absolute straight
out of Harvard Law right into the
legislature and kind of followed the
trajectory of this kind of professional
class politics all the way down in terms
of his connections on Wall Street in the
you know which he built up in the 80s
and 90s and his kind of you know you
know he's not even the most right-wing
Democrat in some ways the argument of
the piece is not so much that this that
that swapping out blue-collar workers
for white-collar you know
college-educated off an affluent voters
it's not it doesn't necessarily have an
ideological cast that has to move things
to the right you know that did happen in
the 80s with the New Democrats that that
was Dukakis and Clinton's political
project but it can also you know come
under the mantle of a kind of
progressivism I mean the first the the
first wave of this process that you see
I think you know if you look at voting
returns is in the McGovern campaign of
1970 of 1932 which is admirable in lots
of ways
certainly on its in its rejection of the
kind of you know the atrocities of the
Cold War and Vietnam but but also
represented a conscious effort on the
part of some of these kind of
college-educated early boomers that you
described to kind of move away from a
working-class alignment and towards you
know coalition of the educated and the
dedicated you know basically people who
had the right values rather than people
whose material interests were aligned
right yeah they didn't yeah okay yeah
you come in yeah I just no I just want
to really underline that because I think
yeah that is I mean one and should be
noted I mean there's a lot to admire
George McGovern for but he he was and
partially I guess you know because to be
fair to him he dealt with maybe some you
know problematic Union politics however
it was inexcusable I mean he was a
virulent fighter against unions he
literally in the beginning of the Obama
administration recorded a propaganda ad
against
hard check I mean so his actual broader
labor politics yeah it's a mark against
his career he was not good on a number
of labor you know issues it did not
match with the rest of his progressivism
which obviously was quite noble and
correct in many areas but that flipped
though and it's gonna take us cuz I want
you to get us to today and explain that
the Anna Gonia road to socialism but
that flip and of course you know look
it's always based it's always
superstructure if people will indulge me
for a minute
of course values matter of course people
at the end of course there's moral
calculations in politics and of course
you know look something as exalted as
you know you want to have a globe that
works well for workers everywhere
east-west north-south is obviously a
moral commitment however there is also a
base understanding of politics that also
says things fundamentally revolve around
power and resources and we should be
working diligently and in conflict to
deliver power and resources to the vast
majority of human beings so they're not
gobbled up by a few and that that
actually is a question literally of say
just labor verse capital as an example
that politics is not a broader abstract
field of persuasion and ideas and in
material trends and I think that is
where you actually really can if you
understand those terms politicians as
different as George McGovern Bill
Clinton did that Michael Dukakis Tony
Blair Barack Obama and Elizabeth Warren
fit in that tradition as distinct from a
Bernie Sanders who really does look at
things in class and power terms so just
setting that up to get to the Panna
Gonia road to socialism and how this
distinction is playing out today yeah I
mean so I mean this is where we can
bring in our my friends at at Vox and NY
mag which are gets the same thing I
guess it's I don't know what it is just
going to be called Knox or something
like that I do
emphasize there is an actual friend that
NY magazine and Vox I don't care about
that guy yeah yes and I and I'm in some
ways I probably did a little bit of an
injustice to IARC Levitz by lumping him
in with Matt Iglesias here and I
apologize for that to an extent but I
think the point is you know love it and
we'll just start with him because I
think he's a more serious you know I
wouldn't say antagonist but he's a more
serious discussion partner here you know
I've made the case basically that this
doesn't that you know even though this
is worrying in a kind of conceptual
sense in fact in this current moment the
truth is that you know affluent liberals
who are now the college-educated
suburbanite suture mer wanted to bring
to the party actually also not only will
come into the party but will support
significant progressive reform you know
and that in that sense including
economic reform because the argument
goes and it's not entirely wrong that
the the actually the real gains the
trends the way that the American economy
the world economy - but the American
economy in particular has been twisted
and distorted in the last 50 years is
that it's actually not the professional
class that have prospered it's not even
you know it's even the affluent
professional class isn't doing the top
10% isn't isn't actually reaping the
benefits in the way that the top 1% can
so in this sense you know the argument
goes that Democrats don't need to worry
too much at least about this shifting
class coalition which is actually
accelerating you know this is the point
it's not an ideological thing you know
Obama was ideologically to the left of
Clinton or Dukakis no question about it
but yes that that ideological difference
to did nothing to transform this kind of
ongoing class shift which actually
increased in the 2000s and and and my
perspective Warren who's now to the left
of Obama that's wonderful she also is
not going to do anything to try to sort
of alter the tide of this movement
anyway these guys think and levites
argues that this is not going to that
that Obama is um in effect and Warren
ISM can actually still achieve
significant reforms because
these you know relatively affluent
professional class New Democrats will on
board for something like Medicare for
all etc and I have a lot of skepticism
about that based on you know when he
uses mostly polling data to support this
but I think the actual record of
Democrats in power whether it's in the
Obama administration or even at the
state level more recently suggests that
there are some really fixed limits to
the kind of struggle that these that
this new breed of Democrats is able uh
is is you know how much iron is in their
blood when it comes to fighting for this
stuff because their constituency doesn't
actually need it in the same direct
material way that a working-class
constituency would need and so if you
look at you know on the state level all
sorts of Democrats have you know totally
swept and dominates these blue state
legislatures but they're not actually
doing anything like serious economic
redistribution in fact their first thing
they're doing when they get into power
is ruling out tax increases even in
ultra blue progressive states like
Washington state say you know this is
this is off the table and and you know
if you look at the Obama administration
same thing I know I know we can talk
about Obama and Warren but I mean Obama
had a lot of progressive plans and
platforms that in theory a lot of these
professionals might might have supported
and and and in theory might even have
benefited from but he didn't fight for
any of them really in particular you
know the card Shack employee Free Choice
Act is a shining example of this and is
that because Obama himself is actually
totally neoliberal and hated unions
I don't know I'm agnostic on that I
think the truth is it meant it but the
real truth was that the Democratic Party
didn't have it wasn't part of the
party's baseline anymore it was part of
the baseline rhetoric but it wasn't part
of what the party actually stood for as
a party and I worry that even no matter
how grand our plans and schemes are if
the party continues in this direction as
a coalition as a it's material
underpinnings we get even further away
from that baseline yes so this is where
and I think actually the comparison of
Warren to Obama is so much more
illustrative including even on the trend
line of you know okay we keep you know
Obama's to the left of Clinton Warren's
to the left of Obama but we still have
this fundamental dynamic of class
identification and really how this
translates practically again is the
difference and some people think it's
petty but actually it's fundamental to
any way of understanding how we do
politics of do we have an organizer in
chief who has a bottom-up pressure
strategy or do we have you know ultra
charismatic or you know ultra brilliant
or whatever you know people's preferred
adjective person helming it who usually
has a special academic ability and
somehow we'll be able to kind of adjust
the bureaucracy so what you know what
does this tell you in terms of the
overwhelming wealth gap and the support
for Warren and then the fact that you
know and maybe also just a liberal a
berate on the first part right I want to
quote briefly from you just just going
back a second yeah even Levitz knows
that the Democratic Party has moved
dramatically leftward why else would the
Center for American Progress now propose
a federal job guaranteeing universal
health care and I like this part because
you know the timelines get so short here
and we need to be a bit more historical
why now indeed inequality yawn just as
grotesquely ten years ago under the
presidency of Barack Obama and a
filibuster-proof Senate when the senator
Center for American Progress supported
no such things now getting back to the
beginning part of the conversation is
there's one theory that you know well
the pickety book came out and you know
there's different conversations going on
in brownstones and suburban homes and
the kind of intellectual cultures
yeah the discourse is shifting or it's
the relentless onslaught that has been
taking place for decades that first of
course was felt most disproportionately
and most aggressively in the peripheries
in the inner cities and racialized ways
in Appalachia and rural areas and then
gets pushed and pushed more in so that
you can you know just all be Thomas
Friedman for a second you can jump into
an uber and talk to somebody and they're
like oh yeah actually you know I was
making a really good living and you know
tech 15 years ago or something and
basically I haven't had a proper job in
over a decade and my savings are done
you know and I'm driving an uber and I
and you know plenty of markers of
privilege and I did all of the quote
unquote right things and the economy
doesn't work for me that Bernie Sanders
and other adjacent social movements came
along and said we just need to raise the
baseline stop the and put a
social democratic platform that people
are actually fighting for him which is
why his lead donators are employees at
Amazon Walmart and teachers that it was
a material force not an ideation um as
the what shift of the game yeah no
exactly and so some of it does come down
to your reading of the history of the
last ten years absolutely I mean because
I mean one starting point I think which
I think certainly sent even you know
sort of good faith less liberal critics
don't always appreciate fully or reckon
with is the extent to which you know you
know stuff is getting worse to put it
very nicely you know I mean eighty
percent of American workers right are
living paycheck to paycheck right you
know even as you know American
corporations in 2018 at something almost
two trillion dollars in corporate profit
it's doubled as a percentage of the GDP
right this is getting worse this is this
is all post Obama this is not Trump
didn't do this right and you know if
anything is you know we both argued this
produced Trump so so how do we address
this you know I think I think you're
right that there I think I actually I
think those narratives are not in
tension you know that there are
different conversations being had in
brown students and that's why Warren's
call for big structural change is
something that actually you know the
brownstones are getting behind but the
question is what kind of coalition can
actually deliver or begin to deliver
this new baseline that we're talking
about for me what's actually what's move
the needle in a material way and if you
look at the timeline pretty precisely I
mean if you really want to parse the
last few years I mean even in the Year
2015 which is you know right at the end
of the Obama presidency you know right
right before the hurricane
you know nobody was talking about any of
this stuff this was not
some of single-payer healthcare was like
not on the agenda in any significant way
I think the New York Times like
spent all year basically without talking
about Medicare for all even though they
had been talking about it you know years
and years before during the health
policy issue and it was in a significant
extent the Sanders campaign not because
of he was like a sort of a lone
progressive hero but because he kind of
articulated these baseline demands and
thrust them kind of by you know by sheer
force into into this conversation that
you know has unleashed all sorts of a
revealed all sorts of discontented
energies all the way down and I think
this that has produced his 1 million
donors right his truck drivers and his
you know and his bartender donors who
are you know who are who are who are you
know pushing this movement and it's
these demands that have caused I think a
lot of the official liberals to sort of
backpedal and now they're in a situation
where I mean the paradox is there
somebody like Warren and even for you
know even Warren's kind of centrist
opponents you know Medicare for all is
incredibly popular so I actually even
you know it's now it's now the thing
that everybody in that every Democratic
voter wants so you can't actually oppose
it and that's because that's down to the
pressure that Bernie Sanders and a
movement that did not originate in the
brownstones has applied so the question
going forward is do we want to continue
with that kind of movement that is
bringing large and large and increasing
elements of social pressure on the
system or do we hand over the keys to
the best person within the system who's
gonna you know our you know redesign the
architecture of the system somehow kind
of without anything like that movement
and in fact with mostly buoyed by most
enthusiastically buoyed by the support
of a professional class I mean you know
we can read the polling crosstabs in a
lot of different ways and it's not the
case obviously that Sanders is you know
single hat you know every single one of
his supporters is some kind of you know
you know is like a line work or a GM or
something like that and every one of
Warren's is a is a professor of
astrophysics but but the truth is to the
extent that there is any
thing like a working-class driven
working-class LED movement not just in
the who you passively support in a you
know kind of a poll crosstab but who you
donate to who you volunteer for who
you're who you're energized to enter
politics for like someone like a the
bartender the most famous bartender in
America I'll exactly rákóczi or Cortes
you know that that that movement is all
in the Sanders camp I mean for me I
don't see any time I got in the Warren
camp in fact I see I see it the inverse
yeah
so then what and so then that goes back
to then well you know to two things that
seem to always crop up with him just
debate and one is funny because one they
always say well Bernie will face
barriers too and that's I mean that's a
bizarre because it's like yeah of course
I'll face even more barriers because he
has even more targets he's literally
trying to take on capital as a structure
not even just discrete abuses within
capital and to the argument is that the
only way so you know that's the paradox
yeah Warren's put some very good ideas
on the table and by the way even you
know but even like Joe Biden's health
care plan would get killed by the
industry today if he actually fought for
it which obviously we all doubt so the
right the question is is you know even
if you put on a much more modest limited
plan than the full structure plan that
Sanders has on offer for real no b.s
health care real no BS complete medical
and student debt relief you know a
serious green new deal labor power I
mean that you know he's put forward a
structure that's unparalleled in modern
politics but even something that's way
more limited than that would still
require the thing that he is assembled
and that I think is where you know and
and the kind of tragedy of Obama because
Obama actually did assemble something
analogous but it was built on a kind of
feeling and a brand an ethos not a
policy set so when you say is this the
future liberals want can you get really
specific into like how you see those two
choices playing out in terms of the way
that mistakes I mean if I were there
yeah totally sorry yeah I mean I think
for one thing is we get
so and I don't I don't think this is an
entirely you know is an understandable
but I think our horizons especially
around elections get so shortened and so
narrow that it's like okay well what is
X gonna do in office what is X how are
we going to get by you know how you get
by Congress how you you know or you is
burning in abolish the filibuster it's
like it's all about like immediately
assuming that what what the entire
premise of a campaign is like how much
legislation it can pass in the first
hundred days now that's really important
and absolutely that is to the extent to
to a significant extent how you know
larger structural changes happen
ultimately it does have to come through
a legislative barrage there's no
question that that's on the horizon
somehow but clearly in our current
configuration neither neither Bernie nor
Warren nor Biden nor I actually can't
imagine any of these other people
becoming president will will be able to
do that because of these structural
constraints so the issue is you have to
start to think a little bit beyond just
the next you know beyond March 2021 and
so thinking a little bit about what is
the future of politics going to look
like over the next say 10 20 years even
I'm not trying to go further than that I
mean we've got obviously as we've you
know you've talked about many times a
pretty existential ticking clock here so
we can't push this down the road forever
but we have to think about in terms of
the climate crisis but we have to think
about what we can do to get to the much
more radical and much more
transformative you know baseline that we
need and for me the risk with it will
start with a warrant future the risk
with doubling down on that kind of you
know on that kind of politics that
accelerates and I think this it would
the you know partly for reasons of style
and performance which I think are
significant here a warrant Trump
campaign would really highlight I mean
you know people can disagree then Warren
can come out and how populist Trump I
mean I would love to see that but I
think the the all the indications are so
far that it would you would have another
kind of deranged right-wing populist
campaign against the kind of sober plan
for liberal you know where the
ideological differences are actually
submerge not heightened
and and and with the coalition like that
you know you end up creating a situation
where the Democrats become you know you
war and say wins or want loses and you
have one day one then you have Buddha
judge coming up next because people who
support Buddha judge or actually have a
similar cast as people who support
Warren
you know materially and and and there's
sort of no basis that that wheel
material base to believe that that wheel
is not going to keep spinning around and
around and around
well it's Sanders look we shouldn't be
delighted about this huge obstacles and
not just obstacles in terms of the
Republican Party or the Democrats are in
disturb lachemann Democrats are industry
there are huge obstacles in terms of
organizing and building a working class
movement in our atomized individualized
kind of you know you know you know sort
of decomposed you know class society but
but there are signs of hope there there
are signs that in in the polls yes but
also in the donors in the volunteers in
the energy in the people who have thrown
themselves into politics and I think if
you think about how that would look over
the next not just during a Sanders
administration would would obviously
heighten and accelerate that that kind
of politicization that is really what we
need to sort of mobilize not just not
just you know a frustrated you know
professor or lawyer or doctor but to
mobilize you know the bartenders and and
the you know and the the drivers and the
you know the Industrial Workers and and
and having leaders also emerge I mean
you know the best president of the 21st
century is Lula I'm so you know without
a doubt forty million people out of
poverty
that's a worker who never went to
college he was illiterate until he was a
teenager and he's you know we need to
draw and as you say I mean AOC is a
bartender it's a matin it's also
incredible I love Republicans who on
once you know they do their their
endless whining about you know liberal
elites and then attack her for having a
job right like how effective is that
just even as a metric that it shows
their snob it was their snobbery but as
a final point I just think it's to me
it's really starting to come down to its
is it a politics that says we reconcile
all these historical contradictions but
we still recognize that any type of
durable just solution-oriented society
has to come from a bottom up base rooted
in working in material conditions versus
did we keep sitting on the outside and
read like the article and hope you know
do we want like the good person on the
Harvard Law Review or the bad person and
you know what's so bizarre is that
really that's what politics has been
reduced to and then you look and of
course you know within that context you
know Warren is is good you know John
Roberts is a villain Pete Buddha judges
it's cipher but the truth is is they're
all friends to some extent they all
share a framework and we're on the
outside looking in hoping for redemption
versus realizing that we have to do it
ourselves and Bernie absolutely
understands that and it is reflected in
the campaign yeah that's that's like
supremely well said I think I think I
mean I think the only thing that I would
add on that is that you know when you
talk about Bernie has organized our
chief a lot of this work has to be done
outside of electoral politics so right
as we say and so what we're talking
about here it is a little bit of a moon
shot I mean there's no question about it
it's kind of an attempt to sort of use
electoral politics to do things that are
not just electoral but but I think but I
think you know you can see you know in
the way in which Bernie activists and
Bernie volunteers were instrumental in
forging the red-state revolt among
teacher strikes in West Virginia in
Arizona you can see like actual like
real evidence that this movement even
though right now it is electoral and and
certainly that has to be a focus for in
terms of electing Bernie Sanders and
what can never be completely
back-burnered but it's an attempt to
kind of forge results and movements that
are not entirely themselves electoral so
yes we want more working-class people to
run for office and we want more and we
you know we want more working-class
involvement in campaigns etc etc etc but
we also need this kind of fundamentally
this labor revival driven by not by kind
of you know
as bureaucrats or or or you know you
know sort of you know I don't know
hesitant managers of a sort of decline
of the labor movement and decline but
active organizers who see an ally in in
a powerful political movement I mean I
think that's and then the bureaucrats
court and then the bureaucrats can come
in to support that effort I mean you
know I was just debating that with with
Ryan grim and actually it's funny
because at the end of day he still said
last night on TMDs that it should be you
know he like he's a much bigger Warren
fan than me or I think you but you know
he said yes it should be he wants Bernie
at the top of the ticket and Warren as
VP and he but he made the point that you
know Justice Brandeis that good isn't
that like anti monopolist kind of
progressive tradition that his
aggressive you know a decision making
from the bench still did come in the
context of the rise of the American
labor movement so in some ways that even
if you do the job that people like
Warren are putting on the table where
they're constructive in terms of
designing effective bureaucracies and
specific policy areas that work still
hinges on the movement and the strategy
that Sanders is building so it's a
second order thing yeah ultimately of
course you know this is not we're not
talking about some kind of like the way
party work party the American party
system works is we're still talking
about a two-party system that is going
to be a cross class coalition that even
at the peak of class voting in class
voting polarization in you know say the
1930s 1940s you know it wasn't it wasn't
the case that no professionals or
managers or any or anybody except you
know you know a West Virginia mine
worker voted for FDR obviously the whole
country you know huge sections of the
country we're voting for FDR and Truman
etc and I think it's wrong to say that
you know this is an attempt to sort of
push out the the quote-unquote PMC the
professional managerial cost and say no
you're a class enemy so actually you
just have to curl up and die somewhere
obviously they're hot City hot take
blood so far
it yeah but but obviously you know this
is you know the Warrens of the world i I
think have a huge part to play here the
question is on what terms you know is it
is it continue to be on the terms of
yeah Harvard Law Review manages it and
everybody else shows up to press a
button every two years or is it in the
terms of immobilized energized at
politicized working class is is actually
starting to write its own agenda and you
know it's professional class allies can
advance that agenda I mean that's to me
that's obviously the superior path 100%
and you say all that as a prison as a a
Princeton professor I bet you use
airplanes too even though you talk about
the climate yeah well you know
absolutely I'm yeah and I breathe I
breathe air that is produced by our
declining crisis-ridden climate so right
you know you know pretty much yeah we
coordinated this over iPhones I love
when when when when conservatives and
liberals use essentially Unabomber
arguments against socialism but at least
the Unabomber had the integrity to live
in a cabin in Montana and actually not
use this stuff you know I mean to me to
me to be sincere for a minute to me it
shows like a little bit of the the net
50 intellectual bankruptcy but just a
kind of almost like kind of a
schizophrenia on the part of people in
that world who just actually can't
contemplate a different kind of politics
and so sort of have to spit out a kind
of you know a sort of a confused and
actually you know not very systemic or
thoughtful answer in response to you
know even though they they prize all of
those qualities you know above all you
know the the response to this kind of
peace from people of that ilk has been
so revealing in that sense that they you
know they in a sense almost abandoning
their own
supposing commitments to to the rules of
debate it's very striking
it is very striking Matt carp the pieces
is this the future liberals won the
Jackman everybody should read it and
share it
he's also a tenured professor goddammit
Princeton University teaches history to
America's skullenbones I'm just kidding
though let's yell my bed I'm sorry your
tenured I can make jokes like that no
it's the eating we got the eating clubs
here yeah yeah you got to get me I wanna
I want to go visit one of those one day
I want to do I want to do a TM BS from
an eating Club at Princeton let's make
it happen
less said the better man thank you
alright alright thank you Mike take care
alright folks we are gonna take a break
go to the fun half become a member of
the majority report today majority dot F
M slash become a member
what's that getting dinner key ready but
they're ok
TMDs was last night we did a livestream
with Andre Adam Damis on the Canadian
foreign policy and Haiti that was great
and then we did a main show at Ryan grim
where I went deep on the history of the
World Bank IMF the Ecuador and Haitian
uprisings today as a result of those
very same corporate led Western policies
and posed on Latin America in the
Caribbean Ryan grim and I had a great
friendly debate and a big conversation
about the election season the history of
the Democratic Party patreon.com slash T
mb/s Michael Brooks show on YouTube
we're almost at three thousand patrons
which is our next goal and a hundred
thousand subs on YouTube helped us get
there with both and snag your tickets
were over halfway sold out and we're
still not even a month away to Philly so
I would get those World Cafe November
23rd crystal ball Ortiz your ball drop
and Emma piglet
you know the Ryan grim conversation plus
this one are sort of the mirror images
of each other in the same way that the
Levites and Virgil Texas interviews were
for Sam and between those four
interviews I feel like you we've covered
the war in verse Sanders angle a fight
from every possible angle I think that
that's actually true I think that's
totally true and I think it's time for
people to vote for Bernie's but no I
actually I think I think
I think in this case even though it's
been totally destroyed as a term by the
intellectual dark web you want to steal
man arguments I certainly think I mean
Levites and Grimm have put the best on
the table although it's interesting to
me I mean in an Emma vigilant as well
but what's interesting to me is that at
least in in grim and viglance case I
still think both their first choices or
Sanders I'm not sure where Levites is so
that's interesting Matt what's going on
with literary hangover I'm researching
the Salem witch trials for upcoming
episodes recently did hub a mock and
some James Fenimore Cooper yeah so check
that out on the podcast feeds and
YouTube are folks see you in the funny
folk six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
does this alpha males are back and the
alpha males are back back just
males are back back back back back
and the alpha males are back back back
just want to degrade the white man alpha
males are back back I take all of the
bank fraud
our males are back back back
almost as one
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg dinner yeah or a couple of just put
them in rotation these you dance well
the problem with those is they're like
45 seconds long so I don't know if
they're enough of a break that's
Parkinson I'm the alpha males Oh psych
Oh Paul boss says what what watch watch
watch watch watch
on the back
on the back
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
because
alpha males
there's all coded why do you think that
America deserves to be taken over by
jihadis
keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan it's my
birthday happy birthday to me Jew boy I
have a talking Spanish to foil and the
alpha males are males
companies to pay the price requests we
around here hi I am a dog Oh
welcome to the fun half folks Michael
Brooks here with the boys boys boys
all right let's say no that Saturday is
for the boys thing was like actual like
that's right wing insert not even just
right wouldn't mean like a Normie type
me is like a bar stool right yeah okay
is it which is a right wing me my sort
of like a right wing meme you're calling
from an eight four seven area code who
are you where you're calling from you're
calling from an eight four seven area
code who are you
where are you calling from Josh Moraga
Josh from Chicago what's up how you
doing I'm good brother how are you I'm
doing well happy to hear from you what's
on your minds well two things
um first I'm calling because um I want
to talk about the big night Bernie had a
few nights ago and also particularly the
endorsements I remember calling and
saying on the show a few months ago that
uh you could tell that Ellen Omar and
the squad we're going to endorse based
on like who they were lining up with
through legislation and I don't know
about you but reading Omar statement I I
got choked up and I also watching her
video partially because of what she was
talking about with building a sort of
multiracial you know working-class
movement that sort of isn't defined
necessarily by gender or identity or
sexual identity or you know even race
and for me this is sort of the ethos of
like Bernie's campaign in in 2020 and
they I I thought her statement just hit
this right on the head in terms of like
not only what this presidential campaign
is about but what this movement is about
in general and how important is to keep
building this movement and I don't know
if I'm the only person who's who I like
I think Elon Omar is extraordinary I
mean there's
I mean look I'll say
the usual caveat I've I've I've seen the
occasional foreign policy take from her
on Twitter or occasional kind of like
way of attacking Trump that I don't
particularly care for and also you know
AOC I obviously like and you know
there's a lot of there's emerging more
and more good and there's any number of
good people running for office now shot
head Butare and you know Michaela Wilson
Lauren Ashcroft and a lot of Dunn's of
people I hesitate to even start naming
right but I think just as Bernie Sanders
is absolutely unique and essential for
American politics right now and has his
place in history and we need to elect
President I think Ilan Omar of people in
the our cohort I think she's the most
important leader in America I think
she's extraordinary
I think her understanding of politics I
think her relentless commitment to every
form of Justice her serious
understanding of you know morally and
strategically how these things reflect
each other and can synchronize in
addition to her you know just enormous
ly appealing personal qualities I think
I think and and and courage within a
religious effort to destroy her
including by many members of the
Democratic Party and a total cowardice
of any number of people I think I really
don't have enough good things to say
about Ilan Omar I think she's incredible
I think you know yeah it's not just
destroy her Bernie was the only person
to actually actively stand in solidarity
with her I mean I think it's one thing
to like when Trump attacks or it's easy
to like defend her because it's it but
even the statements sort of issued by
everyone else they're all couched and
like well we must not you know
anti-semitism is wrong we must defend
Israel you know and yep look obviously
we all know anti-semitism was wrong
Bernie unequivocally said like she is
not anti-semitic and you know we must
stand in solidarity with her
and you know obviously Bernie knows what
this looks like given
his family history he knows the dangers
and what is going on and I think that's
why he was quick to come to you know
stand in solidarity with her but I mean
to me like it obviously makes sense with
the endorsement and I do also want to
say I know a few Warren supporters who
are in some cases just diehard warrants
for those who might bail if she keeps on
equivocating on Medicare for all I know
I think she's doing I dev note I mean
look if your issue is Medicare for all
I'm sorry I have no attorney yeah
there's one I mean that's I mean she is
equivocating on it and it's very clear
just even from career and inclination
and point of emphasis if you're voting
on Medicare for all there's one can I
mean that's you know I there's just a
very very obvious choice there that's if
that is really actually a number one
issue that is one of my I mean the
foreign policy stuff is also very
important to me and that's obviously a
no-brainer but I and and this and the
broader theory of change stuff but you
know to me medicare for all is elemental
and no one just even remotely approaches
Bernie's credibility on that issue I
mean III don't think anybody could make
a remotely serious argument otherwise
but yeah yeah cosine um to go back to
what he's talking about with Ilhan she
summarizes in the Bernie endorsement
video something that I think we try to
emphasize here it's the when you
question the left sort of I guess
patriotism or a love of country right
and you know we talked about this with
Harvey Kaye I think you and was talked
about in the first walk burrows yeah but
what she says here about an America that
most people believe in I will display it
senator has built there was an America
that I dreamed about there is an America
that most people
believe in it is an ideal it's not
reality yet and he started the work of
organizing for that America and that has
inspired me to get involved like no
matter like this the cynicism that a lot
of people deploy I totally agree with
that I wouldn't be doing this if I
didn't basic 100% and I think another
and one of the things that also Waze
actually hits a lot is in fact if you go
to some of the most brutalized and on
receiving end of American white
supremacy Empire capitalism and
supremacy across the board as an example
migrant communities or people who might
be taking refuge in the United States
where people just throw them obviously
historically brutalized and racialized
background the United States you will
find an extraordinary amount of belief
in the potential and you know and and in
some ways the kind of like their it's
not the same thing but there's some
polar imaging of the dumb fascistic
maggot shud through you know Clintonian
apple-pie about America which
is a settler colonial country and then
also the kind of like I hate America mom
like no America is a very complicated
thing it means a lot of different things
for a lot of different people and she's
absolutely right we've never achieved
what has been written as a possibility
and that's another thing I'd add I think
you're so right Matt I mean this is a
refugee who is in Congress who is
exemplifying some of the unique
potentials here and then also is on the
receiving end by every conceivable
category her race her gender her
religion her visual identity as someone
who wears you know some Islamic garb of
all of the most ugly obscene things
about this country and she responds to
it with precision again and again and
again and again I look ill on Omar is an
extraordinary writer she's an
extraordinary leader and it and I do and
I do and and this is all so I'll just
say real quick as part of the reason
that I do get you know quite irritated
with all the Bernie because I I
remember things like that you know and
doing what he did for her when he did it
was something that a lot of people
advised against it was something that
everybody else was happy to equivocate
on to some degree and he came out when
not only first of all she's a hundred
percent right on the merits even if her
language years ago should have been
improved but she's a hundred percent
right Israel is an apartheid state its
atrocities in Gaza are obscene and
disgusting that's a whole other issue
but you know it is she I think I have no
doubt her life was under threat she was
politically I'm terrorized she didn't
you know most people not only I mean
Schumer and Pelosi essentially I mean
Schumer quite overtly trashed her at
AIPAC Bernie Sanders had her back and
that to me it it really is in those
moments where you're like all right it
is what it is and that's you know and
that's why I'm just not willing to
indulge and so much of the pettiness
around Bernie and I've you know I'll say
a million times
there's valid criticism and blah blah
blah blah there's valid criticisms of
everybody but you gotta balance it out
with he shows up like that and that's
distinct that's another thing that only
he's bringing to the table thanks for
the call and fell on Omar's a national
treasure and the most important leader
in my view of of our you know younger
cohort and in a emerging field with you
know a rasckita tell him in a hey Ossie
I mean those are obviously signposts for
hope thanks man I actually just want to
play some clips I don't you know
politically I'm sure you know he was of
a different time different political
profile Elijah Cummings always struck me
as just a profoundly decent human being
and I'm sure there's gonna be people
that you know they're not gonna like
some of his institutional commitments
they might be maybe you know I I don't
know what side of politics he was on in
terms of where he came from and in
Baltimore politics I don't know if he
was on a progressive or conservative
side of local political equations I
don't know
what I do know is it struck me years ago
in capitalism a love story which is a
fun Michael Moore movie and props the
Michael Moore from being somebody who's
actually willing to put capitalism on
the table and play like 2008 when no one
else would touch that with a you know a
ten-foot pole i restreamed that for free
like you put it up there for everybody
yeah I remembered I remember doing it
I don't remember was that 2009 or 2001
ever it was it was several years ago and
I don't honestly remember whether it was
in the main movie or in bonus clips but
he was talking with Elijah Cummings and
Elijah Cummings started to weep openly
on camera and just say you know the
people I represent they just want to be
able to like take their kids to the
water park they just want to be able to
have a hat like it it was so sincere and
it was so decent um and he's frankly
just always struck me um and his you
know relentless commitment on vital
issues like voting rights civil rights
all broad set of justice issues we're
gonna be missing a lot here I mean when
you have somewhat that institutional
capacity and memory who's on the side of
the right that's a major loss he's also
just a loss in American political life I
mean even when he was on some you know
Morning Joe you know he was somebody
who'd elevate everything let's play some
clips this is clip number 11 I believe
of him talking about voting rights and
campaign finance legislation it's a very
powerful orator one year ago today pause
it
I just want to say there's a you know
Russia line here that some people not
gonna particularly care for I don't care
for it's not my cup of tea please don't
let that obscure the bigger purpose of
what he's conveying here either let's
not be petty in either direction this is
important one year ago today when my
mother's dying bed at 92 years old for
mercy a cropper her last words were do
not let them take our votes away from us
they had four she had fought and seen
people harmed
beaten trying to vote talk about
inalienable rights voting is crucial and
I don't give a damn how you look at it
there are efforts to stop people from
voting that's the right this is not
Russia this is the United States of
America and I will fight until the death
to make sure every citizen whether their
green party whether their freedom party
whether their Democrat whether they're
Republican whoever has a right to vote
because it is the essence of our
democracy and we can play around and act
like it's done and guess what
I want to I want to be clear that when
they look back or in this moment two
hundred years from now that there are
those who of us who stood up and they'll
be able to say they stood up and said we
will defend they defended the right to
vote because you know what the problem
is for so many people their rights are
pulled away from them then I got to put
in laws and get them back pull away from
them what does that mean they cannot
progress rapidly they cannot progress
with the rest of society and all they're
trying to do is trying to control their
own destiny
absolutely and incredibly important and
cannot be minimized and here he is this
is from Jeff from Georgia sent this
along this is him speaking out against
concentration camps at the border we
agree that we will not keep kids in cow
internment camps indefinitely and hidden
away from public view
what country is that this is a United
States of America we now have reports
that parents are being deported
but the trouble administration is
keeping their children here 2018 in
America we do not need legislation this
is a policy and understandeth this was a
policy invented implemented and executed
by President Donald Trump and so in
conclusion mr. chairman we need you
those children need you I'm talking
directly to my Republican colleagues we
need you to stand up to president Club
jump we need you to join us in telling
him that we reject this mean policy we
need you to tell him to abandon this
policy we need you to remind him that
this is a United States of America and
it is a great country and we need you to
stand up for those children notice that
go with Allah no more I mean this is
somebody who had no illusions about the
immense racism the profound structural
and Justices of this country and he
keeps hitting that point and you know I
know the left point and it's an
important point the very important point
nothing non-american about terrorizing
migrants there's certainly nothing
non-american about suppressing the votes
of people of color but it's also he is
rooting it in that no fighting those
things is also the American project and
actually having a democracy is the
American project
I think Elijah Cummings was a
I think he was a really good person and
it was a very positive thing to have him
out there he's quite young too I think
was all like 68 years old so that's sad
sad to me rest in peace to Elijah
Cummings and condolences to his our
family and constituents let's take a
call you're calling from an eight one
eight area code who are you where you
calling from hey is this Dave from
Jamaica I'm good you're a little bit
hard to hear though you on speaker
that's a bit better it's not great
though so well what's going on yeah I
walked from that to be Bernie had a good
night IMG's come on be a little positive
will ya come on smile
pure bias and aggressive bias and CNN
and ABC all of these outlets are not to
be trusted when covering Bernie Sanders
period full stop if you if you interfere
not a supporter if you want to stand his
campaign they have to follow alternative
media and read the campaign site
directly because these networks are at
war against them and to the point of
being embarrassing yeah no doubt they
would actually do people that actually
have a shot
well see we'll see what happens
we'll see thank God they've appreciated
I think it's gonna be very revealing how
many people continue to qualify as we
approach the Iowa caucus for whatever
and how many debates are left because
basically what we're seeing is whoever
is the most centrist or right Canada is
going to inhabit that ghost of John
Delaney just to knock down the see still
in is he's thirty for me it doesn't
matter yes just enough but like in the
way that Amy Klobuchar are filled that
yeah I mean club assures the new Delaney
yeah clove assures the new Delaney and
then you have I mean Harrison Budaj edge
are floating around for the sort of
professional class vote bait oh no bait
it was almost like a single-issue guy
now it's yeah is the gen-x loser
campaign that was so I mean I definitely
I'll pull a Sam here I said as soon as
he announced that this was going nowhere
and I predicted that he would be within
single digits within a month I actually
did I just it's like it's just so like
dude like you're running for Senate
against Ted Cruz like sure I know like
it was nobody asked you to run for
president man like speak yeah speaking
of Eric Levitz I think he apparently
third the bado presidency campaign
yesterday in terms of white Obama but
less appeal s you know charismatic well
I mean yeah that was always the thing
although I will say it's funny the more
I watched them like well actually always
like I say even though again his record
at HUD is bad so I'm not sold on Julian
Castro but on a substantive level Julian
Castro should be getting way more credit
I mean this can no one is speaking more
clearly at the violence and the border
on what needs to be done to demilitarize
in terms of human rights in terms of ice
than Julian Castro and the fact that he
brought up the murder of that woman in
her home at the last debate and said gun
violence is also police violence that
should be I mean this is good stuff it's
serious substantive stuff that Julian
Castro
putting on the table and then I have to
say like you know paid oh it's like yeah
he's a try-hard and the whole thing is
ridiculous but I mean Kim I mean Buddha
judge is a disingenuous sociopath
I mean Martian yeah the people who to
judge should make your skin crawl
I think that cliff we laid out yesterday
pretty much Illustrated that about as
clearly and concisely as could be made
yeah we got him check it out folks we
got him we got 9p Lampe alpha'd e
neumann with the lies you're calling
from a 7 7 8 area code who are you where
he calling 7 8 8 oh hey yeah seven seven
my name is Blanche I run a propaganda
network up in Canada called the serfs
hey Lance how are you I'm doing quite
well how about yourself I'm doing well
I'm familiar with this propaganda
network I I enjoy it on Twitch oh nice
nice yeah that's actually why I was
calling I just wanted to say that we're
running a three day charity stream
starting tomorrow to help support
getting clean drinking water and
Aboriginal communities as well as trans
lifeline which is a suicide prevention
center that helps the youth in America
and Canada as well so if anyone wants to
check it out it's going to be at our
twitch channel is that awesome
is that a drinking water thing what jug
meet Singh was talking about the 50
played recently yes so I don't know if
you guys saw the viral clip that came
out a couple years ago where there was
some Aboriginal protestors that came to
a fundraiser that Trudeau was attending
where they basically returned to bring
light to the fact that there's actual
mercury poisoning in some reserves in
Canada and he got them kicked out and
responded with thank you for your
donation which yeah we were talking
about this last night on T MBS with
Andre yes that Justin Trudeau was like
yes like thank you for hoping the
Liberal Party what how many times I want
to ask the way what color makeup - yeah
by the way what color makeup do you use
I'm curious
my questions are you know as a Canadian
yeah right so yeah I said in the
beginning when it was just one or two
pictures I was like look to be well
firstly I mean screw this guy because he
is terrible on First Nations rights
because he's building a partnership with
balsa Naro and selling weapons to Saudi
Arabia because he's violently trying to
suppress the speech and activism of BDS
activists trying to end the apartheid in
Israel Palestine okay but I said look if
Justin Trudeau was giving clean water to
indigenous people as an example and
respecting First Nations I would be
willing to say you know I look I'm not a
vampire castle guy people change people
evolve then there's like thirty pictures
of this guy doing this which is pretty
bad lefty pointed out on Twitter the the
fur I think it was like AI think the
formulation of something like first time
is a terrible mistake second time is
clearly racism fifty times is an
addiction and so my question about
Trudeau though because we go from like I
mean it is like the most racist thing in
the world it's just like oh it's
hilarious my skin is blocked do you get
the job but then like also know that we
know him we know he worships Obama so
when do you think during his Premiership
he went into the privacy of his office
and put on his tan suit god his makeup
out and tried to go let me be clear know
how many times a Canadian hi I'm Barack
Obama I want to endorse my good friend
Justin Trudeau oh god damn I didn't fill
in the neck make up some cells Obama for
the fake indoors it's a deep it's an
analog deep fake sorry I meant imes do
you think Trudeau dressed up as oh bomb
and tried to be him yeah I think that
was my favorite response to the to is
endorsement yesterday is I think it's a
top response on Twitter right now as you
know he's going to see you for Halloween
[Laughter]
maybe Obama you'd be Richard Branson
yeah here's a funny concept what if you
are Richard Branson and then you put on
way to face the wouldn't be is
problematic that way could I please give
you a sir at least you know look there's
a little bit of dignity as like a
centrist scumbag Justin Trudeau has no
dignity man no none whatsoever and thank
you guys for bringing light to the
connection by the way so we got that
coming up on Monday so I mean any anyone
who's Canadian in the audience please go
vote for Chuck meeting I think he's
gonna be a good alternative what do you
think is gonna happen
you got any guesses before us yeah so
right now it's looking like the
Conservatives are pulling ahead by a
little slim margin so basically it's an
opportunity because we have a
parliamentary system in Canada is a good
opportunity for us to basically have a
coalition government Trudeau being
Trudeau wants to be the kingmaker and
he's not really admitting or saying
publicly yet that he's okay with that
whereas this jug meet Singh is saying
I'm completely prepared to do whatever
it takes
initially conservatives don't come into
power so yeah I mean I think they will
have enough seats combined to form
minority government whether or not to do
is willing to give up the throne there's
something to be seen yet do you think
that if Singh polls highly enough that
Justin Trudeau my dresses him no I I
said that I would never go in coalition
before condition yeah if you were at 17%
mission to wear the hat you give me full
turban and makeup right and I will
coalition with him sorry I am I identify
as a make
where that were there yeah Jesus Christ
I was doing the deal what an
that was the other thing too the first
one was like some type of like Aladdin
thing and it was absolutely embarrassing
and then it just got it just went from
there he's like do you mind that ya was
good to keep in mind he was a teacher at
the time of course he was well I mean
wasn't that one of his private school
gigs cuz I think as people point out he
liked like oh yeah I was a public school
teacher except for the long time I
wasn't yeah I mean I don't think either
situation makes it okay but no I don't
think either no no one makes it okay but
I think that that is highly private
school behavior I'm saying I don't know
you're gonna feel so comfortable to do
something so embarrassing and as racist
amongst maybe a broader set of human
beings you know absolutely yeah and I
mean is you were really you know quick
to point out especially speaking to
Andre the other day she has a long
history of doing really racist stuff and
like genuinely racing stuff this is
something that's just easy for people to
point the finger at and be like oh
that's racist I don't like that that's
blackface right whereas you know selling
I'm selling arms to the Saudis or
breaking all your promises to Aboriginal
communities making sure that they have
clean drinking water for kids also
taking away money that was promised by
the Government of Canada to children in
Aboriginal communities which is actually
trying to fight in the courts right now
well pretty damn racist I will do it I
will proffer you an offer we don't have
money for the water but I even though it
is not as exciting as dressing a Sammy
Davis jr. we'll put a does that sound
appealing remember when the Joanna
almost did the moonwalk until his wife
gave him like you better stop it
dude that was actually when we didn't
even Trump literally got a tie he's like
he's like Lucky's wife was there lucky
his wife was there
yeah one thing Trump can hold high above
us I guess give us the info again please
yes so anyone who wants to come by and
check it out it's starting at 4 p.m.
Pacific Standard Time tomorrow on
twitch.tv slash the surfs TV and it's
going to be running until Sunday we're
going to be running two simultaneous
fundraisers at the same time and we've
got a pretty large collection of guests
some great some a little more surly I
think you might be participating so
that's why I mentioned the second part
ooh
well you might have talked yourself out
of a booking Lance but yeah I think
honestly so much for letting me talk
about it on the show and for coming by
Michael I really appreciate it yeah of
course men take care everybody check
that out it's really good really really
good cause obviously like in the show
description link in the show description
contagious it's already on it and then
Brendan with the swiftness contagious
chameleon Kyle kolinsky made a good
point that Bernie supporters are more
willing to talk about the differences
between Bernie and Warren but Warren
supporters are not I think they're
either lacked class analysis to
distinguish between the two or they know
Bernie's different and they are scared
he might actually be able to get things
done this is why the conflation between
them to exist yes I think that anxiety
avoidance right I think that there's
definitely a dynamic there that's true
Biden's Victor Ola I haven't had much
luck in getting my wife listen the
majority report but this past weekend we
took a long drive and we really enjoyed
mats mr playlist and spotify maybe we'll
try literary hangover next we have any
ability to make sure that I am czar
turned on with Sam is hosting I know I
come on guys stop stop just I see those
tweets and the anxiety and it's like you
know get to what we get to Sam usually
gets to them I submit Michael Barbaro of
the New York Times daily podcast is the
Dave Rubin of the corporate Center
sounds we seem genuinely confused by
everything and is confessin aided by his
guests ideas I don't even know who that
guy is yeah
I was I this is how stupid my brain is
at this point there's a tweet from 2015
where Michael barber oh it was like is
it time to put seatbelts on the subway
I'd wear one with like five retweets 19
likes and two replies and I somehow have
remembered this for four years because
it's so stupid I think there's certain
media jobs where it's busy like you take
your Ritalin or whatever you got and you
just go in and have your mind blown with
you like in a euphoric film or eight job
all you have to do is be surprised most
of the time and hope that your producers
book decent people what you saying DNA
has some connection to how smart some
and worth resources somebody's I should
like that because that is a perfect
example because it's like he says that
as like the corporate brain dead center
and if somebody like somebody could feed
that to David like and now the next
thing I'm hearing is seat belt on the
subway ran where there's no freedom is
ending let's uh let's just this is just
funny guys I've still can't get over the
comedy of calmly Harris going after
Elizabeth Warren about the Twitter band
thing I mean I should say I both find it
really funny and like literally
violently embarrassing and I'm watching
it I'm like look look I want Harris to
take something out of Warren I think
that's good for Sanders I also think
Harris I rely mean I was absolutely
right about bado I was definitely wrong
about Harris I really thought she was a
much more formal candidate I
significantly more formal camp I frankly
think the world would be a better place
if she was like as formidable as Joe
Biden was and there's no chance that's
gonna happen Jesus Christ not at all I
don't know what the hell is going on
with her so she's she's all set up the
body language is strong and she's
talking about two-tiered justice system
and of course like wow the lady who
arrested truant parents but let Steve
minuchin walk free is talking about
two-tier justice ism okay hell of a
stretch but
let's see what she's got and then it's a
Twitter ban and what's great is you can
literally see Warren smirking because
it's hilarious and embarrassing but her
and her campaign I don't know I mean
ultimately it is up to her but like I
mean she's stumbling and judging by
Twitter contact her surrogates are out
of their names very dumb people not good
she comes she took it said she was like
who are the dumbest people in the most
disastrous campaign of 2016 I want them
and here she is
still trying to push this even after the
debate that he has he has lost his
privileges and it should be taken from
the bottom line is that you can't say
that you have one rule for Facebook and
you have a different rule for Twitter
the same rule has to apply which is that
there has to be a responsibility that is
placed on these social media sites to
understand their power they are directly
speaking to millions and millions of
people without any level of oversight or
regulation so she's not talking about
breaking them up she's not talking about
the people her own relationships to uber
and the industry she's got she's
literally saying let's get Donald Trump
off of Twitter which incidentally in
addition to his Twitter being it being
in a ridiculous insane thing to focus on
like yes he's got how many million
Twitter followers how about how many
nukes are under his discretion right
okay in addition to our embarrassing
ridiculous it is one his Twitter
sometimes is extremely funny too and
I'll make this less cheap point his
tweets might actually be evidence in an
impeachment trial it actually could
serve a purpose and nailing the
what are they doing and you know we make
people have been making cop mala jokes
since she announced basically but the
way she talks about this imagine if
she's not talking about Trump but just
like people expressing themselves
without sort of government oversight
never least that's listen to
this part it sounds a lot more chilling
and their power they are directly
speaking to millions and millions of
people without any level of oversight or
regulation stop that sounds like I don't
trust these people to do that 100
oh I mean look the people are already
checking journalists they're demanding I
mean not obviously refugees are being
terrorized by this but journalists who
are having their Facebook pages checked
their context checked but we already
know how horrifying the Obama
administration was with whistleblowers
the Trump administration is prosecuting
Julian Assange for journalism Kamala
Harris would be horrifying on journalism
and civil liberties to be the sheriff of
posting yes I mean this obviously you're
right I mean there is a serious point to
it that's actually incredibly chilling
and dangerous all right let's do all
right Brad hominem Josh you aren't the
only one who felt like that from the
8:47 we stand with L and L on not me us
what are you looking for Matt so we have
more the surrogates like losing their
minds over the okay let's do similar
this okay so behold this amazing
exchange between BuzzFeed Ben and the
c'mon okay so I'll take this part okay
who are you this is BuzzFeed this is now
this is a surrogate of Kamala Harris
reaching out to BuzzFeed been about a
right of campaign writers BuzzFeed okay
okay hey I have talked to her directly a
few times when she's tweeted out stuff
like this and I told her I was glad she
deleted this tweet but this kind of
stuff is just a really horrible look for
you guys frankly it's whiteness manifest
if Kamala shrugged off a Waring critique
about how she wasn't with her on
Facebook we get raked and she would get
lauded as taking on the corporate power
the blithe mockery here of Kamala while
Laden Warren style is just not up to par
I say this to you just to be super frank
and because I really like your guys work
the platform and your reporters we work
well together across the board
I'm glad they don't think we work well
with career yeah yeah we don't work well
as art is their response ok hard to know
if last night wait this is the tweet
that this also Matt you got okay so this
was a tweet met what this is a bit
problematic of course problematic all
right do you want okay this is a treat
hard to know if last night helped harmed
or helped warn but I think we can all
come together and agree the debate
highlight was Warren telling comma
Harris no trout from Twitter and then
just continuing with her point in the
manner of shrugging off a Greenpeace
clip so now I have a problem with this
because let me tell you something being
a Greenpeace clip board person is hard
work and people should be a little bit
nicer to those kids okay so I don't like
that part of it but yes we can all agree
that Elizabeth Warren brushing off that
absolutely embarrassing humiliating line
of attack was a good time and pretty
funny all right and then there's this
BuzzFeed Ben yes do you seriously not
have problems this text makes me think
you're totally totally unready for an
actual presidential campaign yeah drop
out come on yeah it's time to drop out
or is there very or yeah drop out
endorse Bernie or you know yeah look
Warren's been super disrespectful you
shouldn't where's Bernie yeah yeah Trump
did read the Terms of Service Ward was
disrespectful Bernie to do that here
Bernie has a plan coming up but we can't
tell yeah yeah yeah you gotta endorse
them at the video what are we doing now
I am what we're we're doing a ridiculous
symbolic move on Twitter as dangerous no
liberties consequences no no Bernie
we're just filming this and we're gonna
send it to Kamala and act let and tell
her that we posted Donald Trump
yesterday yeah yeah he needs to get off
I guess we can make a meme of it for the
Eid Sam guy
[Laughter]
Donald Trump this is cringe Oh yikes
it's like when I think of being too
online it's like there are people doing
things in the world that are like going
around you and like basically like right
like you're missing the actual playing
field these people are just online or
just that is the field
I mean honestly like honestly I still
maintain I gave her way too much credit
in terms of her capacity as a candidate
but I still maintain that she is
violently underserved by the staff like
I know who I mean Isis of most of her
staff is a lot of former comms people
for Hillary hello hello this is Hillary
clashes just like yeah you know you
should do a comm line you should hire
the most idiotic people for my
disastrous campaign you're a young
talented candidate who appeals to the
corporate ring of the party because of
your right-leaning record but also has
charisma and a potential broad appeal
what you should do immediately is hire a
bunch of complete weirdos who up
my 2016 campaign who'll spend turn your
campaign into a internet meme joke you
always wonder what the Clintons I wonder
what it's like we need to stop Carla
because if she finds out we did in Haiti
you never know she might all of a sudden
she decide she has a conscience need to
prosecute us we got to stop her Hillary
quick call your comms people yeah or at
least competent who was that a insam guy
that kept on trying to do funny stupid
pictures with you from BuzzFeed that
even you have the good sense of turning
down and certainly where we get him to
work for her what if she finds out we
did in Haiti who's that woman doing a
DAB who's that one that taught you that
God for saying Nene business get her to
cobbler Harris who's came up with that
children Cedar Rapids
hey Thomas team I mean if you think
about it he fired Comey gave us tax cuts
what the hell we knew in anyways Trump
2020 he's less corrupting the Democrats
less corrupt and Democrat because
believe me with us it's structural ace
in his case it's honest
[Laughter]
stop how do we do it quick I can't just
use our people yeah Hillary said I
wanted to get Ian Sam's to Bernie's
campaign Bernie's got too much integrity
and intelligence for that he won't take
Ian Sam's now quick who we gonna bust
this grenade on like a process of
elimination it's like what about Warren
she criticized me for the bankruptcy
bill she won't hire E and Sam she does
basic background vetting of people it's
gonna have to be calm Allah I'm sorry to
say I mean how bad will bust this
grenade on somebody if like you were the
person who sold calm Allah on the whole
Twitter bandit like I wrote this I wrote
a white paper of yes the Terms of
Service you see a very and I'm the
person who will bother BuzzFeed about
light-hearted tweets about it we really
will seem like we're up to date on the
most important so crazy to go to like
the biggest guy at a huge media company
and be like listen this tweet is out of
bad listen here's an opportunity for you
to very easily look like a good guy and
defend one of your staff because this is
the most petty embarrassing complaint
that you will ever get I mean what
business is it I think they're in where
it's like you you tell a media company
like we think we work well together we
want to see like you're a trash campaign
media companies don't care about you
they'll forget about everybody that was
working there will forget about your
campaign in like like three years yeah
you better by the way you better mind
your P's and Q's because I think a not
inconsequential number of these comms
people will be submitting BuzzFeed
listicles for a job in a couple of month
she better be gonna be polite top 10
reasons why Donald Trump is still yikes
all right let's do something serious for
a second
the Chicago teachers are going on strike
there are and I believe there's a
tentative agreement with the GM strikers
from the United Auto Workers just having
a conversation 40 mb/s on the global
labor movement and the point that my
brilliant guests made chuka Jackman a
jekima jekima excuse me chuka chuka
Jackman was that the uber protests that
took place this last spring spring were
global they were across the United
States but they're also in Kenya Nigeria
Paraguay France the United Kingdom this
is so powerfully important between that
and the Sanders campaign the two most
important kind of broad macro trends and
a major part of this laying the
groundwork was a 2012 Chicago teacher
strikes and they're back at it this is
some video from Erick Blanc we want to
give solidarity and support we've been
playing this
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
solidarity that's amazing and again in a
blue city this should remind you of the
nature of what is still the mainstream
the Democratic Party its austerity its
corporate its anti-union yeah we'll have
a Eric Blanc on the show tomorrow
oh cool report from the frontlines all
right let's go let's do the Middle East
a bit I want to just first talk to you
know it's supposedly Donald Trump yeah
he's an isolationist and he's really
skeptical about war and I see even
people who identify as like contrary and
left sometimes falling into this why is
it that there have been more civilian
casualties in Afghanistan in the past
three months and there have in the last
several years this guy whatever some
mall limits that the Obama put in place
which by the way the Obama
administration implements at a global
drone war which not only took thousands
of civilian lives following Bush Bush's
global torture global warm regime that
they even made it so that in certain
drone strikes you couldn't even measure
civilian casualties because you're going
off of behavioral Pro patterning at
which definitionally excluded
understanding whether or not you were
hitting civilians Donald Trump has
gotten rid of any limited strictures on
this stuff he is pummeling pummeling
human beings across the globe this
redeployment in Syria which is leading
to the savagery that turkey is
unleashing on the Kurds and then what
has he done he's deployed additional
troops to Saudi Arabia because God knows
what kind of a monuments and corruption
issues there are between Kushner Trump
and Saudi I believe this is clip number
two far
we'll start with clip number four which
is Nancy Pelosi asking why Trump's is
sending additional troops to Saudi and
then we'll go to Trump's
you know really smart coherent an anti
interventionist response well reason I'm
taking the troops out of of serious
because I promised in the campaign to
bring the troops home my question to him
was is Saudi Arabia home the Saudi
Arabia home why are our troops going to
Saudi Arabia if you promised to bring
them home he said well the Saudi
Arabians are paying for it that really
we're putting our troops in harm's way
for Saudi Arabia because they were
paying I it just didn't add up about
what it did do was caused a meltdown on
the part of the president because he was
unhappy with that those questions
well she's exactly right that's actually
a very effective talking point and let's
go to clip number five
you probably saw some of you wrote and
covered the fact that we're sending some
additional troops to Saudi Arabia that's
true and I appreciate the fact that I
negotiated for a short period of time a
matter of minutes with Saudi Arabia and
they've agreed to pay for the full cost
of all of that deployment and more much
more a very rich country they should be
paying and so should many other
countries be paying if they want this
kind of protection
same thing with NATO we're at 4% and
other countries are at 1% and certainly
a European country benefits much more
than we do with NATO Donald Trump is the
accentuation of empire there's not a
withdrawal of empire it's the next phase
of empire and I I don't want anybody on
the left should fight or return to NATO
and the Atlantic Alliance and all of
this type of global regimen that rose
post-world war two that has devastated
vast parts the globe with coos and right
wing regimes that committed a genocide
in Vietnam that has engaged in you know
murder and atrocities from Bosnia to
Afghanistan to Iraq the Libya to Syria
and is is a co-participant going back to
the Obama administration and the
genocide that the Saudis are leading in
Yemen but all of those steps including
in Yemen have been accepted have been
accentuated and added on by the Trump
administration people better understand
that Trump is the fulfillment of Empire
of imperialism of global savagery that's
the reality and that is the closeness
with Saudi and Israel and other
pernicious global influences as well as
this emerging crop of neo authoritarians
who are committing barbarism in Brazil
in Kashmir in the in the Philippines and
across the globe leave and it's like
then what happened to all of the people
who are anti-war there used to be this
really strong anti-war left and one
other thing that Trump has done is that
whenever Trump says anything the people
that hate him automatically take the
reverse position so it
says and he ran on this I don't want war
we can't be the world's police all of
those things most of which especially
for my libertarian side I agree well
then we're pulling out and then people
are saying well no now we're it's gonna
go to hell in a handbasket and we can't
pull out and all that other stuff
knowing full well that for the people on
the left if this was Obama or a Democrat
president you'd be all about pulling out
trying not to make a pull out joke there
but that that's but I will make the pull
out joke said Democrats don't stop
supporting infant genocide yeah exactly
yeah maybe the pullout method is better
than murder by the way if Donald Trump
actually pulled out of Afghanistan I
would support it it's funny how left
contrarian sound exactly like Dave Rubin
on this issue indeed and by the way I
supported a very strongly Donald Trump
negotiating with North Korean leader and
strongly savaged Democratic Party and
cable news hacks who fear Margaret about
that I'm glad those meetings happened
all right Elizabeth Warren if you're
serious about foreign policy if you're
gonna deign to be serious about that you
should remind yourself that there's only
one candidate who's spoken in solidarity
with the anti World Bank and IMF and
austerity movements taking place right
now first and foremost in Haiti and
recently with some success in Ecuador I
went in depth on this last night on my
program you could check it out
bernie sanders and matt dusts are
putting on the table some steps towards
what does a constructive post empire
u.s. foreign policy look like starting
by the way with the catastrophe of trump
tearing up the Iran nuclear deal but
this goes deeper in 2017 Bernie Sanders
the only member of the Democratic caucus
United States Senate to vote against
additional sanctions on Iran which
helped precipitate the catastrophe were
in recently Elizabeth Warren and the
Council on Foreign Relations suggested
that Iran needs to get back into
compliance even though the whole
jettisoning of the agreement was done by
the Trump administration they're at
fault not the Iranian government
regardless of what you think of the
Iranian government there's infinite
amount of things criticize them on the
Iran deal destruction is
period so from Latin America to the
Middle East there's real fundamental
differences here and even when Elizabeth
Warren going back several years spoke on
civilian casualties she mainly framed it
in terms of the damage on the US
reputation not the innate violation of
the United States cost costing so many
lives in so many places so there's not a
plan here along with the military budget
vote increases look if you care about
this stuff and I believe you are
obligated to care about this stuff in
the heart of empire this is actually
really bad another through line here you
can go back and find plenty of clips or
some clips of Bernie Sanders echoing
trash pablum and nonsense about Israel's
savagery and murder of Palestinians
that's what it is be real uh that has
changed now if you're like me I want a
fully open democratic society for all
that transcends an ethnos state and that
has full safety protection and democracy
for every single citizen in Israel
Palestine of all backgrounds living a
full flourishing diverse democratic
framework there's still the lip service
to the two-state solution which has
never been implemented in any way shape
or form every step of the way the
Israelis have continued to construct
settlements and we'll talk a little bit
more in a second about the Barack and
all Mart offers but again this is just
history this is two plus two equals four
stuff Bernie Sanders in the last couple
of years has been willing to speak about
the savage conditions in Gaza which
everybody it's apparently okay that over
fifty percent of the population you know
can't get basic medical supplies that
there's over seventy percent youth
unemployment half of the population is
children they can be hale held in a
deprived open-air prison because of
Hamas talking points that's not okay
according to any basic human rights
standard uh and Bernie's moved
significantly on this issue now
Elizabeth
Warren defended even in 2014
Israel bombing UN schools in operations
that took over a thousand civilian lives
no comments on the murder of the
nonviolent protesters at the Gaza border
and now she's trying to incorporate some
woke talking points but again the only
way you do anything is if you say aid is
on the table which Bernie Sanders has
said she's gonna say here that aid is on
the table in the case of annexation
which is something that Netanyahu's
talking about but again the West Bank
has been occupied for over 40 years so
let's be real this is an apartheid state
this is an ongoing situation and in
addition to our total lack of commitment
on this that she's demonstrated so far I
this is a shaky grasp of this issue to
put it gently hi senator Warren thank
you so much for coming to Rock Hill
thank you
my name is Nazim udin I'm gonna change
it up just a little bit I want to talk
about foreign policy over this summer we
watch to over Congress members denying
entry into Israel to to whole Israel
accountable for how our military aid is
being used in the occupied territories
if you watch closely what's going on
there's news of everyday homes are being
demolished roads are being ripped up
access to water is being denied to the
Palestinian people can you tell us that
as president you will hold the military
aid that we hope give to Israel as
leverage to bring about a peaceful
solution so let me start here I believe
in a two-state solution this has been
the official policy of the United States
of America for nearly 70 years and the
official policy of the government of
Israel and to do that we need to be able
to guarantee
dignity of everyone this is what I
believe in a two-state solution so let's
go there
uh if Prime Minister Netanyahu follows
through on his plans in the West Bank
then that doesn't move anyone closer to
a two-state solution and I believe at
that point the United States of America
trying to create something stable and
lasting in that region has to be willing
to use every tool at its disposal and
that means it will be time to pressure
the Prime Minister if that is what he
does we just can't do this
we can't keep this up so okay let's
start just with the basic historical
wrongs here seventy years ago I mean I
don't know exactly what the timeline is
but 1949 the founding the State of
Israel entailed the removal of over
400,000 Palestinians from their homes
that's again this is just historical
fact then you go to 1969 which is the
when after the war with the Arab states
they occupied these additional
territories now every single decade has
brought an expansion of Israeli
settlements in this area to the point
where even people who looked at this
just six you know on a basic Geographic
logistical level were like two states is
impossible you're talking about
thousands pieces of settlement
construction and lots of human beings so
that's also just factually wrong then
you had a dude Barack offer a partial
deal to Yasser Arafat but it would not
have entailed territorial entailed
territorial integrity for a Palestinian
state so they had to reject it Jib
Brzezinski even presented the reality of
that right then in two thousand seven or
eight a who'd Olmert weeks away from
leaving office with incredibly low
popularity offers a much
more actual two-state solution but
there's still no answer on the refugees
remember talking about several hundred
thousand families removed from their
homes to support the found the State of
Israel does there is there is that there
Holocaust is happening anti-semitism is
a violent virulent force in the world
there's an understandable reason but no
moral justification you know those
historical events of Europe do not
justify the ethnic cleansing of
Palestinians and even under
international law it does not mean that
you can disregard their rights as
refugees so there's no answer to that
in 2009 in the beginning the Obama
administration Bibi Netanyahu said he
supported two-state solution Netanyahu
laocoön has never changed its official
policy in terms of rejecting a two-state
and in recent years again in addition to
ongoing savagery and murders in Gaza
they have in partnership with overtly
new fascist and racist parties expanded
settlement at a radical rate and he has
rejected the two-state in the last
couple years overtly and also actively
campaigned and warned against Arab
participation in Israeli politics within
1967 borders and he's recently talked
about annexing and I think there's no
doubt actually that at some point the
strategy in Gaza is to make it so
unbearable that maybe they will say to
Gaza and say look we'll get you out of
here but we want to reoccupy it that is
the greater Judea full fascist project
of which Netanyahu is part of so during
this whole process we give them huge
amounts of foreign aid there's military
agreements there's the Iron Dome we
don't step in and intervene on two
different road systems in the West Bank
we don't intervene on malnutrition lack
of electricity and clean drinking water
in Gaza we don't intervene and say
anything affect people like Elizabeth
Warren cheer them on when they're
bombing UN schools and bombing hospitals
and killing over a thousand civilians
they have these nonviolent protests
taking place at the borders where there
are videos of these Raley soldiers
joking about murdering children shooting
them point-blank as snipers and what she
is literally saying
is that if an Israeli government does a
formal annexation then maybe we might
put that into play so let's be very
clear it's historically illiterate
it is definitionally dehumanizing the
Palestinians even as she talks about
everybody's dignity that is a
functionally hugely racist answer
functionally I don't think intentionally
I think there's just a low knowledge
base and when you have a low knowledge
base you go with the consensus and the
consensus is back Israel no matter what
and Palestinians don't matter the only
ones slightly challenging that is
Sanders then you know and and we'll do
something if annexation formally happens
is also a people judges put on the table
there is nothing remotely courageous or
radical about that and the idea is is
that if you want to even do a remote
thing today probably not even on a
two-state solution that's basically
logistically impossible but just to say
maybe you need to torture Palestinian
children slightly less you need to put 8
on the table and even that is probably
too little too late because Israel's a
powerful economy has a very
sophisticated weapons industry it uses
its bombardments and killings on Gaza as
a marketing campaign they sell what they
call battle ready weapons I would really
recommend the amazing documentary that
Abby Martin and Mike person are just did
fighting for fighting for freedom and
God in Gaza which I was at the premiere
of all have her on my show soon people
need to watch that documentary it's
brilliant and people really need to read
up on this because this is another area
where there's a basic moral obligation
and for the first time there's a little
bit of daylight there's somebody with a
campaign that is actually recognizing
that Palestinians are actual human
beings and their well-being needs to be
factored in to some extent and at the
very least if we're going to pretend
this two-state solution still exists
we're gonna need to actually do
something about it that's Bernie Sanders
no one else is there and in fact I would
say rhetorically Bader O'Rourke has been
significantly more courageous and clear
at least in calling Netanyahu a racist
than Warren ever is so she's quite bad
on that
and no one is worse than Cory Booker or
Kamala Harris
they are atrocious on this but they're
basically irrelevant tilts he's not good
on this andrew yang is terrible on this
incidentally andrew yang is really quite
bad on this um
but Warren is quite that on this I mean
really
Bernie is decent ish and everybody else
is varying degrees of terrible and
inexcusable but this is another thing
that you can't just say oh yeah you know
but foreign policy oh yeah but you know
your money is going to murdering and
starving children and there's one
candidate that is saying maybe we'll do
something about this all right what the
hell is going on here this is war we're
having more fun with the college mr.
little bit thing because com shambles
and a pretty bad lefties feet he tweeted
everybody follow pretty bread lefty and
check out the discourse he's so good
yeah he's great so he quoted the Ian
Sam's tweet this inexplicable Photoshop
of I have no idea but the funny joke
that people are making is that it makes
sense I think Paul Blessed said this
that it makes sense that you'd keep
Steve minuchin on staff but some pretty
bad web said I'm so embarrassed for
these people that my skeleton is trying
to escape somebody that's the antiphon
saboteur
[Laughter]
time for another upgrade time for that
it makes as much sense as the original
I'm trying to think of who an analogous
figure is that came in with some I guess
there's some parallels with bado but I
mean I can't think of somebody with like
has a certain amount of credibility and
buzz and then just gets like like this
is such a profound you should just send
the prosecutorial senator that like
embarrasses people in hearings cuz this
is such even if you're going into a
hearing like I'm sure it's you know it's
still terrifying and she'll still grill
you well but like a part of the guy has
to you know remember the scum official
is has to just be like weren't you just
the one who's like don't you
like weird guy in Twitter he want to ban
me from yeah what do you a hey what do
you want to ban me from Twitter senator
I'm sorry I didn't read the Terms of
Service
I got Capone on tax evasion it was still
the IRS doing the dirty officer
outsourcing it to a corporation run by
Jack Dorsey we need to get Al Capone off
of twitch he's clearly not reading the
Terms of Service Capone was a drinking
alcohol on trick yeah Capone yeah
Al Capone called for solidarity with
Hong Kong protesters at which its
greatly offended our Chinese Fred let's
take another call you're calling room a
607 area code who are you where you
calling from Boston hey Austin from
Boston what's going on what's on your
mind the past two months and really
appreciate what you know
thanks man I really appreciate the depth
and you guys go into with the opinion on
top of it for context so I just wanted
to say I was raised under Rush Limbaugh
and a pretty Christian family mm-hmm so
it's pretty it's pretty useful and then
I'm still a libertarian then I voted for
Garry Johnson in my selection but over
the last couple of years I've really
begun to realize that if people would be
the most free under the kind of
government that Bernie Sanders is
talking about absolutely no doubt
because you're really it's a substantive
freedom not just you know internet
fantasies that's awesome and then you
guys are pretty young idealistic as well
sure and libertarians are kind of crazy
as well probably more so definitely but
most libertarian just uh you know
adolescents who are upset death and
taxes
half of them are anarchists and
I just wanted reasonable system just
like you got I will say also like the
people I knew who are libertarians that
like I didn't hear about through the
internet but like actually like I met in
Fargo for instance they all were very
heterodox type of people like I remember
seeing the marx engels reader in one of
his houses in his apartment and getting
the entirely wrong impression about his
politics but you know at least it read
him
Austin thanks for the calm it appreciate
it yeah keep doing oh yeah appreciate it
it depends how close you are to the
money funnel by the Koch brothers
basically at how much of a true believer
versus how much of it just a normal guy
occasionally checking in with like
anti-war stuff or no I think that's a
good point
you're calling from a 6 1 to area code
who are you where you calling from hey
this is a bullfrog in Minneapolis hey
the very talented bullfrog how are you
doing good um no we're kind of toward
the end of the show I was gonna tell you
guys about my experience getting into
the Trump rally last week yeah take a
minute and tell us actually posted the
video of it on my youtube of me holding
up a sign and blowing a whistle in the
mayority tell people please just all
Prague bul LP ROG okay great and sorry
you held up the sign will tell us about
the video well I snuck in with a with a
little paper sign that said resign on it
in my wallet nice and broad I snuck a
metal whistle in to which I'm surprised
got past security but I think it was
just really a good luck because the the
woman in the line next to me was
chatting up the security guy who was
looking through my items as I was going
through the metal detector and you just
must not unnoticed the whistle mixed in
with my keys and sunglasses and stuff I
bet
got in and now sat through a few few the
opening your speeches from like Bob
crawl and the my pillow guy and spread
pesckow who really got a week
tepid welcome I have no idea why people
are it sounds really deprived Brad parse
calles Trump's campaign manager Oh got
it yeah
so yeah just kind of turn to be as
incognito as I sort of loosely planned I
didn't cut my hair take off my nail
polisher my earrings or anything but I
put on my straightest looking hat and
Prada
okay brown a big brought a bag of beef
jerky to snack on for the blossoms book
right perfectly it's a perfect cover
yeah yeah lasted long enough but yeah I
blew the blew the whistle and he ended
up spending 10 or two minutes
you know distracted by by what they had
done with my 10 second interruption felt
pretty accomplished that's awesome props
to you
I love it thanks for doing that bullfrog
thanks for everybody went out Thank You
Paco I think he went out as well
props thank you so much have a great one
all right let's do three pieces of sound
let's start with the ever odious Joe
Biden Bernie Sanders nailed him at the
debate he said you're talking about
getting stuff done I've always hated to
get stuff done frame he believes that
always a Hillary Clinton she got so much
done what she got she voted for welfare
reform she helped the coup in Honduras
what are we talking about here Joe Biden
has got a work-release program for
inmates right to help do a little
tidying up around the governor's mansion
in Arkansas nothing's strange about that
Joe Biden's gotten a lot done in his
career he's expanded the drug war he's
expanded the president industrial
complex he's pushed through crime bills
that have contributed to a the most
highly incarcerated society on earth
with all of the class and racial
dimensions that go with that
he's helped usher the invasion of Iraq
the global war on terrorism fighting in
Afghanistan the drone program the
unaccountable Obama bailouts for wall
street he spent his career in the
nineties helping deregulate Wall Street
and he was always there for credit card
companies who didn't want students to be
able to discharge their loans who wanted
to make it profoundly harder for people
facing financial crisis to have
bankruptcy
that's what he has done in between
fundraising with Comcast executives
and going to bat for corporate written
free trade agreements that have lost
millions of people's their their jobs
and then trying to manage the whole mess
around his son and his family that's
what he's done
Bernie Sanders says what we're gonna do
is we are gonna suck back some of the
unbelievable amounts of wealth that have
been hoarded and stolen by the oligarchs
the United States and we're gonna do
things like get every single human being
health care and mr. this is America says
we can't do any of that and now he's
aggrieved
and he's low on campaign funds because
he apparently I mean we can't afford to
do many things but 14 things is on the
mind of the job is a very yeah a lot of
things can be afforded with corporate
fundraisers on private jets to corporate
fundraisers here's Joe Biden giving us
some vintage 1983 politics I want it's
almost like you know he's looking
energized he's looking like he just had
a drink with a segregationist senator
and he's ready to go I'm glad to see him
I really mean it but Bernie Bernie
doesn't play for half his plan he's
talking about you know seven percent on
a FICA tax in the out of your paycheck
another four percent it doesn't even get
you there and we asked it look the last
thing the Democrats should be doing is
playing Trump's game and trying to con
the American people I think this is easy
there's nothing easy about it if you're
gonna do it tell us how you're gonna do
it it's called truth and speaking that's
all it is and if you notice by the way
as I said before I was really pleased if
you notice they're all talking about the
Biden plan without saying the Biden plan
okay that is true that other people like
butta jej are just aping his plan
there's that that is actually correct
everything else he said is not true and
speaking of telling the truth
I mean I don't know what did we want to
do we want to go back to you lived Neal
Kennex life story in 1988 you want to go
back about how much you fought for
Elizabeth Warren to be charge of the
CFPB when you were in the Obama
administration and Bernie does have
answers about how he pays for all these
things because it isn't really
complicated he's going to get money back
that has been systemic Lee taken from
the oligarchs that you have served your
political career that's it and there's
nothing easy about it that's why it's
gonna be the organizer and chief when
he's president that's why it's gonna
take an unbelievable Herculean effort
but it's the only way that we survive as
a species
and get some things worth while done
that we need to get done other than I
mean literally and figuratively
sleepwalking through four years of Joe
Biden this is always funny when Fox goes
in the field they think they found you
know a grouchy white guy who's gonna
cosign and this gentleman does not bill
and Adam bill you're retired live here
in Columbus you've been a Democrat for
many years as you look at the debate
last night in the field who do you like
and why Elizabeth Warren because I think
she makes a lot of sense you know when
she brought up that billionaires and
taxing them after about fifty million
dollars to cents of every dollar that
they've made that after that it's
nothing to them and it would help so
many people here I mean we we could
build our infrastructure the schools
colleges we could do so much money with
that most people would think two cents
of every dollar what would what is that
a drop in the bucket but it's millions
billions of dollars these three percent
of the people that we have that own
almost half of what what we're worth in
the United States is just deplorable you
concerned that the effective tax rate
when you add together the wealth tax and
increases in taxes for proposals by
Bernie and Elizabeth Warren can be as
high as ninety even ninety seven percent
are you concerned that wealthy people
who just get their money somewhere else
well it seems to me like if I remember
correctly back in the 60s and 70s that
if you were a millionaire your taxes
were awfully high and I think it was in
that range of 50 60 70 percent anything
after that nobody bitched about it then
and we still made lots of billionaires I
don't think that that's gonna hurt
anything I I I think once you get past a
couple of million dollars you got all
the money you need how about giving some
of that to the people that work for a
living that can't can't make it alright
we'll see hell yeah well I mean yeah I
mean obviously we got some work to do
there but the big takeaway is and they
didn't about it that I love how he
starts so like well I think it's reason
take a little and then he gets the dumb
foxing rich people and he just like yeah
they didn't about it then I mean I
do have to say some of them did
about it then which is part of why we're
in such a ridiculous weather Kennedy
yeah I'm joking yeah but you know it's
it's great though I just love that you
know we talked about during the debate
the difference between Warren and
Sanders talking about how they go after
billionaires like Bernie talks about it
as we want to hurt their power as a
class Warren basically talks about like
they can afford it and and that's a big
and that's a structural we obviously
agree with the Bernie's side of that
equation but it goes to show why she's
saying that at least I'm like the kamala
thing where it's like why is she doing
anything she's doing right it makes
sense why Warren's messaging at least
that way on that specific area although
it's interesting to me because in those
environments I like I I bet you could
fit to find plenty of other people that
fit that profile that would say like I
agree with Bernie fm I agree you know I
think you win that guy over I have a
good conversation with that guy totally
well that guy's on the right track and
all right uh let's actually leave it at
that that's a great piece of sound will
do one more call one more I am and then
we're out of here let's see sorry folks
the new nature of the beast or at least
since you're popular too popular all
right
see this is your calling from a 70-200
area code who are you where you calling
from hey Mike this is Rob from Denver
hey Rob final call today what's on your
mind
not much I just wanted to talk about
Chomsky's term like the virtual Senate I
don't know if you're for know I don't
know that term now the original Senate
he talks about is we have the normal
Senate but he also had the virtual
Senate of capital so the rich like a
deep state type little sort of yeah like
stately
the corporate state we have yeah they
have their County and house come if they
see a policy being implemented they will
do things because of that so if say like
Bernie gets in and he starts well even
if he is elected they will start selling
stocks they will start attacking right
like currency so it is a form of
anti-democracy of their power
um right I just I wanted it like what
you would think about like it maybe even
so maybe if we don't even have a
recession by then
Bernie coming in to office the rich will
actually cause a recession and then
blame it on brain because he wants to
get certain policies through I think
that you're gonna get a huge amount of
resistance from Capitol to Bernie and
it's gonna be relentless and ongoing
it's gonna include capital decisions
gonna include media and that is part of
the stakes of actually having a fight by
the way I would say for those that that
scares one that's a reckoning that's
gonna happen sooner or later anyways or
we're just gonna have to keep having
this just kind of steady decline because
even if you're Conor Kilpatrick has this
great image of like a professional class
where you're shrinking and you see above
you the oligarchs taking off into the
stratosphere and below you just more and
more people getting sucked into the
bottom so those kind of deeper
structures you're not going to be able
to get away from even if they could be
accelerated by the capital class and
response to Sanders and then the second
more limited point is it will not be to
the same degree but even if someone like
Warren tried to fulfill even a more
limited agenda they would do the same
thing like they are they're playing for
absolute keeps I'll say one more thing I
don't think people should be scared by
that I think yeah people should feel
lucky that we're able to force this
confrontation I point in history because
it can't come any later I
I mean this is it because work cuz just
even in terms of ecological systems
alone we're done I appreciate the call
min thank you thank you okay but all
right all right folks something okay
final I am the day hey Mike loved your
conversation with warrant with a Ryan
about Bernie's lackluster adds his insta
clips are great but he needs to dump
money in TV and radio just clip is 40
euro forty year record speaking by topic
Medicare for all corporate greed LGBTQ
etc weed for all may be preaching choir
but these monthly donations slap those
bumper stickers on you're wearing your
shirts phone bank just a few months
until Iowa definitely do all of that and
I think they do need to you know I the
tad Devine ads are missing regardless
what you think it's a divine I know you
shirt they need yes and I will be
certainly be phone banking and let's
make it happen alright everybody thanks
see you tomorrow
[Music]
no son
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah
[Music]
I did somewhere the choices made though
the option when you don't get paid
Cub fans
breaks me I just
