I would like to start having Ben Carson
lead prayer meetings for me I like his
approach and Ben and uh Donald Trump
those two you can see why Ben Carson is
still by the way
god knows what ben Carson is doing a hut
in a country where there's a huge amount
of homelessness and housing is a crisis
that affects millions of people but
Donald Trump sure does love these
cabinet prayer meetings led by where up
prayers led by us in this country and as
naturally thankful for the people of
courage who have been here before us we
have fought hard for the rights of our
country who have been indicted and we
thank you for President Donald Trump who
also exhibits great courage in face of
constant criticism we ask that you bring
strength to endure and the wisdom to me
and to recognize you as the sovereign of
the universe with the solution to
everything and the people around the
president the vice president the cabinet
the advisors give us all understanding
heart and a compassionate
those are the things that will keep
America great and help us all to
recognize as a nation who's reading this
that separation of church and state
means that the church is not dominating
the state and it means the state does
not dominate the church I'm a big
believer in Christianity and religion
loving your fellow man of caring about
her neighbor suspect that Valerie's
god-given talents to the utmost that you
become valuable to the people around you
having values and potentials that govern
your life
and if we do those things then we will
always be successful we thank you for
hearing our prayer in your holy name the
economy is doing fantastically well we
even add to that Thank You bed that was
a great job just beautiful just
beautiful
that was deep but here I am constantly
criticized thanks for we're constantly
criticized and if you keep up the
negativity that it's gonna be very bad
for the country anyway his economy great
a monuments claws fake he's dressed like
Jesus
