[Music]
let's let's just start in with with this
it is this is our country folks this is
our country there was a massive I'm sure
you are all aware a massive natural
disaster that took place in part of the
Bahamas Bahamas is series of many many
islands I don't know how many a lot some
of them are completely untouched by
hurricane durian others completely wiped
out it has been the case with the
Bahamas that you do not need a visa
we visa requirements no not every
country is required to have a visa to
come in you need to show your passport
port there may be other documents that
you might need you don't need a visa to
go from America to Canada and this is a
story reported by Brian Anton I don't
know exactly who he is
he's a reporter in Miami I guess for
WSVN I don't know if he was actually on
this boat as a reporter I think maybe
I'm not sure but nevertheless he
documented this travel this trip
basically of folks who completely lost
everything in this hurricane and we're
headed to the United States maybe they
have family probably I would imagine
that they can stay with as they attempt
to rebuild and people are on the boat
they're getting ready
and then this this is an evacuation of
the island and then this announcement on
the boat is recorded so basically what
it is it's an announcement that the u.s.
is going to require a visa
now look imagine how difficult it would
be to get a visa under these
circumstances
everything you own has been destroyed
you have kids where do you stay while
you're trying to get a visa it's not
like you go and you you know you're
getting a MetroCard you put some cash in
it it comes out you got to go register
you gonna there's probably a consulate
and it's a new requirement that didn't
exist before this natural disaster they
don't want to allow these refugees from
this hurricane to come into the country
that's it bottom line that's it
and so they instituted this new
requirement so late the game that people
are being kicked off the boat
the evacuation boat this guy Brian Anton
did a couple of interviews with people
now this guy is Renard Oliver he has a
baby in his his hand they were headed
from the Bahamas to Florida he was told
he could leave the Bahamas with a
Bahaman passport and a police record
apparently they you know like my
understanding is you can't get into
Canada if you have a DUI oh this is the
police we'll just record his Bahama
enormo I guess right they just basically
say like okay you know we're just
acknowledging that you
are who you are whatever your records
clean whatever it is and here is
responding to the fact that he and his
baby have to be kicked off this
evacuation boat they just got a call
from CDP CB told them that everyone that
doesn't have a US visa who's travelling
on police racket has to come on and
normally you can travel right with
please right yeah normally you can use
police record why we have airplay and at
least yeah so you have to take your baby
up yes I have to take off yeah anyhow
how do you feel
at the last minute like this you know
it's kind of disappointing because I'm
watching my daughter's fry but
it is what it is we have another clip
from the same guy Brian and as the boat
is leaving and parents and kids now
stuck on the island nobody understands
why the rule was changed the last minute
I think they should allow everyone to
come into the u.s. they are in it
originally he said that you can come
without a police record and without a
visa and now they're taking that back
that's really ridiculous how many people
do you think have to get off did you see
they said 130 people had to come off
thirty people had to come off the ship
tonight now we're leaving them and it's
only night 200 people on my boat now
yeah Brian Anton's rights nobody
understands it I'm now it looks like
they're like the CPP is blaming the
ferry company and the ferry company's
blaming the CBP well right because they
it basically comes out
here's CPB florida fortunately for the
cruise line for the valaria to state
that is is really heartbreaking because
these people have suffered enough
through what they went through and then
for the buleria to go ahead and state
that and break these people's hearts i
think they raised their expectations
without fulfilling the requirements that
if they had done that with us and worked
with us we would have been there to
facilitate that process however they did
in theirs we would have basically made
sure that everybody was properly
documented and facilitated that process
working with the cruise line so why they
said that I would have known it and it's
really heartbreaking for them to say
that to these people that have really
suffered more than than beyond beyond
comprehension
now I'm unclear as to really what went
down here but it what it sounds like is
CPB did put new restrictions on and the
boat the the boat company felt like they
weren't capable to how to administer it
all but this is why you put these
restrictions on when people have to
understand this
there are bureaucratic ways to make
things harder to have happen we see this
every single time from whether it's like
the the census question whether it's
voter ID you just create obstacles and
human beings are human beings companies
are companies there are certain
obstacles they will not climb there are
certain obstacles they won't be able to
climb
it's disgusting
the reporter wonders why do really do we
really gotta wonder why why the response
from CBP is like whatever just have him
on the boat we'll figure it out when
they get here
it's gonna be a hassle we'll figure out
on the boat
no it's we're gonna change our policy
because this reflects our ideology here
a hostility towards refugees
maybe we'll get a test case to see what
happens if we were to get refugees from
Greenland but it's disgusting
that's who we are folks that's who we
are I mean then we get to hear about
here the people responsible talk about
how big of a shame it is right this is
the mean this is exactly how you do it
right we just simply asked for one or
two new things and the people who put
who who put that in the pipeline know
why they did that
it could eliminate up to fifty percent
of the people and it did it's done this
boat he's done this boat
that's disgusting
I mean I don't know what else to say
it's it's it's just it's just disgusting
