[Music]
now for the moment that you've been
waiting for it look there's a lot of
support that we've had from all sorts of
communities out there saying why doesn't
Dave Rubin actually sit down with Sam
and discuss some ideas
why does Steve Crowder keep ducking Sam
cedar all the time and we're going to
have you know when we get to September
we're gonna roll that out I'm not
exactly sure when we're gonna do it but
sometime in September we're gonna roll
out some of the examples of steven
crowder over the past year or so
ducking debates but people are getting
sick of it even people that you wouldn't
imagine I give you tell me Lauren from
that she's still on the blaze TV or
blaze she's definitely on the blaze
anymore never that's right she's off the
blaze but tell me Lauren here she is hey
hey Tommy Lehren here so I wanted to say
to Dave Stephen and others stop being
cowards and debate Sam already my
goodness get to it
those are my final thoughts god bless
take care and remember get your debate
on there he goes Tommy tell me Lauren
Timmy Timmy
hey hey Tommy larren here so I wanted to
say to Dave Stephen and others stop
being cowards and debate Sam already my
goodness get to it those are my final
thoughts god bless take care and
remember get your debate on my do it now
we should probably just say that at
doctor underscore ill there did pay
Tommy to say this on the platform cameo
where you can play do sort of minor
celebrities - you know I'm sorry wait
okay so do you think Matt that Tommy
Lauren is just gonna say something just
for the money no never mind
I mean honestly uh yeah she got 60 bucks
to say that but if she didn't believe it
do you think that she would say that for
60 bucks you're right right
I doubt
I mean I think there's a lot of cynicism
in this business but I think we I think
she needs check you know when she says
Dave Stephen go debate Sam she means it
I think it's it's a sign that the the
masculine right is losing the females
it's true it's true it really is true
she's not that hard up for 60 bucks okay
guys she would never say something that
she doesn't believe in of course not
I mean kuck unite right like it man
really really appreciate your impressed
owe me your touch Tommy Tommy yeah just
don't be like crowd or be like majority
report yeah be a man
sack up and debate I think we got it
that's it's got to be dispersed far and
wide folks yeah it really is really sad
you getting called out called Mel by
your women yep real problem she's at Fox
Nation now so I tell her thanks thanks
Fox nation thanks told me thanks Fox
nation
