[Music]
yeah in fact here is just a clip as on
this day it's number 10 just an image of
of the front page of the local local
paper in Oxford Mississippi as you know
Cindy hyde-smith multiple examples of
her racism that have come out in the the
past weeks not the least of which are
starting talking about public hangings
and a refusal to apologize at first and
then bringing out who was it the the
governor or the mayor who's talking
about governor well there's a lot of
black babies that get aboard and the
real problem is people are trying to
twist her words to drive us apart right
and and then reports about what's
sending to segregated schools and all
sorts of stuff I mean I don't know if SB
has a shot well he has a shot I mean
there's only two people running but it's
nice at least that the message is coming
from non politicians as well the first
female Rhodes Scholar from the
University of Mississippi did an
interview with the local paper the eagle
and it caught up with the University of
Mississippi senior jazz Brissac I just
like the idea of like we caught up with
her she's moving she's constantly moving
she was nice colors our minor celebrity
who at least in North Dakota art we know
are out scholars is that right Jenkinson
not in Massachusetts my friends was
named the 26th Rhodes Scholar in school
history last week the first female and
she's asked you know sort of how does it
feel to be the first um s first female
scholar says she's honored to be a role
model for other Mississippi girls
looking for ways to make their voices
heard in a state still very
much dominated by patriarchal structures
given that our state amplifies the
voices of white supremacist women like
Cindy hyde-smith who reinforce and
uphold misogynist policies I'm able to
provide I'm glad I'm able to provide a
very different example of how an
empowered Southern woman acts owned
obviously job offer that's the first
thing now something will have gone
really really wrong if you have to take
us up on that as a road Scholar but but
just know that job offered you could and
not only the job offered pick a job you
can you could take mine here frankly I'd
like to do my same impression just like
good you got a job
I'll call in every now and then but good
for her if you are in Mississippi go out
and vote folks and don't vote for the
racist I just make that clear against
Sidney Hinds right
