[Music]
the oh gosh and then get great news
this program will not be will not be
distributed by the blaze because we are
not a conservative program and there are
only a conservative programs on the
blaze Network like steven crowder this
is also the network that launched and
well they merged with the thing that
launched Gavin McGinnis and of course
Tomi Lauren although she got booted
because she was pro-choice if I'm not
mistaken because of small government and
they have a bunch of other conservatives
on there like oh that new guy they have
that conservative Dave Rubin right so
congratulations to Dave Rubin Dave I
don't want to take anything away from
you because I know that you've worked
hard for this and obviously you I would
imagine through the various Koch
affiliate networks word got out that
David Koch may not have to much longer
to spread horridness competition would
start kicking in through cash gifts and
maybe you heard it was time for you to
move to get a little more aggressive
with the book coming out I just want to
say that I you you deserve most of this
credit but I also gotta say that I think
you're deciding to just come out as a
conservative and and watch out for that
steven crowder there because he loves to
make fun of the gays but you're coming
out as a conservative I feel like in
some small way I helped you and I want
you to know that makes me feel good
so congrats to you and if I do say so
myself
congrats to me because I feel like you
know I helped you in some way see your
true essence and there is nothing that
makes us happier here I think we all
basically participate obviously in
helping support true essence there is
nothing that is more gratifying to all
of us here and to see someone come into
their own like you have so it was
supposed to be after 2020
kudos spit up well that's good I mean
good for you and you know what that
means
you guys will sell a ton of books just
especially some large purchases I
imagine yeah there may be some big
places both purchasing to you but that's
pretty good no it seems to me that
abortion I've thought about
intellectually and it's wrong right ever
book I just seen oh that was the other
thing is that yeah Dave would you mind
sending me a heads up when you're going
to announce that you're fully now
anti-abortion because you've been
pretending a little bit like you've been
walking down this road I would imagine
these negotiations have been going on
for a while that may have been the big
stumbling block or maybe you and Glenn
were like we're not sure actually that
the bulk purchase is gonna work it seems
to me like women should be able to cheat
this whole host birth abortion thing is
really problematic
hey I just can't support people who
support killing live people so no I mean
except for unless it's you know except
for unless my book things okay but they
could be aborted we knew this is about
the ideas I thought how can I organize
ideas and I need a giant chalkboard with
Ilhan Amira in the middle of it and
Glenn's got when it was I said last
night he needs a boss he definitely
means direction and whatever else you
say about Glenn Beck I think he's able
to provide a form of direction yep
