[Music]
let's talk about another recent guest on
dave rubin show we're talking about Nick
DiPaolo Nick DiPaolo is a comedian and
longtime comedian I've been aware of him
for oh gosh 20 years more maybe now he's
a Boston area guy very very much so
Boston area and Nick is likes to think
of himself as a breath of fresh air in
fact here is his poster let's let's
start let's start with the first with
nicht apollo's well now let's start with
the poster so let's start with Nick de
Paula's poster we got a spinning wheel
there so a nick is has always been a bit
of a right-winger but a guy who to be
fair doesn't know much about politics
and I always had a bit of a fantasy of
of going on Colin Quinn's old show about
10-15 years ago I can't remember was
tough crowd and debating they would
never have me on now they were and I was
friendly with Colin it's just I think I
you know they knew at one point like oh
wait a second I mean the comedian's in
that area did not want to talk to me
because they felt I knew too much about
politics and and and so here is Nick
DiPaolo with his album his new video a
breath of fresh air and it's Nick
a white guy from Boston of Italian
descent given the finger to let's see we
have one woman wearing a stocking cap
another woman of that's a has a
 yeah yeah
another woman with a bullhorn I can't
tell what's on her shirt a couple women
of his canvas dude couple ones then yeah
a couple of women of color one
other woman crying not sure why and then
a she's triggered a black guy with a
black guy lives matter t-shirt and
someone would the me2 thing and he's
given a finger to all of them because
he's a breath of fresh air now if you
put a hard hat on this guy and put it in
like you know 1969 as he's like given a
finger to uh to uh you know civil rights
marchers that's how fresh this air is
and then so Nick is very excited about
this because it created a real firestorm
and he was very very excited on how many
uh how many the lib turds were making
him popular and then he gets in a tweet
Adam from a woman says the guy in the
black lives matter shirt his activist
well yeah Dean Moyet who was shot and
killed last year but yeah sure
use him as a prop in a shitty Photoshop
job to demonstrate how edgy and brave
you are
and so Nick said I did not know that as
I found it online in stock photos
looking into changing it as we speak
my apologies Wow it leads me to believe
that they did not get rights to those
photos but pretty edgy stuff and then
Nick is so proud of himself because here
he is a little bit later trending number
one trending number one on Twitter in
New York City minutes ago
thanks to you my great fans and the
whining leftist maggots and then if you
go down to see where he trends and he
posted there he's trending number one in
New York but guess what's trending
number one in the USA of this guy giving
the finger to the black lives matter
folks trending in a USA Sandra bland new
cell phone video shows what Sandra bland
saw during her arrest she of course was
the woman who was clearly unjustly
arrested
and then three days later in custody
with the police obviously hiding video
footage which showed that the policeman
was lying about the threat to his uh his
life
she died in what was ruled a suicide I
don't know if he was aware of that what
was training or he just is just show
oblivious or what up yours guys so this
tweet that I did not know that as I
found it online in stock photos looking
into changing it as we speak my
apologies is very similar to this drill
tweet this is ah so you persecute Jared
Fogle just because he has different
beliefs do tell girls MN and press these
girls get mad at me sorry I'm sorry I'm
trying to remove it seriously like would
it make does it make it any better if
the guy were still alive that he's given
the finger to blacklivesmatter like come
on no isn't the whole point of black
lives matter that black people are being
killed well here's the point here's the
thing that I don't understand why I
apologize for that like an edgy truth
teller I mean what difference does it
make that the guy died you still give
him the finger to him you're given a
finger to the whole idea that black
people are unjustly targeted by police
he was pre complaining about being
murdered by the police I thought the
whole point was was that when the police
murder a black person you're supposed to
respect them for doing their jobs you
should give the guy who arrested in
harass Sandra bland a voucher to
download your yes free and I have the
courage of looking well I just
don't understand like why that makes a
difference why I feels he has to apology
oh I didn't realize that he died like
honestly like seriously the whole point
of black lives matter is that there are
people dying you're giving the finger to
that what's different about this guy
just happened to be a guy who died grow
up but listen in many respects we're
giving a nick just a little bit more
credit probably than it's fair because
we're expecting him to to apply a little
bit of brain power now I know Nick for
long time and he's he is not fresh that
I would not say but here is before we
get to how I know nicked Apollo here's
some of nicked Apollo's comedy stylings
ladies and gentlemen and this stuff
super fresh this is the part he clipped
for the promo yeah this is what he
clipped with a promo there's no respect
for white European males anymore I
realize this I was in Jersey last night
working in New Jersey I had to get on
the Turnpike to come home I had to go
the bathroom of the Jersey Turnpike so I
pull into a rest area what's the name of
the rest area the Vince Lombardi rest
area that's the best we can do for the
greatest coach in the history of the NFL
should we put a statue of him in front
of his high school no let's build an 18
by 24 brick structure off to exit 13 a
where truckers who have been living on
hooker and beef jerky for 14 hours
can unload their impacted bowels wig in
guys can exchange filthy at
3:00 a.m. and wear pedophiles can come
into the faces of terrified children get
all the that Vince Lombardi was for
all right posit ma'am
now this joke obviously wouldn't be as
funny to his crowd if it was let's say
the Walt Whitman rest stop but it's
funny that he talks about Vince Lombardi
like we couldn't give him a statue well
actually they did give him a statue
let's put up a picture of that statue
right now that is the Vince Lombardi
statue I would imagine that's out in
front of the Green Bay Stadium I think
also called Vince Lombardi Stadium which
is also a named after him in fact he was
such a great football player it would be
it would have been nice if the NFL as an
as an as an organization only good
football stadiums near death you only
get football stadiums no respects you
got a statue you know I'll tell you it
would have been nice if the NFL its
Lambeau Field in Green Bay not Lombardi
Oh Lambeau Field okay but it would have
been nice it would have been nice if the
NFL could have done something let's say
I don't know name the trophy they give
to the winners of the Super Bowl after
Vince Lombardi in other words the Vince
Lombardi Super Bowl trophy or I think
they call it the championship trophy so
here you have nicked Apollo a breath of
fresh air talking about how disgusting
it is that they don't mean the premise
is we don't have respect for white
European males anymore
[Music]
we don't have respect for white males
anymore
all they do is they get rest stops and
all statues and or huge trophies that
are that are given probably in the the
the handing over of that Super Bowl
trophy is probably one of the most
witnessed events in in television period
and the biggest sporting event every
single year in the world like I could
have said Walt Whitman but I mean I
don't know who gives a about Walt
Whitman
it's like he just wanted the first part
about the white male Europeans don't get
respect anymore it's like what can I say
to make this just really a lot of bad
words - also funny right right right
it's very edgy now look and why should
we respect white European males PS well
I mean I I don't know that we should not
respect or respect anybody or whatnot
it's just they don't know Joe nobody she
had special respect the idea that white
male Europeans are not respected in our
society is absurd it is absurd the idea
we should offer why aggrievement in this
society is absurd it's absurd today and
it was absurd 20 years ago now I usually
don't do this because I usually just by
you know make my commentary based upon
things that are public but this is just
too apropos because we have Nick DiPaolo
he's giving the finger to these black
lives matters activists and the me to
activists it's all part of his
aggrievement that he feels as a white
male his joke and his trailer white
males are not respected even though he
was wrong I mean specifically wrong like
there was like so much evidence that he
was specifically wrong in a specific
claim about Vince Lombardi he still does
believe this white agree
I know that this is not a new phenomena
for neck I know that this is not a
function of black lives matter or me -
or anything that's happened in the past
20 years how do I know that I hired Nick
wants to play a small part in a show I
did for Studios USA the show was called
beat cops it's a show that I wrote with
Charlie Fisher and I directed and acted
with John Benjamin
where we both played cops this was a
low-budget production commissioned by
Studios USA before one of the first
things shot actually on on digi beta we
converted it to film and went back to
when - did you beta it back to film but
that's not the point here is the scene
where Nick DiPaolo is in and then I will
tell you how I know that Nick DiPaolo
has felt this white aggrievement this
white male aggrievement for at least 20
years I don't know how this is a holiday
post I mean there's there's nothing
Christmas at all around there's no shops
there's no people
there is no Christmas decorations is not
one wreath that's the point put out in
the boonies this is gonna be bad Wow
look we got here Joan baby house mouses
blanket and Chandler well I mean ain't
in it Stanley you wimp
and nerve-wrecking up not speaking to us
because what that we're not of the round
table mouth I don't know I liked him
there ya know that was a great
performance is limited we we found we
found by doing a lot of jump cuts we
could easily go around some poor
performances in the context of that
sometimes your style is determined by
the the fact of what you capture in in
the context of the show and I do
remember this and they're so little of
my life that I remember that you know it
has to be stunning for me to remember
something like this and I remember being
completely stunned this show we we shot
in I think it was 1999 I think it was
and and so I had made a lot of money as
a sitcom actor I had just come out of a
very big sitcom deal with NBC where I
did a couple pilots for them and I
pitched doing beat cops on the back of
who's the caboose they allowed me to do
it without having any development
process just here's the money go shoot
it and so I had been very familiar with
what was going on in Hollywood at that
time it was the heyday for comedians
there were five networks at that time
five national networks Paramount WB Fox
ABC NBC CBS ABC they were all in the
sitcom business every night from 8:00 to
10:00 8:00 to 11:00
almost every
light on every single one of those was a
half-hour sitcom they were giving out
sitcoms to everybody I would do stuff
called second position which would be
that I would do a pilot in March waiting
to see if it goes in May and then I
would do another pilot in April that was
in second position to the first pilot
that's how much of a like a little
sellers Hill with jealousy when you talk
about oh I'm you came on the amount of
money was unbelievable but it was a
seller's market so Nick says to me I'm
talking to Nick it's 1999 why am I on
early he says to me he says to me I say
he says I'm moving back to New York you
are why ah guess then la you smoke give
any white guys any jobs and I thought he
was joking like I thought he was gonna
say like Emily haha because no I'm
serious I won't give any white guys jobs
I had literally been on at that point
three or four different pilots where
there was a guy just like Nick DiPaolo
an Italian character like that like guys
Island was literally with one of them
called like it was shown a guy Island it
was so easy to get a job in that
situation if you had a modicum of talent
now to be fair people can be funny and
not necessarily great actor white guys
but better but the white aggrievement
the idea that to be in Hollywood in the
1990s and to be a male comedian and to
come up with the theory that they're not
giving white guys any acting
opportunities on sitcoms the level of
delusion the level of self involvement
and resent does that mean like it's just
racist you're just racist because you're
racism and you don't think you're racist
you're so diluted by your disdain
that you're looking for someone to blame
for whatever wasn't happening in your
life and it was just super easy for you
to do it now I imagine that was not a
new phenomenon for him but I can assure
you that act of giving the finger to
activists is not borne out by the
activism he had the same resent 20 years
ago and now it's just being dressed up
in some other fashion
he's updated his resentment yes
it's fresh now because I changed the
shirts they're wearing in the photo shop
it was good acting well I'm beat cups
not bad good director who is the actress
by the way I can't remember her name
she did a good job because there she was
a rapper she wasn't I think that was her
first acting game no idea who she is but
I found the way both of you very
believable Judy gold Judy gold was
awesome yes indeed seems like he was
playing himself really who was de pollo
well casting no he was not playing
himself he was in method it's funny to
put him in that helmet though in the
bike helmet yeah
well the idea was that these guys were
the first time ever they were out of the
cage and they get intimidated in the
evidence cage but they're protected by
the cage and now they're on the street
what you and Benjamin good intimidated
right yeah yeah I think that they're
intimidated by guys with bike helmets on
yeah I mean wear your helmets people but
they look funny
