I guess we've got two years so we're
gonna have an opportunity to talk about
this but Elizabeth Warren came out with
a with a wealth tax this this past week
and I think we're gonna I think you know
we're gonna have a lot of people in the
in the campaign but I think every week
we're gonna hear from Elizabeth Warren
where she has another proposal that is
going to be you know fascinating and I
don't want to say this is radical we do
tax wealth in the form of property taxes
we tax wealth in the form of arguably
estate taxes although that's a
transaction right like it's being passed
to someone else and but she's come out
with a proposal you know a couple of
weeks ago for the government to pick up
the slack on generic drugs to produce
them which i think is a pretty radical
and progressive and well needed policy
the the question seems to me to be you
know will this resonate with the
Democratic Party I mean are they you
know are people willing to get that
granular you know I don't know that is a
really good question and I don't know I
mean one of the things that I think is
good about Warren's
ideas so far is that she's found a way
to sort of make them you know she's
using that word again branding them with
sort of easy to understand at least it
on some level kind of slogans you know
wealth tax I mean that sort of you know
that that's something that I think
people can sort of grasp but whether or
not they're going to want to get into
this you know as some kind of you know
gradually say granular sort of
understanding of what these things mean
particularly you know we're going to see
also some battles between Warren and
Sanders which is going to be an
interesting thing because they're coming
at these things from two different not
from two different directions but
slightly different approaches to dealing
with wealth inequality and their ideas
are not always exactly the same so
that's going to be kind of interesting
but how the public will deal with that I
just don't know I mean you know politics
is so much of it is you know
personality it's you know retail
political ability so we'll have to see
on that I mean I find myself a little
concerned about Warren who I love
getting too bogged down in those kinds
of details and hopefully when we see
more of her and less are you know not
reading about what she's saying so much
as being her saying it that it would
because she's good at presenting complex
ideas in simple ways that people can
understand hopefully that will make a
difference you know as we get further
into the campaign but I I'm a little
concerned about that to be honest that
people are just going to glaze over a
little bit at this stuff
all right well look we got only about
three minutes left here but I want to
just you know catch people up and we're
where we are in terms of the Muller
investigation obviously Roger stone
indicted but mostly on stuff of
obstruction right we and there's some
talk we're anticipating another set of
indictments maybe with him and maybe
with an associate there's some stuff
Cohen is apparently not testifying in
public although that was the plan before
I'm unclear and why that's happening and
simultaneously Matt Whitaker says that
the mauler investigation is wrapping up
he thought that he wouldn't have to face
the judiciary committee I think his
acting attorney general it looks like he
will because bill bar is held up because
of statements he made regarding whether
the president is criminally liable as a
sitting president - we only got three
minutes left did we but but if you were
to synthesize what like the thing to
watch for coming next week or the thing
to look back on what would it be well I
think that what you know Whitakers
saying this week that you know he went
asked and he very nervously replied well
you know it's since it's going to be
reviewed which is a very mysterious
comment that he made and we don't know
what he was talking about there and I
feel you know confident that it's going
to be reviewed and he should you know
I've been fully briefed which he finally
admitted to and that it we think it's
going to be rare
bring up I you know I it sounds to me
like you know he knows something but I
don't think he knew quite how to how to
say it and I'm not sure that he's right
on that but what we do know is that
Robert Muller and hid the FBI basically
you know exercise thirst warrants on
Roger stone and they took out a whole
lot of material so the idea that they
are you know close to being finished I
think maybe a little bit exaggerated and
that Matt Whitaker I think was talking
to Donald Trump and giving him
reassurance that he doesn't need to
worry that it's all going to wrap up and
that we'll look back on this and realize
that maybe we were you know getting
toward the end but we actually aren't at
least that's what I'm getting from
reading smart people like empty wheel
yeah it's fascinating that's the sense I
get to that Whitaker was trying to
figure out how to break this to Donald
Trump on some level and I had a about as
much flop sweat as I think I've seen any
public official have in ages oh my god
it was that one thing I just do want to
say just very quickly is that I you
mentioned why Cohen is going to be
speaking in a private session I think
it's because they want to talk about the
rest of stuff but I also think it's
because Cohen has made and what is I
think a legitimate claim that he's in
danger
not because of what Trump is saying
about his family or his father-in-law
but because he called him a rat and by
doing that he's kind of signaled to some
very nasty people that he's a turncoat
and in in Cohen and Trump's New York
circles that can be lethal when you go
to federal prison so I think I think
maybe Cohen is a little scared of what's
going to happen to him when he goes in
the hoosegow oh that's interesting
that's an interesting theory well we're
going to have to wait on more till next
week as always Digby thank you so much
for helping us navigate this another
insane week and I
imagine things are going to get a lot
more insane in the weeks to come thanks
so much again
