[Music]
this is a little bit more cheery so ALC
got a little bit more got a little bit
righteous in a financial house financial
committee hearing she has been going
gangbusters apparently in terms of
questioning like like literally
impacting the entire house and raising
the bar for other Democratic House
members committee members on how she
questions or how people a question at
one point the guy from the real world
what's his name Sean Duffy congressman
from Wisconsin right he was talking
about you know who's gonna pay for he
was talking about a lot of economic
issues frankly that are problematic if
we implement a lot of the green New Deal
mandates and the irony is of course that
everyone was complaining about all of
the economic policies that were imbedded
in the green New Deal proposal yet it
becomes clearer when you're addressing
that critique when you're when you're
addressing the critique of the green new
deal that it's going to displace people
and that coal miners aren't gonna have
jobs the green new deal puts in more
funding not only for retraining coal
minders but also do you remember this
allowing coal miners who may not be able
to switch jobs at age 45 or 50 to
basically just get funding to live their
lives retire early yeah god forbid
that's way more than they're getting now
and that's all these things like a job
guarantee right is built into the green
new deal to address the things that
what's his name again
Duffy Duffy says now of course he tries
to make it because hey
see is from New York and because she's a
woman I suspect who you know is young
tries to sell the elite thing and here
is her response this is number three but
aside from that when we talk about the
concern of the environment as an elitist
concern one year ago I was waitressing
in a taco shop in downtown Manhattan I
just got health insurance for the first
time a month ago this is not an elitist
issue this is a quality of life issue
you want to tell people that their
concern and their desire for clean air
and clean water is elitist tell that to
the kids in the South Bronx which are
suffering from the highest rates of
childhood asthma in the country tell
that to the families in Flint whose kids
have their blood is ascending in Inlet
levels their brains are damaged for the
rest of their lives called them elitist
tell your telling them that those kids
are trying to get on a plane to Davos
people are dying they are dying and the
response across the other side of the
aisle is to introduce an amendment five
minutes before a hearing in a markup
this is serious this should not be a
partisan issue this is about our
constituents in all of our lives Iowa
Nebraska broad swaths swaths of the
Midwest are drowning right now
underwater farms towns that will never
be recovered and never come back
and we're here and and people are more
concerned about helping oil companies
than helping their own families I don't
think so I don't think so
this is about our lives this is about
American lives and it should not be
partisan science should not be partisan
this we are facing a national crisis and
if we do not ascend to that crisis if we
do not ascend to the to the levels in
which we were threatened at the Great
Depression when we were threatened in
World War two
if we do not ascend to those levels if
we tell the American public that we are
more willing to invest and bail out big
banks than we are willing to invest in
our farmers and our urban families then
I don't know what we're here doing
[Applause]
well often vigil tonight
[Applause]
she's gonna be 35 by 2024 can we get the
can we find that out 2028 right know
she's 28 so 20 28 28 as my awoke bros
producer rob lopez from the bronx oh
that that video was like his mom telling
him no you cannot stay out past your
curfew right I'm not a curfew all right
the human race has a curfew the other
clip I mean she she went on about you
know having but it's it's more or less
the same right I mean I think it covers
a lot of the same territory I mean right
now we have in is it North Dakota or
Montana I mean we had Native Americans a
tribe Nebraska who were completely
isolated for two or three weeks because
of floods in South Dakota whole towns
just destroyed and these things don't
come back and to show how like
unprepared this country is for it not
only are the Native Americans who you
think like are under the environmental
gun in this country we lost a bunch we
lost 10 percent of America's f-22s
because they didn't move him out of a
Nebraska hangar fast enough so like
we're so flat-footed with climate change
right now that even the military is not
prepared enough yeah if you can't muster
the energy to care about humans you
should at least care about the poor F
twenty-twos I mean lot of F twenty-twos
that were hurt by that I I'd be very
curious if that wasn't like this is a
great opportunity for us to get 10 more
you know 10% more contract contracts
yeah well you guys will be feel more
secure knowing that the job that Sean is
trying to get on right now in
construction is building a giant seawall
in New York City yeah that New York is
actually one of the few places where you
can actually do that and have it have an
impact in terms of like the cost the
cost benefit analysis
they will build that but in Miami it's
not going to make a difference because
it's built on basically a sponge and off
the coast of North Carolina it's just
not worth it like there's just not
enough economic activity they're just
gonna have to lose large swaths of
different places up and down the East
Coast this the maps will be able to or
will be more fun to draw in the future
exactly you'll get a whole nother think
of the ecology industry you know you're
talking about all right like it's a it's
a huge it's bringing back a dying art
I've learned a little bit of positive
thinking for the market fish that are
being to man gloom climate Cox maybe we
can actually create things and build
things in a tremendous way
