Daniel Besser you have a new piece in
the Jacobin where you outline the real
profound differences between Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren and foreign
policy which very much relate to not
only our you know aspirations as people
with a socialistic viewpoint and a
desire for greater solidarity and a post
hegemonic world of all kinds whether the
United States or China but also with
real practical ramifications in terms of
you know handling these potentially very
explosive situations in a way that's
I'll actually say like prudent and safe
spell out the differences for us sure
and so I think what's important to
emphasize that first is that when it
comes to declared policies there's
actually like a bunch of similarities
between Bernie and Warren know they both
say they want to end and what's more
they both say they want to reduce the
influence of the military-industrial
complex on foreign policymaking they
both say they want to develop trade
policies that benefit labor at the
expense of capital so I think this is
what has led a bunch of people who are
only you know understandably casually
watching this this this competition to
basically say that there's no difference
between them and if there's no
difference between them we should vote
for the female candidate and I
appreciate that if there are truly no
difference between them but the problem
is that when you actually dig into what
they say and I put on my intellectual
historian hat here when you when you
read what they say when you read their
text when you read what they their
vision of foreign policy that they
expressed they actually have rather
radically different understandings of
what the United States has role in the
world is and not to put too fine a point
on it but in brief I think it's fair to
describe Warren as a rather traditional
American nationalist one might even say
American Exceptionalist at some point in
one of her foreign policy speeches she
said something along the lines of
she will be dedicated to defending
America's interests first and foremost
in the world and Bernie I think really
taps into a much older tradition of
social democratic internationalism or
Democratic Socialist internationalism
however you want to put it that goes
back you know roughly a century plus in
the United States so where Warren in all
of her foreign policies essentially says
repeatedly I'm here to defect that merit
of defend American workers I'm here to
defend American interests I'm here to
defend American labor and American
business of course she also says that
words and as far as I know something
that Bernie has never said Bernie very
much talks in an internationalist key so
he very much said that the inter his
interest is not to only defend American
workers but basically and the what he
called the race to the bottom what his
campaign calls the race to the bottom in
the international economy where American
workers have to compete with Vietnamese
workers or Malaysian workers who are
making very little money with very few
benefits so what he wants to do he's
speaking in a really internationalist
way which i think it's crucial
considering that we still live in the
era an era of incredible global global
interconnectedness of the globalization
if that's what you want to refer to it
as and it's not really possible at least
if you're progressive and you take as
your foundational philosophical position
that all human lives are equal to think
in the explicitly nationalist terms that
Warren does that in that if you truly
adopt a left-wing politics which to be
the foundational position is that all
people again are equal you need to think
in an internationalist way that that
that that takes the lives of people
abroad as seriously as you take the
lives of American as a matter of
Americans and I think you actually saw
this in the most recent rally when
Bernie said you know look to your side
are you willing to fight for someone who
you don't know who's not you and that is
the argument of his foreign policy his
the argument of his foreign policies
that we need an international
progressive movement
in order to basically solve the
challenges of the day and Bernie
identifies the major challenges of the
day of being global here
he talks about climate change in global
inequality and these he is right to say
are only going to be solved through
international coalition building and
what he calls a global progressive
movement where were in as far as I can
tell is still thinking in the
traditional sort of nation-state
centered way of the Cold War on post
Cold War eras and I think this is
probably due to the fact that farm
policy isn't a major interest at first
it never was in fact I would
characterize Warren as being very
similar ideologically to a 1950s era
Eisenhower Republican like a liberal
Republican as someone who studies that
era that is what her policies read like
most to me you know she thinks
capitalism is good but some bad
capitalist has done some bad things she
thinks the United States should
sometimes go to war but we've gone to
too many wars because some corrupt
people has done some corrupt things
while Bernie adopt a very fundamentally
different understanding of both foreign
policy and the United States is a role
in the world let's and let's really
spell out I mean first of all in fact it
is a leadership role and the framing of
it has major implications so actually
building a frame around solidarity
versus sort of a national self-interest
argument I mean as one example up and
Ryan grim actually brought this to my
attention and Ryan grim is certainly you
know sick I mean more you know certainly
more Pro Warren than me so it was
interesting getting it from him but even
when Warren has spoken very little on
civilian casualties now all of them
speak very little on civilian casualties
but you know Bernie at times has
certainly talked about the toll of us
just abuses and civilian casualties
abroad when Warren has and it's
extremely and frequently she'll always
frame it in terms of the bad public
relations perception for the United
States that is created by as an example
all of the people the US military is
killing in Afghanistan so as this gets
practical and you also point to in your
piece I mean one we know that right out
of the gate this is the one area you
know there's all these arguments about
theories of change whether or not we
should have a more ambitious or more
limit
agenda on you know major areas of
domestic policy but we all know is that
when you walk into the White House and
this is actually another piece of your
work
it's this is a big problem structurally
but as it stands now the president has a
vast bureaucracy and a huge amount of
power over foreign policy which you know
if anything is not mitigated by Congress
it's it's probably mitigated and
mediated by the military and
intelligence apparatus which is you know
obviously profoundly dangerous and
undemocratic but so these perceptions
and how they look at the world manner
hugely and I think to drill into it
specifically let's talk about climate
change and how it does relate to at
least the notion that we need some type
of transnational coordination to tackle
a common problem versus this notion that
you know and again this is in the
context of Warren voting for Trump
military budget increases and Sanders
voting against them that we can kind of
like green upgrade the military and I
and just as I asked this there's a you
know the kind of moral objection sure
but there's also sort of like you know
how green can Walmart ever be component
to this right like yes you can and of
sure you could you know let's have tanks
that run on hydrogen fine but at the end
of the day having a vast global killing
state is going to eat up a infinite
amount of human resources even if you
make it slightly more energy efficient
which by the way the Pentagon has
actually been working on doing for quite
some time the Pentagon is you know
better on these issues and other parts
of the federal bureaucracy but get into
the drill down of not just the
philosophical difference but the
enormous practical implications of we
need to sit down with fellow
stakeholders to deal with the climate
crisis versus let's have solar powered
hovercrafts yeah I think that's very big
and an important thing to emphasize is
that if we're at the United States is
focusing on its you know seven hundred
plus billion dollars military budget
they're not focusing on other things so
important thing to emphasize is that
you have this global military state it
actually takes not only resources but
energy away from doing things like
solving climate change and you're never
going to solve climate change through in
Creede military for a variety of reasons
one that isn't going to really stop
anything but two and probably most
importantly it's going to signal to the
rest of the world that the United States
isn't serious about transnational
organization or international
negotiations so I think one that was
difficult for us to appreciate from the
United States is how much the rest of
the world distrust us for a variety of
reasons because it basically everything
we did during the Cold War and
everything we did after the Cold War
where it was made clear that what US
leadership meant was not that we were
going to you know interact with other
nations and try to guide them in a
quote/unquote positive direction but
that we were going to tell other nations
what to do so there's an enormous lack
of trust in the United States that
maintaining the global military state is
never is just you're never going to
overcome it if you maintain the eight
hundred bases I don't care how clean
energy and efficient they are so that is
probably the most important way in which
warrants basically as far as I can tell
status quo vision is going to prevent
solving these international problems the
first step in solving climate change is
reducing America's military bases by
showing the rest of the world that the
United States is going to take them
serious seriously as relatively equal
negotiating partners particularly China
and particularly India which as everyone
knows are two of the largest global
emitters in the world I think the top
three are India China and the US and
apologies if I got that wrong but I'm
pretty sure that they're in the top five
definitely so we're going to need to
negotiate with these countries and we're
going to need to negotiate from an area
of good faith and this is why I think
it's actually very critical the who is
president because as you suggested at
the beginning of your Thomason comments
in question is that the president it
basically is literally a king and in all
of the areas of the federal bureaucracy
and federal state baking capacity
foreign policy is probably the area in
which the president has has the most
discretion for a variety of reasons in
the last 70 or so years foreign policy
Authority it is increasingly centralized
not only around the presidents but in
the White House itself the national
secure
council is an incredibly influential
body of foreign policymaking as we've
talked about before on your podcast and
so this is the area I'm probably more so
than any other area unless the president
pursued a policy of executive orders
which has you know its benefits and
drawbacks and we could talk about that
that's not that Bernie or Warren is
going to be able to make an enormous
difference and I think that's important
to recognize because Bernie clearly has
a long-standing decades-long
anti-imperialist credentials in a way
that Warren just is not I I don't mean
to keep on you know the trashing code
but I just don't think that she cares
much about foreign policy and I don't
think she's really thought about it that
much it's never been part of her
political vision or her political or her
political perspective so I think it's
actually really important to look beyond
just the pure the pure policies that
both that both recommend and to really
think like what is their vision of the
United States's role in the world that
is to say that is not to say that if
Warren gets into office I don't think
she would she would I don't think things
would be totally the same I imagine that
she would probably stop intervening as
much I imagine that she would try to
negotiate trade agreements that actually
benefit labor over capital but I also
imagine that she really wouldn't get rid
of any of the bases so I think that she
would keep the structure my guess is
that Warren would keep the structure of
American foreign policy relatively
intact while making changes in the
superstructure of policies whereas
Bernie at least could begin a process of
changing that structure and I want to
emphasize that this is probably a
decade's long process you know what I
always say is rome wasn't built in a day
right but it also wasn't taken apart in
the day and so I think what you need to
do is you need to elect someone like
Bernie to at least begin the fundamental
structural transformation that is
necessary not only that we you know keep
on diverting resources from welfare to
weapons but that were able to negotiate
with international partners in a
meaningful way to basically take on
these problems and the global Commons
climate change and global inequality
yeah and as a final question I mean as
part of that pride
that Sanders is bringing to the table if
there's you know people like Matt does
as an example and I would say you know
in the broader intellectual sense like
Adam McKay chia-chu and you who are
taking the next phase of a left-wing
critique and this is another reason why
it's really important that people order
democracy and exile hand spire and the
rise of the defense intellectuals
because you're actually working
programmatically and I think that you
know that's another thing that's
happening around Bernie as well which is
that if there isn't an active effort to
at least start to rethink these things
then you just revert to bureaucratic
type and that's the same people who have
implemented these disasters over the
last several decades so I just before
you go could you just touch on that sure
so basically why what I think my book
actually relates directly to this
because the reason that I studied a guy
like Hans fire who is one of the
architects of the national security
state in the mid 20th century is that I
wanted to see what were the ideas and
assumptions that actually animated
destruction that we have now because the
structure that we have now was
essentially created during World War two
that's when you get you know the first
permanent propaganda agencies you get
the first permanent intelligence really
professionalized intelligence apparatus
and after World War two
the National Security Act of 1947 you
get the precursor to the department of
defense you get the formal creation of
the CIA and you get the creation of the
National Security Council so what I
wanted to do by studying Speier was to
figure out why someone who actually
started his life as a socialist thought
that the creation of these institutions
was necessary to world peace and it
essentially had to do with his
particular vision of geopolitics that
emerge from his experiences first with
fascism and then with basically
Stalinism during and after World War two
and when you actually look at the
founding moment of these institutions
these institutions I want to add that
continue to define what American farm
policy is you see that almost all of the
assumptions that the people who make
these institutions who built them had
and no longer hope right the United
States is the overwhelming military
power in the world
it really faces no real threat despite
what the foreign policy establishment
would have you believe
and in fact we've gone to such an absurd
degree that we have roughly 800 faces
compared to depending on who you ask the
20 or so Russia has or the 1 to 9 that
China had so this is ridiculous the
imperial order that the United States
has created today is ridiculous and the
assumptions that made that order created
that that made sure that order was
created in the first place no longer
hold and I saw that by examining this
whole entire thing and I related to
today in my book so I think that's
what's really critical is that we what
we really need as an organized less is
to begin a project of not only
ideological transformation and you know
seizing of the means of production as
crucial as that might be but also
thinking in an imperial way in terms of
the imperial son not thinking it in
paralyze thinking in terms of the
imperial structures that we have and and
thinking about how to transform those
structures prober Metin programmatically
to have a project of institutional
reform so let's say you know we're not
going to have it if Bernie wins and he
answers in 2020 but let's say in 10
years but in the next 4 to 8 to 12 years
that the left wing actually has a
project of institutional forms they know
we actually should abolish the CIA and
replace it with this or not even replace
it with this and just say we don't want
it global intelligence apparatus elites
organized in the way that it was a
policy NSC because it's too
anti-democratic Ambala sleazy ID -
because it actually makes the military
too much of a foreign policy makers so
we need to be thinking in these
structural terms and this is what I
tried to get at in my book and I think
this is the crucial project going
forward and we're really at the
beginning of it we're really in an
inchoate stage of it but I think you're
going to see it happen more and more
going forward as a social democratic
less continues to assert itself in
American politics and I just want to add
- I mean this is also the answer to
people who you know will slide into my
timeline with sometimes legitimate and
sometimes just whiny and pedantic like
you know he was bad on such-and-such and
you know the answer to that is is well
you know in some cases like with Libya
yeah he was and the second and bigger
and more relevant point is we're in a
context now where first of all unlike
any other candidate he can revert to
type which goes back to
fighting Reagan's dirty wars in Central
America in the 1980s when you know he's
the mayor you know this is totally
unparallel and also that because we do
think structurally and we do understand
the movement and the structure of a
campaign that this is the opportunity to
start taking those baby steps and of
course there's a huge amount to do and
of course there's way more that needs to
be put on the table but do you actually
start that movement or not and that's
really the very basic and very
fundamental question yeah and I would
just add my guess is that that movement
wouldn't even begin to get going with
more of course I don't think she cares
about it I don't see she's I do not
think she'd expend political capital on
challenging the military which is what
you're going to need to do you're going
to need to challenge the top brass of
the military you're going to need to
expand expense re a fair bit of
political capital and I don't think she
has the interest or concern with that I
just don't I don't see it
solidarity not put solar drones the book
is democracy and exile han Speier and
the rise of the defense intellectual the
United States in the world honestly I
can't emphasize not only first of all
this is a book that I read cover to
cover which is increasingly difficult in
today's world and this is a
fantastically fun book to read because
Daniel best nur is actually a very very
good writer in addition to being a
shaper of young minds at the pile school
at the scoop Jackson school at the
University of Washington I always love
that you teach there I find that
hilarious and you can hear him regularly
including our illicit history two-parter
of the RAND Corporation and the defense
apparatus forty MBS Daniel I appreciate
it thanks Michael talk to you later
thanks man take care
