oh this is nice Matt Walsh its writer
for The Daily wire is that it the daily
wire is what is that that Ben Shapiro's
and this is what we're haze that the
young Americans foundation Matt Wallace
I don't think it has anything to do with
the David Bowie so probably not he's a
writer he has an interesting theory
these guys are so you know well they're
abnormal but I really think that there
is a lament on the right that they never
talk about and that is the loss of an
ability to be homophobic in the way that
they were just 10 10 short years ago and
and they're sort of like flailing around
to find a new like a surrogate for their
homophobia and it turns out to be trans
people which I is not I wouldn't you
know it's not hugely shocking but for
the amount of concern that they have
about what the existence of trans people
it that that's the part that always sort
of just I find just absolutely stunning
these are people who I don't know may or
may not have had any type of one-to-one
involvement with a trans person but can
anybody point to anything in society
that is in any way implicated by the
existence of trans people or by the
recognition that they you know have
rights I mean people complain about the
idea like I can't get used to the idea
that a book that my kid has says he she
or they like really can you cannot get
over that can you really not get past
that like it's it's stunning but it is a
rallying cry on the right for the young
lists this is the real arm this
transgenderism nonsense has caused not
only does it foment confusion in the
minds of children but it also cheapens
womanhood by turning it into some kind
of abstract concept that we feel is it
let me just like it is it like like
first of all I have two kids who are not
confused they're there they've all the
things that they're not confused about
like they don't care it's just us they
like this is exactly what they said 10
to 15 years ago about two mommies two
mommies how are kids gonna deal with
this two mommies the kids have no
problem dealing with I can think the
kids have zero problem dealing with it
it is if anybody has a problem dealing
with it it's some of the parents and
they can't even handle that their kids
have no problem with it but this guy
would have been saying to mommies ten
years ago I promise you and now it's the
the confusion that is fomented amongst
young people I Got News for you they're
not confused the only thing that would
be confusing is if watch your video tape
of this guy right now I wanna see
confused oh like oh hey Dad how come you
have such a problem with this I don't
get it
that's where the confusion comes from
and then the idea of like it's
cheapening the vision of womanhood what
making it an abstract concept womanhood
sort of is abstract the gender binary is
an abstract concept it's a real
abstraction in that it does work in the
world but like it's not a biological but
there's also trans men and there's also
like woman not all females are women for
instance like you have children like
this it is an abstract concept
he's literally complaining about
something that Archie Bunker in all in
the family does it even mean anything to
anybody
yes I know we watch right yeah Norman
Lear this was a song the the opening
song go find the opening song to Archie
Bunker the opening song are all in the
family
opening song girls and men were men yeah
this is a lament that is literally 40
years yes we gotta get this yeah please
go find it all right boy wait let's play
this play this dude I'll try I'm finding
here not only does it foment confusion
in the minds of children but it also
cheapens womanhood by turning it into
some kind of abstract concept that we
theorized about so your women in the
audience you're not even people you're
just you're just these abstractions
according to the LGBT folks or Kasich I
wonder if anybody there in that audience
understands what that means like what do
you mean we're not people I've not been
treated just like an abstraction like
what does that even mean well honestly
like what does that mean like what does
that mean that like people aren't
holding it's in his mind I'm trying to
get into his mind here does that mean
that people aren't holding open doors
for women because some women are trans
women like I don't understand even what
he's trying what point okay equates um
he doesn't make the distinction between
biological sex and gender which is you
know something to manifest in the social
world he thinks that there's only
biological sex
so when you say gender is a construct
it's a performance it's something that
occurs in the social world apart from
biology he thinks that you're saying
that oh you know biological women aren't
even real well but my point is is that
like I get that he can't accept that
gender is a construct and that that in
some way by accepting that gender is a
construct we're denying the the the
material existence of women but I want
to know how that plays out in society
like what is like what is different for
women today because we accept trans
women like what on their daily basis
like what is it that they're not they're
not I don't understand that I'm sure I'm
reaching here but I do think a lot of
these people like Jordan Peterson and
this guy confuse this is actually a
place where I think they really are
confusing some of the effects of having
such an ultra market saturated Society
where we really are just sort of market
demographics they confuse it with
categories of social progress so you
know I think that that's sort of what's
going on but I have no idea what he's
done he's making an argument sort of
similar it's like a weird confluence of
like right-wing conservatives and I'll
call them feminists of another era who
are a little confused about what
transgender rights mean for women and
they're I mean okay they say that turf
is a slur but trans exclusionary radical
feminists they call themselves gender
critical whatever whatever a lot of them
are operating based on trauma they think
anyone with male parts is inherently
threatening and therefore they don't
want them in their spaces blah blah know
there are there's a small subset of
people who in that world who have that
issue I still not clear on what the the
material implications are and that guy
would have just as many problems with
those radical feminists as it would with
the transgender with I'm not clear where
he's coming from but continue according
to the LGBT folks or if not that then
womanhood is a costume that you can put
on and wear this is especially ironic
given the concern for cultural
appropriation that you find these days
if it is appropriation for a white man
to dress like a black man is it not
appropriation for a man to dress like a
woman why doesn't anyone ever talk about
female appropriation that is real
appropriation you've got women you've
got you do drag show you've got men
dancing around in women's clothes making
a mockery and a parody of womanhood it
is like a female minstrel show it is
female blackface and feminists just sit
back and take it
it's like watching the majority at a
park but here's the thing that's
unbelievable so his argument is that
thing that I don't believe exists
liberals are not consistent with it well
without knowing let me finish without
knowing that the reason why people have
an issue with blackface is because it
was specifically
developed to mock african-americans and
slaves as african-american class
citizens and as slaves as opposed to an
expression of like this is who I am and
it's the the the logic again is just
like this is liberals being hypocritical
and they're so you know this is like we
should be sticking every undocumented
immigrant in the sanctuary cities every
time you and haze are on MSNBC it is a
minstrel show a femininity it is he also
comes late completes drag performance
with being transgender which is another
thing these people like to do right
because drag is a performance it came
out of LGBT culture it's often but not
always people who identify as men
dressing up as some exaggerated form of
women and it's a whole lot of fun being
transgender again not the same thing at
all yeah my two senses he has a really
sweaty face play my phone
[Music]
the guy's very veggie sounds a lot
cooler than yeah well it was parody and
it was like it was a parody of that guy
I mean it was satire it was a satirical
understand and it may be may be that guy
from The Daily wire is also satirical
