so Joe Biden is out there trying to
relaunch this is Joe Biden 2.0 2.0 Ana
here he is this is just this is just
stunning to me here's Joe Biden he's on
60 minutes oh we just got to play the
audio right but would you let us do this
okay so yeah it's over my shoulder
so here's Joe Biden and he's he's
explaining to Norah O'Donnell why Donald
try
Barack Obama has not endorsed him yet
now you'll recall that like if Rudy
Giuliani was verb noun 9/11 and when he
ran for office Joe Biden is verb now and
Barack Obama and so he's running his
campaign as Barack Obama's vice
president fine that's his prerogative
but here is his interesting story as to
why he's not being endorsed by Barack
Obama the Democratic Party has had Jack
Kennedy Bill Clinton Barack Obama this
is your third run for president why Joe
Biden well because I think as I said
there we need somebody who on day one
knows exactly what to do can command the
world stage no one wonders whether I
know a great deal about these issues and
foreign policy and domestic policy
there's things I've done that might be
one of the criticisms - that you're
offering essentially four more years of
a Obama like administration well I I
love the fact that all of a sudden the
Democratic Party doesn't think Obama was
that great a president positive note
that he's not refuting the premise I am
running out four more years of Obama I
just think it's funny that people
wouldn't want that
Ballmer was that great a president I
find that fascinating
some of us why hasn't President
endorsed you you guys serve together for
eight years because I have to earn I
want to earn this on my own did he offer
to endorse you
no we didn't even get there I asked him
not to he said okay I think it's better
I think I have no doubt when I'm the
nominee he'll be out in the campaign
yeah
now folks remember what Joe Biden's
pitches this is the most important
election ever facing us to save the soul
of America but with that said I also
don't want to get into office and feel
like I didn't earn it myself
so I just said let me do this this is
the most this is an existential threat
to America but I also don't want to feel
weird about myself when I'm president
saving democracy would feel cheap that
way they don't want to play with a
handicap right I said don't do it don't
endorse me sir don't you say those words
don't you do it I'll tell you what y'all
if your retinas can keep it together
through the exo I feel like I love the
way you see if you pull up that officer
and a gentleman where he's like I got no
other place to go I feel like Joe is
just like don't you say it I wanna Ole
Miss I would feel like I earned it I
don't want people to say that I didn't I
didn't win this that was real hope and
changed where your teeth fell out that
was great
way to hold down the legacy does he I
mean think they really couldn't come up
with a better response to this like
Barack Obama wants to let the people
choose no it was all about me and my
sense of I want to do this on my own
because America stands in the balance
and even though I could save America
with his help I don't feel bad about
myself Joe what are you gonna do to get
air21 inline bleed on them yeah but
overall doors you know look at that I'm
gonna look at that metal that I got and
that trophy that I put up there for
winning the president I'm gonna know
deep down I didn't get it all on my own
that sort of appealed the ego though
might work for you're undecided you know
independent voters in America like nah
dude I didn't even want to like go home
with her I just like it happened
and that sort of energy I feel like they
would respect that like I told hunter I
said you really want all these board
seats don't you oughta do something on
your own you're 46 years old
