this is an interesting move here Donald
Trump certainly does not want to halt
arm sales to Saudi Arabia he's had
nothing but great things to say for MBS
but this brazen abduction and murder is
making it harder for Trump so what does
Trump do he goes to a tried and true
which is that they're not being fair to
us I would say they're excellent I've
told them they've got to pay for their
military you know Saudi Arabia has a is
a very rich country and for years and
years there would be no Saudi Arabia if
there was in the United States because
we protected them and we don't get paid
for this protection we should be paid we
spend billions and billions of dollars
here protecting Saudi Arabia and I've
told the King King Salman I said King
sorry you got King King that's like
Lisa's dad in coming to America jobs
over King King King sorry Kings 900 King
now of course this is like classic Trump
 because actually like the Saudi
army is essentially a giant arm subsidy
for us we have trainers there we sell
them all their weaponry and arm sales
have increased significantly in the
Trump era even in the already leading
arms market arms export in the world
which is the United States so I don't
know exactly how that's gonna work but
you could tell that this story is
causing him a little bit of stress
because he's pivoting to his usual
 on it
I do like Ashleigh Ainsley's dress in
that clip though you mean Ainsley
Earhardt Ashleigh Ashleigh I prefer to
think of her Ashleigh Ainsley she
probably does have an Ashley in her name
somewhere and we just haven't found it
we did it I just want to expropriate it
and use it to make an Eneco communist
flag I guess
that it's a good color palette for that
it is the color palette for that then
Trump is going to speak more directly to
his concern about the disappearance of
Jamaal khashoggi at the Oval Office I
don't want to make I don't want to say
that I hope he's not I hope it's better
well I have to find out who did it
but people saw him go in but they didn't
see him come out as they understand it
and we're gonna take a very serious look
at it it's a terrible thing I'd rather
not say but the answer is yes the
question asked there was have you spoken
to Saudi nationals about this I'd rather
not say but the answer is yes Donald
Trump still actually so far from the
public record I'm sure behind the scenes
he doesn't care about this and this will
not interfere with anything structurally
but on the public record is doing a
better job than Thomas Friedman on this
one I also would just like to say like
when who's getting more money from the
Saudis Qatar Trump that Kushner alright
maybe if he wasn't so critical do we
have another clip yeah there's one more
come up here going to introduce this
clip I think we should just watch it
it's it's Trump continuing on cash argue
no yellows continue on this yeah so what
good does that to us
there are other things we can do yeah
there'll be something that has to take
place first I want to find out what
happened and we're looking again just
took place in Turkey and to the best of
our knowledge khashoggi is not a United
States citizen is that right it's a
permanent resident okay we don't like it
John we don't like it and we don't like
it even a little bit but as to whether
or not we should stop a hundred and ten
billion dollars from being spent in this
country knowing they have four or five
alternatives two very good alternatives
that would
be acceptable today okay but we're
looking for the answer and I think
probably you'll have an answer sooner
than people think thank you very much I
have to say that actually is Trump
expressing the essence of the us-saudi
relationship because that going back to
we're not really gonna press them on the
potential connections between certain
members of the royal family and the
September 11 terrorist attacks we're
gonna fly out bin Laden's other you know
relatives living the United States the
day after those attacks and that at the
end of the net even as we know that they
sort of spread fund and propagandize and
armed terrorist groups and propagate you
know incredibly fanatical right-wing
views of religion not to mention their
own abominable domestic human rights
record we're gonna work with them
because we need their oil and also
because as he's saying they're huge arms
export market and also their liquid as
hell and they have a lot of money to
spend on well let's just I don't know
yeah it could be anything but let's just
say for this example I don't know tacky
gaudy luxury high-rises in Manhattan
it's working and it's very exciting
exactly yes they're gonna press them
about as hard as the FBI press the
Cavanaugh investigation maybe even less
there might not even be one I mean yes
in that realm
what Zak might need to happen is when
Democrats come back into power some sort
of FBI investigation and - Jared
Kushner's security clearance and the
disappearance of James Cogan
Jamal shogi I mean you know but also
let's there are some Democrats who will
priming Bernie Bernie had a great
foreign policy speech last week he
definitely connected global oligarchy
with the rise of global authoritarianism
he talked about the political
imprisonment of Lula he talked about the
mass murderer that we are conducting
with the Saudis and the Emiratis and
Yemen uh and he also specifically talked
about Jamal Khashoggi
he might do something I'm not entirely
convinced you know
the Saudis have maybe been a bit closer
to Republicans certainly the Bush family
and the Saudis were quite close but
[Music]
Saudi intimacy is a bribe partisan
affair in Washington as is Gulf states
generally we found out the orb together
we touched it up together you're calling
from a seven
