so Alex before we go into the specific
lessons on on how to rebuild the labor
movement state-by-state when the
conservative assault on Union started
did they how did they mean was it just
we're gonna try at a bunch of different
states or was there a notion of like
let's go with the red states first where
there is a history of animosity towards
unions and build out to the purple
states did their that trajectory was
that plotted out or was it just more
happenstance well as with most things in
politics it's a little bit of both but I
think the strategy that I've
reconstructed going through internal
records from these organizations as well
as interviews with some of their leaders
the strategy was Taylor the reforms to
the local political context in each
state in the states where that were very
read that had full Republican control
these organizations said let's push for
the maximum that you can get passing
right-to-work laws and full roll backs
of Union collective bargaining rights in
states that didn't have full Republican
control or were a little bit more
moderate they proposed reforms that
weren't quite as sweeping but would
still hobble labor unions for instance
making it harder for unions to use dues
from their members to pay for political
activities or engage in politics or for
instance imposing new requirements that
unions undergo recertification elections
or changing the scope of bargaining for
public sector employees and in the
bluest States there was still
organization that they did to try and
roll back the power of labor unions they
went through the courts instead of the
legislatures and tried to bring
decisions that would make it harder for
public sector unions to expand their
membership one hotly contested issue was
whether or not employees who are paid by
state Medicaid programs or childcare
programs would count as public employees
for the purposes of unionization and
that was something that they were deeply
involved in fighting and when decisions
came down that were in their favor they
were organized and tried to convince
these these sorts of workers that they
shouldn't join unions and
shouldn't pay union dues so there is
still organization and and pushback that
they tried to do even in the blue states
and I think the lesson for progressives
is tailor your strategy for the local
political context and ensure that you
are fighting battles that push the ball
forward even if you lose interesting and
as you we go through some of the lessons
one of them is organizing at the right
level of government not exactly the same
thing but it is highly the ideas be
conscious of your context what is the
right level of government to organize it
so for progressives it's been an all too
easy retreat to the cities I think given
that conservatives and Republicans have
taken control of so many state
governments I think progressives
instinct has been let's see what we can
do at the city level given that most
cities are controlled by Democrats they
tend to be sort of enclaves of a lot of
left-leaning individuals and so it's
easier to do things like raise the
minimum wage raise contracting standards
enact paid sick leave or family leave at
that city level but the thing about
cities is in the American political
system states have the ability to
override what cities are doing and as
we're seeing across dozens of states the
conservative organizations that I'm
talking about have passed preemption
laws that basically say you can't exceed
what the state is doing so if a state
preempts minimum wage laws it means
cities can't go above what the state has
set and so for state like Wisconsin it
means that Madison and Milwaukee can't
raise their own minimum wages passed
what the Republicans are willing to do
at the state level and you've seen that
systematically across a variety of
different issues especially on labor
policy and so it's not enough for
progressives to double down on a city
based strategy I think you have to you
have to really contemplate how you would
go about rebuilding power at the state
level right and then your second lesson
is working across policy-making arenas
what does that mean so in the American
political system there are a whole bunch
of different ways that you can go about
producing political change you can try
and pass
the legislature you can bring a case
through the court system or you can try
and work through bureaucracies or
administrative agencies and the
conservative organizations did all three
of those things and they did them in
ways that built on one another's
successes and so as I alluded to before
in order to reach unions in blue states
these conservative organizations brought
lawsuits that challenged the ability of
public sector unions and blue states to
collect dues and attract new members and
then they use those victories to
organize on the ground to try and get
people to leave their unions in those
states and that paved the way for
further legislative cutbacks to the
Union so it's about playing the whole
field of different political arenas and
ensuring that you're complementing your
efforts for progressives I think it
means you know taking advantage of the
court system where they can obviously
the courts especially at the federal
level have moved in a more conservative
direction with Trump appointments but it
also means working at the state through
the state level judiciary is where
that's possible and then instituting
standards that then can be used to pass
better legislation you also suggest
connecting policies to individual
citizens what do you mean by that I
think there's a tendency on the part of
progressives and Democrats to assume
that once you set up a policy put it in
place people and organizations will
respond and it will sort of be a
virtuous cycle if Democrats for instance
pass an expansion of health insurance
then people will realize that they're
getting health insurance because of the
Democrats and they'll learn to support
government and to support the Democratic
Party I mean in part that's the story of
Social Security and I think Democrats
hope that a similar thing would happen
with with the Affordable Care Act but
unless you're on the ground teaching
people that this policy produces these
benefits and connecting it back to the
original legislation I don't think
you'll see those political effects and I
think there's a similar story with labor
law as well so after conservative groups
passed for instance right-to-work laws
they would organize to on the ground to
convince members to opt out of unions to
take advantage of their new rights under
the
right-to-work law and I think
progressives need to think similarly
about how it's not enough to simply pass
a law bolstering labor unions they have
to ensure that their organizers on the
ground that can that can make sure that
the labor unions are taking advantage of
their new rights alright and and we just
we're running a little bit out of time
but here but but you also write about
what might a power building reform
agenda look like what would that look
like and and again you know this is a
question of will to a large extent we
don't the left doesn't have the same
funding opportunities there's a lot more
you know there's there's some return on
investment when you when you are a big
industrialist and you get rid of unions
not so much on the on the on the Left
but what might a power building reform
agenda look like well I would disagree
with you a little bit and say there is a
return on investment for Democrats who
might not necessarily care about unions
in so much as if you make it easier for
unions to organize and participate in
politics that's going to help more
Democrats get elected and build the base
of progressive power and so I think
there is a return on investment in that
sense even if it's not a financial one
so what does Democrats be doing I think
they should be in the states that they
control state governments making it
easier for public sector unions to
organize and participate in politics and
to raise new sources of revenue right
now because of the Janus Supreme Court
decision decided last year that
essentially applies right to work to all
public sector employees those unions are
under severe financial pressure and they
need to find other sources of revenue
aside from dues and as I talked about in
the piece I think states have a number
of opportunities for helping those
public sector unions generate more
revenues through for instance
contracting with the state to provide
various services in the case of teachers
unions for instance contracting on
professional development opportunities
but also managing student data it would
be another would be another example I
would give and those would all help
bolster the strength of the public
sector labor movement well it's a it's a
fascinating piece and people can find
more information and read the whole
thing because honestly I think it's it's
it's fascinating and this is going to be
the the next arena I believe where we
have turned a corner in terms of the
Democratic Party understanding that
allowing the union movement to ossify
and not providing the the statutory and
the statutory protection frankly for
unions has been to the detriment of the
Democratic Party and it is simply
unsustainable to imagine a Democratic
Party without an equally vibrant union
movement in this country Alex thanks so
much for your time today really
appreciate it
