[Music]
Juan Williams on Fox News said and I de
ana and this is one of those moments for
props to him but it's like how is this
different than literally any other
moment on Fox News since any time any
Republican president is in office but I
guess his colleagues did not appreciate
the breaking of the fourth wall here so
I guess it was leaked but I think you
know just listening here I think boy
those talking points they've made the
rounds because here we go asking a
foreign government to investigate a
political rival is illegal it's illegal
it's a violation of the conjugate that
for media matters one and the
Constitution Wow you know they are so
triggered and there's such babies
because it might even be more true than
I thought it was
now Roger Hale oak there's fire Roger
Ailes was you know the the grotesque
predator that founded Fox News he did he
gave very disciplined talking points he
advised the Bush White House the level
of coordination and propaganda there and
the Bush era was stunning and deep of
Fox News but I don't know like I'm sure
I mean I'm sure they all have their you
know their message of the day I mean
that's clear because there's uniformity
in a lot of the programming but you know
and even like you know the sort of
subpar idiots like Gutfeld in waters I
you know you kind of think like iron oh
maybe at least they're trusted to wing
it but maybe they're not because they
reacted like they're getting like
they're literally reading their iPhones
because they're such morons they can't
figure out how to like spontaneously lie
themselves the the the triggers the
towel right there yeah I mean backed
into a
corner like they are I guess right now
because they're really actually working
and kind of like melting down like this
the slightest hairpin trigger really set
them off that was hilarious
I've done to an actual brawl happening
on the set this is the first Fox clip I
saw in a long time most of the time at
this point I'm just like this is drivel
and like not our audience knows what's
going right I was like oh my god no that
was wrong they are legit upset they are
babies also I do like the yeah not Media
Matters that that that Juan's gonna
could probably hit you back with like
you know like the Constitution Penal
Code case law like I mean these people
are such brain-dead propagandists that
they could only go in their heads to
like where did you get laws about court
putting pressure on a foreign government
to hurt your political rivals well where
was dad was from a Media Matters post
it's like no who's the law that was
great
alright we'll play one more piece of
sound
