let's go back to Donald Trump with a
Jeanine Pirro because it's pretty funny
so here is Donald Trump responding
specifically to the report that he told
the translator don't share these notes
with anybody that translator still alive
gotta cover spies yeah right kind of
watch out I don't trust your translation
skills here's Donald Trump again getting
probably too defensive with Jeanine
Pirro
President Putin under wraps why not
release the the conversation that you
had with President Putin in Helsinki
along with some other stuff that might
involve the FISA Bruce or and the whole
lot of them
well Janine I would I don't care I mean
I had a conversation like every
president does you sit with the
president of various countries I do it
with all countries we had a great
conversation we were talking about
Israel and securing Israel and lots of
other things and it was a great
conversation I'm not keeping anything
under wraps I couldn't care less
I mean it's so ridiculous these people
make it up Washington Post that's
basically the lobbyist for Amazon you
know he uses that Bezos who's got bigger
problems than anybody right now but
Bezos uses that as his lobbyist
gotta print where credit's dude that was
a solid bird no no it was it's he's
getting him i he loves to dig on the on
the divorce it's like with O'Reilly and
his key exact that was exactly but it is
sort of fascinating I mean if he doesn't
care like he's not he's pretending like
like nothing weird happened he's just
he's like whatever I mean so I told the
translator don't translate it
don't don't don't give it to anybody
translator has trumped arrangements
syndrome I mean the interesting thing is
he's not going with the defense that
everyone else who's defending him is
going with right which is he's trying to
forge a a new relationship in an era
where there is you know red scares and
McCarthyism and that's why he did it
he's just just pretending like nothing
ever happened it's just jeff bezos his
wife was responsible for it let's go
this is lobbyists okay as far as I'm
concerned and the Washington Post is
almost as bad they're probably as bad as
the New York Times think of it I have a
one-on-one meeting with Putin like I do
with every other leader
I have many one-on-one nobody ever says
anything about it but with Putin they
say Oh what did they talk about we
talked about very positive things
because look we are beating everybody
our economy is the strongest in the
world right now Gini nobody even close
China's down 38% Russia's not doing well
it's economy most countries are not
doing well we're doing phenomenally even
though we're paying interest rates
because we're normalizing you know Obama
had zero interest anybody can do that
and our economy is now better than ever
we're almost at our high with the stock
market again so it's really can you
imagine where they say that I met with
Putin I met with every leader end up
just about individually I make with Modi
I meet with in Japan I meet with Abbey I
meet with all of them
but nobody says anything but I mean with
Susan they make a big deal I anybody
could have listened to that meeting that
meeting is open for grabs
you know the whole Russia thing it's a
hoax
it's a terrible hoax you know it
probably better than you Gregg Jarrett
so Dan bonds you know people that will
get it's a total hoax everybody knows it
and it's really a shame because it takes
time and it takes effort everybody knows
there was no collusion whatsoever they
have found no collusion and they won't
find collusion look at she's getting
impatient she just like wait are you Dan
bungee no he got fired from from CR T V
seriously on our ATVs and our props the
jet punji no bomb bomb just went up
there in the big time well bongos is one
of the few people followed by Sean
Hannity on Twitter like he fellows like
three people I don't know what he's in
with a big boys mm-hmm
I feel
