[Music]
this was pretty let's let's just start
with this
NBC News thing just get this out of the
way say this in a way that it won't get
demonetised um let's say you had a
societal problem let's just say that
people were going around with whipped
cream pies and they were using them to
fling it people but let's say these were
lethal pies well you could say hey we're
not going to sell these lethal pies
anymore because they're lethal and
they're being used to harm people or you
could say we're gonna come up with a
project that will diminish gravity or
increase gravity and make pies harder to
throw well of course in America we're
gonna choose option B here is an NBC
Nightly News report on the the bold new
plan to cut down on on basically what do
you call it like sites of fire lines of
fire in schools sight lines so one of
the ideas behind this curved hallway is
to cut down on the line of sight of an
active shooter and then to further cut
down the line of sight of an active
shooter we installed these wing walls
and it also provides a place for
students to hide behind if there's a
threat down at the other end of the
hallway and it look like this eventually
there'll be furniture in here right this
is a comfortable place yes this has been
designed to be a learning corridor this
is a learning space and so there'll be
technology kiosks and places like this
they'll be relaxed seating around
similar to a college Commons area are
you trying to de-emphasize the security
absolutely when the students
come to school I don't want them to have
to worry about security I want them to
worry about learning oh the probable
shooter be inside one of these kiosks as
well well there I was that was part of
Dave Chappelle's new bid he's like every
time you do trainings like this at
school the shooters the back of the room
goes and then where do we congregate
exactly exactly I mean this is it's just
I what amazes me is that the reporter
can just walk down the hall and be like
oh right okay of course
and what about turrets and are you gonna
have some that the reporter isn't like
our - simulation or is the world
actually ending right is this actually
happening this hold on is this Jerry why
try to put me on and then producer my
old shows oh my god it's my retirement
party I mean this is this is a it's a
joke but it's also one step away from
getting like the people who designed
first person shooter levels like to be
really hard for the first-person shooter
to come in and say oh yeah this is what
we do in duke level 15 yeah difficult
unbelievable
higher come only got the budget for
level 12 yeah would that'll be fine
