[Music]
yesterday seemed like the day like today
we have eclipse where it just seems like
our our exiting or exited political
leaders are really really trying to make
it clear exactly who they are and have
been here is Paul Ryan sporting a couple
of days worth of growth that tell us
he's on his way out he knows that he's
no longer the guy but he's going to
remind us that you know I was an idiot
and then I was considered someone who
was under the gun I had to act like an
idiot because I'm surrounded by idiots
and my political fortunes are are
constrained by idiots the idiot in the
White House the idiots in my caucus but
now look at my beard I'm free what I say
now is in my heart and I'm going to
adopt the exact same conspiratorial
frame as all the idiots who I pretended
were the idiots who were forcing me to
act like an idiot before have done in
California just defies logic to me we we
had a lot of wins that night we're only
down 26 seats the night of the election
and three weeks later we lost basically
every contested California race this
this election system they have I can't
begin to understand what ballot
harvesting is but so I think California
do you think there's something wrong
with you no I just think it's weird I
mean in Wisconsin you know we knew like
the next day you know Scott Walker my
friend I you know was sad to see him
lose but but he accepted the results on
Wednesday you know so you know I think
we had California there their system is
bizarre I still don't frankly understand
it there are a lot of races there we
should have one and we got massively
outspent
I mean big-time outs all right positive
one second before we get to him crying
about how the the Republicans got
outspent by the massive fundraising
small donor fundraising that existed on
the Democrat
there's a lot of big money too but guess
what the Republicans got big money as
well they got outspent because people
wanted them booted out it was the
largest largest midterm victory in terms
of votes in the history of midterms and
something funny going on it's all red
flag over there and in California I
don't understand what's a ballot
harvesting I'm not gonna talk about it
but anyway yeah I'm just gonna drop a
Ballack harvesting that I mean what does
that mean I give you the search term
that you can go to find yourself and the
part of the internet that's gonna tell
you exactly what we need you to know
yeah let's see what ballot harvesting
gets you on the Internet let's see
ballot harvesting what it was it was
Paul Ryan talking about well it's all
now Paul Ryan but let's do it just we'll
do it just um let's see custom range
we'll go in let's do it the day before
he said that how's that and then it's
like let's see would you give your
ballot to astronaut nothing there's no
word to that oh here it is red state
this is in this is in October California
Democratic Party's sinking to new lows
to harvest absentee ballots mmm
in November 13th there is ballot
harvesting going in Sutter County throw
them in the fields no it's basically
Montana could ban ballot harvesting and
here's a funny September headline from
Arizona Capitol times Ninth Circuit
upholds ballot harvesting quote that's a
quote ban calling the what is ballot
harvesting supposed to be calling the
lack of evidence of fraud irrelevant a
divided federal appeals court on
Wednesday upheld Arizona's ban on quote
ballot harvesting let's see I think it's
basically going around and helping
collect people's ballots so that they
will send their absentee ballots out
black Vallot
check white ballot who can't make that
one out throw it out that's a little
thing called let's listen to him now
whine about money
of all people to blind about money in
elections this guy his whole career has
been based upon coax money giving him
money standing there are a lot of races
there we should have one and we got
massively outspent I mean big-time
outspent you get a couple billionaires
dropping a hundred million dollars on
your head
that that leaves a mark and so we got
massively outspent
we had midterm headwinds which are
traditional things and we do we do have
to face out that there's a suburban
voter issue that we have to attend to
which was what our concern was all along
yeah in other words let's get to the
legit reason at the end people hate
Republicans now and then now that we
have all the other ones that are out
there that that will get the attraction
on Breitbart that's what we've done
we've been able to do that just not it
