we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the behest
of the Central Intelligence Agency
national political cores but yet though
never does it doesn't it actually it's
ongoing the national political
correspondent for The Washington Post
Dave Wagle now Dave before I brought you
on you said you were working on three
hours of sleep if it makes you feel any
better I'm I'm almost right there with
you
cool I think we're both gonna start
babbling coherently the more we talk so
let's get to it yes let's do this so you
were in DC last night watching from the
the control center let's start I mean we
you know I've already top line some of
the big I guess headlines from this what
what was there anything that
particularly surprised you that you saw
out there so I always want to start with
something that didn't surprise me which
was having been to a lot of you suburbs
for Democrats were we're gaining I none
none of the house lives really shocked
me even the max Rose and Staten Island
is one that popped out to a lot of
people last night having covered him
haven't covered Donovan Donovan was kind
of like a sleepy entitled incumbent
roses impressive and there was a big
democratic advantage there that he
turned out so the I'll serve the
opposite of your answer now that because
the things that surprised me of the same
thing that surprised everybody else
point I'm making everywhere today is
that look Democrats got more votes for
governor in Maryland Maryland both hands
out Ohio and Florida then Republicans
got when they won those races 2014 and
going into this Democrats kinda had a
mantra a little bit of positive thinking
a little bit of a little bit of data
behind it that it was a high turnout
election they were going to win and
there are states where that's true right
Virginia that's true Nevada that's true
but that did not happen this time I was
surprised
at the resilience of the Republican vote
to come out for elections with fairly
uninspiring candidate on the ballot for
them that she's not not how Democrats
behaved in the midterms in two and ten
and fourteen you know to their long
lasting political detriment so what do
you think I mean what accounts for that
I mean so just to be clear with what
you're saying is that Democrats out you
know overperformed
from their base lines
the problem is that Republicans
overperform from their base lines and
maybe their base lines a little bit
higher but they still over perform -
like we saw this in the special
elections it seems to me that we had
both parties over performing the the
typical special election numbers but it
just so happened that Democrats
outperformed overperformed just a little
bit more and in these incidences they
didn't I mean what what do you think
accounts for that well so everyone's
gonna have the same take on this which
is that there's just been a settling
peoples base of the political bases in
this country you know sherrod Brown is a
great example to watch here debbie
Stabenow was a great example to watch
all the very different races where there
are those those maps in those states
look like look like the Obama 2012 map
and the governors were in the governor's
race in Ohio it looks like the Trump
maps there is only one county in Ohio I
think the Turnbull County that voted for
Trump in 2016 is voted for Richard
Cordray tonight and this is despite
Cordray running a much much better
campaign than Hillary Clinton not having
her vulnerabilities going into election
day very popular so you you have the
sorting that you're seeing so kind of
apocalyptic thinking today from people
like Ian Milhiser at the Center for
American Progress saying if we're
heading into a period where we're at you
know conservative voters will not vote
for Democrats at any level for anything
it's hard to see how they ever win back
the Senate you know the Republicans have
had this sort of thinking before and
improve and wrong and income
but certainly there hasn't been hard
democratic thinking about how to compete
you know let's say in Nebraska again and
the last time they achieved anything is
when they could win 7-6 in Nebraska
right I mean so the idea being that
these sort of tribal allegiances are
hardening and the the enthusiasm I mean
we we would have anticipated a lull in
the enthusiasm in Republicans that we're
not seeing is that a function of Donald
Trump going up there and just you know I
mean because the two days ago it you
know everybody was saying there's a
there's a trump tax it cost you four
points everywhere I mean is that is that
the case it is it different so on a
sense that yeah or in a governor's level
I mean what how do you sort that out I
it's very consistent actually so there's
no state where Republicans the exception
of you know the blue states that have
role in moderate governors there is no
place for Republicans did better in this
election than Trump did in 2016 he they
ran behind him in races they won like in
Indiana they were behalf of his margin
Tennessee about half of his margin and
in Missouri but you know the castles
don't lose by six in a state that he won
by nineteen
so that tax you know carry carried out
around the country that does you you
have a situation where it's hard for
Republicans to win the house and it's
actually the president I think starts
2020 is an underdog you know he's got a
good economy but he has an electoral map
that looks a lot more like the one that
re-elected Barack Obama you know - Ohio
more strength for Democrats in Virginia
and Colorado and then in the long term
you know this Florida amendment for
which is going to lead to a couple
hundred thousand people coming on the
rolls of Democrats so you it's just
because of the way the Senate map the
structure let's say you know you picked
up the Senate made a chart and just put
a half of it on the ballot this year
probably the Republicans were lost a
couple seats um
they managed to pick up will see at the
end of the night for
or the end of the week whether they pick
up maybe four seats and places that the
president had won four of the ten states
the president had won they they gained
in the one Senate Senate seat up this
year where Republican was up and Hillary
had won they lost and they lost at
despite leading in the polls
so that's sorting the word tribe his
youth allowed not what to call it not
sure what to call it but look where
people where people were outnumbered in
2016 only in a couple cases Democrats
outperform starting Republicans
outperform and that was just when they
had moderate governor's everywhere else
they ran behind it okay so I mean it to
boil it down on some level it's there
are some states that are very supportive
of Trump and in those stables
the Republicans did well there are some
states where he's not as is supported
and the Republicans did poorly and it
just so happened the luck of the draw
this cycle and and presumably right
every six years from now right there's
going to be more Democrats incumbent
Democratic incumbents up for re-election
well I guess now it'll be Republicans
too because they picked up four but will
be up for re-election
then significantly more it was like
two-thirds more right
Democrats were up re-election and and so
we I mean we were talking about this in
2015 even in anticipation of 2016 people
were like the 2018 they the Democrats
have to get the Senate in 2016 because
in 2018 they're going to get wiped out I
mean that was that it was very realistic
conversation where I remember the stakes
were okay well if we like if the Hillary
gets elected she's had two years to do
kind of anything at all and then they're
gonna have he had 60 Senate seats but at
least she gets the point judges etc etc
that's a good it's a good that you bring
that up too because I've been thinking
right before the 2016 election I was in
a Utah and I talked to Jason Chaffetz
who at the time was going to
continue leading the House Oversight
Committee and he was promising if they
won they were gonna spend the two or
four years but the first two years
investigating Hillary Clinton and it
pretty pretty awesome house they were
just gonna have hearings because they
said okay well she'll ended by accident
we're gonna beat her in eighteen and
twenty Republican Republicans are kind
of that ruthless and public and
Democrats are not yeah and the Democrats
aren't that ruthless in private either
it feels like yeah good point
