[Music]
well let me just read this and then
we'll do the UAW strike video because
this is apropos of the the interview we
did with rekt over vacation which if you
did not listen to it about this book
about the demise of the US car industry
and it their demise as a function of
their attempting to diminish worker
power just I want to read from this
Reuters report it's talking about some
50,000 almost 50,000 u.s. hourly workers
at GM represented by the UAW went on
strike not last night but the night
before and there were reports that GM
knew this was coming so they were
stashing essentially there are high
margin vehicles all around the country
they had a lot of inventory preparing
for this and in that that book wrecked
they talked about how the the entire
supply chain for GM and and Ford and
Chrysler at the time was changed so that
it would not rely or did not empower
workers to go on strike very easily and
if you stop pile inventory you stockpile
parts you stalked by etc etc you are
less subjected to the power of the labor
and much of this is about GM hiring
temporary workers I believe they're
called scabs well no no this scabs would
be people who are crossing a picket line
but I'm talking about in the course of
their doing business there are workers
who are full-time workers working across
the conveyor belt or whatever it is the
who are doing the exact same thing
they're doing except for they are there
as temporary workers so that
gM can pay them less provide them less
benefits diminish the power of labour
right because if you have somebody there
who's temporary in terms of status they
they're the the cost of them involved in
any type of labor action is less and
this Reuters says US automaker
automakers use temporary employees who
are paid less and receive fewer benefits
to be more cost competitive versus their
Asian and European counterparts with
non-unionized plants in the u.s. South
and the fact is I just don't believe
this and just based upon that that book
that I think part of it is they want to
also diminish the power of the full-time
workers the non temporary workers and
their ability also to increase their
wages so this isn't just a question of
we save money on the temporary workers
it is we use the temporary workers to
undercut the power of all our workers
yeah that's interesting because another
thing that they're mad about is a
two-tier contract so workers who are not
temporary are still paid less than the
senior workers who might even do the
exact same job and this is a kind of
contract that is obviously terrible for
a worker solidarity and it's one that
the Union accepted
indeed now one of the other issues for
these workers is that back in 2009 the
unions really took a hit in helping
salvage this company particularly GM but
others they allowed for lapse payments
in retirement funds and in health care
funds etc etc so here is a clip of some
workers speaking out on CNN
is it that you all want hey great to see
what what do you want can you
encapsulate it in a couple of sentences
of why you're striking
yeah just improvements on wages health
care benefits and proper sharing across
the board a lot of things that we
sacrifice back during the recession in
2007-2008 we want to be compensated for
and now as the company is making a
record-breaking profits and so ray you
also as I understand are a single dad
and so what time did you show up what
time did you have to show up today to
strive 6:00 a.m. okay and so tell me the
effect that this is having on your home
in your life um well being a father the
health care benefits are tremendously
important in trying to survive off of a
reduced income is very difficult so
going back to work and what a fair wage
is very important for all of us
no company-wide as we understand it this
is just this morning there are still
dozens of sticking points how does that
make you both feel for me personally I
understand the difficulty of the
negotiations and the importance of them
so this being a lengthy strike I'm fine
with that being the case as long as
everything is ironed out and it's fair
for everyone because I understand the
position of the company as well trying
to go forward and being profitable and
being on the cutting edge of new
technology and being the leader across
the board with the auto industry but
also on the backside of that the workers
who sacrifice for the company to get
ahead today and be profitable as it is
today we want to be compensated as well
because we take a major sacrifice over
the years I mean they have they've taken
a massive company's well-being indeed
even as the company screws them over in
every way yes yeah well they still need
the company for job yes of course but
it's a mentality difference that's why
it's striking like car I mean you know
I've because of my my in-laws former
in-laws and their families I knew quite
a few of those folks who had worked for
Ford and GM and this and that and the
pride that they take in their work is
pretty intense in that it's not I think
folks work with well you know in in
constructing things like that that tends
to be a very high level pride that you
don't see necessarily and when you go
into like I work for an accounting firm
or something like that yeah they're
making things it's productive
it's literally productive labor and they
should a hard pick it by the way like
you saw some people walking around in
the background of that video just doing
what you might normally think of as a
picket line but they also did a hard
picket where they physically blocked
people from getting into the building
which is how picket lines started and I
think that's pretty cool we haven't seen
that in a while I have a feeling we're
gonna see more of it as we go
