[Music]
this is Donald Trump gave a a pretty
bizarre UN speech wouldn't you say
I would say it was low energy it was low
energy but some of these things are are
a little bit weird going up there and
chastising media and academic
institutions oh yeah it was sort of a
Stephen Miller special saying that open
borders are promoted only by sex
traffickers that to me seems like a
rather you know extreme vision of things
that would seem to be a bit of an
overgeneralization I mean a little bit
just a little bit it sort of sounds like
somebody who is like terrified of of
getting I don't know impeached and so
relying on on really sort of a lot of of
riling a base maybe I don't know oh he's
gonna get so awesome as this thing
progresses yeah this is gonna get it's
gonna get a lot worse before it gets
better folks here is Donald Trump in
front of the UN General Assembly heavily
sedated but arguing that media and
academic institutions are assaulting
time a faceless bureaucracy operates in
secret and weakens
democratic rule media and academic
institutions push flat-out assaults on
our histories traditions and values in
the United States my administration has
made clear to social media companies
that we will uphold the right of free
speech a free society cannot allow
social media giants to silence the
voices of the people and a free people
must never ever be enlisted in the cause
of silencing coercing cancelling or
blacklisting their own neighbors Wow
first of all the idea that academic he's
talking he's literally delivering the
dave rubin portion of the speech right
media and academic institutions
grievance studies are pushing flat-out
assaults on our histories traditions and
values gavin McGinnis has been deep
platformed
Milo Yan innopolis can't even get more
than 20,000 followers on gab people are
blogging about Dave Chappelle it's
really really bad right now so much so
but I took 14 xanax before I gave this
speech so much so that I'm actually
using the department or he probably has
no idea but the Department of Education
is actually threatening universities
because if they're Middle East Studies
programs the old Palestinian human
rights as an example you can UNC joint
Middle East program that title 10
funding is being threatened to being
pulled from unless there's more
judeo-christian values that are put in
there and helps our security best
defense is a good offense but Donald
Trump is not done at the UN he sleepily
also says that question of borders and
immigration is a function of sex
trafficking wonder why that was on his
mind
which I hate I hate totally opposed to
that once I get a wife why would I care
you're in the United States and around
the world there was a growing cottage
industry of radical activists and
non-governmental organizations that
promote human smuggling these groups
encourage illegal migration and demand
your ratio of national borders Eurasia
Eurasia today I haven't had you heard
those open border activists who cloak
themselves in the rhetoric of social
justice your policies are not just your
policies are cruel and evil you are
empowering criminal organizations that
prey on innocent men women and children
you put your own false sense of virtue
before the lives well-being and
countless innocent people when you
undermine water security you are
undermining human rights and human
dignity I mean this is pretty stunning
stuff from Donald Trump all right so
here's here's one more clip of Donald
Tron another you know you know human
traffickers sorry I'm a little slow is
they demand payment info for services
rendered it's another thing that we
don't like about them getting up on that
san the CEO D is the worst thing that
has ever been developed in the Western
world no trust there's no trust
many of these smaller operations will
say that a girl is from one part of the
world and then send you one from another
so customers are deceived and
disappointed this injustice will last
and you think you're getting a bride
from Belarus and it turns out she's from
Azerbaijan you've paid you
and prices for Kazakh product do you
think you're me you think you're helping
them you're just making them more Andriy
Oratia we overstayed yes simply promised
them that you just gonna make more money
not gonna have to be president of our
first lady oh you gave them a child then
they still unhappy happy well so here's
Donald Trump I want you to watch this
next clip of Donald Trump at the UN
General Assembly you will see reaction
shots from the goulds that they brought
to the speech who are all and I noticed
Mike Pompeo yesterday when when Trump
was trying to explain about why he
withheld payments or was going on with
all payments or corruption and Pompeyo
sits there and he's got a thing where
he's like you can tell I mean I've been
in these situations where you lock your
jaw and you just like don't smile don't
make any reaction whatsoever just look
forward and all these people are well
practice at it and they have to do this
because they cannot indicate that can't
believe that this guy is the president
and so here it is this is clip number
wait this isn't know this is five oh
yeah do for first and then we'll do five
will give the reactions and then you got
to see the reaction from somebody on Fox
News just so that you get a sense of
just like how deluded these people are I
mean right now I couldn't be less
sympathetic to Donald Trump I was like I
I have more sympathy for inanimate
objects that I come across on any given
day than I do for Donald Trump and I'm
worried there's something really wrong
with him in this instance that's what
Ryan deliver this speech he's got it
going really slow the teleprompters
moving so slow he's you know presumably
he's read it at least once
and he can't make out the words and he's
talking he is so sedated and so let's
play this clip of him trying to just say
fire tire Americans will never fire or
tire in our effort to defend and promote
freedom of worship and religion we want
and support religious liberty for all
there you go I mean how heartfelt that
is we will never fire or tire what would
happen if you fire in your pursuit of if
we will listen Israeli delegation is
fine I don't think I've ever seen a
speech that has been delivered with less
sort of seemingly connection to the
words than this one but look at the
looks on these on these lunatics here
you've got Mike Pence Mike Pompeo you've
got is that Kevin McArthur but no that's
not getting McCarthy but yeah who is
that that's Maguire is that is that
Maguire probably Maguire and Wilbur Ross
and then you have Steve Newton's wife I
think is that it well no oh she's no
she's new UI ambassador okay and then my
Newton's behind her right yeah okay here
we go
it is the divide between those whose
thirst for control deludes them into
thinking they are destined to rule there
you go thirst watch these clips of
Donald Trump and even if you despise
this man you have to be like I'm
concerned
cuz there's something really wrong with
him however katie mcfarland she's found
something to like ching the president
speech together katie if you could first
tell us what you just saw and in the
words of the president what's struck me
I think this is his best speech ever and
look at the body language he was kind
he was reading slowly he didn't repeat
himself a bunch of times
closet wait a second we just go back to
the body language for a moment pop up of
a video of him the body language was
confident he's literally sort of looks
like he is about to pass out
plate plate look at this body like all
being relaxed weird
please believe earlier this body length
bureaucracy operates in secret and
weakens what kind of my Craddock first
of all you can't open his eyes media and
academic institutions push for what is
the body language here that we're
supposed to be looking like well how
else would you deliver this speech relax
the body language so confident speaking
slowly didn't repeat himself fired tire
he just changed the word good song and
in the words of the president what's
struck me I think this is his best
speech ever and look at the body
language he was confident he was reading
slowly he didn't repeat himself a bunch
of times which he has always done in the
past and the other thing is how many
times did he talk about himself I never
counted one he was talking about the
country he was talking about the things
that he wanted Americans to accomplish
even when he talked about the economy is
improving he didn't say I created the
jobs he said we so I think it was a very
different all the elements but I also
think it was the best description again
inter-team how those make America great
again memes and what America first means
he's usually tweeted this stuff out but
he's never really articulated it
so what thank you for noticing my
articulation yes
I was so drugged your high it was like
all of the beans wheat you're you're
tired
I mean hired fired right I can't
remember it doesn't matter that's an
insult to Trump if you're watching this
is a trump supporter you should
respectfully tweet at katie mcfarland
and tell her to respect your president
more because she just down she just
undermined frankly a lot of his best
work which are freeform off-the-cuff
well and very much about himself here's
the thing katie mcfarland may believe
that this was the best
each that Donald Trump was ever given
because he didn't repeat the words twice
as he read them he read slowly almost as
if he couldn't read no one can if he did
a whole like house a big section at sex
traffickers is that something cuz yeah
that's a real big sex trafficking it's
the word it's the worst but we remember
to remember Hillary Clinton with Jeffrey
Epstein that'll think it was terrible
she was very excited about how humble he
was in the speech that was written for
him looking at a teleprompter how much
the Republicans talked about barack
obama using a teleprompter
i mean this went on for years and now
they're praising donald trump for just
being able to read the speech that was
given to him
