[Music]
all right this is um let's play
something out one more thing from the
trail Bernie Sanders in Iowa now we all
know that Bernie dominates with young
voters across the board if you're under
40 years old or under 35 years old or
it's certainly under 30 years old I
really think anybody who's in any way
been defined by 2008 who's young the
expanding circles of capitalism not
working for most people right like the
the gutting starts in the peripheries
right if you looked at Reagan's America
in the 80s and people talked about
morning in America tremendous class and
racial assault on the inner cities huge
gutting and devastation of Appalachia 's
and rural areas that had never been
taken out of poverty and then of course
a broader assault and reversal of the
gains made by the Great Society the New
Deal and then that has carried on
through really in in a general sense
Clinton Bush Bush Clinton Bush Obama
Trump with varying degrees but the
context that was created by the
neoliberal consensus all of these people
have actually been operating under even
even in fact Trump frankly on just the
far right wing of the Republican Party
and and and as we see neoliberalism give
out the xenophobia Rises but anyways
young people across the board and from a
broad variety of backgrounds have had
the experience of diminished living
standards diminished prospects
diminished opportunities and that's why
the clarity of the Sanders campaign with
student debt cancellation Medicare for
all and all the fundamental
bread-and-butter issues we need as well
as a real no-bullshit understanding of
the 1% versus the 99% how power actually
works in this country economically has
spoken to them and that's why he's
mobilized so much that's why he's
already it made some dent in remaking
our politics and now if we want to see
this through
which is electing Sanders president you
got to get out there and see it through
this is Bernie Sanders in Iowa does not
vote in anywhere near the numbers that
it should the older generation votes in
significantly higher numbers than your
generation and if you could vote at the
same rate is the older folks we could
transform this country and I think of
you to do that
I'll do the caveat sure is of course not
just voting it's many things but because
you don't vote and let's be real this is
why you're terrorized by student and
debt collectors this is why you have the
kind of court system that we have this
is why there's bills assaulting the
sovereignity of women's bodies across
the country this is why you have
skyrocketing inequality this is why Eva
global meltdown caused by Wall Street
and Wall Street gets bailed out and
millions of people lose their homes this
is why you have diminished job prospects
this is why more and more people work
for more and more for less and less and
particularly if you're on the young
person across basically all demographics
unless you're an inheritor of great
wealth this all holds for you I you know
just mathematically decreased earnings
decreased opportunities and so on you
need to vote you gotta especially now
when you have someone who said all right
I'm here here's a candidate who's taking
on all of the oligarchy he's taking on
all of the corporate structure he's
gonna give everybody health care he's
gonna cancel medical and student debt
that's a frontal war with the interests
that control not only this country but
global capital and luckily enough all
you need to do is phone bank and vote
you don't even need to go to the Sierra
Maestra 31 young people of every
demographic in 2016 absolutely including
young black people despite the
narratives to the contrary well they're
I mean we all know I mean the eraser I
mean 2016 that was narrative then Bernie
builds the broadest working class
coalition and almost
that apparently doesn't matter but we
all know how these games are played you
gotta go foam Bank all right
