give us a sense just you know you would
mention what it was like for for folks
in Venezuela you were about to tell me
the the wealthy presumably the elite in
Venezuela where are they in terms of
this the having the economy crashed well
it depends whether they're inside or
outside the state alas I mean there are
there are dollar incomes to be had there
people who were still plugged into the
oil industry which is basically run by
the Venezuelan military these days
they're head of the state-run firm the
ped of essa is is it's a general is a
Manuel Carrillo you have the
exploitation of gold and coltan mines in
the South of Venezuela which has grown
hugely in the last few years again with
military military control and
traffickers and what have you people who
are in on those in or people or the
military in charge of importing food
which is another source of abuses the
people who are in on on those acts can
generally get money in dollars and so
they're doing all right
but if you're a a corporate executive if
you like for a a Venezuelan firm and
don't have access to a dollar income
you're probably going to be on about 100
to 150 dollars a month income which is
better than people on minimum wage but
it's but it's not fantastic but you know
there is still obviously a dollar eyes
elite and you can see the signs of that
in Caracas you can still see you know
expensive restaurants relatively full
even in these days okay so this state of
affairs leads them to some popular
uprisings it was a sense I mean and lead
to January 23rd when Juan Guido
announces that via they a constitutional
provision article 2 3 3 of the
Constitution he was assuming I guess the
interim presidency how much of the the
protest which were getting pretty
violent leading up to the 23rd how much
how organic were these protests oh
that's very difficult to say really I
mean there were there were spate of
protests I mean there have been protests
over the years big protests in 2008 2014
the huge four months of protests in 2017
organic in what sense that people
voluntarily go onto the streets and
protest without being provoked or
whether they were called by the
opposition clearly the gesture by my
though leading up to his self
proclamation as president has brought
the opposition out of hiding I mean the
opposition was was been totally
vanquished last year there they didn't
know what to do they were divided they
were demoralized they were uncertain as
to how to stop you know being being
cornered and if or their leaders
you know arrested by the government so
that that brought them out so these huge
marches which you're seeing on a regular
basis now that's that's obviously
organized by the the internal opposition
there were also lots of small I think
this is what you may be referring to
there's smaller more violent protests in
the chavies sebastian's you know there
the loyalist strongholds in Caracas when
you actually look at the reports the
videos the the audio coming out from
there I mean people were not really
protesting against political repression
or you know calling for a US
intervention they were complaining about
prices I mean its prices because the
you're you're looking at a predicted
inflation rate for this year of 10
million percent and that makes life
incredibly difficult for people who just
want to buy bread in their next meal and
that is that is the reality but those
protests in the loyalist strongholds are
seemed to be seemed to be ongoing but
often the information is unreliable from
there okay so give us a sense of we have
an odd situation it seems to me where
different members of the international
community have lined up on opposing
sides as to the validity of Juan Guido's
gambit and there seems even in the
context of of people's assessment of
that gambit not just from an
international in terms of a governmental
but it seems to me that there's also a
split as to the validity of what he's
doing between a
manok citing article 233 of the
Constitution has starting a process to
have a new president versus him being
the interim president give me your sense
of where these fault lines are and why
they might exist I mean we are in a very
hazy area you can look at article 2 3 3
in it where it says very clearly if the
if the president is not fulfilling his
or her duties if there's what's called
an abandon old old cargo or sort of a
vacation
of his or her post the post has been
vacated because of mental defib the
president goes missing or their mentally
no longer able to take on the post then
the National Assembly can take this
initiative is a disputed election a
premise that can allow for that article
to be introduced it's not at all clear
but then at the same time medoras
government has hardly been you know
honoring the Constitution and over the
last few years either in fact the number
of abuses of the Constitution by the
government is is is is is numerous so I
you know I don't think we can you can we
can accuse Guido of doing something the
government would never think of doing
but there's no doubt it is at the very
limits of the interpretation of the
Constitution but I think the other point
you raised is very important it says
explicitly a 30-day interim president
which will then lead to free and fair
elections now the fact of the matter is
what happens when we get to February the
23rd if there are no elections on the
horizon how does it then work I you know
the entire assumption by the opposition
but more so by the United States and the
Latin American government is this has
got to move quickly there's got to be a
rapid collapse of there at the Maduro
government and then move on to - to - it
to elections but it might not be that
fast and if it's not that fast
what sort of constitutional terrain are
we in come the end of February
could we be faced in in Venezuela with
two illegitimate presidents I mean this
is the worry which we have to deal with
I think quite frankly the way this is
now being played out this way this
crisis being played out politically
suggest we're beyond the realm of the
Constitution and are looking at politics
in its raw state so the formation of
blocks of power on the ground and the
the quest for supremacy unfortunately
we're out of time and I imagine that
where the military falls on that divide
is going to be decisive ultimately
salutely crucial and there's no doubt
why though has appealed directly to the
military the military the high commander
so far you know pledged their loyalty to
Maduro so that will be absolutely
crucial but the fact of the matter is
the recent u.s. measures against the oil
transactions will mean that within a few
weeks we're gonna start seeing even
worse economic conditions on the ground
in Venezuela with a very uncertain
consequences I have in Brisco thanks so
much for your time today really
appreciate
