at least a bit I want to just first talk
to you know it's supposedly Donald Trump
yeah he's an isolationist and he's
really skeptical about war and I see
even people who identify as like
contrarian left sometimes falling into
this why is it that there have been more
civilian casualties in Afghanistan in
the past three months and there have in
the last several years this guy whatever
some all limits that the Obama put in
place which by the way the Obama
administration implements in a global
drone war which not only took thousands
of civilian lives following Bush Bush's
global torture global warm regime that
they even made it so that in certain
drone strikes you couldn't even measure
civilian casualties because you're going
off of behavioural Pro patterning at
which definitionally excluded
understanding whether or not you were
hitting civilians Donald Trump has
gotten rid of any limited strictures on
this stuff
he is pummeling pummeling human beings
across the globe this redeployment in
Syria which is leading to the savagery
that turkey is unleashing on the Kurds
and then what has he done he's deployed
additional troops to Saudi Arabia
because God knows what kind of a
monuments and corruption issues there
are between kushnir Trump and Saudi I
believe this is clip number two five I
will start with clip number four which
is Nancy Pelosi asking why Trump's is
sending additional troops to Saudi and
then we'll go to Trump's you know really
smart coherent and anti interventionist
response well reason I'm taking the
troops out of of serious because I
promised in the campaign to bring the
troops home my question to him was is
Saudi Arabia home the Saudi Arabia home
why are our troops going to Saudi Arabia
if you promised to bring them home he
said well the Saudi Arabians are paying
for it that really we're putting our
troops in harm's way for Saudi Arabia
because they're paying I it just didn't
add up
about what it did
do was caused a meltdown on the part of
the president because he was unhappy
with that those questions well she's
exactly right that's actually a very
effective talking point and let's go to
clip number five
you probably saw some of you wrote and
covered the fact that we're sending some
additional troops to Saudi Arabia that's
true and I appreciate the fact that I
negotiated for a short period of time a
matter of minutes with Saudi Arabia and
they've agreed to pay for the full cost
of all of that deployment and more much
more a very rich country they should be
paying and so should many other
countries be paying if they want this
kind of protection same thing with NATO
we're at 4% and other countries are at
1% and certainly a European country
benefits much more than we do with NATO
Donald Trump is the accentuation of
empire there is not a withdrawal of
empire it's the next phase of empire and
I I don't want anybody on the left
should fight a return to NATO and the
Atlantic Alliance and all of this type
of global regimen that rose post-world
War two that has devastated vast parts
the globe with coos and right wing
regimes that committed a genocide in
Vietnam that has engaged in you know
murder and atrocities from Bosnia to
Afghanistan to Iraq the Libya to Syria
and is is a co-participant going back to
the Obama administration and the
genocide that the Saudis are leading in
Yemen but all of those steps including
in Yemen have been accepted have been
accentuated and added on by the Trump
administration people better understand
that Trump is the fulfillment of Empire
of imperialism of global savagery that's
the reality and that is the closeness
with Saudi and Israel and other
pernicious global influences as well as
this emerging crop of neo authoritarians
who are committing barbarism in Brazil
in Kashmir in the in the Philippines and
across the globe leave and it's like
then what happened to all of the people
who are anti-war there used to be this
really strong anti-war left and one
other thing that Trump has done is that
whenever Trump says anything the people
that hate him automatically take the
reverse position
so trump says and he ran on this i don't
want war we can't be the world's police
all of those things most of which
especially from my libertarian side i
well then we're pulling out and then
people are saying well no now we're it's
gonna go to hell in a handbasket and we
can't pull out and all that other stuff
knowing full well that for the people on
the left if this was obama or a democrat
president you'd be all about pulling out
trying not to make a pull out joke there
but that that's but i will
make the pull out jokes and democrats
don't stop supporting infant genocide
yeah exactly yeah maybe the pullout
method is better than murder by the way
if donald trump actually pulled out of
afghanistan i would support it it's
funny how left contrarian sound exactly
like dave rubin on this issue indeed and
by the way i supported a very strongly
donald trump negotiating with north
korean leader and strongly savaged
democratic party and cable news hacks
who fear Margaret about that I'm glad
those meetings happened all right
