[Music]
let's play this guy from this is a he's
from West Virginia right
it's got Porter field where is the
description oh yeah here it is okay this
guy Eric Porter field he is a delegate
from West Virginia he apparently either
on the floor of the house or within a
caucus reportedly was talking about
and was yeah not this is the West
Virginia House not federal okay what's
videos ah but we definitely it was in a
committee hearing apparently we
definitely we've definitely see this
stuff migrated in the Republican Party
my sense is he's a Republican it may be
a wayward Democrat who likes to wear a
make America great hat but just to give
you a sense of and it's interesting I'm
very curious to see if if Dave Rubin is
supportive of a guy like this clearly is
cleaning up the sjw's I need to reboot
about him doesn't like much dislike
Marxist in days trying to make West
Virginia have more of a prominent role
in the country yeah this is an
interesting clip because it's it gives
you a sense of what the face of abject
bigotry looks like in this country but
also what feckless local reporters look
like to when like what like she's so
mystified by what this guy is saying and
is not pressing on this point doesn't
realize that well I mean I guess we're
watching the video so but she doesn't
realize that it would have been in her
both journalistic and a commercial
interest to may be press your subject
just a little bit more on something
they're saying that you don't seem to be
able to compute ask you this yes ma'am
you have a adorable daughter and a
precious son what would happen if a few
years from now when they're teens young
adults they came to you and said that
I think that they might be gay or
lesbian well I will address my daughter
first as I would take her for a pedicure
I take her to get her nails done and see
if she could swim if it was my son I
would probably take him hunting I would
take him fishing and I'd see if he could
swim what do you mean you would see they
could swim I just wanna make sure they
could swim that's just that that's it I
mean I'll take them out to do activities
all right
okay uh first off what the guy is saying
is I would see if they could swim is a
is a euphemism for I would drown them so
he's basically saying he would kill his
kids also seems to me under the
misapprehension that lesbians don't get
pedicures or manicures which I'm quite
sure some do I also am quite sure that
gay men hunt and fish so he's under a
couple misapprehensions but really it
seems like the reporter missed the boat
when he said I would kill them yeah that
that was I mean I don't know why some
sort of like lame jokes about cutting
room floor true detective come to mind
but that's just kind of so sick I'll
just let it's today no it's simple
Sonora literally I mean he yeah I
mean I know the smile that he delivers
it with it's like truly bone-chilling
I would like to ask Trump like hey if
you had a blind kid what would you do
well I'd take him out see if he could
read without brandy could swim did you
get that because Trump would have been
like did you understand I said I would
see if he would swim talking about
drowning them okay it doesn't look
exactly like Michael Phelps is what I'm
saying
unbelievable
