[Music]
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program the proprietor of the
Benjamin Dixon show Ben Dixon himself
Ben welcome back to the program Sam
thanks for having me it's always a
pleasure so let's start with the what's
going on in terms of impeachment and
whistleblower complaint this
whistleblower complaint I mean they're
they're unrelated at this moment in some
respects but I think they're related in
terms of this battle that seems to be
going on within the Democratic caucus
where we now have I think 136 Democrats
who are on record in support of
impeachment that would leave I don't
know about 80 some odd or maybe about a
hundred plus who are who are not out
publicly for impeachment at this point
Nancy Pelosi there was a story in
Politico two or three days ago that
apparently about a week ago she was in
chastising the staff members of the
Judiciary Committee in front of the the
entire caucus and said I don't care if
this leaks out now I mean she clearly
has been stifling this thing we had some
pretty interesting testimony i thought
from corey lewandowski this week
particularly after he was I mean and
almost specifically when he was
questioned by the staff attorney Barry
Burke I think his name and so I mean
just put all this in context and we can
get a little bit deeper into this
whistleblower story which seems to be
drip trapping it drip dropping out in
fact let let's do this let's play this
clip of Adam Schiff apparently the story
goes that a whistleblower went to the
the DNI said I've got a problem here
with something then went to the
Inspector General of the director and
director of National Intelligence
mm-hmm and the IG said this is a urgent
compelling issue that we find at least
credible and this whistleblower
complaint by statute needs to be given
to the relevant committees in Congress
and the the DNI denied basically
suppress this whistleblower complaint
supposedly on the orders of the Justice
Department which I don't know why they
get to do this either I mean frayed I
don't know why anybody does and the IG
went to the House Intelligence Committee
testified behind closed doors as to what
the nature of the complaint is so Adam
Schiff presumably in this clip this was
from yesterday at about 1:00 1:00
o'clock knows what was what what the
complaint was and here it is mr.
Atkinson wrote I set forth the reasons
for my concluding that the subject
matter involved in the complainants
disclosure not only falls within the
DA's jurisdiction but relates to one of
the most significant and important of
the dn eyes responsibilities to the
American people this is what's being
withheld from Congress right now we do
know that the Department of Justice has
been involved in the decision to
withhold that information from Congress
we do not know because we cannot get an
answer to the question about whether the
White House is also involved in
preventing this information from coming
to Congress we do not have the complaint
we do not know whether the press reports
are accurate or inaccurate about the
contents of that complaint
but what I do know is this if in a
matter within the jurisdiction of the
Director of National Intelligence you
have an employee of that community or a
contractor a detailer who follows the
law and makes a complaint and it is
possible for the subject of that
complaint to essentially quash the
complaint or keep it from Congress then
this system is badly broken okay and let
me just clarify one thing here so
apparently this guy Atkinson who is the
IG he was not authorized to tell the
committee anything of substance about
the complaint only he was testifying as
to his analysis that in fact from a
statutory perspective it was a
legitimate complaint and needed to be
communicated to Congress which of course
the DNI lawyer disagrees with is I mean
so they you know this is another process
thing that's being bogged down but this
is why and we saw part of that this this
week with the Barry Burke I think it is
a testimony or I should say questioning
of Corey Lewandowski and that is when
you move into a an impeachment mode
there are all sorts of rules changes
that to the process that can expedite
things and shake things loose and yet
Nancy Pelosi wants none of it that's the
that's the that's the refrain that's the
course that's the hook of the song for
this season right Nancy Pelosi for
whatever reason doesn't want to impeach
anyone we saw with Brett Kavanaugh more
evidence has come out against him we're
seeing it and and here's the disturbing
part about this it's not just that we
have a president who is not only
criminal in his own personal behavior
whether it reaches high crimes and
misdemeanors that that's up for debate
and that's up for that's why we have the
impeachment inquiry but it's the fact
that he has the ability to get different
parts of this government to act in a
manner that itself creates a
constitutional crisis right the fact
that we have the DLJ overstepping its
bounds once again to
press information that just so happens
to be a threat to the President and yet
the one remedy that we have to actually
address these issues the Speaker of the
House the leader of the opposition party
if we can call it that at this point
chooses not to and I'm still not clear
as to why because there's really no
justification if your fear is a
political one then you are literally
putting politics before your job and
before your oath I mean let let's
putting that question aside for a moment
now the the politics one because I think
that you know that's but I I agree with
you it's stunning and I've said this a
half a dozen times this week I'll say it
one more time the framers of the
Constitution the people who wrote the
Constitution contemplated Donald Trump
Donald Trump is not the is is is it was
contemplated he is not the moment that
America doesn't become America what the
framers did not contemplate was to have
Nancy Pelosi do nothing right I mean
right in in light of like an incredibly
unpopular president who is you know they
the the house impeached Andrew Johnson
back in the day during Reconstruction
because he was vetoing everything he was
being very difficult he was acting
erratically outside of office etc etc
and the the case to impeach Donald Trump
seems to me to be so much less partisan
right and like I mean this guy is
literally doing the things even you know
it's his corruption is so old-school
that they all of the commentary
accountably we don't want somebody who's
going to use the office to enrich
himself with foreign powers like that's
I and and it feels like what this
whistleblower was talking about was very
similar to that weather I don't know if
you're getting cash or if it's just like
we're gonna get some maybe some services
in kind for the campaign by promising
you thing
like you know you go and do an
investigation on on Joe Biden's kaleidos
yeah and we'll you know we'll make it
worth your while with a certain
investment or you know and and god knows
what they've gotten from the Saudis this
when we look back on this era putting
aside politics from what when we look
back on this era and we say where was
the failure of our institutions the
failure is not going to be in the
presidency the failure is going to be in
the house right that's that's the
surprising thing about it right Nancy
Pelosi is uniquely positioned
positioning herself in history to be a
bigger problem than Donald Trump right
Donald Trump is essentially daring
America to impeach him and say I'm gonna
do and everything that you could
possibly imagine it's almost as though
he is uniquely designed to violate
everything possible the way he thinks
like for him to offer a quote unquote
bribe it's not even a bribe to him
that's just how he does business like
but that's not how you run the
presidency that's not how you are the
chief executive of this country and yet
he operates in that manner and Nancy
Pelosi just simply looks and says we're
gonna leave it alone because for
whatever reason now in full transparency
ii-i've put in a call I'm supposed to
have a conversation with someone who
works on her team because I want to know
like you know you and I Sam I think you
and I might have been one of the few
progressives to give her the benefit of
the doubt when she was running for
speaker and because we know one thing
about Nancy Pelosi when she wants to get
something done she's gonna get it done
and now we see that she does not want to
get this done and there's absolutely no
movement on it so I just need to know
why you know people want to know why I
am like full-throated against Nancy
Pelosi well I they need to explain why
she is not doing their job as Speaker of
the House and so let's let's address
this this political question right
because in that same instance when
Johnson was impeached by the house he
was not impeached by the he was not
convicted I should say by the Senate and
so he wasn't removed and my
understanding of the history is the
reason why he was not was because the
Senate felt
that he that you know that from a
political standpoint they didn't want to
do that that it would have been you know
better to run against him than to have
him impeached in part because they
didn't have a vice president at the time
and the you know I mean so that was that
they ultimately decided on political
grounds but I don't understand the
political calculation here okay like I I
can understand the concept of she has a
political reason but the political
calculation seems just be funneling to
me now maybe they feel like look we
don't have the votes we can't control
the the people in our caucus but again
that's against what you and I both know
about Nancy Pelosi oh yeah certainly and
it also cuts against the data that came
out of 2018 I mean it's one thing to say
that if you're in a purple district
right that you maybe can't come out for
you know a government control of all the
major industries or something but it's
another thing to say that you can't come
out against Donald Trump I mean these
these so-called front-line districts
this is not where Donald Trump won by 12
12 percentage points in 2016
these are ones where was you know evenly
balanced in to the extent that in 2018
people won in those districts it was
because they distance themselves from
Donald Trump because they attacked
Donald Trump the ones that lost in these
districts were ones that hewed too
closely to Donald Trump I mean this is
what that bike Cofer the the the the
pollster who had predicted this you know
the the the win in like June or May of
2018 her model showed this and and and
and makes that quite clear and Nancy
Pelosi seems to be just ignoring all of
it you know what I don't want to believe
in in 10 dimensional chess but something
just dawned on me and
I'm gonna throw this out here and see
can you tell me what you think perhaps
it's timing right I've never seen Nancy
Pelosi be just completely feckless in
anything that she's attempted to do as
Speaker of the House she's been pretty
vicious and pretty cutthroat and got
things done
maybe she's simply trying to time this
this is the only thing I can give her
Sam it's a stretch she's trying to time
this so that during the election we are
in the impeachment inquiry and we have
not yet reached the stage where the
Senate can find him not guilty or not
convicted rather and so he doesn't have
a political victory to go into the
elections instead during the entirety of
the elections he's mired in the inquiry
that could be the only reason I could
see valid for her to hold out this long
I I suppose I mean that I mean if if her
if she thinks it's gonna be more
effective at that time from a political
standpoint and that you could have the
boat the vote in October of 2016
and excuse me 2020 and then put it on
the Senate but I don't know I'd like to
see the Senate have to deal with this
for like three or four months and at
least right and you know we're in
September now they're almost in I mean I
don't know when is the magic time the
only thing the only thing that strikes
me is that she either believes that she
can't get the votes from the Democratic
caucus in the house which I find hard to
believe right or and or she doesn't
trust Chuck Schumer to do his job and
that he and she's not convinced because
that would also be very problematic I
mean if the whole idea is that you want
the Senate the Republicans in the Senate
to quash this but I don't know like I
don't know how bad you'd have to be at
your job if you're Chuck Schumer to not
be able to deliver these votes like I
could see maybe Joe Manchin maybe I'm
certainly joe Manchin um being the lone
holdout but that doesn't seem to me to
expose too many House members although
you know I mean that's I I I die for the
life me I'm befuddled by
and the loo in the Lewandowski thing
showed a like a little bit of a taste of
what of like what they could do in you
know with impeachment again like I said
that I can't think of any reason either
but if I had to just really try the only
thing that makes sense is she's trying
to get the timing right on it for
political purposes but again your your
question is the one that's most
paramount when is the magic time then
when is a moment that she's gonna strike
because there is a lengthy period for
the inquiry as well as the Senate
hearing the Senate trial the I guess you
know will have a better notion going
forward and you know I would think like
this whistle blower thing might be able
to give them this sort of like you know
the more impetus to to push this stuff
but there dud there is a quality of
Nancy Pelosi being out of step right and
just sort of like not understanding this
political moment the idea of being
afraid of polarization is just absurd
the you can't there's times where you
basically you you know polarize it mean
like the the and I'm talking you know I
want to pivot to to Joe Biden hero I
think is also not at the moment but a
lot of this is just sort of like look
you don't want to engage in the fight
but it's a dumb thing to say when
someone is pounding on your face with
their fists like yeah like honestly it's
like look I don't believe in fighting
and so I'm not going to add to this as
the person is pounding you into like you
know pounding your face and that is the
situation that we're gonna have going
into 2020 you're gonna have a polarized
electorate and you're not going to be
able to do it's not a question of
convincing people who have already
chosen sides it's a question of
mobilizing anybody who might be in any
way sympathetic to your cause and one
you know as we talk about this election
there was a stat that came out today
about college students they doubled
their rate
participation from 2014 to 2020 let me
excuse me to 2018 that's stunning this
is off year election and that is I think
pretty stunning I have a feeling 2016
was not a banner year for college
students to vote and I imagine they're
gonna come out you know with a similar
dynamic and if that holds true you know
I guess we'll see maybe some of that in
the in the primary season but we have
the polls
