[Music]
the to the extent that Democrats were
not it's it's sometimes sort of stunning
where you and and this is also I think
you know a problem not just with
Democrats although I think the
relationship between Democrats and sort
of the the mainstream media is different
from Republicans in the mainstream media
and the idea of impeachment despite the
fact the the sort of the the breadth and
the depth of the corruption that is
involved in the Trump administration has
not gained any traction until the
president starts violating process
issues now this is important because
again we said this yesterday if you do
not hold the President to account in
terms of its obligations in the the
executive branch to its obligations to a
you know responding to subpoenas from
Congress then really you have
fundamentally undermined the checks and
balances of our government and right now
Trump administration is suing different
blanks to BA to block house how
subpoenas for their records and this
stuff pertains to like were there
fraudulent loans that the that that
Trump and his family members got from
banks was their money laundering was
their I mean and all of which is based
in testimony these are not fishing
expeditions right I mean these were
testimony that they got from public
testimony from his consigliere here is
Katey Porter on CNN explaining that
the Trump administration wants it both
ways it sounds like the president and
his adult children and businesses say
that you want too much you want too much
you're going back too far you're looking
into too many personal details and they
are suing to block you from being a
policy that I will tell you this I am
old enough to remember whitewater which
was a real estate deal that took place
like 15 years before the Clintons got
into the white house I think even maybe
even before that and then an
investigation that lasted like six years
yeah it was not culminated in a frigging
impeachment process over a lie that
their lives are told in a deposition
about what the definition of sex was not
a lot so many times and they got the
technicality how many personal details
and they are suing to block you from
being able to see that well I support
chairman waters doing her job on the
Financial Services Committee she's
asking for these documents to fill in
some of the gaps that are revealed in
the Mueller report and the president is
not a private citizen he has become a
public figure by choosing to run for
office he gets public benefits like
living in the White House and getting to
fly on Air Force One and with that comes
disclosure of things that would
otherwise be private so I think those
subpoenas are targeted and I have great
confidence in both our court system and
these financial institutions to disclose
the adachi here's what the Trump legal
team says the subpoenas issued to
Deutsche Bank in Capital One by
chairpersons Schiff and waters are
unlawful and illegitimate they seek
information going back decades from
anyone with even a tangential connection
to the president including children
minors and spouses he was a private
citizen whose children were private
citizens then so how do you responds
positively incidentally we should remind
you that at least one of his children is
a top adviser to the White House that's
my tell a child negotiated that Moscow
Tower for a minute so how do you respond
specifically to those complaints when
somebody runs for office and becomes
elected they have a duty to disclose and
answer
questions the reason that we're asking
for these these documents is because
they pertain to a pattern and practice
of dealing with Deutsche Bank and
Capital One we didn't subpoena every
business dealing that the president has
ever had these subpoenas were narrowly
targeted and I respect the president's
desire to petition the courts for
redress but this is also a president who
said he should enjoy special protection
from the courts and you should enjoy
special protection from the president
for instance from being having to answer
questions in person under oath during
the Mueller report Mueller investigation
and now he wants to have it the other
way and be just a private citizen so
with public with public duties come
public responsibilities and I think
that's what we're trying to do if you
were a tasked with creating the perfect
spokesperson to go after Donald Trump on
financial issues what you would do was
you would go into a laboratory and
creates Katie Porter you would you would
you would create someone with an
incredible brain for this stuff
what'd she mean very well-spoken and
then make her look like she came like
she just like walked out of a house in
suburban Ohio essentially she really
does have like Middle American decency
on lock it's wrong mom energy oh my god
it's crazy it's not that I'm angry at
you Donald I'm just a point every
discipline disappointed that you're
deranged sociopath who's violating the
Constitution and I don't want to have to
call for impeachment that would never be
my first choice Donald it's sort of like
oh look at you didn't eat your carrot
sticks and also your financial
disclosure forms section 503 C are not
compliant with what federal law statute
is about loans you know what is funny is
that she actually has very much the
capacity to actually effectively go
after Trump the way Clinton tried to but
she has she has that credibility well I
mean I don't think it's she's not I mean
she's not going to make any type of
moral case it's the case I'm sucking
them more of the like the when she would
say ah look at him he's nuts like that
sort of like I'm an adult in charge
thing that didn't work as well she does
that very well against him
she's not even dressing she's just like
you know talking about the actual the
actual specifics of what she's doing I
mean that's what she's not you know I
respect his his right to have her
address in courts that's fine I respect
his adult children yeah exactly
we all respect Donald Trump's adult
children the word is respect the large
adult show the large adult children
speaking of the small one - speaking of
kid no we actually do respect that one
speaking of Katey Porter
