[Music]
let's do this because this was Cornel
West the man ice definitely considered
to be America's most important public
intellectual right now was on Democracy
Now this morning and he got to that
bigger picture of even like the freakout
from the New York Times reporters the
anxiety the embarrassing ideological
push from CNN against medicare-for-all
and what this really is his neoliberal
order is in a panic Cornel West
articulated that on to Democracy Now
this morning I think that what we
actually a witness in the last two days
is the ways in which the Democratic
establishment that's kind of last gasp
of the Oh neoliberal project within the
corporate wing of the Democratic Party
is moving toward a state of panic
the real vitality and vibrancy was
actually seen the first night with my
dear brother Bernie Sanders and sister
Elizabeth Warren and as much as our
salute sister Dolores and my beloved
home down to Sacramento that that sister
Harris senator Harris is trying to play
it both ways she the neoliberal certain
parts she wants to be progressive and in
other ways but it's it's going to be the
consistency the vibrancy and those who
actually have the vision and so the old
Democratic establishment is beginning
now to recognize the crisis that it's
been in for a long time and it was it
was both sad as well as fascinating it
was sad because when you really look at
the condition of the country the Empire
in deep decline indicate levels of
poverty militarism running amok
neo-fascism escalating with Trump
middle-class working-class devastated
that last thing you need is incremental
small talk that you're getting more and
more out of the establishment and so I
hope that the Democratic Party can meet
the challenge but in the past has had a
tremendous difficulty meeting the
challenge when it comes to poor and
working people that's exactly me I as
usual with Cornel West I have pretty
much nothing to add to that all of that
is a hundred
right and but I think that that language
that understanding specifically of the
panic of people who's obviously I mean
you know John Delaney is hilarious
because you know literally he is a
health insurance you know oligarch he
would be implicated personally by a
wealth tax so you know and and the fact
that all of these people on television
er you know they're asking questions
they are multi millionaires they are I
mean you know look they are not Jeff
Bezos they are not the structure of
capitalism itself that needs
interrogation so I don't want to
personalize it but they are certainly on
the side of people who are absolutely
fine in this environment Jake Tapper's
health care is not endangered ake
tappers well-being is not in danger so
just this relentless devastation of
middle working-class and the war on the
poor in this country has no implication
for the Democratic Party elite for CNN
anchors and any of the people trying to
force this agenda and what's incredible
is that you know they look at Bernie
Sanders with so much side I again the
the the profoundly important thing about
this is that that is looking at tens of
millions that's looking at most of the
country with that same contempt and
confusion and there's an emotional
breakdown as a result
