[Music]
all right so let's talk about some of
the sort of the categories here of that
that you you break it down to one is
late capitalist body talk and which I
should just tell people that the the
contents like the I guess the chapters
of your book I guess are it's really
just a list of you know you have a list
of I guess about thirty some-odd words
that you develop the the thesis around
so let's let's just talk about late
capitalist body talk what's a good
example of a of body talk in that
respect
well nimble is a good one so nimble is a
word that is used in mainstream
journalism and in financial business
journalism to describe corporations that
have shed labor costs basically or other
operating loss so a nimble corporation
is one that can move very quickly and
can leap and is spry and mobile and it
calls to mind you know the weird I think
most people's Association least English
speakers Association who are nimble is
you know the nursery rhyme Chuck jumping
you know jacked up jumping over the
candlestick
and it's a word that Jack be nimble Jack
be quick right okay exactly and so it's
a word that used to if you search it in
you know newspaper archives that used to
only up here in the sports section
because it would describe what a nimble
shortstop or something and then it
became a word used to describe
corporations which is now like mostly
where you find it in in journalism and
so so again like human capital is a way
of talking about work without talking
about workers basically and then
flexible is another is another one and
unlike nimble flexible is used to
describe workers but again it's used to
describe increasingly onerous work
schedules in which you have to be ready
to appear at your job at the
or at Starbucks or something at a
different time every day you know you
have a flexible schedule but instead of
describing that is extremely difficult
and painful and disruptive to your daily
life into your family life and so forth
it frames it as if it's like a like a
positive like a positive yes positive
attribute so I mean if you could say
like oh yeah no I've got an inconsistent
schedule as opposed to I'm on a flexible
schedule that has very different
connotations as to who is bearing the
burden of that that schedule right I
mean it's just sort of the idea is that
ya know I have my schedules flexible but
in fact it's not the schedule that is at
that is actually flexible it is the
human who is being asked to be flexible
yeah people being bent and contorted in
all kinds of different or painful
directions but you know we usually don't
get that for when we're talking about a
flexible worker or a flexible work
schedule and and and and to be clear
like this is language that just sort of
sticks right like people find I mean I
people find that as they you know
someone just threw this out in what in
one conversation it seems like or maybe
somebody wrote a an HR you know
newsletter saying we're gonna ask for
more you know for a flexible schedule
and then everybody just found that a
comfortable way to refer to what they
were asking of their workers right I
mean is that basically the way this
stuff develops yeah I think so I mean
it's hard to trace the way some of these
terms develop and I mean I think that's
what's sort of interesting about them
and that's what makes them key words is
that they are they kind of diagnose a
collective or conventional wisdom or
conventional stupidity as the case often
is but it's a it's not something that
like a and evil genius developed or
invented at some particular moment it's
it's something that expresses you know
the way that we
about our lives under you know
wait stage capitalism and so it's it's a
good way I think of diagnosing some of
the the ways of thinking that become
conventional let's talk about the the
moral vocabulary of late capitalism what
is give us it a couple examples of those
well innovation is one I mean innovation
as a as a kind of strange in long
history as a religious word for the
longest time it was a term that was
synonymous with a with false prophecies
so to innovate was to was to improvise
upon the word the Word of God in a way
that a human wasn't allowed to do so if
you're an innovator you were a false
prophet or you were a conspirator or a
heretic or something and then it became
kind of secularized in the 20th century
and became you know applied in the way
we kind of recognize it now towards some
particular task
you know a new like a new way of
manufacturing a thing or distributing a
thing but it still retains that era of
prophecy I think when we hear it used to
describe you know great innovators or
innovations in some particular firm
because it's all its we rarely used to
describe any actual recognizable object
or thing it's just a sort of a spirit
that a successful person has within them
so it's kind of a moral quality and
passion is another one that connotes
some kind of innate moral capacity
that's supposed to serve you well at
work but often is you know kind of like
flexible is a way of making you're
poorly compensated devotion seem like a
seemed like your life's work rather than
something you should be paid for so we
always hear teachers describe as
passionate or you know people who take
care of the elderly at home or
passionate about their work we call we
passion
is sort of a substitute for a living
wage right it's passionate when we'd say
they're passionate we're saying they're
underpaid and they don't seem to mind
yeah they would like a vacation but
instead we gave them the opportunity to
do something that they seem to like so
that's basically right I mean that seems
what it like that's that seems to be
what that that word means and innovators
to me seems to me to be also someone
who's like a rebel right which also
implies that on some level that like
they have a certain level of freedom
that exists there right that they're not
bound by by by sort of I guess they're
not encumbered by by what they're doing
as opposed to I guess I mean I'm trying
to think of like the the they're rebels
as opposed to people who have just found
a way to sort of like pay people less in
some way I don't know I think of like
like all the the gig economy stuff is
sort of like it's a it's a it's a new
innovation we found how to get human
beings to function with just a lot less
calories or something like that yes
figured out how to do that cause the
economy to crash in 2007-2008 those that
was some innovative work to but because
we also described innovation only ever
only in positive terms you know it's
only it's it's an honest with
improvement we that's another factor in
its peculiar moral sense but the point
about rebellion is is is a good one and
it's part of innovations earlier history
because it you know as originally to be
an innovator was to be a rebel and you
know in a in a bad sense but now it's
the opposite and creativity is another
word that has that same that same kind
of history so you know where once we
might have thought of creative types as
being unorthodox or you know they sleep
late they don't like to go to work
now those kinds of attributes of
idiosyncrasy or peculiarity or
rebellious nests are kind of harvested
by by by corporations and business
schools as being like the stuff of real
successful people right and there's
another aspect of the type of words like
sort of where the where the where
there's there's a co-opting of of sort
of I don't want to say counterculture
but non business cultures right like
when it were like we give us an example
of that dynamic
so besides creativity the the artisan is
a good example
you know the artisan is somebody who
pursues some kind of craft passionately
to use another word and is interested in
doing so because of some devotion you
know not to the profit motive
necessarily but to you know like an
intimate attachment to to carpentry or
to food or to some or to some other
kinds of particular kind of object or
business and so the originally you know
the artisan was somebody who was sort of
displaced by capitalist production you
know the artisan who made a pretty
they're kind of chair was put out of
work and had to go work in the assembly
line making making cheaper chairs but
the way that the word has gotten kind of
absorbed into you know like high-end
consumer culture now is the way of
imbuing you know manufactured goods and
manufactured food products with some of
this era of authenticity that is thought
you know has long been thought to be
lost in in mass production so that's
another example of the the artistry is
that like a craft beer and just sort of
I guess I mean and to some extent I
would say a lot of
I noticed in the context of our
advertisers on these programs that we we
do hear that there's that quality of
like we're gonna let people know you
know the we're gonna put the founders
sort of forward and and make it just
seem like it's you know it's two guys
and maybe it starts with just two guys
her to two girls but it's there's that
whole quality of like we're just regular
people yeah and it usually is I think
two guys in those cases I mean maker is
a kind of a similar word to artisan but
all these kind of words that describe
some kind of tinkering and and careful
devotion to the craft are all very
gendered words so you know a maker is
somebody like knows how to do stuff with
3d printers and high-tech
high-technology
kind of stuff and that's usually you
know that's like usually pictured as a
male figure and it's valued know and so
those artisan but crafting you know is
kind of similar to those words but it's
never had this sort of prestige of of
making or artisanship because crafting
is something women do you know and it's
something that you do at home it's not
something that is celebrated as in the
in the broader economy you also have a
category of words that pushes the notion
of new technologies what words would
those be so data smart solution
solutions innovation again I mean
innovation is kind of in all of the
categories it's kind of the word of the
book but smart is is a word that got its
start you know in the military the smart
bomb I think is the way I first
encountered the word used in a as a as a
way of describing technology and the
smart the smart bomb was originally
called
a hobo in the Vietnam War which was a
sort of a portmanteau of homing bomb and
then they they rebrand it they rebranded
it as a smart bomb which is probably a
smart move on their part and now it
describes you know any kind of
technology that is thought to have on
the one hand thought to have an
intelligence of its own but really what
that means is that stuff to be kind of
linked to our own intelligence or our
own desires so you know the smart
refrigerator which knows when we need to
buy more milk or the smart bed that
knows that just how puffs fluffy like
your mattress to be
