[Music]
alright let's go into this proposal that
Bernie Sanders unveiled which is I mean
both just I think great policy but it's
also going to be interesting politics in
which I think we will see more of like I
said earlier the debate on September
12th it's going to be on Thursday
December 2 September 12 there's only 10
people in it only and but there's just
gonna be one debate so I don't have it
right in front of me as to who made it
but you can imagine who did and who
didn't Castro will be there obviously
Warren Sanders in Biden Klobuchar yang
you will have Booker and Harris and
better O'Rourke Buddha judge and Buddha
judge and am I missing one maybe I'm
missing one but no delaney know those
other people know Gabbard and so I think
you know to a certain extent this is we
need to start having more of these
smaller debates I think because it's
really the only way I mean the Democrats
need to examine their candidates and the
only way that you can do that is is is
you know 25 people it's very difficult
to do but so here it is the proposal
that Sanders is well here let's play
this this is his introduction he teased
this I guess this is a couple of days
ago and then more details are starting
to trickle out in another piece of
legislation that we're gonna be offering
we will eliminate medical debt in this
country I mean I just stop and think for
a second why should people be placed in
Phi
Anne Shiell duress but what crime did
you commit the other serious illness all
right that is not what this country
should be about we still have something
like 50% of all personal bankruptcies
are either in a large part or a
significant part due to medical expenses
that's just that's just unbelievable and
youyou can imagine that the stress of
being in bankruptcy is also not going to
help you get better physically you can
also imagine that having physical
medical ailments are gonna make it that
hard much harder for you to get out of
bankruptcy
so under Sanders plan the government
would negotiate and pay off past due
medical bills that have been reported to
credit agencies it would repeal some
elements and this is an important part
now this is all told they think it is
gonna end up cancelling about eighty 1
billion dollars an existing past-due
medical debt so if you're if you're
current with your medical debt it will
not pay it off now that dynamic is a
little bit tricky frankly sort of a
similar dynamic we saw with HAMP
although they didn't that was the home
mortgage adjustment program there was
there was a lot of other problems with
that but for now this is I think a good
first step what we really need to do is
get to a place where you cannot create
debt by having a medical problem it
would also repeal some elements of the
2005 bankruptcy reform bill and allow
other existing and future medical debt
to be discharged the 2005 bankruptcy
reform bill made it difficult to
discharge this debt in other words in
bankruptcy you get protection from your
creditors and in some instances you can
just jettison
that debt but the 2005 bankruptcy bill
imposed strict strict means test in
eliminated fundamental consumer
protections for Americans I mean that
bankruptcy bill is a disaster it's
caused so much harm and so many people
it is also frankly another function of
inequality in this country Donald Trump
perfect example of somebody who used
bankruptcy laws multiple times there's
no means-testing when you go to
bankruptcy as a corporation and of
course you're at arm's length anyways
from your own assets only people unable
to pay their medical debt would be
granted relief those Keeping Up with
their payments would have to continue to
pay the proposal would also create a new
legal framework to ensure that no credit
scores are negatively effected upon
unpaid medical bills so that's a big
part of this as well I mean that's
pretty exciting stuff more stuff will
come out but eighty 1 billion dollars to
get rid of the medical debt of people
who are in financial distress were you
aware that our defense budget went up by
a hundred billion last year yeah that
materially affect you so the idea that
we couldn't afford to do this is just
ridiculous
we could do this without batting an eye
if it wasn't reported no one would know
one would know except for all of those
millions of people who are suffering
under medical debt I mean it's it's a
no-brainer
and it's going to be interesting because
Joe Biden was one of the main proponents
of that 2005 bankruptcy bill and just to
give you a sense of what's going on with
the Washington Post this is sort of like
a sidebar I don't know it's a sidebar I
think
they're incredible dishonesty this cycle
here there's something very bizarre with
its ideological but it's also a bizarre
personal hatred of Bernie Sanders I mean
look I don't know what motivates it but
it's real the dynamic is real and you
know this came up in the context of of
apparently you know like I think you've
mentioned this last week that near
attend and you know accused me of daxing
somebody because I retweeted a clip from
an unnamed LinkedIn account of a an enum
is an anonymous tweeter who was featured
on MSNBC News making the case that
Bernie Sanders in some way was you know
engaging in conspiracy theory about
about the Washington Post and so all
weird stuff but here is so the
Washington Post did a fact check on
Bernie Sanders claimed that 500,000
Americans are bankrupted by medical
bills each year and it gave him three
Pinocchio level liar I guess out of four
for saying this Sanders based his
statement on research this is actually
written by one of the researchers that
we in three colleagues published in the
American Journal of Public Health this
guy named Warren gunnels I'm sorry no
it's I'm sorry right okay I'm sorry
and here's the author of the study in
our 2019 research 37% of bankrupts very
much agreed that medical bills were an
important factor while another 21.5
percent somewhat agreed many others
cited lost wages due to illness overall
two thirds cited illness related bills
incomes loss or both that's equivalent
to five
and thirty thousand medical bankruptcies
annual annually but even the five
hundred and thirty thousand figures and
under estimate of the number of people
affected by medical bankruptcies most
bankruptcies involve more than one
person an average about 2.7 people often
including a spouse partner and child
that means that the 750,000 bankruptcies
last year involve more than two million
people
somehow the Washington Post came up with
three Pinocchio's according to this
researcher the the claim that the post
relied on press on an eco econometric
study that found only a modest uptick in
bankruptcy filings among persons
hospitalized in California between 2003
and 2007 but that study of are made to
under count medical bankruptcies and I
wonder yeah as we and Elizabeth Warren
noted in our response to it in the New
England Journal of Medicine it excluded
most people who were frequently
hospitalized a group that said high risk
of medical bankruptcy and assumed that
anyone not hospitalized could not suffer
medical bankruptcy even though people
who aren't hospitalized in the course of
a year account for four-fifths of out of
all pocket medical bills that no one is
bankrupt by bills for child's or
partner's care and that potentially
bankrupting illnesses never start before
the moment of hospitalization assumption
contradicted by the study's own data so
yeah this was by David Himelstein Steffi
wood handler distinguished professors of
public health at the City University of
New York so there's something very
strange going on at the Washington Post
and I don't know what accounts for it
but it's real well I mean there was the
one that several weeks ago with the
multiple jobs people having to work
multiple jobs to earn a living where
essentially the guy was like well it is
literally millions of people it's not
really that many
I mean you know I think they're showing
the ball and a lot of things include I
mean and then you look at the Nate
Silver phenomenon where you know his
whole brand is built on being supposedly
an objective arbiter of numbers and he's
just fixated on Sanders on Twitter it's
very strange
I mean never trust people who say
they're not ideological period is
definitely something that I would pretty
strongly assert and I think that we're
gonna need to upgrade fact-checking
fact-checking is gonna need to look very
different thing because these people are
useless at best well let's let's
actually do we have that clip of Jordan
Peterson calling for a debate this is a
good example of something a not fact
check right we'll get to that in a
moment but here you have millions of
Americans are forced to work two or
three jobs just as five said Bernie
Sanders the Bureau of Labor Statistics
shows that nearly 8 million people hold
more than one job but most of those
extra jobs are part-time not full-time
it's like if you work how could you work
two full times you have full-time jobs
that's the metric and the millions
that's in quotation of people amount to
just five percent of Americans with jobs
so that means that ninety five percent
of workers are not working two or three
jobs to survive making this a misleading
statement and the statement again read
the statement millions of Americans are
forced to work two or three but not tens
of millions like he didn't say I write
or a majority of Americans or most
American I love it's like there's all
these different ways you could shift it
for it to not work but well there's give
you the one exact framing where it's
like yep five millions would be a
formulation of millions and yeah there
you go there's been Democrats that have
been a little bit you know cavalier with
the way they cite that and this make it
seem like maybe 25% of people or
something right but bring these a
million well it's also great to you that
it's like yeah that's just five million
people enough to like drive in uber 20
hours a week in addition to working a
full time job in order to survive fares
look this is important to talk about
