[Music]
Alexandra Acacio Cortez in and earlier
our guest John McHale who was talking
about how just her election which you
know apparently Nancy Pelosi thinks a
drink of water could have gotten elected
in this district I don't know if she
meant to feed a member of her leadership
team drink water that would not really
reflect too well on Nancy Pelosi that
she is appointing someone to in grooming
as a future house leader a guy who could
be beaten by a glass of water but let's
put that aside for the moment this glass
of water came in and has altered our
politics in many respects the as Sean
McElwee said it's probably likely that
we're going to get debate question
certainly amongst the Democrats about
the green new deal and I also want
people to check out there's a great
video made by avi Lewis I think his his
name is Naomi Klein's a partner on the
green new deal which is which is quite
good it's just going around it's a
little I don't know if it's done through
the intercept maybe yes and but part of
the green New Deal is providing millions
and millions of dollars to Kentucky coal
miners and other coal miners in fact
probably more than any bill that I think
has ever been presented in terms of
helping them make this transition there
is an awareness within the green new
deal to the costs that will be borne by
individuals in our society because of
these transitions and so there is
provisions in there not only for jobs
guarantees not only for pension support
and health care support and Retraining
support for
or minors among other people there's
also even a provision that says like you
know we'll provide support for minors
who decide at age 55 like I'm too old to
start a new profession I just you know
and I got I can certainly understand
that and so this is in the green new
deal and at one point a congressman
representative Andy Barr that you
remember we played I think the clips of
AOC responding to the charge that this
is elitist the green New Deal is elitist
and out of that exchange Andy Barr this
congressman from Kentucky invited AOC to
come down and visit the state and speak
to minors and then she said yeah how
come I will come and then apparently
Andy Barr got a little nervous and was
like um
you can't come until you apologize to
representative Dan Crenshaw for
critiquing his attack on Ilan Omar and
for saying that he doesn't support the
911 responded compensation which he
doesn't and in fact that came from
somebody a fire former firefighter who's
trying to lobby him this is what is
known now as the Dave Rubin defense that
is when you basically accept or offer a
challenge and then you rescind that
acceptance or offer for something that
you have desperately searched around for
to use as an excuse for not having that
exchange and here is on Chris Hayes's
program Corbin Trent who is a AOC
spokesperson explaining why the
Republicans rescinded this invitation
joining me now is Corbin Trent good to
have you here you're from that part of
the country are from eastern Tennessee
why do you think the offer was rescinded
I think that they understand that the
policies that Alexander is advocating
for extremely popular not just in the
Bronx not just in on the coast but all
over the country and I think they also
understand some of them at least that
she's a fantastic and talented
communicator and if she goes into their
backyard and starts talking about
Medicare for all Federal jobs guarantee
and a green new deal that maybe they'll
have a problem coming 2020 is is the bet
here that you can I mean the bet here
right is it like the actual policies
matter and the policies will out in the
end right if you're coming to people you
think I want to actually we want to make
your life better and here's how we're
gonna do it that that can cut through
the kind of layers of cultural
anticipation that's been built built up
yeah and Andy Barr was saying that you
know he wants to bring her down to
Kentucky and let the coal miners tell
her what's gonna happen with a green new
deal and how it's gonna hurt their
community has gonna destroy jobs but
what people in my neck of the woods and
in Kentucky know is that their jobs are
being destroyed already factors are
closed and mines are laying people off
you know we've seen that happen over the
last several decades and what they want
to see is a plan for the future and
Republicans don't have one and they know
that the the progressives in the
Democratic Party at that wing that's at
least five people do have and that if we
go out there and push that narrative out
there there I think afraid that they're
not gonna have a rebuttal for it first
of all I love the fact that asu's
communications director is a white guy
from Tennessee just because it's like
the the last thing that they would
expect and in one and I can't imagine
that that's not a coin better that's a
coincidence I mean they're just they're
just people they're just it's a very
smart it's a very very smart political
operation they have there they're just
super smart about about what they need
to do to to get their message across and
and that's basically it they're afraid
that she's gonna come in there and it's
gonna be have the opposite effect is
what they hoped and we're going to see
this during the campaign I mean
this is one of the things that we're
gonna see during the campaign I think is
when you know AOC is gonna go out there
Derek at one point as surrogate for some
people and maybe it's in the general
maybe it's in the primaries I'm not sure
but she's gonna be carrying a message
and it's going to there's gonna be
infrastructure to get people out there
