from a 6-1 ou area code who's this where
he come from that's the what calls white
line hey guys yeah Mike Mike Mike Mike
for Pennsylvania oh thank god I heard
you been Mike running a campaign okay
how did you do uh we lost just outside
of a recount 49 51 so pretty tough sorry
young loss I wish we could talk more
about it because it's a pretty
interesting story we have the only
nationally endorsed our evolution
candidate and Pennsylvania so there was
a big effort on both sides of the aisle
to beat him so they managed it we even
had a former chair at the Democratic
Party endorsed the other candidate
Republican so yeah it's a pretty pretty
crazy story actually I could tell more
about it but pretty shocking went
down they spent more on the on this
state Senate race and they did on the
congressional race here even though our
congressional race was the top target at
one of the top targeted races so what
why do we I think they had like 25
pieces of mail sent again sir including
they also they just made up whole cloth
that our candidate didn't pay taxes so
we had to sue for libel and then they
had to take the ads down but though it
was pretty pretty insane campaign well
Mike why why did why were Democrats
afraid of a state Senate seat going to
someone I'm presumably right the two too
far to the left or the what or was it
was it was it the politics or was it the
not part of the sort of
maybe the grift or graft network that
they had established so you know I think
local Don local effects probably
predominated because we have this
special tax zone you were to talk about
Amazon but there's something that we
have here in Allentown called the
neighborhood improvement zone which
basically just gives unlimited taxpayer
dollars to a couple developers and it
pays down their debt so they can borrow
money and then the tax they're just pay
their debt and they keep what they
bought it's like an unprecedented tax
scheme that
so you basically created a billionaire
using taxpayer dollars so there's a lot
obviously like a former state
representative now the Democrat who's
now a tobacco lobbyist also came out to
endorse the Republican because he helped
craft this neighborhood improvement is
what it's called
I don't know if you remember but we had
our mayor of the city of Allentown was
just convicted and he went to jail in
October on forty seven counts of
corruption surrounding the this this
issue so there was kind of like this I
hate to say both party COBOL locally
right and so it was pretty uh pretty
crazy
well pretty time freeze yeah yeah yeah
no it's okay the city of Allentown will
be and they're gonna have like a big
financial collapse okay I didn't mean to
call about that okay maybe the cops over
the top water I needed to take a week I
understand I understand well deserved
sorry you didn't win so give us so
Pennsylvania if I'm not mistaken sure
for pickups where is that right
so yeah well kind of we had we were up
at six
and that's because Connor Lam won that
big really Trump district out west and
with the new districting he was headed
against I think the chair of the house
freedom caucus
he's Rothfuss and that was the only
incumbent on incumbent race in the
entire country and Connor Lane was able
to be victorious defeat him and we
picked up three more seats unfortunately
we lost the other progressive candidate
who was running at Pennsylvania Scott
Wallace hidden pa1 in Bucks County he
lost 5149 as well the afl-cio and the
Democratic establishment endorsed
basically the Republican Brian
Fitzpatrick there which is kind of
really interesting like and not to go
back to to my race but the teachers
union actually endorsed the Republican
even though he supports voucher schools
and that's a really good question I I
hate to get into this right now because
my thoughts are not totally coalesced on
this right that I just want to spout
without thinking deeper but I believe
that there's a strong effort to try to
defeat progressives in in the country
and their use it's sort of like when
Planned Parenthood and they're all
endorsed Hillary even though Hillary had
spoke about banning late term abortions
the policies didn't matter it's more
like you don't want to put you know put
there's this kind of like lobbyists
class people that work as a professional
lobbyists and some of them work for
supposedly progressive organizations but
they have you know the class interest in
in defending kind of the status quo the
way things work now and somebody like
these progressives might kind of break
down that lobbyists class influence and
so the games in Pennsylvania were less
than they might have been had the
Democratic Party put all their weight
behind that quote Democratic candidates
you know I mean I will say this there I
don't like my sense is in the context of
the Clinton race I think some of that
may be the case but I also think some of
it was like we're gonna get in on the
ground floor and support someone who we
think it's going to be the definite
winner as opposed to a race that 5149
used to think I don't believe that
anymore because there's only no excuse
for endorsing Republicans in very close
race absolutely not
what's the logic of the afl-cio
endorsing a Republican over a
progressive Democrat in a race that
ended up fifty nine fifty one forty nine
zero there is none zero so you know if
you assume they have influence over one
or two percent of the voters which is
probably an underestimation right they
basically gave the win to the Republican
yeah and the endorsement people should
know it's not just a question of an
endorsement it's right it's like what
how much of an effort that's indicative
of the effort that they're gonna put in
I mean
sometimes your train endorsement and
they won't put any effort in and so it's
a hollow endorsement but if they're
actually going to go out of their way to
make the endorsement you know they're
putting effort behind it
yeah the afl-cio has a strong shield
program do communication page
communication to their members you know
and if you're a Republican like
especially in one of these seats where
they need Democratic votes that gives
them a path to victory because they say
well I'm I'm such a moderate reasonable
Republican I even got the unions to
support me and it seems to be happening
selectively against the most progressive
candidates who are the most strongly in
favor of stuff like that well you should
see that my understanding is that all of
the our revolution candidates except for
Porter we just mentioned her in
California's 45th lost I think there was
nine yeah I mean I Katie you know I will
I don't know but it's what you're
referring to is Cadia and out of the fan
of hers I
I think she might have been referring to
the Bush tax I'm sorry the Trump tax
cuts got rid of the local and state yeah
she's gone yeah yeah she was talking
about the that hurts people from
California New York aids right yeah
exactly so you know bringing that back
actually would be good for progressives
because it gives progressive states more
fiscal flexibility to do things well
it's not fiscal flexibility what it does
is it decreases the political pressure
to lower taxes yes but I mean I I
understand but that is it is I'm just
saying it's a shift to in the general
election from where she was in the
primary that people should just be aware
of I'm not saying that I'm not I mean I
I think just it is it is an example of
what she feels is necessary it wasn't
something she was pushing in the primary
let's put it that way I mean she is
running in a seat that's like never been
won by a Democrats I just wanted to put
people on notice it's not all those
things you wanna you know that's uh you
know who knows she maybe go statewide
you know she goes back to her primary
roots I'm just putting it out there by
the way I keep it on brand I want to
disagree with Jonathan San Antonio okay
oh really underestimated in Pennsylvania
for example gave the Republicans a
twenty one point advantage in our seats
until they struck it down the geographic
advantage is about two points so that
explains why we couldn't say that the
geographic advantage is why did Patrick
one that one seat whereas in Prior races
they would win four or five seats they
should have have either the
gerrymandering to do it statewide you're
talking about like 15 to 20 feet not
five to ten so we were in 2012 we would
have had the house had there not been
gerrymandering in 2012
the US would have won the house yeah
had they not been for the gerrymandering
that would have been completed in 2010
what is Pennsylvania now nine nine nine
nine yeah okay all right well listen oh
you know hey Mike I got a question for
you how do I dream and er my foot up
your ass don't you ever question my
political analysis again and I was just
wondering what you thought about that
all right well Mike look get your
thoughts in order and let's have some of
these extended conversations now you're
sitting at home for okay pretty insane
offline don't worry about that all right
Mike good to hear from you
sorry things did not work out in in in
your neck of the woods but and before
you let me go I only thank the majority
reports because a lot of people from the
community helped and supported mark the
candidate mark Kinsley and you know it
really raised him to another level and
he got a lot of extra support nationally
because of the majority report community
supporting him early so I wanted to
thank you guys for all the help you had
given me and I'm sorry I let you down
but well you didn't let anybody down it
would quote but we're all very
disappointed in you I expected nothing
different all right thanks buddy
thanks come from a two six seven area
code who's this where you come from oh
yeah yeah
yes okay okay yes Steve from
Pennsylvania are your thoughts about
what happened in Pennsylvania and
divergent from Mike in Pennsylvania
actually I am from Northeast
Philadelphia so I know exactly what
Mike's talking about in terms of the
lack of Democratic support from the
state and even national level from the
Democratic Party my help wallet down
Wallace who ran in the first district
against Brian Fitzpatrick Fitzpatrick's
a incumbent Republican and brands
himself as a moderate when in reality he
as usual votes along with the Trump
agenda actually 83% of time I believe so
well it's going to get any support he's
actually the grandson of Henry Wallace
so he does come from money but he did
put a lot of his own money into the
campaign you know he had a lot of
progressive policies you know didn't
agree with him across the board on every
single thing but you know unfortunately
he lost I believe the final tally was I
think that's when Mike was talking about
I wasn't listening to it I think it was
51 49 or somewhere in this that Wallace
did not get the afl-cio endorsement
didn't get the teachers endorsement
didn't get support from now that he had
the bright Fitzpatrick
he took the seat from his brother and he
had he had the support from the unions
why and you know the Democrats just then
they just didn't support they just
didn't come out for Wallace I mean Tom
wolf you know took the governorship
pretty easily but you just didn't see I
mean this was a district that was the
you know it was flippable I mean it was
there why didn't why didn't why do the
unions why the unions supporting
Fitzpatrick why would they do that I
don't know I don't know and you know for
some reason I mean you know it just
became you know it just wasn't
they were just wasn't talked about I
mean you never heard this district being
talked about in terms of you know the
Democrats put a lot of support towards
it it's strange
well we're gonna see if we can get some
reporters on it to see if we can maybe
dig up what the what the story if
there's another story behind there it's
interesting yeah I mean Pennsylvania's
still free democratic state overall but
you know especially around the
Philadelphia area but you know there was
a chance there I mean this is a district
that is is mostly in the stuff is in the
suburbs and you know you kept hearing
during the can't uh you know during the
campaigns about you know these suburban
Republicans that are in danger and that
fits the bill exactly for what this
district is district again is that
Fitzpatrick this is in the first
District yeah okay so it's Bucks County
outside of Philadelphia all right I'm
gonna ask around about that it sounds
very strange to me why the Union would
do that I'm curious about it and I and
on election night I mean they they were
I was following MSNBC I was following
you guys and some other outlets but you
barely heard anything I think Kornacki
mentioned this district like once you
know towards the end of the night but
it's just you know it just shows the
strategy is just messed up I mean well I
wonder what the story is I'm asking I'm
gonna ask some people so
