[Music]
it's local politics but it's important
right because particularly out of New
York in the wake of a o'seas victory
there's been a lot of people who have
been empowered it's it feels like and
New York passing very aggressive rent
control laws for the first time in ages
New York State we may see the
decriminalization of of sex work in this
state there's a lot of changes happening
and we haven't had a dynamic as New York
goes so goes the rest of the country
largely because New York has not been
leading on these things so what happens
in New York if good things happen well
maybe what if what happens in New York
doesn't stay in New York anyways we just
don't notice it as much because it it's
actually functioning as a a ballast in
some ways against progress but going
forward what happens in New York
hopefully will spread across the country
here is Tiffany Chabad she is running
for the Queens da as you know hopefully
there are five boroughs to New York City
and I don't know where Queens would rate
in terms of size Brooklyn would be like
the fifth largest city in the country if
it was its own City Queens is pretty
large this means it's pretty big and
here is the debate between she dressing
the other candidate or what is it no
okay here here's here's her argument
about her why her candidacy goes beyond
where the Queens da has usually gone as
a 31 year old queer latina from a
working-class family whose parents grew
up in the Woodside housing projects
who's whose then their parents came
dirt-poor from Puerto Rico women like me
are not supposed to be on stages like
this and I'll tell you what it is no
surprise to me
that a group of over overwhelmingly
older white male lawyers said that I was
not approved for this role what I
represent is a clean gold break from the
status quo as a public defender I have
represented at any given time 60 to 80
clients managing teams including
investigators immigration attorneys
medical professionals as well as
community-based organizations and
managing relationships with judges and
industry attorneys and I'll tell you
what I started this campaign with four
women sitting at a table saying we were
gonna change the system and since then
six months later we have built a
movement we have built a coalition of
hundreds and hundreds of volunteers we
are controlling the conversation to the
point where every single person on this
stage at some point has had to change
their policy positions to meet me where
I am at we have done what what most
thought was unthinkable we have built
the strongest coalition of support from
community-based organizations like make
the road and vocal to progressive
leaders like Larry crasner who is the
Trailblazer of progressive prosecution
in this nation as well as congresswoman
Alexandra Ocasio Cortes and we did it
all on a shoestring budget that is what
leadership looks like we have built
something I have built something from
nothing
you go and that was a debate she's so
good
she can't get our branch meeting of
North Brooklyn TSA a little while ago
and you know I'm a abolitionists of the
carceral State in general I was a little
skeptical if getting behind a district
attorney who's gonna prosecute but she
really she really won me over like all
the way there you go
lastly let's play this clip there
[Music]
