Biden it's getting asked a question it's
interesting if you read Joe Biden's
response the his response sounds pretty
bad it's it's a different when you
experience it with a roomful people who
seem to at the very least find his
response amusing personally I think it's
a little bit gross and I don't know
where he's going with it I mean how long
is this clip end really early or do we
got about 45 seconds of it okay all
right here it is here's Joe Biden he is
at in Columbia South Carolina this is
his firewall folks he's already starting
to like his campaigns already starting
to freak out because they are starting
to suspect that he's going to lose in
Iowa and lose in New Hampshire possibly
and by lose I don't mean come in second
I mean he could come in third or fourth
even in certain instances and they are
now basically laying it out there and
saying like well we you know we don't
really care about Iowa and New Hampshire
South Carolina is our firewall but look
I keep saying this over and over again
there's there's a lot of polling out
there the polling is you know it's close
enough right now and varies enough that
we really can't tell it's not terror
it's not going to be terribly predictive
if Sanders theory is correct then the
organization that he'll be doing in
building on the ground will will help
him win Iowa and that's gonna implicate
what people in New Hampshire do and what
people in South Carolina do Warren and
Budaj edge have poured a ton of money
into Iowa so if either one of them I
mean certainly if people judge wins I
mean who knows
but if Warren wins in Iowa and then as
she wins or comes in a close second in
New Hampshire
that's gonna change the tenor of the
race too but nevertheless here's Joe
Biden in South Carolina his firewall and
I don't know how he gets away with this
I don't know that he will actually long
term but here he is addressing the
question of you know basically what I
think centers around the you know the
talk that my understanding is a lot of
black parents have to give to their kids
because when they interact with the
police the implications of it are
dramatically different than when kids
when when white kids do here's Joe Biden
offering a very very empathetic and
understanding response
[Applause]
[Music]
racism still exists and what it should
require is Harry Police Department
America should have to go through it
they used to call back when I first got
started in the women's movement
sensitivity training when he got started
in the women's movement and sensitivity
training
no no what needs to happen is the
Department of Justice needs to be
examining all the records of police
forces and particularly a close
examination if they hit a threshold of
stops over a certain amount with some
type of racial disparity I mean the you
know sensitivity training is not going
to work at this point famously not
useful in any context true I was the guy
I was the guy who said you pull them out
of the car you beat him you don't kill
him
that was 1983 the boys are being
insensitive when they kill on our black
people the the bottom line is there
needs to be punitive action by the
Department of Justice and and and how we
note one way of knowing how that it's
effective is it's the first thing that
Jeff Sessions did when he got into
office was to basically say to all the
police departments around the country if
you are under some type of decree by the
Justice Department we're gonna lift that
and you as cops should know that we as
cops are not on the beat in terms of
making sure that you're doing your job
as cops they know the efficacy of that
because when the prosecutors have a
problem what you're doing and a go after
you it's the same dynamic it's the exact
same thing that cops would say about
anything if you don't lock up some
people you're not going to send a bright
message and there should be implications
there should be not sensitive
sensitivity training there should be
specific restrictions on police
departments
that and and there should be they should
be filing a lot more data as to their
stops etc etc I mean there needs to be
policy changes not just like
touchy-feely sessions well have they
tried leaving the record player on in
police stations that's right they play
the record player they learn things well
forgive me Father for I've said the joke
itself was not so bad right he was
trying to make a joke about how the cops
are racist but anytime he does something
like that we just need to remind
everyone the role that he's played in
mass incarceration yep I remember Halle
Berry
that was another date that was after
Bobby Kennedy got killed
