[Music]
so this new Democratic health care
package that rep privilege I Paul is
putting forward is tanking healthcare
stocks is that right oh it's right it's
a very good bill let's let's go over
there you can see a proof of concept
let's go over this briefly the this
medicare-for-all bill that Jay Paul has
introduced and not clear yet where that
is in the committee process and where it
will go but she is the I guess it's
really at this point just a proposal but
it is seems to be fairly flushed out or
fleshed out as it were in terms of the
proposal it goes further than Sanders
medicare-for-all now one thing that's
that's a point of confusion with some
people Medicare right now has co-pays
right so it's not free at the point of
service
it has co-pays they're there they're not
they're not huge there's also Medicare
does not cover everything that's why you
have supplemental coverage with medicare
medicaid covers a lot more and is is is
free a lot of people want really want a
Medicaid for all but understand that
even when Bernie talks about a Medicare
for all it's a different Medicare it
goes a little bit further this one goes
even further so under Bernie's Medicare
for all proposal in the Senate and under
jeyapaul's
proposal in the house medical care is
free at the point of service and there
are no premiums it is all paid for with
taxes in jeyapaul's medicare for all
plan it would bar employers from
offering separate plans that compete
with government-run option it would get
rid of Medicare and Medicaid as we know
them now and all of their enrollees
would go into the
new universal plan it would allow two
health care programs to exist that exist
now so they're they're really four
different government-run health care
plans to our and involve delivery to
involve insurance the other two that
would remain are the Veterans Affairs
health system which is a completely
government-run system not just insurance
not just for pay-fors but to actually
deliver the health insurance and people
should know that the the hearing is
broken up for the time being
Veterans Affairs would stay open and
this is makes a lot of sense because the
VA deals with all sorts of medical
problems that are very unique and the
system works pretty well in terms of in
terms of customer satisfaction also the
Indian Health Services which are
basically cut off from the rest because
of delivery reasons when you're talking
about on reservations are you talking
about in just in general areas it's just
a different system this would phase in
two years quicker than Bernie's year one
people under 19 and over 55 would go
into the universal plans after two years
everybody else would jump in it is also
extremely generous and has a robust set
of benefits all your hospital visits all
your primary care all your devices and
services you go get blood work maternity
care prescription drugs vision and
dental benefits would all be covered and
and this is really this is pretty
significant long-term care services
would be covered as it is now under the
medicaid covers two thirds of people in
long-term care and depending on what
state you're in
you need to essentially spend down
virtually all of your
assets so you can retain your house for
the most part but after you die there'll
be a lien against it in most states you
can keep your car but essentially you
can only have $2,000 in the bank so what
happens is you go into a nursing home
it's twelve thousand dollars a month
depending on where you are again but
that's I think the average is somewhere
around 11 and you spend that down then
your Medicaid kicks in essentially what
happens you go into the nursing home
they do an assessment based on all of
your of your assets and in many
instances they will go back four or five
years to see how you've disposed of
those assets and that will count against
the amount of money that you have so
that money needs to come back in some
fashion
so it's it's a it's a difficult process
some people have long term health
insurance but that's becoming less
available so this is a a this also like
I say dental and envision and well
health and mental health as well so this
is extremely comprehensive more
aggressive than Bernie's and good
because you basically now have the
center of the debate to the left of
Bernie's plan yep
which is which is good that's great it's
also really important for disabled
people to be able to get long-term help
in the home because oftentimes Medicare
wants them to move out of their homes
and medical facility right yeah okay and
we should say yes this is also a key
here too is that that's necessarily mean
you're in a nursing home belong to a
long-term care could actually be in your
home and you know with with the
technologies that people have now it's
much easier to keep people in their home
and people prefer it you know families
together
what else we got here for so that's a
pretty exciting stuff
