[Music]
so Joe Biden is on the trail apparently
you know a Joe Biden zillion person is
talking about Donald Trump although you
know I think certainly Bernie Bernie has
been talking about him quite a bit I'm
sure all the other candidates but only
Joe Biden according to the news is
talking about Donald Trump I'm not sure
what that's about but here he is Joe
Biden with his slogan which I actually
think we do we determine whether or not
this was specifically the actual slogan
that George W Bush used to run against
Al Gore making United States moral again
this was restoring honor and delight huh
it's an absolute repeat it's basically
the same thing here the president has a
model make America great again do you
have one
make America moral again make America
return to the essence of who we are the
dignity of the country the dignity of
people treating our people with dignity
and this god-awful delicious division
that's being taken to in order to
separating people to aggrandize his own
power make america return to the essence
of who we are would be a mart too right
Biden also came out yesterday said he is
not for I mean so we so we've heard what
Joe Biden's campaign is based upon it's
to make America moral again to return it
to its essence etc etc he also when he
went when Joe Biden got specific he said
he is not for Medicare for all it's not
moral and well alright let's I mean
here's the question Joe Biden wants to
make America moral again and he will not
support the idea of health care as a
human right in this country a public
option in a marketplace
private competitors available only for
10 million Americans is not perceiving
healthcare as a human right 80 barking
the an activist healthcare activist who
was really bad I mean I think maybe
people recall that at one point he was
on a flight and he has is it ALS that
has been slowly basically eating away at
his ability to speak walk etc and I
think it was only about it maybe it was
less than two years ago when he was on a
flight I think it was with Ted Cruz I
mean that's how he's sort of like got on
the national scene and he recorded an
exchange I think was with Ted Cruz but I
can't remember where he was basically
saying like how can you cut the
Affordable Care Act we need to expand
health care well he was at a hearing
yesterday
was that today or yesterday today's
hearing this morning it would say
Medicare for all hearing he is using a
device which basically tracks his eye
movements
I believe that allows him to type into a
computer and then it generates a voice
so um let's let's hear that testimony
three years ago Rachel and I felt like
we had reached the mountaintop
we had fulfilling careers a wonderful
community of friends and family and a
smiling chubby infant boy we could see
decades of happiness stretching out
before us the sun was shining and there
was not a cloud in sight and then out of
the clear blue sky we were struck by
lightning ALS a mysterious neurological
disease with no cure and no good
treatment a life expectancy of 3 to 4
years most of its victims are in their
50s and 60
I was 32 every month since my diagnosis
my motor neurons have died out my
muscles have disintegrated and I have
become increasingly paralyzed I am
speaking to you through this computer
because my diaphragm and tongue are
simply not up to the task
although my story is tragic it is not
unique indeed in many ways it is not so
rare
Jennifer Epps Addison the president of
my organization is sitting next to me
like me her husband was struck at a
young age by a neurological disease
multiple sclerosis 10% of Americans have
a serious disability every family is
eventually confronted with serious
illness or accidents on the day we are
born and on the day we die and on so
many days in between all of us need
medical care and yet in this country the
wealthiest in the history of human
civilization we do not have an effective
or fair or rational system for
delivering that care I will not belabor
the point because you and your
constituents are well aware of the
problems high costs bad outcomes
mind-boggling bureaucracy racial
disparities bankruptcies Geographic
inequities and obscene profiteering the
ugly truth is this health care is not
treated as a human right in the United
States of America this fact is
outrageous and it is far past time that
we change it say it loud for the people
in the back health care is a human right
I mean there you know it is sort of
shocking to me that Joe Biden would come
out with his proposal I think was
yesterday in the context of this but
this is you know the angle that he is
that he is riding and I don't know it's
gonna be fascinating I mean obviously
like look I think the if we were to do a
poll of the audience of this program I
would imagine that
Joe of all the candidates and I think
there's a fairly wide disparity of
support for different candidates in our
audience Joe Biden I would imagine would
be near the bottom certainly in the
bottom half I would say of the
distribution of what people in this
audience would want for the most part
obviously there's some people who do but
it's gonna be fascinating to see how
much of what Joe Biden's actual record
has been gets disseminated to the the
broad Democratic base I mean look there
was I think a real understanding a real
sense maybe this is a slight
exaggeration but in 2008 when Joe Biden
was picked I think there was a real
sense that people had it like Joe
Biden's never going to be President he's
going to be you know past the age in
which we generally elect presidents and
I think over the course of those eight
years in part because Donald Trump won
at age 70 in part because Bernie Sanders
you know ran a vibrant campaign you know
someone who's gonna be older and people
wanted Sanders and and Warren
you know Joe Biden's in play but his
record really I would say I mean of all
the Democrats in the race I mean there's
a couple you know like I don't know ones
who may not make it through the debate
or you know clos Bashar but you know but
his record is not good well and from
Blee from I mean even in the context of
contemporaneous with his sort of heyday
he was in the more conservative part of
the Democratic Party and now it really
is I mean he's anachronistic and it's
gonna be interesting to see if he can
maintain this support that comes with
being Barack Obama's VP which is really
what it is it's really gonna be a
function of just how much of Joe Biden's
record is gonna be sort of more the the
awareness of his record is gonna
impermeable we'll see it's gonna be fun
to watch Bernie and Warren smack him
around though like she came out strong
on the first day that he announced cuz
she she's been dealing with him for
years because she took on the credit
card companies and he was you know Pro
credit card company
