[Music]
cover this right now actually but I
appreciate the call I think there is
something to this because it is it is
easier to leverage the this argument
that critiques on Israel are
anti-semitic almost de-facto
if frankly a person of color is
providing the fulcrum in our society
that's the sad truth and so you get
stuff like this Nancy Pelosi and Chuck
Schumer going up listen to how Nancy
Pelosi mischaracterizes and this keeps
happening over and over and over again
Alon Omar never never ever said anything
never said the words dual loyalty never
said not loyal to America she never said
you know would dual filty or whatever it
is there was no dual she was saying that
I do not have to pledge my allegiance to
another country and she was specifically
specifically referring to that's our one
Senate resolution one the first bill
introduced in the new Senate in January
which was looking to federalize the laws
in 27 states around the country that say
you as a contractor who is looking to
get money from the state your speech
therapist who's going in to teach kids
in a school you're a newspaper that is
taking ads from a State University
you need to literally sign a pledge
saying that you will not engage in an
organized protest against Israel this is
absurd and there's every reason to
believe that it's unconstitutional but
they would this was the first bill
introduced in the Senate so when she
says I don't need to sign a pledge
to show my allegiance to another country
she is referring to the literal pledge
that Marco Rubio wanted to introduce as
what did introduced as the first Senate
resolution that federal contractors need
to sign a pledge to not protest against
Israel and it has been mischaracterized
over and over and over again because
when you complain about having to sign a
literal pledge I don't care what the
country is do you pledge not to protest
Saudi Arabia are you kidding me
that does not fit into an anti-semitic
trope but dual loyalty does so they
change it to dual loyalty even Nancy
Pelosi does that policy that reaffirms
Israel's right to self-defense
[Applause]
in our democratic societies we should
welcome legitimate debate on how best to
honor our values and to advance our
priorities without questioning loyalty
or patriotism
[Applause]
[Applause]
this month the full house came together
condemned the anti-semitic myth of dual
loyalty and all formas bigotry with a
resolution that quote rejects the
perpetuation of anti-semitic stereotypes
in the United States and around the
world including the pernicious myth of
dual loyalty and foreign allegiance
especially in the context of support for
the United states-israel Alliance all
right so now she's slippery here in the
way that she's doing this but she is not
spending an iota of effort to clarify
the situation she is allowing and
purpura and perpetuating this myth that
Ilan Omar had anything to say about dual
loyalty she had nothing to say about
dual loyalty she was saying I should not
be forced to pledge to pledge to another
country and there was a literal law
resolution on the Senate floor calling
for just that well that's pretty gasps
lady it's super gas lady and I'll tell
you something it's literally like it is
it's a liable
