I'm all about them success
with PETA the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in the conference rooms of any
elite
they are unanimous hate for me and we
must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is tuesday october 30th 2018 my
name is sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today LA
Kaufman on how to read a protest the art
of organizing and resistance also on the
program today
apparently Donald Trump thinks he can
end the constitutional right to
birthright citizenship by executive
order meanwhile to honor Jews killed in
Pittsburgh Mike Pence enlists a
Christian rabbi to pray for GOP
candidates and Trump now forcing himself
on the Pittsburgh victims meanwhile the
Pentagon sending 550 200 troops and
barricades to the border to stop those
families with another 7,000 troops at
the ready in the event some of the kids
decide to throw their stuffed animals
and a surprise survey companies have not
hired or invested because of the tax
cuts meanwhile car makers enraged about
regulation I decided to font fight
Trump's emissions rollback the enraged
about Reggie a regulation was facetious
christened cinema up in Arizona but the
Greens could play the spoiler role South
Carolina GOP asked the Trump
administration the right to deny Jews
the opportunity to be foster parents and
[Music]
the Kansas racists would be Ballmer
pleads the Trump defense all that and
more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen oh just wonderful
the days leading up to this midterm of
course will continue to be a a wealth of
riches on just how wretched and horrible
things can be ladies and gentlemen but
we are hoping to be here for you to make
it all the much more you know amusing
and take the edge off right sure of
course can hear it voices and see it on
our faces we're not taking any of this
particularly hard either one of the
reasons why we want to have la Coffman
on today to talk about this is because
of the sort of the the the the sense of
burnout and of relentlessness of what
we're going through and in some
instances hopelessness I mean right now
is a very difficult period of time as in
the lead-up to the midterm elections
because so much of what is going to take
place over the next two years is going
to be a function of what happens
with these elections at least in the
context of our government what we do is
it's up to us but certainly how much
folks can be on the defensive versus on
the offensive is going to be to some
extent a function of what happens in a
week I would suggest that if you are
feeling burnt out and distraught go out
and knock on some doors or tell some
people to vote or it's very easy to get
involved in a call bank you can go to
swing left I think has some pretty easy
stuff for just look on your local your
local candidates website but you can get
involved in some way and at the very
least it will channel some of your
anxiety into something that you know it
could be positive it's certainly not
going to be negative and so you know get
out there in the next week and and you
get to be around like-minded people
which is so important yes there's all
sorts of good reasons to do it and so
we'll be talking to la Coffman in a
moment I should tell you folks though
that in the meantime and I've said this
many times before one of the most
important things you can do for your
health every day is of course brush your
teeth right Matt hey Matt
I'm equip users yeah oh are you equip
user I am NOT I was leading I got a free
one I was late to equip I it shocking
how much it lives up to the ad copy but
not oh nice but not literally shocking
because quip does not have
a red key charger this was a huge like
bullet point so you can choose like to
talk about it probably when I was going
to talk today it's a it's a better
electric toothbrush that's created by
dentists and designers it was designed
to make brushing your teeth more simple
affordable and even enjoyable I've said
this many times before the best type of
toothbrush is an electric toothbrush
however the problem is many people don't
use them they buy them and they don't
use them why because what one of the
major reasons you put it on your sink
its clunky it Falls you're reaching for
you know to hit your soap and it falls
and then it's like oh god what am I
gonna do with this and then you're gonna
plug it in it's a problem qyp does not
require a clunky charger in fact it
requires no charger instead it runs for
three months on one battery that is in
the device and it's a thin battery
because it is not a clunky it is it is
very sleek li designed it fits in your
Dobb kit when you travel I always travel
with mine and it comes with a multi-use
cover that mounts to your mirror for a
less cluttered sink space these do not
work unless you use them and quip makes
it super easy to use it is the first
electric toothbrush accepted by the
American Dental Association all of that
is why I love my quip and they why they
are backed over by over 20,000 dental
professionals quip starts at just 25
bucks and if you go to get quip dot-com
slash majority right now you get your
first refill pack free with equip
electric toothbrush this is how it works
every three months you're supposed to
change your toothbrush head they will
send it to you so that you don't forget
to do it and you don't have to go out
and get it is super convenient like I
say the key to an electric toothbrush is
to use it and quip makes theirs super
easy to use you can get your first
refill pack for free at get quip g-e-t
q UI p comm slash majority
also there are job sites that send you
tons of the wrong resumes to sort
through and make you wait for the right
candidates to apply to your job that is
not smart folks I'll tell you another
thing personally that I think is not
smart
don't wait if you have a small business
in particular you have mid-sized
business you could probably afford to do
this but if you have a small business
like I do go out find potential
candidates right now create a database
you can keep it all super-easy how do
you do that go to zip recruiter dot-com
/ majority you will find the right
person and you'll get a sense of what
type of person you want to hire mid
sized business still a great move it
just means you don't have to do it when
you don't need it there's nothing worse
than having a small business and have
somebody say like I can't give you the
two weeks I'll give you like five days
and then you're screwed
zip recruiter doesn't depend on
candidates finding you it finds them for
you it's powerful matching technology
scans thousands of resumes identifies
people with the right skills education
experience for your job and actively
invites them to apply let's say like
Brendon who came to us through zip
recruiter so you get qualified
candidates fast no more certain through
wrong resumes no more waiting for the
right candidates to apply this so i zip
recruiter rated number one by employers
in the US this rating comes from hiring
sites on trust pilot with over a
thousand reviews right now my listeners
can try zip recruiter for free at this
exclusive web address zip recruiter
dot-com slash majority zip recruiter
dot-com slash majority that zip
recruiter dot-com slash majority zip
recruiter it is the smartest way to hire
and lastly I've mentioned before and you
know this folks live in a news bubble
well one of today's sponsors is news
voice dot-com / majority news voice
deals with that problem of
epistemological closure I don't think
that's
a little look I don't think that's their
tagline it would be a little bit clunky
but that's basically what it is it it
it's an app for iOS and Android you can
access it for free like I say if you go
to news voice dot-com slash majority it
gives you a personalized news feed by
aggregating and this is what's important
to mix of mainstream media sources
international sources independent media
sources and multiple sources are
provided for each news story this is
basically how I prepare for the show I
get a story from the post I get a story
from The Times I go to alternate media
to get their take on it sometimes I'll
go to the local media and you read three
or four of these stories you get a
better sense of what's going on they
don't all jibe but that's a you know
that's part of being an educated news
reader the entire app is fueled by
crowdsourcing you can upvote stories you
think are important so more people will
see them you can add stories to the app
or you can add a source that's missing
for a story it's meant to be completely
open and democratized news aggregator
that lets you get every side of a story
they also have video interview series
featuring guests from hedges Chris
Hedges to Alexandria Acacio Cortez go
download the app for free at news voice
comm / majority I put that link under
this video if you're watching on YouTube
we've put it in our podcast if you're
listening to the show it is news voice
comm / majority all right let's get to
this the I got a text this morning from
a buddies like should I continue to
contribute to the Democrats if Trump
suspends the Constitution and he was
being a little flippant but Donald Trump
apparently in this conversation with
Jonathan Swain from Axios they have some
TV show called I don't know what and I
don't care and in this clip Swain is
clearly goading them on so there's a
part of this that is you know classic
Trump bravado like oh you're making a
challenge to me yes I'll meet it but
look they've been talking about this in
right-wing circles for a while Lindsey
Graham apparently came out and said oh
thank god somebody is fine look at this
here is Donald Trump being asked whether
they want to go after birthright
citizenship which is ensconced in our
Constitution under the 14th amendment
but there's actually such statutory
basis that precedes the 14th amendment
at least temporarily in this country
here is that exchange on immigration
some legal scholars believe you can get
rid of birthright citizenship without
changing the constitution the executive
order exactly right have you thought
about this tell me more it was always
told to me that you needed a
constitutional amendment you don't you
don't number one number one you don't
need that number two next thing just you
but that's very much as well you can
definitely do it with an act of Congress
but now they're saying I can do it just
with an executive order now how
ridiculous were the only country in the
world where a person comes in has a baby
and the baby is essentially a citizen of
the United States for 85 years with all
of those benefits it's ridiculous it's
ridiculous and it has to end
have you talked about that with counsel
yeah I have so we're in the process it's
in the process it'll happen do an
executive order that's what you're
talking about yes exactly I didn't think
anybody but knew that but me I thought I
was the only one Jonathan could guess
now he sort of grins and I think part of
it he grins because we can't see what
Jonathan Swain is doing when he says are
you doing I'm just like you know ya know
it's in the it's in the works that's why
I think he grins because I think Swain
looks at him like I know you're lying
and Trump knows that Swain knows that
he's lying and so he sort of little
smiles but there's no doubt that they
liked the idea of this being put out
there now and just a couple of things
that you should know because the
president is I don't want to say a
pathological liar because I think that
he has a reason
every time he lies but he's also he's
just a liar the like I said the
birthright citizenship is a is ensconced
in the 14th amendment all persons born
or naturalized the United States subject
to jurisdiction in the United States are
citizens the United States and the state
wherein they reside so if you are born
in the United States you are a citizen
of the United States and the state in
which you reside there's a we can go
into the weeds in terms of the
implications of jurisdiction but the
Fourteenth Amendment also contains an
exemption for people who are not within
the United States so you hear a lot like
oh this was only supposed to serve to to
make sure that slaves who were brought
to the United States became citizens and
there and there I should say their
descendants became citizens they wanted
to make sure that and that's all it's
limited to but if that's all it's
limited to then Congress would not have
seen fit to add these other exemptions
when Congress passes a law or in this
case a constitutional amendment and they
they specifically cite exemptions it is
more evidence that anybody not listed in
those exemptions are considered falling
under the auspices of the statute or the
amendment so the two exemptions are for
Native Americans because they don't
aren't subject to the same jurisdiction
as as non Native Americans because of
our relationship with these tribes and
children of diplomatic
representatives so if you're a diplomat
and you come over here with your you
know your spouse and you have a child
that child is not an American citizen
they're actually a citizen of your home
country diplomats also get away with
parking tickets New York City they get
away they have diplomatic immunity so
the Fourteenth Amendment was quite clear
about that there was also a law that was
passed the Civil Rights Act in 1866 that
preceded the Fourteenth Amendment this
is right after the Civil War this was
all part of Reconstruction and in the
course of the debates there it was quite
clear that they meant not just for freed
slaves or for slaves for ancestors of I
should say descendants of slaves but for
anybody born in the United States
there's a couple of law cases that
supported that back in the 1800s as well
one which allowed for the citizenship of
a child of a Chinese immigrant in
Chinese people were not even allowed to
naturalize at that time so it is well
entrenched in our law and in our
Constitution so he's talking out of his
ass but in addition to that where guess
what we're not the only country that has
this I'm going to read a list of other
countries that have this exact same
feature as if it made a difference
because this is in our Constitution you
never hear about people as saying like
you know other countries don't have
three houses and with three branches of
government what are we doing Antigua
Argentina Barbados Belize Bolivia Brazil
I'm still in the beasts Canada Chad
Chile Costa Rica Cuba Dominica Ecuador
El Salvador Fiji Grenada Guatemala
Guiana Honduras Jamaica let's say though
Mexico Nicaragua Pakistan Panama
Paraguay Peru
st. Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint
Vincent yes the Grenadines Trinidad and
Tobago tabouleh I didn't even know that
was it to view the United States of
course Uruguay and can you believe it
Venezuela well you know what the real
response to that list is gonna be oh
yeah Venezuela there you go folks
so we're not the only country that does
that as if that makes a difference we're
gonna take a quick break when we come
back we're going to be talking to LA
Kaufman on how to read a protest the art
of organizing and resistance we'll be
right back
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program La Coffman a longtime grassroots
organizer author of two books on her
latest how to read a protest the art of
organizing and resistance welcome to the
program la thanks so much for having me
Sam
all right just briefly tell us about
your experience I am quite sure that I
have participated in protests that you
have organized over the years well if
you've been to a number of Annette's
quite possible I've been an organizer
for more than 35 years at this point on
a wide range of issues but among the
things that I've done is I was the
mobilizing coordinator for what were
some of the largest protests in US
history the protests that attempted and
failed to stop the Iraq war back in 2003
2004 this new book that I've written is
partly a way of coming to terms with
what it means when you have huge numbers
of people out of the streets and you're
not quite sure what the impact was now I
mean your book basically comparison
contrast the 1963 march on Washington
with the woman's March from 2017 I guess
it was but before we get there I mean
let's talk a little bit about those Iraq
war protests because I was in there was
a couple in New York big ones and there
was a couple in DC and I I'm curious as
to like in and there were there were
other protests around the world at that
time too I mean I think there was one in
in in in London that was even bigger but
but give me your sense I mean give me
your assessment of of those like what
what were the implications of those
protests they obviously didn't stop the
war and and we sort of saw it coming
and you know there was a big wind-up to
that war but but give me your your just
a brief take on those right well the the
you probably were at the February 15th
thousand and three protests which was
there was a very large protest in New
York but it was also part of what still
stands as the largest single day of
coordinated protest in world history
there were millions of people marching
all over the world especially in Europe
but on all continents even in Antarctica
and it was you know a really massive
global uprising to say no to George
Bush's plans to go to war against Iraq
it was you know our best shot at the
time and it it didn't work it did not
stop him from from moving forward with
the war obviously and there were were
many more protests afterwards both after
the war began and in the months and
years to come
including a massive protest outside the
2004 Republican convention that I was
part of organizing which drew 800,000
people it's one of maybe the five
largest protests in US history
and that didn't stop George Bush from
being re-elected so it's it's a it was
very haunting at the time to feel like
we were absolutely in the right we had
mobilized this historic outpouring and
yet it didn't do the trick it didn't
really work as a pressure tactic and
part of when I went back and really
looked through the history of all the
major protests that have happened in the
US these are the big ones the ones that
are a hundred thousand or more pretty
much none of them worked as pressure
tactics we have this myth that they do
and we have this myth that the 63 March
the one where dr. King delivered his I
have a dream speech did that it somehow
led to the 64 Civil Rights Act and
Voting Rights Act Vinick the following
year but that's not really how those big
big gatherings function they don't work
very well as pressure tactics it turns
out some kinds of protests do but not
those alright so and so what well I mean
in fact I think like the the 2004
protests outside the RNC as far as I can
tell the the sort of the the most
durable thing to come out of that was
the cops sort of seemed to have
developed sort of left forward in their
sort of their their technology to arrest
protesters like that's I think I feel
like the first time that like wide-scale
Catalan happened if I remember correctly
with these big orange and a plastic
fences essentially that they could move
and basically just corral people but but
but what so let to turn to the
sixty-three thing but but but are there
other before we get the specifics on 63
in the comparing interest are there
other things that come out of a mass
protest like the Iraq war war once
because as far as I could tell nothing
came out of that I mean there wasn't
there was no durability to the anti-war
fervor that died out quite quickly it
seemed I mean relatively speaking
particularly relative to the war in Iraq
I mean what did yeah I think I mean I
think you're right I think that you know
instead of there being a build from
those mobilizations there was an
exhaustion and partly that was because
people mobilized before the war began a
lot with the hope that we would stop it
and when we didn't people became
despondent and went home and and we're
kind of exhausted by the effort you know
that they you know you you don't
organize a protest when you have the
upper hand in a political situation by
definition these are weapons of the weak
these are tools that you turn to when
you're overpowered in some way when when
the balance of forces is not favorable
to your side so there are times when you
simply lose and and that's part of what
happened with the Iraq war I think it
was absolutely worth doing I think it's
worth saying if you know you're gonna
rush forward and and and commit these
atrocities you're not doing it in our
name and we are going to stand up and
oppose it and this is a moment
and sometimes it feels like what we're
doing is we're just standing up in
public to say these horrible things that
are happening we don't consent we don't
go along we may not be able to stop them
right now but we're gonna we're going to
hold out a space for opposition I think
that's important to do even when you
don't win the battle I think if I
remember correctly Bush referred to them
as like I'm not going to decide this war
based on a focus group or something like
that but all right let's let's talk
about 1963 what what did you find I mean
you went to look to see how the protest
came about and what its impact was what
did you find
yeah I really wanted to look behind that
the myths of that protest it's obviously
you know it's it was what most people
think of when they think of a protest at
all when they think of a big protest
march and it still inspires people so
that that is one of the things one of
the ways in which protests work is that
they they inspire people they galvanize
people they provide hope and it
certainly did that and continues to do
that but it's interesting when you when
I went into the archives there's
wonderful archival material about the
organizing of the March to look at some
of the nuts and bolts of how it was put
together and what came out of it
interestingly enough it actually didn't
build any of the organizations that came
together to make it happen if anything
it kind of depleted them there were lots
and lots and lots of new people who
showed up at that March which drew
250,000 people it was the largest March
to that point in US history and at least
half of them were not connected to any
organization but the organizations were
really able to incorporate that new
energy and build from there
so while there's some leaf lane which
has helped sustain momentum it didn't
actually sustain organizing momentum
which is a contrast with the 2017
women's marches which happened very
differently and had a very different
outcome
one of the things you you noted that
that struck me about the the 63 march
was about the signs just tell us about
what the implications with the or you
know what surprised you about those
signs yes it was you know we've we've
all seen images of that protest as part
of the the popular culture but I hadn't
really focused on the fact that in fact
all of the signs are pretty much alike
and it turned out that they were that
way for a very important reason which is
that the organizers decided to control
all of the signs to control the
messaging and the appearance of the
protest completely you were not allowed
to just get out your magic marker and
make your own sign and bring it to that
March the way that people have for many
others they had marshals who would
surround you and take the sign away from
you if you did and if somebody who has
organized protests with huge crowds of
people I was flabbergasted by that both
how they managed to do it because it's
not that easy to control a crowd that
that that's that large to control it so
tightly but also why they wanted to it
seemed really strange to me because we
think of these mass mobilizations now as
opportunities for people to express
their own views and when I dug into the
archives to piece together why this had
happened it turned out to be very deeply
connected to a style of organizing that
was very top-down and very
male-dominated they were contending with
a level of fear and panic around the
March unlike any that has met unlike
anything we've seen subsequently there
had never been such a big March and
there were all of these racist ideas
that bringing that many black Americans
together in one place was going to mean
riot so there was if anything as an
erring on the side of respectability and
politeness and having everything seemed
very tightly stage-managed
but it was all
so an idea of a leadership it was from
the top and you know starting with dr.
King where you have you know a single
figurehead who represents the movement
and others are really followers and
we've had a real shift in how movements
come together and they this is partly
been a feminist influence they are much
more participatory and we have much more
of a sense of them as a space where many
people and many leaders are coming
together and where in fact people can
step up and begin taking leadership
after participating I I was struck by
that because I went down to the 912 I
think it was protests that Glenn Beck
put on in like 2010 and that was the
edict for that one to know you they they
had very narrow set of signs that were
okayed but there didn't seem to be any
they they were self policing I mean it
really was interesting I found the one
guy who was sort of breaking ranks and
saying that you know and attacking MLK
and I think they didn't want that but
they were very specific about the signs
that they were allowing at that you know
basically Tea Party ish rally there but
I but I wonder if do you think that the
that the signs I mean if your assessment
of of that protest was that it wasn't
terribly that it didn't really lead that
it wasn't as responsible for the Civil
Rights Act the Voting Rights Act that
followed as as we like to think do you
think that having a little bit less
tight control would have been more
effective and because isn't the idea of
a protest like that to be hey you you
know we may turn you know we may upend
society in some fashion
and I mean is is some measure of chaos
sort of like valuable in that context
well I mean I don't want to second-guess
the organizing choices of the 63 because
it was a very different moment and and
again as I think that that man was the
first time that happened we sort of
don't realize that that until 1963 there
was never a major march on Washington it
had just simply never happened in
American history there have been some
smaller things and some pageants but we
add it's now such a staple of American
political life that there are these
major marches that it's hard to put
ourselves back in the mindset of what it
meant to invent it the first time you
know they did err on the side of
excessive control but you know now you
know chaos isn't really the word that I
want to use because that suggests
violence and these these protests have
been overwhelmingly nonviolent but
there's a looseness and an openness that
we saw with the 2017 women's marches
where they were really much more like a
coming together and arising up of so
many people who had not participated in
protest before and it gave it had a it
had a psychological effect that I think
was really essential it and and really
powerful and has translated into a kind
of organizing against Donald Trump it's
very different in its character and
structure than a lot of other waves of
grassroots organizing in American
history most people don't realize this
because we don't you know we're being
bashed by so much bad news and there's
so much chaos in our world right now but
there are more protests there have been
more people protesting Donald Trump than
at any time in American history by far
there are many more protests going on
than there were at the height of the
Vietnam War
for instance and at any other period in
American history both in absolute terms
and
the percentage of the population and
what's most striking about these
protests well part of what's striking is
that it's mostly women almost everything
is majority or super majority women from
the organizing groups to the turnout at
the marches but it's so much of it is
really bottom-up it's really being
generated from the grassroots up rather
than orchestrated by some single
organization from the top down and I
think that that character was reflected
in the incredible proliferation of signs
at the twenty seventeenth women's
marches which everyone were marked on
they were so amazing I mean they were
there were so many people decided to
make marches that that that they they
ran out of you know Marvel magic markers
and foam core boards in a lot of stores
and and those really reflected that this
spirit that people have carried forward
and that they are carrying forward right
now and the get-out-the-vote work that's
happening all around the country in this
final week before the midterms so is the
so if I hear you correctly the the value
of a protest today let's say or maybe at
any time and it's just that there are a
couple of factors that make it more
effective today is that it ends up being
sort of like a networking conference or
in it maybe both literally and more like
psychologically well for these big
process I mean there are protests that
are really about trying to pressure
target to make a specific change those
Penn not to be the huge ones but these
huge gatherings the ones that are a
hundred thousand or more are the ones
that are happening in hundreds of
communities all around the country
that's one of the changes that we've
seen is that it's that there are
protests happening in more places and
they ever happened before in American
history and what what that does is it
gives people that sense of belonging to
something bigger than themselves
that you need to do all the nuts and
bolts work to make change you know we
know that that a protest is not going to
change the outcome of the midterms it's
going to take its take
people phone banking and canvassing and
texting and all this huge amounts of
work which is unglamorous and a lot of
it you can feel kind of you know
isolated when you're doing it these big
protests what they help give is that
sense that we need that we belong to
something bigger than ourselves that we
are standing shoulder-to-shoulder with
other people who share our values and
that and that we are together really
creating a movement and that's almost
like the foundation we need to do all
the other work well I mean why do you
think it is the case that if there is
more sort of like protests just
generally speaking the during this time
then during the Vietnam era that there's
there's a sense of there's a like a
sense of a less awareness of it what a
part of the media environment has really
changed and it has been such that there
has been such a sort of crazy barrage of
bad news under Trump that people are
sort of feeling all this whiplash I'm
not quite sure why the sense of protest
has not been been cumulative but I think
a lot of the a lot of the protests that
have happened so far have been mostly
expressive they've mostly been these
protests where people are coming
together to say we stand against gun
violence or we we stand for science
right a lot of the big mobilizations
that there were in the first year and so
they haven't a lot of them haven't yet
translated into palpable positive
accomplishments which as I think makes
it psychologically hard for people to
see that it's happening we don't know
you never know what what you've
prevented from happening right you never
know how much worse things might have
been how much more emboldened the Trump
administration might have been if we
hadn't had these you know somewhere
between 15 and
two million people marching in the
streets you know we haven't we haven't
you know pressured Donald Trump into
resigning a laugh or you know turn
things around dramatically yet so it may
partly be because of that it may also
partly be because they've been
overwhelmingly peaceful and so that
doesn't make headlines in the same way
that you know if you have one protest
that has like ten people but one window
gets smashed that's almost always going
to get much more publicity than when you
have you know hundreds of thousands of
people who peacefully gather it all
around the country well that was
actually my my next question was about
about direct action like where direct
action and then civil disobedience and
and we've seen I mean as of late we've
seen a little bit more of that around
the child separation stuff we saw her
towards the end of I guess the Obama
administration in the context of global
warming and give me your sense about
that and also where does let's say the
Muslim band that when the Muslim band
was first introduced there was a lot of
I mean there was like there was a form
of protest that was that I mean it seems
like it was more almost direct action
like people were basically saying I'm
going to put you know when they'd
started to drive out to the airports
they didn't know why they were going
right like I mean a lot of people I
think we're prepared to you know to for
more aggressiveness yes absolutely
well there's a lot you there's a lot of
questions there yes you know that's fine
but I'll try I'll try to cut it I mean
we have until recently you're absolutely
right that we have seen massive numbers
of people protesting but really
relatively small numbers of people
participating in nonviolent direct
action or other forms of civil
disobedience and that those numbers have
grown I've been tracking them very
carefully there there was a bump around
family separations there was a direct
action that I attended in DC that had
more than 600 women arrested it was the
largest women's direct action in history
and then there were in the course of the
Cavanaugh fight there were I believe the
final numbers twelve hundred and fifty
nine people mostly women arrested in a
in a series of actions you know some of
which got a lot of publicity on Capitol
Hill so there has been an increase in
indirect action but it still really
relatively modest compared to some past
movements in American history my first
book was called direct action was a
study of when and where those forms of
disrupted protests have been used over
the last 40 years and I mean I I think
you know everyone right at the moment is
very focused on the midterms but I
expect that we're going to see a lot
more direct action after the midterms
and in this second part of Donald
Trump's term I think that's where where
the energy is moving is that people are
realizing these these these big marches
bring us together and they inspire us
and they build a sense of movement but
in order to really create change we do
need to look to some of the stronger
forms of protest that have worked in the
past bit groups like act up used so
powerfully to transform the nature of
medication and treatment for people with
HIV so I think we're gonna see a lot
more of that going forward that those
are the kind of protests that tend to
work better as pressure tactics and
obviously we don't know yet what's the
outcome of the midterms are going to be
but a crucial target of those protests
is going to be not just Republicans
but Democrats who aren't really doing
enough and aren't aren't and are
providing lip service to resisting Trump
but not actually taking action I I want
to I want to put a pin in that for a
second and just also note that the there
was there was a substantial amount of
direct action or I should say a poignant
poignant direct action regarding the ACA
by folks from the disability community
that I think was was super super
effective and in that you know I mean I
remember seeing images of people in
wheelchairs being carried out of the
Senate and be being arrested and it's it
is it is inspiring and in some respect I
mean what what is it about direct action
that you think is that makes it
effective well direct action can
dramatize a problem in a way that really
no other form of action can like as you
were saying those protests when you had
folks who were wheelchair users and
other folks who were you know severely
medically compromised putting their
bodies in in in in the way of the
legislators who were about to take away
their healthcare that that that conflict
that creating a crisis has a power that
a million people marching peacefully in
the streets doesn't always and so that
that's one of the ironies here is that
you know you sometimes you know we think
sometimes that a protest that the power
comes from it's numbers but it doesn't
always sometimes the power of a protest
I mean there's some of the most powerful
protests in American history have
involved very tiny numbers of people
whether it's Rosa Parks or you know the
students who sat in at the lunch
counters there's something about
directly putting your body in the way of
an injustice and something about
creating a crisis for decision-makers as
dr. King put it in this letter from the
Birmingham jail that
has has a political power that no mass
march that we've seen in American
history ever had but I want to return to
you invoked the airport protests after
Donald Trump announced the first version
of the Muslim ban which were
extraordinary and those were they
weren't fully spontaneous they were
organized there were long-standing
immigrant rights organizers who you know
there was a text loop and and the word
went out to other organizers but then
there was a there was a groundswell and
people just showed up again the numbers
if you look at the numbers the numbers
were not the numbers we had with the
women's marches these were not millions
of people it was thousands of people but
it was thousands of people in this kind
of a nearly spontaneous feeling uprising
and there is a power to that and a power
to that momentum that that I think it is
is something that we've been missing we
but with the cabin on protest we had we
never had the moment we had a lot of
people doing extraordinary work I was
down there in Capitol Hill the the the
the tenacity of the people who were
speaking out against Kavanagh was
extraordinary but we never had the
moment we're like 20,000 people went and
surrounded the Hart office building and
I have to wonder if we had had that kind
of a groundswell if people had felt
empowered to come and do that might that
have changed the dynamic might that have
dramatized the the feeling of of crisis
surrounding the the you know the ramming
through of this evidently unfit person
to serve on the Supreme Court those
kinds of of moments when it's like drop
everything and show up can sometimes be
the most powerful protest of all well I
mean what should people do if they
if they come across a direct action and
they're not I mean you know I guess in
terms of like helping it I guess you
know if people are lying down in the
street lie down in the street with them
but if they if they're not prepared to
put themselves at that type of risk in
that moment what else can they do in the
moment or afterwards to to help that
endeavor oh there's so much you can do I
mean people see the numbers of people
who get arrested and never know that
there's always a lot of other people
they're providing various forms of
support which can range from you know
posting it on social media to get the
word out to being there waiting outside
the jail when people get released with
you know with sandwiches and some hot
coffee and a hug so whenever people are
are engaging in direct action and
putting their bodies on the line they
they need all kinds of legal support
sometimes medical support logistical
support and there's usually ways to plug
in and and there's also power in just
being a witness that helps make a
protest safer for participants if there
are sympathetic witnesses because as we
know the police are not always gentle
and we're also in an ominous time now
where there's you know some very angry
armed violent right-wing counter
protesters who have on occasion you know
taking taking taking you know attacked
and beaten members of protest groups
it's a it's a very volatile time in
America and there's something about
large numbers of people bearing witness
and standing peacefully that helps
defuse those particular tensions well
what do you recommend for people who are
feeling burnout and I guess maybe the
the sort of the I mean I my sense is is
that a if the Democrats take the house
it's going to be it's it's going to be
reanalyzing to people that that people
are going to
there's gonna be a more of an impetus to
protest and to get involved because
people are seeing some measure of you
know some reason to be hopeful and also
have some leverage like you say
protesting against Democrats from the
left is a lot more effective it seems to
me than protesting against Republicans
from the left because they have more
reasons to fear them it seems it's is
that is my assessment of that correct a
and B I mean what and me I'm again I'm
asking a multiple question at the same
time but but but I mean it's my
assessment of that correct is that like
having some leverage in a toehold is
going to provide some energy and is
because it's more effective yes
absolutely one also cuz I mean I mean it
means we have more institutional power
we broadly speaking I'm not you know one
with the Democratic Party but we you
know more or less the side that stands
for democracy instead of fascism at this
point just to be blunt I mean I think
right now in this week nobody's allowed
to be burned out like it doesn't matter
how tired you are how discouraged you
are how depressed you are everybody
needs to throw down this week and to to
to link up this discussion we've been
having about protests with what needs to
happen in this final week for the
midterms part of the thing about
protests is that is it part of the way
that protests work is that they have a
sort of a multiplier effect right you
know for students at a lunch counter had
this enormous multiplier effect and when
we think about voting we can get
discouraged because you're like okay yes
you've got to go out and vote but you
know you know you just have one vote and
you know that there are all these
efforts to to suppress the vote by the
other side and it can feel very
discouraging but the thing about
get-out-the-vote work is that it has
that multiplier effect if you're
knocking on fifty doors or calling a
hundred voters or texting a couple of
thousand voters as you can do
these texting programs you're
multiplying your effect and that is what
everybody needs to be doing in this last
week it is so crucial that we seize on
this opportunity to regain a toehold of
institutional power in this moment
because as you say that is what gives us
leverage and possibility going forward
so I know I mean it's been you know just
an awful time and there's all kinds of
reasons for people to feel like curling
up in a little ball in the corner and we
can't we have to do everything we can
this week so that we can whatever the
outcome on November 6th at least we need
to wake up on the morning of November
7th with no regrets knowing that we have
done everything we can to turn this
around at the polls LA Kaufman the book
is how to read a protest the art of
organizing and resistance thanks so much
for your time today I really appreciate
it thanks so much for having me Sam it's
been a pleasure
all right folks we're gonna head into
the fun half wherein we will have fun
and and we may even it may even be more
than a half so we got that going for us
folks it is your support that makes this
show possible you can become a member by
joining the majority report by going to
join the majority report com when you
join the majority port for just
literally well dimes a day
I mean pennies technically I guess it's
pennies could be it's just a lot of
pennies a lot of pennies to have pennies
are very useful currency because it's
one cent so you can pretty much do
anything in pennies that's right Matt
see this is the type of stuff that you
get the fun half these type of the math
minute that's literally like yeah bad
nation that is honestly like a
conversation I would have us all smart
kid he's actually pretty bright when it
comes to that stuff
he just had to this morning at breakfast
he was just like what's uh it's 12 plus
12 24 yeah it is
he says give me another one like what
it's always competing anyways folks for
just pennies a day you can become a
member support this show go to join the
majority report com join the majority of
poor Tom and his way of saying thank you
we give you extra content every day your
support that makes this show possible
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority you can get the majority report
blend show your friends wow them at
coffee klatches and dessert when you
have a dinner party yeah what up them
yeah there you go win yeah you can win
win with all Jordi report coffee from
just coffee co-op Domini 10% off with
the coupon code majority Michael today
is Tuesday and so big wise problems do
you have problems you have something to
do tonight good problems tonight
problems tonight he might could have
technical problems are you gonna set
some technical problems up for me I
didn't say that I said you could huh
that sounds ominous well that's what
draws people to a show of suspense so
there could be something ominous tonight
there's gonna be a big announcement that
people will actually find very fun
tonight that's happening and maybe the
announcement will be exciting maybe
turning in to find out if there's gonna
be major technical problems see if I can
get through the technical problems to
get to the announcement
can I finish this bill now without the
technical problem of you interrupting me
I don't know we've created more suspense
that's kind of dragging actually at this
point also big waz is on we're talking
about beta O'Rourke yes
Co didn't say anything I guess there was
suspense you need boy sleep Harvey Kate
we're talking about a beta O'Rourke went
to a bar a black barbershop in Texas and
we're talking about Democrats and how
they their cultural appeal strategies
and we're also talking about Pusha T new
revelations on his beef with Drew
so that's more on the entertainment side
obviously then Harvey Kay's coming in
studio we're talking about the history
of the Democratic Party and the
commentaries on Brazil how to build a
global left and I do want to say where
we're getting relative we're now under
300 away from 2,000 patrons where we
will have this disgusting food bucket
challenge so we're moving in patreon.com
slash t no BS and Jamie this week on the
anti Fattah we have just released a
patrons only bonus wherein we do a bit
of a dramatic reading of a document
leaked by a Maoist group or maybe it's a
brilliant work of satire we don't know
laying out a plan for a protracted
peoples war in the Florida Everglades
kind of amusing tomorrow we have a very
special Halloween episode with the
liquor talking about gothic Marxism and
how we can use the Gothic to expose the
horrors below the surfaces of late
capitalist everyday life and politics
I'd also like to give a plug for a show
I was on last week which was pot damn
America
Jake Flores his podcast he's a really
funny guy he's been on this show before
and it's another Halloween episode where
we talk about witches and horror movies
and it was a lot of fun so check it out
we've got to decide what we're gonna do
for Halloween tomorrow I'm still up in
the air about this when a lava jato
t-shirt so I'm not doing that you na
mele why did Kamala Harris did you
notice there's a frown here if you move
it in at the millimeter and you're
pausing you slow the tape she's not
really smiling about supporting
single-payer so I see don't vote the
 midterms
let let birthweight citizenship be
canceled and then we'll have a
revolution which I mean voting for a
Green Party candidate for some
I mean I'm down to talk about he's like
it's arrived for an hour if anybody
wants me to that also I will be out that
is what we're doing I will I'm calling
I just up on YouTube actually just
before the show started episode 10 of
the literary hangover on the mystic
massacre and Pequot War is up so it's me
give a little history spiel it's about
it's me pretending I was a professor to
be honest that's what my mom said she's
like I could imagine this is this is why
I came out to New York in the first
place was to be a professor and even get
sidetracked by the allure I can harass
you for sound drops instead you know
Matt Matt came in wearing you were like
a leather vest and a very academic style
yeah yes I got a crew was it a sweater
vest yes was really like as soon as you
walked in with a sweater vest I was like
hired hired no when I got home I balled
it up and threw it into my closet yeah
look it's suckering that you never never
to be seen again
I don't think you've even come I don't
even think you've worn a collared shirt
next-step first three weeks could have
said sow clips at 3m to look like
Michael just literally it was like his
work of memoir when you said that I
never said in the afternoon right all
right folks quick break fun half six or
six to five seven thirty nine twenty
take your calls all that bye
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich I have
an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's boss I am NOT your employer
you know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't
you know you're nervous a little bit
upset you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur
[Laughter]
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's a
win-win-win oh yeah now listen tonight
two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion a
third don't you see why don't you get a
real job instead of spewing the tree or
a trick you left one ball everybody's
taking their dumb juice today come on
Sammy
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seat with a woman I'm hoping that more
moves to my repertoire all I have is the
dip in the swirl fine we can double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no you
 alright gonna take a quick break I
want to take a moment to talk to some of
the libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lassic I'm feeling more chill
already hood Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey it's a free speech
issue if you don't like me thank you for
calling into the majority report them
we'll be with you shortly
I don't know folks I don't know I don't
know it could be funny you know it's
more witches and vampires that is not
happening there's no there is no there
is no there is no scenario where where
it's witches and vampires that that's
too scary for me oh please please I will
get too nervous
nothing could be scarier than
and what's going on in the real world
what do you think the over-under is for
the amount of our listeners that are
going as vampire capital Oh a lot I
would say say it doesn't that's
definitely a costume that sean has used
in the past and one that my friend Ava
wore to the party marks capital is a
vampire that lives by sucking the blood
I don't know
I'm paraphrasing well extraction
extraction the board sucks yada yada
it's it's it's wholly extractive I think
Marc or he was or he was just um I was
guessing or Nostradamus like about Peter
teal we talked about that on our show
this week oh my god I kick Matt alright
folks are here I'm gonna turn on the I
am let's look at this sorry I get a
little distracted here oh we had a beer
protest this is all right yeah let's go
through this you know folks we had
mentioned yesterday that we've gone
through the work that Fox News has done
regarding the caravan and that the
concept that we were being what it was
it that Michelle Malkin called it a
total invasion and we have heard from
folks like Gorka that we're talking
about military aged men and this whole
notion that we are under siege in fact
the president has instructed the
Pentagon to send 5,200 troops to the
border with helicopters and barbed wire
extra barbed wire with an extra 7,000 on
standby
this is the same amount of US soldiers
involved in the battle against Isis in
Iraq and Syria Trump probably knows the
CEO of that barbed wire company right oh
yeah hey Bill remember you asked me if
there was an opportunity here with Bob
wire guess what
just remember the kickback just put some
cash in a paper bag drop it off right
out in front of Marta loggers gonna need
some barber too they will have Blackhawk
helicopters with night vision and
sensors they will have troops trained in
a kind of eerie aerial combat missions
used by the military in active war zones
this is it's stunning and it is all
kabuki it is all kabuki folks in fact
you don't have to believe me
you can believe the guy who functions to
let a little air out of the tyres at
FoxNews and make the people who are
working there in this company that puts
out this misinformation on a daily basis
feel a little bit better about
themselves as if they're somehow
mitigating the damage they're doing that
inspire guys like the the guy who killed
11 people at a synagogue because he
thought the Jews were behind driving
that Caravan tomorrow the migrants
according to Fox News reporting are more
than two months away if any of them
actually come here
but tomorrow is one week before the
midterm election which is what all of
this is about there is no invasion no
one's coming to get you there's nothing
at all to worry about when they did this
to us got us all riled up in April
remember the result was 14 arrests where
America we can handle it but like I said
a week to the election and Jennifer
Griffin's on it from the Pentagon yeah
right
him throwing to the 5200 look I
appreciate chef Smith saying this but on
the other hand Shep Smith saying this
ass wage is too many conscience
conscience at that at that outlet it
makes too many people feel like well
it's not just Tucker and Laura and
everybody on the primetime who are
spreading these lies on a daily basis
you may not know what he was referring
to about in April because you don't
watch fox news but in fox news they had
ginned up this entire thing to in april
and so I appreciate that Shep Smith is
saying this on one hand on the other
hand not many people hear that from Shep
Smith in to the extent that they do they
blow it off but it does make the people
at Fox News who know they're putting out
these lies on behalf of the president it
makes them feel better about themselves
so frankly maybe it's actually
detrimental because I don't think it's
healthy for anybody at that outlet to
feel anything other than shame really
there should be to to emotions too I
guess
states of mind at Fox News complete
delusion or total shame those are really
the only ones you kid there shouldn't be
a gray area and if to the extent that
Shep Smith provides that gray area I
think it may be even problematic so now
that there is some sense that maybe
we've got this covered right like the
question is is like how you're the
president the United States bill shine
is your communications guy he's still
the guy who basically has all the
friends at Fox News with Hannity and all
the other ones they've sent now 5,200
troops to the border with Blackhawk
helicopters with people trained in night
warfare
but that's a problem because while it
pushes the narrative forward that
there's this invasion by these families
who are two months away walking towards
us maybe they stopped along the way
while that helps that narrative the
other problem is that it may make some
of these boobs who believe this stuff
feels safe so we've got the military
part covered what should we put out next
oh I know
bill get on the phone and call Laura and
let's start this at Fox this is what we
got what last night correct this is
Friday okay here we go
here's Laura Ingraham thanks so much and
I want to turn to a part of this story
that is largely being ignored the health
concerns that have already arisen
because of so much cross-border traffic
a lot of it illegal and anyone inside
the caravan now coming into the United
States we've heard about the recent
typhus outbreak in Southern California
it's a deadly disease that we thought we
had eradicated from the first world but
one other health issues that should we
be aware of health concerns for the
American public
yeah nobody's talking about it but a
good thing you got on that because then
just coincidentally it seems like
everybody's talking about it and bye-bye
everybody
what I mean is people on Fox News in
fact here's a this guy this is David
Ward and Charlie Payne or Charles Payne
on I don't know what show they're the
Fox Business News Channel it's going to
be interesting to see how this goes the
military is going to be a tremendous
asset at the ports of entry to prevent
the people from coming across the port
the ports of entry however what we need
to look at is what happens between the
ports of entry and what the Border
Patrol is going to have to face we have
three tenants of problems here we have
national security public safety and
public health issues with these caravans
coming to the United States now in the
national security realm we've got all
sorts of people not only
from America but they're coming in from
Africa from the Middle East and other
places in this Caravan it's already been
documented so or even noted by our tell
people that are down there then Public
Safety we've already had people
interviewed in this Caravan but we've
been deported for you from the United
States for crimes such as attempted
homicide now these are prior D ports
that are coming in and they will not
come through the port of entry they're
going to come between the ports of entry
where so path of least resistance then
Public Health we have these individuals
coming from all over the world that have
the some of the most extreme medical
care care in the in the world and
they're coming in with diseases such as
smallpox and leprosy and TB that are
going to affect our people in the United
States
so there is a caravan of people two
months away walking on foot with TB
leprosy what else did he say
smallpox smallpox they're apparently
also they must be pushing those like
plastic bubbles right like so that so
that the really infirm people they're
pushing some of them on Gurney's
apparently for the entire two months
they're gonna be pushing them from
southern Mexico all the way up into the
United States
boy what a coincidence that we hear that
when was that was that today
was that yesterday I mean uh yesterday
oh well I mean who could imagine Wow
it's it's almost like there's another
disease and it's spreading through Fox
and it's the disease of making up the
fact that there are these these exotic
diseases in these caravans
I mean God someone see if Lou Dobbs has
gotten inoculated yet the Posse
Comitatus Act has nothing to do with it
it's a foreign invasion so yes you can
send the National military down to
protect the border I'm glad he's doing
that it's a strong stance it must be
taken because we simply cannot tolerate
the continued invasion of this country
when Americans are suffering every day
the national debt is exploding we have
diseases spreading across the country
that are causing polio like paralysis of
our children
it's one thing after the same you can't
very well blame that disease on illegal
immigrants we don't know the cause of it
I don't know that that's I don't think
that's fair pause it for one second now
let me tell you what's happening with
Lou Dobbs here Lou Dobbs is a little
problem because the other day he had a
guy on that basically accused George
Soros the big Jew of driving them the
caravan up here and that guy had to be
disinvited from fox forever because it
sounds just eerily similar to the
reasons why that guy went in and shot up
that temple yesterday so Lou Dobbs a
little skittish so he's trying to ask
his guests here
Sidney Powell hey please just you know
back off a little bit a lot of you know
but there are plenty of reasons to keep
this country secure I including
including making sure that everyone is
healthy when they're brought into the
country without question right is that
fair that is fair but that is part of
the problem we don't know where the
diseases are coming from well you know
what
I think that let me tell you what's
happening now with Lou Dobbs his
producer is going you got to get out of
this Lou you got to get out of this we
can't we can't sustain this two days in
a row buddy I mean just trying to just
play it off smile a lot I'll go with
that we're going to leave it we've
decided we what we don't know is what we
don't know and it's always good talking
with you and finding out what we do know
and Sidney Powell as usual knows a great
deal well done we don't know what we
don't know and what we do know we do
know and I do know that this could get
me in trouble and I can't afford to do
that amongst double-secret probation I'm
not allowed to let my full-on freak flag
fly right now it makes me so mad because
it's like a classic bit of Republican
misdirection right because why are
Americans so afraid of diseases in the
first place
because we don't have health
care
and whose fault is that largely like all
of the diseases they're listing off are
things that can be very easily treated
with modern medicine should people have
access to it but they're being brought
in by brown people so that extra
virulent in fact here is Laura Ingraham
just to round out just a bookend this
here we go
the she just she also has a list of
diseases as we have the spinning wheel
and a here we go and again the list of
diseases that are of concern given the
multitude of people crossing our border
so we got HIV
measles produces rubella rabies
hepatitis A influenza TB shigellosis
syphilis I know the Chagas is another
problem and that's a insect born there
you go all of those diseases as far as I
know maybe not all of them but I mean
there's a lot of like syphilis like yeah
it's like a you know 28 days later right
like 28 or 48 days from now that's what
this is they're making them out to be
like fast zombies there we go oh and not
to be left out folks we just played part
one of how a narrative gets built on fox
news they're worried that sending troops
to the border is going to mitigate the
fear that their audience feels so early
in the morning Fox and Friends are there
yes it's true we're sending down 5200
troops to the border to guard the border
like you know being sent to the to the
wall and the south now do you outfit
them with machine guns or disinfectant
they have well they go with machine guns
that's the point they have the Blackhawk
helicopters they're there they're gonna
wait for two months ostensibly right
we're gonna send these guys down there
two months they're gonna wait but we
have 7,000 on the ready that was gonna
keep those 7,000 on the ready for those
two months keep troops in the field for
two months it's a bit of a
Saurus hall - i did a little bit of a
resource haul but you just got to make
sure your supply chains are there so you
can you know the they'll they the this
caravans not gonna have the element of
surprise folks we're going to be there
for two months waiting for them but also
they're not gonna shoot people remember
right there were they not gonna shoot
unless they we're not gonna take it off
the table but I mean if we get shot at
we've got to shoot back of course two
months from now but in the event that
that in any way placates the fox viewers
fear that mitigates the Fox viewers fear
well let's get up this morning and let's
create a new one here is Fox & Friends
talking to Dan bone jeon oh is that his
name dan bungee no or Bongo is that the
guy who yes they were talking about it
Politico that's who they wanted they
wanted you to go up against an bungee
you know after after crowd or crowd or
backed out they said what about Dan bond
gene and I'm like who's Dan bond G no
but here he is and I was just stunned to
see President Obama just mocking the
fact that we are looking at this caravan
with a sense of concern as if we feel as
though the nation's going to be overrun
by what he terms underprivileged or poor
people that's not the point and he knows
it pause it
what do you that's not the point we've
we saw a clip yesterday michelle malkin
saying it's a full-scale invasion we saw
Gorka on fox say these are military aged
men were sending fifty two hundred armed
troops that's not the point what's the
point what is the point what what are we
gonna say is the point and he knows it
yeah he does know and that's what's
deeply disturbing about this Brian
there's really nothing irrational about
Americans taxpaying Americans being
concerned about thousands of people
crossing the border not vetted I mean
this is that we're having this
conversation is almost strange that
we're being painted as irrational you
know I was listening to you earlier in
the show and you brought up just a
simple statistical point that's
irrefutable paste a significant person
it's maybe not a majority of but a
significant percentage of people
entering on any given day are going to
be stopped at the border for some kind
of narco trafficking criminal activity
or otherwise it's not a majority it's
not an overwhelming amount but it's
enough for us to be concerned
therefore by simple numbers if thousands
of people enter unvetted at any time
you're going to have people into the
country that shouldn't be here that's
not a fear tactic that's just the truth
and I'm glad you brought that up
what about diseases pause I mean there's
a record now before we get to diseases
what are the chances that let's say 1/4
of the caravan can can cross the border
without being aware of it like what's
the plan here for this Caravan they're
gonna get up to the border and they're
all just gonna go on three everybody
runs in a different direction
like what what is it that is the fear
here I mean obviously these people are
gonna come up to the border and they're
gonna get in line and they're gonna
apply for asylum and they're all gonna
be vetted and there are thousands
thousands of people who crossed the
border legally every single day four
thousand is just not that many folks but
let's hear because if that doesn't if
the if you're not scared enough what
about the diseases at any time you're
gonna have people into the country that
shouldn't be here that's not a fear
tactic that's just the truth and I'm
glad you brought that up
what about diseases I mean there's a
reason why you can't bring a kid to
school unless he's inoculated you know
there's a there's things that happen in
this country we already give 40 to 50
percent of our taxable income to the
government for social programs is it too
much meat what what now Kilmeade may owe
50 percent maybe maybe in New York City
by the time he's done it could be 50 50
percent but I've got some bad news for
kill meat if he thinks this is all going
towards social programs
it's going to things like the fire
department the police department fixing
the road the military that's gonna have
to go post up on the border I was just
talking about his local taxes because
he's including his local taxes and we're
gonna work our way through this they're
paying for those inoculations programs
so that you don't get those diseases as
you never go on the subway mr. kilmeade
and then of course on the federal level
you're paying a lot for the military
that is that you're now wasting its its
resources by sending down to the border
we go double income to the government
for social programs is it too much to
say that we just can't have country's
entire populations come in here without
being looked at as hard-hearted to me
it's a practical way of having a nation
that everyone looks up to and wants to
be a part of that's part of the reason
why America is America we've got to keep
it exclusive otherwise people won't come
haven't you ever been to a club where
they don't let everybody in there's a
reason we got to put red velvet ropes
out there unbelievable let's go to the
phones you call them from a 5-1 3 area
code who's this where you're calling
from five one three
Oh hello hi hi who's this um my name is
Dominic
I'm from machine what's on your mind
Dominic um I was just yeah I was just
calling because uh so with all this
stuff that we're talking about today and
yesterday with the uh you showed that
clip yesterday people at the Trump rally
like you know just cuz he has the Trump
stickers doesn't necessarily mean it's a
trump supporter it sort of just comes to
my mind that these people like the flora
Ingram these people like Fox News I
don't really see the way out of this I'm
sure that there are dozens of
communities in Oklahoma and Texas and
you know all along this house that
genuinely believe everything they say
and I used to sort of be like a Dave
group in like all ideas will be brought
to light and the free marketplace of
ideas type the like now I just don't
really know any
like what do you think the way forward
instruments I I mean I think like there
is there first of all yeah the
marketplace of ideas thing is is pretty
silly is it's a pretty silly concept I
think at least in the context of of a
country with 300 million people because
money has a lot to do with how popular
an idea is and also setting up
structures that even if there are
popular ideas don't necessarily win out
right I mean we know that 70% plus of
the population wants to expand social
security that's not happening we know
70% plus of the population wants to
expand Medicare that's not happening
maybe it will but it's not going to
happen because the idea has won out in
you know sort of like some type of
intellectual debate it's going to be
because people exercise political power
in a myriad of ways and so I what's the
way forward here I mean short-run is try
and get as much institutional power you
institutional power you can get then try
and influence them in any way that you
can I mean and I neglected to ask this
question of LA Kaufman she sort of
touched on it briefly but you don't need
51% of the people to imperfections you
can do it with ten or fifteen or five
percent of extremely vocal people
because a lot of people just don't
engage and maybe you can get those five
or ten percent people to push some of
the levers that will bring about greater
engagement of the population but I mean
the way forward is going to be to build
institutional power to force those those
with institutional power to do what we
want them to do in terms of issues and
hopefully
some will be smart enough to know that
you know maybe we should be providing
more to this isn't citizenry I mean
there's no doubt in my mind that a lot
of Donald Trump support is driven by
racism a huge percentage of it at least
that's what he must think too because
you know there's no material benefit to
anybody to have 5200 troops on the
border fighting a non-existent Caravan
but there is an argument that you can
that people will choose material benefit
over racism like you know it's not like
racists have a tremendous amount of
integrity right it's not like listen my
first principles are I really hate black
people and so I'm not going to that you
cannot buy me out you cannot buy me off
for you know with free health care you
know I I have a lot of integrity about
my racism no I think they'll bother say
like well yeah I'll take the free health
care and I'll just keep paying black
people but I won't necessarily act upon
it the same way if it jeopardized my
free health care I mean that's the way
that society on some level works there's
a reason yeah I you know there's a
reason why there's more racism or at
least more people are acting upon their
racism and I don't know how you measure
more racism but there are more people
acting upon their racism now I mean
demonstrably than there were seven years
ago that's just the fact and that is
because they're getting licensed to do
so from the the highest authorities or
officials in our country and the idea is
that you're not going to pay for it is
you you you you're not there's not going
to be any implications to what you're
doing you're not gonna pay for it and
that message is being sent to the cops
when the DOJ says we're not going to
investigate you guys cuffs are off as it
were Ed message being sent to you know
people driving by on the street yelling
out at people you know go home we're
going to deport you that
type of stuff and there's this you know
when society says that there is a cost
associated with this people back off it
and if the cost is associated with it
with it
is set up in such a way that you won't
get the goodies that we're offering if
you pursue you know racism that can be
effective too so yeah and don't forget
all of the people who didn't vote are
much greater in number than the people
who might have swung from Obama to trump
because I feel like sometimes those
people get centered in these
conversations in a way that is not very
strategic like there were two parties at
play in the 2016 election right and
Republican turnout was largely the same
as usual and Democratic turnout
plummeted and it plummeted among a
number of demographic groups it
plummeted among people of color from
what it was four years prior to that and
voter suppression cannot account for all
of it so we got to think about those
folks too and maybe Center them a little
bit more when we talk about these things
since there were two parties involved
and I just want to note the Obama's DHS
report from 2009 I think you referenced
it yesterday oh yeah talking about how
the economic downturn and the election
of the first african-american president
presented unique drivers for right-wing
radicalization and recruitment so in
this report they looked back to
right-wing extremism in the 1990s and
noted the two reasons why it kind of
subsided were that the economy
stabilized and the FBI and government
agencies started really cracking down on
it and well George Bush - I mean there
was a lot of right-wing activity
extremists during the Clinton years and
looking to the future I gotta say it
looks kind of bleak because we're gonna
continue to have economic crises and as
we know
the Trump White House is not going to
crack down on right-wing extremism so
yeah they're promoting it I mean that's
the thing yeah you know if you read into
that actually that interview I don't
know if you saw that interview with the
guy who released that report but the you
know one of the top lines of that is
that it's increasing it is out of
character for it to increase under a
Republican administration and the reason
why is because they're getting so much
license to do so usually when these
people have more of an institutional
power it sort of like takes the wind out
of their sails in this instance Trump is
driving that that that wind in many
respects yeah and there is no real
opposition challenge from the left at
this point in time which is depressing
as hell but we still got to keep
building everything we got to keep
fighting right it seems to me kind of
like we're caught and like a completely
 situation though because it seems
like there's two answers here and one is
we build institutional power and the way
we build institutional power is we turn
out the base that's switched from Obama
to trump and we turn out the people who
didn't vote but it seems to me like when
you have these Laura engrams when you
have like anti sjw YouTube on ironically
like people building their views off of
this like it seems to me like if the
only way to do to stop that is to build
institutional power and the only way to
build institutional power is to turn
people out like I don't know how I'm
supposed to like you know hang up this
call I'm like be optimistic at all like
it look at me like listen don't worry I
tell you to be optimistic I'm telling
you to be I you know what they say
pessimistic in a pessimistic in
intellect optimistic and we'll all right
I mean so yes be optimistic and go out
and look you're in Michigan right there
are a lot of candidates who you can go
and help and make a big difference for
in Michigan and yeah absolutely and I do
i 100% do man so trust in that and keep
your fingers crossed
and I don't know your individual
politics but I really like TSA because
they do
so many different things so if what you
want to get involved with is electoral
campaigns you can get involved with them
and you can do phone banking for
candidates in other places if what you
want to get involved with is building a
newly militant and revitalized labor
movement you could do that you can write
letters to people in prison you can
advocate for police reform there's
mutual aid you can help people who need
help there's so much you can do
thanks for the call Dominic yeah thank
you hang in there call it from a 2:03
area code who's this where you come from
hello hello hello on this is character
name calling and calling from Greenwich
Connecticut its way and what's right but
what's your name character named Colleen
I'm in the M yes
p.m. yes yes sorry um anyway I just want
to call to complain that out of the two
governor candidates for Connecticut yeah
one of them looks like he's going to
return connection to Kansas and Jesse's
talking to laugher um so I know a lot of
people might not like Malloy he's
Democrat but uh suck it up so for the
Democrat because a lot of things are
going to get really bad if you don't
including privatizing the DMV which is
already bad enough but if you're gonna
privatize a monopoly oh what's the point
there there's no competition for DMV if
you privatize that right there's no
profit in it so there's no reason to
make it better if you just privatize it
it will still be required for everything
um and also I want to remind everybody
about Lou Dobbs
every time you taxi and then just
remember sleep was on CNN that was 12
years ago
yep so he's an I should thank
him because
used to watch him and thanks to John
Stewart and Stephen Colbert and watching
him I realized that she was full of
and I should stop watching it well Nancy
an amateur
character from Colleen is uh named
Colleen Heartland character named
character named Colleen appreciate the
call yeah thanks man thank you very much
thank you very much thank you
so Mike Pence wanted to reach out to the
Jewish community and he wanted to show
solidarity with those Jews who were shot
killed 11 Jews in Pittsburgh at a
synagogue who were shot because they
were Jews and what better to do that
what better way to do that then to
appear with a rabbi who's actually a
Christian so here's the big difference
month ago through listen there's there's
there's there's a decent amount of
differences between Jews and Christians
huge but decent the primary one is
centered around the Christ figure that's
where the Christ Shin part of Christian
comes from and that Christ for
Christians is the Messiah and in
Christian doctrine the Messiah has shown
up and culminated the aspirations as
articulated in what they called the Old
Testament but here's the thing Jews
don't call that the Old Testament
there's a reason why Jews don't call it
the Old Testament because for them it is
still in effect in other words the the
Christ figure the Messiah has not shown
up yet that's the difference of
Christianity and Judaism there's other
differences but that's the the big one
Jews
don't believe that Jesus Jesus Christ
was in fact Jesus Christ they just think
they think it's fake news they think it
is exaggerated news he was a guy Jews
think that he was a guy minor prophet
not you know a minor prophet pretty good
pretty good about his banking stuff was
good sort of like the Elizabeth Warren
of the juice in a way but not he's not
Christ he's not Christ that's why we're
still Jews and you guys you might as
well call yourself Christians and so
they did but then some people decided
well I like the Jewish tradition and I
think I'm gonna be a different sect of
Christian I'm gonna be a Jew for Jesus
is what they call themselves and so Mike
Pence wanting to show his respect for
these Jews who were shot could
apparently only find one rabbi who would
show up at the same place as him and
that is this guy he is
Lauren Jacobs he is the senior rabbi of
congregation
shema yisrael Shema the Shema zi
probably one of the most important
prayers it says there's only one god
which cuts a little bit against the the
idea of Christ and they are in a
northern suburb of Detroit they are a
messianic synagogue they believe that
Jesus is already shown up and this guy
if you have ever seen a Jews mourning or
talking of the dead
they say recite the Kaddish maybe you've
seen that sometimes it's depicted in
popular entertainment yet qaddafi yet
Kadosh
that goes on but it basically is a talks
about deleting them living your life etc
etc and often what will happen is they
will name they will recite the names of
the dead the people who have departed in
this instance Mike Pence decided to
switch it out with this guy he got a
Christian rabbi to bless the names of
Republican candidates running for office
in the midterms I pray that you would
enable vice president Pence to continue
to fulfill his many and important
responsibilities with excellence I pray
for Attorney General Bill Schuette who's
running for governor for congressman
Mike Bishop was running again for
Congress for Lena Epstein who was
running for Congress for John James who
was running for the Senate I pray for
them and for the Republican Party and
its candidates that they would honor you
and your ways that you might grant them
victory in this election that's sweet
there's nothing more than a partisan
invocation as you are commemorating the
deaths of of your non fellow Jews was a
rabbi yeah that's sweet that's a sweet
omage to those people who were violently
killed these people are insane
they're insane I mean I you know and and
and to be clear look I don't care you
want to be a Jew for Jesus be a Jew for
Jesus you want to be a Jew that's
actually a Jew be a Jew that's actually
a Jew I don't care but to have a so
called rabbi go up there it is an
offense on some level to sort of portray
this guy as a Jew in this in this
circumstance and then to have them
basically just pray for Republican
candidates it seems a little tacky it
seems a little tacky
now this clip is much better than the
rabbi the Jew for Jesus rabbi who is who
was praising Republican candidates
telling God
look I know maybe you might want to
bless those people who passed away
we're killed but if you got a little
extra time why don't you not do that and
bless these candidates instead well here
is an example of the clergy doing
something that is not so cringe worthy
that it's something that actually makes
you appreciate clergyman clergy clergy
people clergy people Jeff Sessions was
at the Federalist Society in Boston and
he was talking about religious freedom
and of course you have a talk about
religious freedom you're gonna have
religious leaders there there are two
men who stand up one is a United
Methodist pastor will green the ballot
Vail United Church and end over I don't
know the name of the second man and I
don't know if a second man planned to do
this or was inspired by the first but
this is pretty amazing
here's Jeff's sessions up in New England
talking about religious freedom in this
region is one reason why they thank you
for your comments and
I fall upon you to repent to care for
those in need to remember that what you
do not care for others if you are
reading the body of Christ well thank
you for those remarks and attack but I
would just tell you we do our best every
day to fulfill my responsibility to
enforce the laws of the United States
wait where was the second part no that
is not the full clip there was a second
man who came up there was a second
religious figure who got up after that
guy and was in the clip I said I will
try and find that remember how Trump
behaved on 9/11 what no what did what
did Trump do on 9/11 God so many things
have happened since then things are
happening Oh a 9/11 like the memorial
this year you had that tweet like 17
years since 9/11 exclamation point
all right well we don't have that clip
but the the the was the second man who
stood up and continued the protest here
it is those remarks and attack but I
will just tell you we do our best every
day to fulfill my responsibility to
enforce the laws the United States
[Music]
posit now I just want you to know those
are grown adults yelling boo they're all
in suits at a fancy chicken dinner in
Boston and a second member of the clergy
stands up and says he's exercising his
religious freedom by quoting Jesus to
Jeff Sessions and you're pulling him out
of here
why not let him exercise his freedom of
religion because that's what this talk
was about and so the second member of
the clergy I don't know who he is got up
and basically said how can you keep this
guy from reciting the Bible to you if
you're so concerned about freedom of
religion and these grown adults and
suits boo morons Boston all right we
thank you for sharing your thoughts
there you go
pastor of a Baptist Church that's gonna
be increasingly important I mean I don't
know how long Jeff sessions has in his
position at the Department of Justice
but there's gonna have to be more of
this and you know I think our guest
today la Coffman suggested that she
thinks there's going to be more and I
think there is going to be I think
regardless of how the Democrats do in
the in the midterms I think we're going
to see more of this direct action I
actually think we will see even more of
it if the Democrats are elected because
I think then people start to realize
that they have more of an opportunity to
change what the trajectory of our at
least what our government does in the
short term so it'll be interesting to
see we got to do it no matter what folks
yeah I mean III think it's gonna happen
I think we're gonna see a lot more of
this all right here is a moment of
gravity our president at Andrews Air
Force Base he was heading to this
campaign rally in Indianapolis on
Saturday and remember he was very
concerned about his hair that day right
we we heard the whole story about how he
almost blew off the the rally not
because of the shooting in Pittsburgh
but because he was having a bad hair day
and we've all been there folks you're
running to your car or you're running
into the subway you've got your umbrella
what are you gonna do we're how are you
gonna shut the umbrella and get into the
car without without getting your hair
wet if it is you know sort of paste it
onto your head
in some fashion what do you do in that
situation Matt
well I've mastered the art of quickly
withdrawing the umbrella and shaking it
off a few times so I mean it's something
you have to prepare for mentally before
you get into the subway stop you like
okay and it's because you don't have a
valet well known behind you to hold the
umbrella well unfortunately for
president Donald Trump he did not have a
valet either so he did the next best
thing
here he goes walking up the stairs looks
around realizes I can't fit this
umbrella in the thing okay I'll just I
get it he's in and then just let
go the umbrella he did it like the
people like people litter yeah do you
know is that like he did it like he ever
walked behind somebody on the street and
they're like they just sort of like
casually dropped their like candy
wrapper on the ground you're just like
are you serious yeah there's a
combination of like trying to do it
surreptitiously but also being like if
somebody sees me just know I'm I am
doing this exactly play thank you she
won't worry let's go of it it's really
sort of he they sort of like you know he
just goes up they're like eh I'm here
the umbrella I'm gonna like I'm just
gonna ease let go just like oh did it
slide out of my hand this is the sort of
clip that when Adam Curtis has his
researchers go through BBC archives yes
Oracle footage this is perfect Nine Inch
Nails song is gonna play over it it's
gonna be very haunting unbelievable
let's go to the phones come from a 501
area code who's this where you calling
from 501 sorry hello I can't get the
phone that are you Pete hello hello
hello you know my mom used to do this
back when there were corded phones and
I'll get a phone call hello hello hello
- hi who's this big green deep erm
Arkansas Cindy from Arkansas how are you
Cindy uh I'm doing good thank you
I just wanted to call you little appoint
I've been involved in politics in
Arkansas
for years and I just want to say because
I've watched this over the years the
media has been complacent about
Republicans dirty tricks for years they
have enabled them they know that they do
this kind of thing jury-rigging they do
way more than that let me tell you I was
going 90 to 92 hours on a Senate
campaign for Democrats and you this you
wouldn't believe the stuff that happened
so they know this so what they do is
they don't report on their then we had
like yesterday talking penis at the
pinhead coming on these shows and MFE
MSNBC also say decisions of both sides
because they're gone is all it's
basically supposed to be a liberal and
he said something you know about Jewish
people and we have the shooter it's
ridiculous also people saying the
Democrats needs a tone that they
shouldn't say if people lose their
health care they're going to die this is
the same Jordan Pederson crack okay I
have lived with these people I know
these people it's every Democrat in the
country all of a sudden became the nice
people all politicians and never said
another word about Republicans it would
change their behavior zero of their
behavior I'm a media you know I'm and I
think i mean i i I think you're I mean I
think that's I think you're right Cindy
and I and I think you're right about the
meeting you know part of the reason why
it's been so hard for the media to deal
with Donald Trump is for years
it allowed like a certain amount of
Kabuki theater and I'm talking about
stuff like you know what Paul Ryan for
instance like Paul Ryan will come out
with a joke
health care plan you know the reason why
people were shocked like how come the
Republicans can't come up with a plan to
pass they've been looking to to get rid
of Obamacare for seven years and it's
because the media when Paul Ryan would
come out with a plan they'd actually
pretend like it was real and they would
pretend like the Republicans actually
cared about the deficit I don't
particularly care about the deficit but
they would allow this Kabuki theater and
enable it from the Republicans for so
long that they didn't know how to deal
with it when it became just so obvious
in the context of Donald Trump so I'm
with you on this and we still see some
of it and we were talking about it
yesterday like you know how do you let
who's that guy the the with the white
hair I can't remember his name Hugh
Hewitt go on television actually make
some type of comparison between a guy
who sends 12 bombs now I think we're up
to 14 to various media outlets and top
political leaders in the country how do
you compare that action with somebody
who is harassing Mitch McConnell at a
restaurant I mean it's just absurd it's
just absurd yep
the commitment to bipartisanship the
commitment to civility and
bipartisanship on the part of Democrats
it's not helping regular people well
yeah and we're talking though about the
media which I think it also allows you
know in many respects enables I mean
look the media is not supposed to have
an agenda I mean the the in this respect
their job is not to their job is not to
simply report on these people because of
their institutional power their job is
to actually expense of the truth now
there are things that are obviously
controversial and different people can
have different opinions on but the media
would never say it was 12 noon night
time
you know there are some standards and
and media outlets do have the ability
and the responsibility to parse some of
these things and you know I I you know I
think I think after Donald Trump I think
they're gonna revert back to the mean
frankly sadly but appreciate the
comments Indy thank you let's go to come
from a 2:03 area code who's this where
you come from two zero three two zero
three going once
two zero three going twice and sorry
let's go to eight six four where you
come from who's this hey fam this is
Laurie calling from South Carolina hi
Laurie
apparently there are foster homes down
there
foster agencies that don't want to have
don't want to place children with Jews
or with Catholics or Hindus or Muslims
they just want to apparently just allow
Protestants - I guess adopt or house
foster kids so congratulations on that
oh thank you yeah I was actually gonna
call in and say I had noticed the story
being reported nationally as like an
anti-semitic sort of thing but I just
wanted to assure everybody no no no no
they just want to discriminate against
any against thing when he's not
religiously an evangelical Christian so
it's not only anti-semitic right and
you're absolutely right about that it is
it is really just more about a certain
Christian supremacy evangelical
supremacy more of a like a theocracy
type of thing and and just to be more
specific with this story South Carolina
is arguing that
rifra this is the Religious Freedom
Restoration Act should exempt and
remember this is what happened under
Hobby Lobby right it should exempt a
Protestant group who get federal monies
to do foster care work they want to be
allowed even though they get federal
money federal money says you cannot
discriminate against people of different
religions they want to still get that
federal money and still say we're not
gonna work in place kids with Jews with
Catholics with Muslims with Unitarians
with atheists agnostics or any other non
Pradas tant Christian denomination so
and specifically the group that doing
this there are known as miracle Hill
ministries and from what I understand
we're really centered in the Upstate of
South Carolina which is where I am and
they they discriminate against people
that they hi her to work at the
different stores they're like a Goodwill
store and there are two main competing
entities that place kids in foster care
in the Upstate and one of them is DSS
and the other is miracle Hill
technically there are other foster care
placement ministries most of them are
Christian based however none of them are
so discriminatory so unfortunately for
kids and families in the Upstate miracle
Hill is basically the largest placer of
foster children in this area and because
they're breaking federal and state laws
they haven't been able to place any
foster kids since either June or July of
this year and so McMaster who's doing
his re-election campaign he picked us up
as an issue to sort of you know bolster
himself
along the bigots in this state and so
that's why it's hit national news I
guess and it's it's really discouraging
and it's really disappointing and
there's thousands of kids right now that
need to be placed in foster care and
thanks to this religious discrimination
it's just making it harder for everybody
Laurie I appreciate the call and
updating us on this and good luck
hopefully I mean I have one question
sure one question I have been dying to
see a bad Situationist but when I go to
a bad situation is calm and click on buy
DVD it takes me to the majority report
website how do I get my hands on this
movie go to pilot seasons pilot season
pilot season DVDs dot-com all right
awesome
all right caveat emptor I appreciate the
call caveat emptor caveat emptor the DVD
will work that's the only thing I will
promise I watched it it was really a
movie calling from a five eight five
area code Thank You Jamie for that
endorsement hey Sam this is Rebecca from
Boonville hi Rebecca
what's on your mind um once again just
folks
you haven't volunteered for a campaign
if you haven't knocked on doors if you
haven't called prospective voters if you
haven't signed up for a get off the boat
activities I'm not sure what you're
waiting for you know we just had a
president that proudly claims he was a
nationalist and then eleven wonderful
Jewish parishioners were massacred so if
you haven't actually done something then
get off your asses and volunteer that's
all I have to say please people Facebook
is not enough you know ranting on
for Twinner lovely but what really
counts is getting the vote out so please
people you've got a few days left get
your asses out there and do something
and none of this I'm discouraged this is
getting hard rest this is hard but our
democracy moves something and so get
your head out your ass and get out there
and vote I'm sorry I'm a good Christian
girl I went to seminary all of those
good things this is outrageous and uh
let's get busy people let's do it let's
go appreciate the call Rebecca and and
you know folks the the data shows that
face-to-face communications in
particular are the most effective in
terms of driving people out to the polls
so get out there and do that and most of
Elections like I said are about turnout
not persuasion indeed so ago and by that
obviously you got to persuade people to
go out and vote but you don't have to
persuade them on who they're gonna vote
for more or less people have decided who
they are more amenable to voting for in
the past particularly an off-year
elections people voting for Democrats
tend to come out less an off-year
elections that's just the reality I have
some theories on that but I will spare
them at them from the moment base data
heaven has a new angel and his name is
Whitey Bulger did he die yeah looks like
he's murdered in prison the woman who
maybe we should get on who wrote a book
about the saarne of brothers my
apparently broke the story about this
Bulger killing so huh interesting Stalin
was a racist
what's the effective difference between
socialism and well regulated capitalism
well I think the I mean full-on
socialism
has to do with who controls the the
means of production how democratized it
is well regulated capitalism the
capitalist still own the means of
production it's just that the state will
inhibit what they can do under you could
still theoretically have well I'm
imagine you know well-regulated
socialism as well I mean those are not
distinct those are not mutually
exclusive you would need environmental
relate regulations for socialist
enterprises socialism is how we're going
to get the environmental regulations
that are gonna save the human race but
uh yeah I think that is basically it so
but there there are a range of views to
that are covered by socialism from you
know anything from like sort of social
democracy as it's commonly colloquially
used I think socially social democracy
would be well regulated capitalism but
also maybe nationalizing a couple of
others yeah yeah that's that's
absolutely right but it's being used
colloquially by people in a different
way nowadays but um yeah the basic thing
is to have democratic control over the
economy over production but socialism
covers of a real range of views from
yeah what Sam just described to
basically n arc ISM so there's a lot to
work with there I think of it basically
like you know that game were you putting
with a baseball bat and it's which hand
gets on top of it on one hand it could
be the private capitalists on the other
hand it could be democracy and
democracies obviously the socialist hand
hmm
JB be for this warped interpretation of
the 14th amendment that the birthright
citizenship only applies to slaves and
their descendants to make sense you'd
have to believe that the Congress at the
time was unaware of the massive
immigration going on at the time the
14th was immense was meant to address
immigrants to obviously yes
show the Constitution doesn't mention
the word border anywhere shoo
so with the Republicans being just
straight-up white nationalist says they
might check
in on the Ken Ken and Ken show you know
I don't know what we're gonna do
tomorrow I'm gonna decide this
Spock Oh today's American media had
covered crystal NOK in 1938 Erich von
Ericsson would have complained a Jew
shouted at him ler while he was eating
schnitzel that's a good one a square hi
Mr crew my town had a vigil Sunday night
it's just heartbreaking and today with
the news from Brazil well thank you gods
you guys are out there this disease is
spreading it's hard to see the cure
trying to think about November 2016 and
hoping for the light for us all next
week
hypno genes hypnotic genes Trump just
got a shiny new Supreme Court justice
and now he wants to test him out with
some birthright citizenship left is
leftist master roshi
what's up Mr Crew I'm tired of playing
nice when are we going to start smacking
these made Mogga cut cards left is
best join an tyfa don't need to use that
kind of language though a new human if
only capitalism was as polite as
vampires and needed to be invited in
Sean I really hate the man but I
honestly hope that Trump finds his
frozen strawberries may I add to list
the diseases halitosis psoriasis
dandruff dry scalp body stretch marks
and monkey butt acid minded hey guys can
I get a reading list specifically
enjoyed Craig hungers last latest in
white trash also thank you for fostering
conversation it says something like t
Whitey's format it constantly asking for
money while not discussing issues and
just giving an opinion left is best I'm
working my way through Abram candy
stamped from the beginning history of
race in America specifically it's very
very good we've had him on majority
report or at least we had him on to dope
boys I think we had him on majority
report too actually
what was it stamped from the beginning
Abram candy I don't know if we did maybe
it was a michael day I'm not sure I got
the wires crossed with those shows
sometimes I mean just go back and read
the books that
that we've had on unless you want
fiction in which case I can't help you
reading White Fang right now but that's
for Sol oh cloud that's what my fiction
is like suitable for seven if you want a
historical fiction I recommend cloud
splitter by Russell banks I think it's
about John Brown mmm-hmm
chappie Trump has turned the entire
government into a campaign organization
Seattle fan the daily podcast had a
great episode in which elaborate on what
Sam saying yesterday about the
centrality of Jews to the white
supremacist narrative it's all
terrifying calling from Nebraska hi I'm
our crew I sent an email regarding Colin
Powell and Madeleine Albright coming to
Crichton University tonight asking for
suggestions if I were lucky enough to
ask a question I'm leaning towards a
question regarding Bernie Sanders John
Hopkins speech on foreign policy and
their thoughts since Albright criticized
Sanders during his 2016 run not sure if
they'll take a question but it would
appreciate anything I mean that sounds
like a good question in light of and I
would just say in light of where Donald
Trump is taking us in terms of foreign
policy perhaps we need a greater
correction Noah from commie fornia a.m.
our team wants to say I think that what
Liz Warren did with the DNA test was
done but I think people are shooting
themselves in the foot by writing her
off I love Chapo traphouse but I thought
them dunking on her so hard was pretty
stupid I mean I I don't think what she
did I I think the my criticism would be
if you're going to do something like
that which I which I think it has some I
understand why she did it
and it probably makes some sense on some
level but you get buy-in from all the
potential constituents before you do
something like that yeah she was really
bad about that and plus the rollout and
doing the big rollout for it without
having done that work with those
communities well she's done a lot of
work with those communities she's done a
lot of work with the Native American
communities what she didn't do was
specifically get them to say we're on
board with this
like you go to them when you're gonna do
something like so you don't assume
they're gonna be there you go to them
and you give that you know you ask them
you know this is like this is like
someone who may not be sensitive to
let's say you know I want to go as some
black singer for Halloween and you know
like a white girl and you know not being
sure like should I put like a lot of
bronzer on you know what
ask your white friends but I also ask
your black friends get a sense of like
where this is gonna fall like you know
get a couple of different perspectives
on this because you may not have fully
aware you may not be aware - there's
other people's sensitivities I think the
problems with the hurt go a little bit
beyond that in terms of the the DNA test
or you know in terms of just in general
okay but we're not talking about that
we're talking about well though they
dragged on her in all sorts of different
ways on Chapo and their thesis was
basically that she's a nerd she is a
manager of capitalism her policies you
know might be good regulations but
they're not inspiring to people and she
doesn't have class politics in the way
that Bernie does and this is something
that I've been saying about her as well
and I feel like he's not even she's not
a socialist yeah exactly right yeah
that's no I don't think that's any
secret and then the you know the
question is I mean as far as
non-socialist goes she has more class
politics than most I think she is highly
she has done more for the working poor
and I would say the middle class than
any single politician I could I could be
aware of and I would include Bernie with
this I mean just by setting up the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau she
is I think made things significantly
better for people who are getting ripped
off by these predatory businesses she's
not a socialist and there's a whole set
of policies that I
may not go far enough whether she's
amenable to moving from you know towards
more social stuff is is yet to be seen
in this context certainly Bernie I think
has a more of an appreciation for her
politics than anybody else that's what
he was waiting for if she had run he
would not have run but beyond that I
think they were also talking about her
vibe in general because populism can be
this very nebulous thing that is it
necessarily based on someone's policies
or someone's prescriptions and like I
feel like I'm a good person to talk
about this because I come from liberal
women and I understand her appeal to
liberal women I feel it like very
viscerally within myself but I also know
she's got a similar vibe to Hillary
you know policies notwithstanding and I
don't think she's gonna have the kind of
broad popular appeal that liberals maybe
expect her to I mean I think there's a
lot of people who have questions about
that I can only tell you that during in
2016 she was brought out to all sorts of
interesting places a lot of red states
to come and campaign now maybe those
local candidates didn't know what they
were doing but she was fairly effective
I mean I think she went out for Claire
McCaskill she doesn't have policies that
align with Claire McCaskill's I I you
know I've never seen her speak and come
a right away you know hugely you know
sort of like inspired but you know let's
putting charisma questions aside and
whether or not she has an inspirational
vibe in terms of the issue of the of the
Indian thing that I you know the the
Native American blood I mean I think
that they they did not there was some
hitting and bunting there that was not
done hitting and bunting bunting and
catching I don't think she should have
done that let's go
well here's the problem the media would
be
still making it a controversy in six to
eight months and now they're going to
make it a second-order controversy and
that I think is gonna be helpful like
you know with Bernie there's gonna be a
lot of talk about the banking situation
up there and about his wife's
involvement in the in the college and to
the extent I don't know if there's been
stuff that's been done to sort of like
mitigate those stories but that's what's
gonna happen and I imagine that they've
addressed that on some level but there
was really no other way for her to
address it she could have not done
anything I don't know it's the idea to
say something because it wasn't just a
problem with the right-wing Native
American groups or have been upset with
the way she's been doing this too and I
I thought it was basically established
that she didn't benefit from it
professionally but I think that's
actually less clear the more I look into
that and the more I listen to people
talk there is a video out there claiming
that where someone has claimed that but
all the people involved in the actual
hiring of her said that never even came
up after the fact I think people used it
to justify to claim that Harvard's
faculty was more diverse than it was
looked at you know but in the course of
her hiring it didn't seem to factor in
at all just the idea that race is the
thing you can test for biologically as
such yeah I know but that I
diocese a questionable right I just
don't think that there was any benefit
for her to make that a staple of her
campaign she was dealing with something
that was effective in Massachusetts on
some level in running against her with
Scott Brown and Donald Trump it picked
it up Donald Trump picked it up because
it was and she was afraid that the media
would continue to perpetrate it or
perpetuate it and I think based upon
what we saw with the media in terms of
Hillary Clinton perpetuating a lot of
myths I think she had every reason to be
concerned about that but like I say I
think her execution of it was not so
good I hope you're right about the media
I feel like
Trump can probably get them to talk
about it as much as he wants to but
we'll see maybe I mean but now that
there's out there I mean it's clear that
she had some Native American ancestry
and I'm quite sure that let's say I
wouldn't and so it validates at least
her story that her her mom had told her
that she had some Native American
ancestry let's go to the phones come
from
two-one-zero area code who's this where
he come from good afternoon families
come in San Antonio rods I'm sad don't
worry I'm good how you doing I didn't I
didn't ask how you didn't even get to
that I said John says anytime I die all
right how are you okay I am good in
February February 2016 Matt Taibbi was
on the road covering Trump you
interviewed him for Ring of Fire and he
said if Trump wins the presidency will
bring down the Republican Party in seven
days we'll see if this prediction comes
true I enjoy your show yesterday but one
of the reasons I support this show and
listen every day as well as listening
every week to ring a fire which he
hosted you thai republic the Republican
Party to Donald Trump and I also agree
with your take on never Trump pundits
but I do have a slight disagreement with
you on how many voters especially in the
suburbs who believe in trickle-down
economics still are are just are
displayed in as displayed and the recent
NBC polls were Republicans are up 43 28
and who is better at handling the
economy I agree that most of the
Republicans especially in the spouse
support the party because of cultural
values but I used to call in to my buddy
show in Houston where a large number of
Republican callers would make economic
arguments and while turning out the the
base is extremely important factor
converting voters who still believe in
Republican economic values but a
repulsed by Trump is also an extremely
important factor going back to the first
few months after Trump took office we
had slight disagreements on whether the
the Trump Clinton metric was the most
important indicator of flipping
districts I said his
or CLE that was not the case after a few
months I changed my mind now 23 of the
last 25 districts that Clinton won are
in the top 40 is as the most political
Democratic district this backs up my
theory that voters who favor Republicans
economically will vote against
Republicans because of Trump you have
any comments or questions about the or
about the midterms and if you you know
want to if you want to give me time I
can talk about a few more houses oh wait
so so okay well I would argue that that
that for those Republicans you're
talking about in the suburbs
there's no grant they don't there's not
like they have a grand theory about
economic theory that you can dissuade
them of I think it really comes down to
they're getting a tax cut and they think
maybe I mean the in in even if it's not
a huge tax cut they are getting a tax
cut and they would prefer to get a tax
cut then not even if they didn't even
see the difference in terms of the
dollars even if you just told them I
think that there is a there is an
ideological sense of like I want my
taxes I don't like government I want my
taxes cut and then everything else is
window dressing because what we know for
years for decades the the staple of
Republican economic theory was about
deficits right I mean that was always
that was like there was it I mean you
hear Democrats you know talking about
deficits I think Obama did the other day
but Republicans in particular we're
talking about deficits as the as the
primary thing I mean that's why Bill
Clinton pursued a surplus because he
wanted it was triangulation but they at
the end of the day they don't care about
they don't care about deficits and so
the the the economic theory that they
believe in is really just their reverse
engineering it if if you took if you I
mean that's you know that is the value
of mm tea from
torkoal standpoint but I think it needs
to have you know more it needs to be
better established before you use it
from a rhetorical standpoint because
there's still like that's why I think
you know things folks like stephanie
kelton going around and talking about it
is important because if you start to
employ that deploy it rhetorically
before there's a greater sort of
critical mass of acceptance of it then
you look like a lunatic and it doesn't
it does it's not effective as a
rhetorical tool so I don't know it's
it's possible that once they get their
tax cut people are like god on Donald
Trump and it's also possible that like
I'm just so offended they don't care
that much about my tax cut that is also
you know valid so I'm not sure what but
beyond that I don't know what else what
what is the point of contention here
well no I mean the point of contention
did essentially in 25 districts you know
Clinton wand in those districts yet yet
they were they voted for Republican
representatives so they split their vote
and so I mean you know that that's the
point of contention the essentially are
they going to make the same condition
are they going to vote economically for
Republican or are they going to as Trump
essentially change their mind so okay
okay so so if I just break this down so
when people voted for Clinton but they
voted for a Republican Congress person
the the way that we're reading that is
that they are inclined to have
Republicans but Trump was so offensive
to them that they voted for Clinton
right I mean that's the argument that
you're making yeah and I think that now
we're also we don't know what the
quality of those candidates were it's
possible that we had 23 subpar
Democratic candidates in those districts
it's possible that we had 23 candid
it's also possible that these people
these voters were like I'd like a split
ticket and sometimes I would split it
between the Republican president and the
the Democratic Congress person or vice
versa
right I mean that that also could be an
indicator it it's possible that Donald
Trump has now infected those
congressional candidates and that people
see them as Trump but it's also possible
that they see like hey I like to have a
split government and we don't have that
now or it's possible that those people
don't come out as much yeah I mean those
are all possibilities but I still think
that did essentially the people in the
suburbs in most of these districts that
that you know are going to decide
whether Democrats take the house are
these suburban districts I mean that
this is this is what is I think it's
important to them and so it that that's
the decision I think I mean because you
know most of these districts are
actually longtime Republican districts I
mean they've been that way for you know
10 20 30 years especially the ones in
California and so I mean I just I just
think it's a it has much more to do with
with you know their economics and how
Trump is going to change their about
their decision on economic values and
also one other thing that that you know
there were a lot of undecided voters in
the 2016 election that was actually one
of the biggest factors right there were
much more than in any any election for a
long time and this is because that both
candidates you know had incredibly high
negative ratings and and this is another
thing I'm a little bit concerned with
you know there's always higher undecided
in in midterms because people just don't
know the candidates because there's not
as much publicity but I mean you know
you're seeing and most of these polls
you know 10% you know undecided 8% I
mean I'm used to seeing around you know
four to six is it about at this point
right so I mean a lot of people are
undecided and they don't know where to
turn and so I'm you know just kind of
throwing that out there so in other
words I mean it it could break either
way I mean and we just don't know what's
going to push those people and I think
on some level like you know that's why
Trump is doing stuff like this sending
5,000 because he's hoping that that that
that triggers them to vote and yeah but
that that's not helping people in the
house though it's helping people in the
Senate in bed it's not helping people in
the house and on you you made a right
call a few months ago and you said that
the Trump was more concerned about the
Senate in the house I mean that I don't
think he understands how much how many
problems are going to be created by you
know having a house that's gonna you
know put him under pressure and and put
them under scrutiny right well I'm not
sure you could you could service both
those agendas at the same time have you
know keep the Senate lose the house lose
the Senate keep the house type of thing
I don't know if you could have split the
difference you know he's got a play to
his base and the base play is the one
that will save the Senate in his mind it
loses the house if he doesn't play to
the base then maybe he loses the Senate
in some way I don't know I appreciate
the call John thanks all right thank you
all right we got time for we don't know
all the time one more call from a six
one two area code I'm sorry folks we've
got another 15 on the line I'm just
going down the line 6 1 - who's this
where you come from six one two six one
two Oh New York Evan from Poughkeepsie
what's on your mind Evan so I was just
I've been kind of concerned these past
few days
the thinker Republicans have
we've been using the immigration
rhetoric I think because they want to
win the midterm elections as I think
that's why they're talking so much about
the migrant Caravan and I was thinking
because I've read this New York Times
piece recently that was a memo that was
published by the Center for American
Progress and I think the Third Way a
think-tank that basically said the
Democrats was sent out to I think
Democrat operatives saying that they
weren't I said they weren't going that
they shouldn't really talk about
immigration
because it remains a divisive issue and
I think I just wonder is there any way
that I think the Democrats are in
focusing on health care and tax reform
do you think that the Democrats should
have been talking more about immigration
during the for the midterm elections I
think Democrats need to come up with an
answer for immigration that is okay
because I don't know what the Democratic
you late the Democratic position I know
you know different bills and this and
that
but I don't know how to articulate what
the Democratic position is on
immigration in an easy way
like I think there's an idea of like a
path for citizenship but it's also sort
of like maybe we have guess what I mean
there's no the there it is a morphus
thing I can understand why they ignored
it in this election because they haven't
done the work of actually formulating I
think what is an actual proposal but if
I'm uh if I'm a Democratic Congress one
of the things I want to do is and you do
it through you know passing legislation
it won't pass the Senate but this is the
way that you sort of work out what the
position is I think health care seems to
be captured a lot of people's
imagination right now and it's more
immediate in many respects than
immigration is for a lot of potential
Democratic voters so but interesting
question and I think it's a good point
thanks for the call Evan all right folks
that's it for our calls I'm gonna take
three more five more I am Stan we're
gonna be out here Bob Flav it doesn't
matter how many thousands of millions of
people take to the streets to protest if
it doesn't get on TV the corporate media
couldn't cover the Iraq war protest
because they needed that precious
airtime to cheerlead for the war I think
there was some coverage of it but yeah
not as much as one would hope self
commissioned officer the press tasks
Cavanaugh what he thought about
repealing birthright citizenship and he
quickly responded with ask the moms
Yemeni vanilli my street just opened up
a new medical cannabis dispensary hauler
Jeff from Regina any update on mr boxing
match really interested to see who will
win the battle between Sam zero some
pain cedar and Michael left hooks Brooks
max from 304 hey coastal elites fell lib
here living in the area code three one
for st. Louis how did Dems and liberals
think they can even remotely hold office
of the major figures crap on flyover a
country when there are still millions in
st. Louis region alone that could go
blue there are actual center and center
left voters here in Middle America that
are being alienated by the Democrats
we're not all brainwashed Trump
supporters should Dems focus from
coastal areas to places like st. Louis
Nashville and Des Moines I don't know
who they're crapping on but and I
wouldn't want to I mean there's some
value in coastal areas because there's
high density in terms of population but
yeah I think there's a couple of states
I think there's a couple states where
Democrats could spend more time I mean
you know I wouldn't call Florida's
obviously a coastal state but I think
there's a couple of states where
Democrats should be focusing more
energies I would have been nice to see
someone to the left of Christian cinema
in Arizona maybe for the next Senate
Wilson will see something like that
I heard the Tom Perez has been to every
state no I bet you he had
she lifted off a lot of thumb at Ozzy
fest he's doing more in terms of that
than certainly any of his predecessors
since Dean did but as good as Dean was
on that 50-state strategy the guys now
you know basically just a lobbyist shill
yeah I was being sarcastic Robin a Ryan
in Los Angeles if laura ingraham so
concerned about health crisis shouldn't
she devote some of her time to exposing
anti-vaxxers or is it concerned about
public safety just a straw man for white
nationalism oh yeah never mind
sebastian gore cuck oh let's play that
clip that reminds me we have Gorka why
doesn't anyone ask moderate Republicans
to explain what's wrong with their
ideology that led to Trump well I have
all right we'll play this one clip to
say goodbye to you and then we'll do one
more I am folks what do you do when you
land you're traveling you're out on the
road and you land in a distant City you
go to the rental car do you bypass the
the counter and go right to a car do you
purchase an iPhone rig so that your
phone can shoot you as you're driving in
the car like literally shoot you well if
you're Sebastian Gorka and you want to
show off the fact that Mustang this is
what you do I just landed in San
Francisco here to give a lecture at the
Reagan Library and I'm very excited and
I pick up my rental at my favorite
company of course it's a Mustang here it
is so I just landed in San Francisco
there to give a lecture at the Reagan
Library some are very excited
when I pick up my rental at my favorite
company of course it's a Mustang there
you go I need to start it's true an
adder why what is he doing it's doing a
quick periscope hit or something that's
like a right-wing youtuber trope where
they're like driving in a car
let's get those hots do it it might not
look like much but this is how the
right-wing took over YouTube I gotta get
on that I guess I'm just driving in my
Subaru sube I should have made one of
those this weekend of course I'm in my
Hyundai Elantra we've got a rent-a-wreck
and I'm driving it I've rented a car of
course it's a Hyundai Elantra yeah put
the top down I'm planning to do a video
like that for aunty Fatih actually so I
better get on it there you go
a stream will a drive connector
alpha-male there you go no more beta Cox
here the boys are back in town driving
across the bridge the final I am of the
day wu-tang clang remember the old
unfiltered show and Liz Winstead's
ongoing bit Lou Dobbs hates Mexicans
every time there's a clip of him talking
and he pauses I was hearing ahead this
has been another installment of Lou
Dobbs hates Mexicans alright folks see
you tomorrow in that cig
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I just got cut you
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid for the rubber bands
[Music]
I guess fell off switch right between
the one
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
