[Music]
let's go just go right in with John
Stewart so there has been a 9/11 Victims
Compensation Fund that has been
existence
obviously for now 18 years and every
five years or so I'm not sure when the
initial one it has to be reoptimize part
been on the pile but anywhere really
below Canal Street was was pretty toxic
for an extended period of time
I remember going down I because I had a
John Benjamin a good friend of mine
lived below canal and they had shut off
Canal Street and everything below you
could not go unless you were getting
your stuff you couldn't stay for more
than an hour or two and this was really
for an extended period of time I can't I
can't remember but I think we were on
there I think we were there the next day
probably nine twelve went down there on
our bikes you had to wear a bandana
still at that time and there was inches
as you got closer he lived I think it
was on Duane Street as you got down
around there inches on the streets of
like Ash essentially some form of ash
you couldn't get much closer than that
to where ground zero was but not in any
way surprising that people got ill of
course the EPA at the time said the
health is fine a lot of the guys on the
pile like if they were not required to
wear masks didn't because it was
hot there and difficult to communicate
and a myriad of different reasons why I
think people didn't but nevertheless and
people's injuries complicate increase
over time a lot of respiratory illnesses
a lot of cancers and each year their
each each time it comes up for
reauthorization there has been reluctant
to do it and it takes somebody coming
and shaming them publicly until Congress
does it now the amazing thing is is what
we mobilized in response to 9/11
trillions of trillions of dollars of
expense in killing hundreds of thousands
of other people hundreds of thousands
maybe a million it depends on whose
numbers you want but I don't know that
it makes a difference half a million
million 1/4 million 750,000 so it
doesn't matter whose numbers used the
DoD's or NGO numbers we killed hundreds
of thousands of people we displaced
millions of people supposedly in
response to 9/11 and it's like pulling
teeth to get compensation for people who
got cancer or respiratory illness it
necessitates somebody coming in shaming
them this this is an image right here of
I believe he's a police officer
NYPD who testified that he was on his
65th round of chemo he put off his chemo
to come in Luis Alvarez
I think his name was put off his chemo
to come in and testify john stewart was
there he I think had done this five or
ten years ago or you know yet maybe was
five five years ago he had people on his
show he would do it repeatedly but he
had like five guys on his show I think
it was five years ago
and like four of them are dead now this
fund obviously would go to families as
well and here he is speaking on behalf
of some of these victims basically as a
way of shaming and this is the way it
works you need someone if he wasn't
there it's unlikely that we would even
be aware that this happened and the
politicians know that and that's why
it's a problem when he comes here is a
giving testimony to this is the judge
Harry committee I believe it is right
for this compensation fund
the breathing problem started almost
immediately and they were told they
weren't sick they were crazy and then as
the illnesses got worse and things
became more apparent well okay you're
sick but it's not from the pile and then
when the science became irrefutable okay
it's the pile but this is a New York
issue I don't know if we have the money
and I'm sorry if I sound angry and
undiplomatic but I'm angry and you
should be too and they're all angry as
well and they have every justification
to be that way there is not a person
here there is not an empty chair on that
stage that didn't tweet out never forget
the heroes of 9/11 never forget their
bravery never forget what they did what
they gave to this country well here they
are and where are they and it would be
one thing if they're callous
indifference and rank hypocrisy were
benign but it's not your indifference
cost these men and women their most
valuable commodity time
so one thing they're running out of this
should be flipped this hearing should be
flipped these men and women should be up
on that stage and Congress should be
down here answering their questions as
to why this is so damn hard and takes so
damn long and why no matter what they
get something's always pulled back and
they got to come back so there it is
looking for reauthorization more funds
for this Compensation Fund which is
about to run out and of course always
amazing to see Mitch McConnell just lie
in a way that you know he's lying
because it becomes that much creepier
here he is asked about this compensation
fund now this is not to say that there
are there isn't a huge amount of
culpability on both sides of the aisle
I've heard some stories they're all
secondhand about a person who's running
for president not being terribly engaged
in this issue either but I don't know
that Oh forgive me if I I'm sorry I'm
just speculating
I'm guessing I have no idea - your talk
here is Mitch McConnell is running out
do you support reauthorizing the fund
gosh I hadn't looked at that lately I'll
have to we've always dealt with that in
the past in a compassionate way and I
assume we will again but I haven't
looked at it lately don't piss down my
back and tell me it's raining Mitch
McConnell ladies and gentlemen Mitch
McConnell so uh good for Jon Stewart
