here is Donald Trump in addressing this
story of the the journalist Jamal
Khashoggi who reportedly was either
killed or disappeared by Saudis Saudi
intelligence and apparently the United
States was aware of this here is Donald
Trump responding to this which you know
so much for American leadership I mean I
guess our billions of dollars worth of
arms sales isn't getting us isn't
getting us too much influence
I am concerned about it I don't like
hearing about it and hopefully that will
sort itself out right now nobody knows
anything about it but there's a pretty
bad George gonna I do not like it thank
you I'll see you I don't like it I don't
I haven't checked with my own
intelligence services which apparently
knew about it I don't know it's
disrupting my favorite by gramming
you'll recall that I guess this is about
maybe almost a year ago when Mohammed
Ben Solomon was this about a year ago as
his two years ago there was a publicity
tour essentially that Mohammed Ben
Solomon the Crown Prince is either Crown
Prince the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia
was coming in to talk about like you
know women are gonna get a chance to
drive we are moving into the 21st
century we have movie theaters maybe
we're gonna open a McDonald's we're a
new kind of Saudi Arabia in fact we have
feeded like we just had Thomas Friedman
OVA for a wonderful dinner and here he
is Thomas Friedman is there any one
individual who has more blatantly gotten
more things wrong but ostensibly from a
thoughtful position about the Middle
East than Thomas Friedman
I don't know suck on that for a moment
as you listen to this
I can news for you the entire Arab world
is dysfunctional right now completely
dysfunctional and I think it has the
potential to be a giant Yemen a giant
human disaster area and so when I see
someone having the balls to take on the
religious component of that to take on
the economic component to take on the
play with all of his flaws okay and with
all due respect to his cousins not a one
of them would have had the balls to do
that that I want to invest just a little
I just want to stick my head up and say
god I hope you succeed and when you do
that the holy hell comes down on you
okay well okay is my view okay so I love
there's nothing better than Thomas
Friedman being completely wrong but
swearing to make it seem like he
Jesse I'm not gonna conform to what
every other establishment figure is
actually conforming to I'm like no word
then say balls with me a coffee this is
this is what it's so reactionary about
this is the the definition of
reactionary right like he is actually
subscribing to the completely mainstream
establishment worldview but he's making
it like I'm a rebel
so I don't care like I got a leather
jacket on I mean it's a fu I'm just
going for the guy who cuz Yemen is a
disaster area so I'm gonna support the
guy who's gonna make it even more of a
disaster the whole region could look
like the guy who I support is doing to
one country where he's committing mass
murder I want to say we did dunk on him
a lot last night's postgame but I want
to have to repeat there's a column that
came out two days ago by Thomas Friedman
called praying for Jamal khashoggi Saudi
Arabia stands accused of killing him if
it did it will be a disaster for the
regime of Mohammed bin Salman and I just
want to read the first two paragraphs
you'll permit me cuz you have there's a
quote in here you need to guess whose
quote this is and just stipulate that
may be in the best case scenario these
best-case scenario this guy hasn't been
killed yet maybe he's just being
detained although all evidence points to
he's been killed
last November 7th I wrote a column about
the new Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin
Salman it ended this way and the south
of the column was by the way called Arab
Spring Saudi style she doesn't mention
as a veteran Saudi journalist remark to
me of MBS
this guy saved Saudi Arabia from slow
death but he needs to broaden his base
it is good that he's freeing the house
of SATA into influence of the clergy but
he's also not allowing any second
opinion of his political and economic
decisions any guesses on who that
anonymous journalist that he's quoting
in the leave graph of his praying for
Jamal kisaki columnist himself no it was
in fact Jamal khashoggi who if he is
still alive he just released another
quote that he made anonymously that
might piss off his captors I don't think
that that Saudi journalist who was also
a friend would mind if I now identify
him his name was Jamal
we get it malleus the matter let's just
publish everything cushaw he said off
the record that's I don't think he'll
buy any especially if he's in a prison
riad like the Craven Asst that you have
to have where Freedman is like I'm going
to print this because he's gonna be cool
way for me to open my store my my column
and without contemplating like oh wait a
second is this gonna be helpful or
hurtful to him if he's still alive or if
he has any relatives or you know I mean
that is stunning and you know what would
be nice maybe there was somebody at the
New York Times who had the balls to be
an editor and say hey wait a second
Thomas let me give you a second chance
let me give you a second bite at this
app you know I don't think it's popular
place it's not popular to say this if
the New York Times editorial had the
balls to do that but you know what I'm
gonna stick my head up its the opposite
pages can just burn it down and start
over
I'm literally vetted by the Davos you
and Silicon Valley you understand if I
lose this job I'm gonna have to go home
to my Aris wife and just continue to
live off the billions of dollars that
she has literally from like a chain of
footlocker's Jesus Christ
