[Music]
Donald Trump is going out on the
campaign trail and that means and
somebody pointed this out like we hear a
lot of like stuff about from you know
reports of him he said this thing or he
said that thing and it's usually about
like he's being he's talking about the
mall or a part of this net but nobody
really reports anymore on the just the
cascade of lies that he tells that are
eating up conspiracy theories that are
just eaten up by his supporters I mean I
really do think that I mean Donald Trump
could walk out of the White House
tomorrow and you know get on a get on a
rocket and fly into the Sun and we will
still have massive problems that are
indicative of the people who follow
Donald Trump right now and none of
that's gonna happen he's gonna stay in
office if he loses the election in 2020
he's either going to go to prison or not
assuming he you know is still alive he's
still gonna be a malignant force in our
politics and that's the best-case
scenario yeah right that's the best-case
scenario so here he is telling a I don't
know how many people are in here 12,000
10,000 oohs auditorium I don't know how
many people are in it in Wisconsin in
Green Bay when the president says
something people believe it I mean
there's people out there who believe it
and they're going to believe and we've
heard it repeated by other Republican
elected officials that Democrats are for
killing born people
after the fact if they don't want their
babies alive the baby is born the mother
meets with the doctor they take care of
the baby they wrap the baby beautifully
and then the doctor and the mother
determined whether or not they will
execute the baby I don't play
credible now it's incredible until this
crazy man in Virginia said it nobody
even thought of that right they didn't
would even think of that
yeah a late-term but this is where the
baby is actually born and came out it's
there it's wrapped and that's it there
are children who are born with either in
great pain or with the ability inability
or you know with some grievous bodily
malfunction that is going to either make
their few days on this planet extremely
painful or full of suffering but who
cannot survive that I believe at that
point maybe in some of their their the
there's a decision to like not feed or
to heavily medicate I'm not sure it's
not terribly dissimilar than what we get
with people who are in a vegetative
state Terri Schiavo the idea that there
are summary executions taking place I
mean it's obviously absurd but all those
people in that room believe it
