here is Elizabeth Warren and she this is
an instance where not unlike Kamala
Harris although Kamala Harris didn't do
it publicly it sort of came out the back
door where there's there's some wiggle
room on this medicare-for-all is there
room for private health insurance in
your vision of the ideal American health
care system so let's start with the
battle we're having right now and talk
about the things we need to be doing
because I don't want to lose sight of
this it's it's good to talk about our
overall goal and here's our overall goal
this is what distinguishes Democrats
from Republicans Democrats believe
health care is a basic human right and
we fight for basic human rights our
obligation is to make sure that
everybody gets coverage at the lowest
possible cost to all of us so what does
that mean right now it means fighting
the Republicans who are trying to
sabotage the Affordable Care Act right
now your vision for Medicare for all
would it include would it all be a
public option or would it include our
private insurance so right now we've got
multiple there are multiple bills on the
floor in the United States Senate I
signed on to Medicare for all I've
signed on to another one
that gives an option for buying into
Medicaid there are different ways we can
get there but the key has to be always
keep the center of the bullseye in mind
and that is affordable health care for
every American yeah it's not a good
answer
again merely and it's unclear to me like
why why is there already this
negotiation
again if the only sane pathology it was
an interview you could give a year into
her presidency when it's like it's been
backdoored people are on the streets and
this is actually what's getting hashed
out and we didn't get there a hundred
percent yet but we achieve this this and
like why you would say that again before
people started to go - it's our it's got
to be either
they're worried about fundraising or
they're getting pushback from big donors
who are saying don't be so don't be so
married to Medicare for all but it seems
to me that you could also even phrase
that even if you had to do this for your
big donors right and anybody running for
president on some level has to do this
it seems I at least those who have
declared at this point I don't know that
it'll be interesting to see if Bernie is
has this type of wiggle room I suspect
he won't I suspect he won't we'll see
well well but what would to the extent
that she did she expressed it and
there's no reason why it seems to me
that Warren couldn't say look I want
Medicare for all there are a lot of
powerful forces out there that that
don't want it or that it scares them and
it is going to be conditioned upon the
American public if we get there but I
you know it it just this negotiation
beforehand by saying like it doesn't
matter between a Medicaid buy-in and
Medicare for all I'm sorry those are
very very different programs and those
are very different ways of structuring
it and she's also undermining I mean I
think like those of us who've been
treating her you know fairly and with
proper respect frankly who you know
prefer Bernie if he jumps in but we've
been making like like Bosca aren't I
even giving her a lot of credit for her
policy proposals and Politico on the
other end with that report on Wall
Street executives did the inverse where
the bad guys have told you who's
unacceptable to them and she's on the
list right so she should just be milking
all of the political mileage of being on
the bad guy list well here's here's
where the difference in where the two
people are coming from comes into play
right because I think somebody asked us
last week like or maybe it was you Sam
like what is the substantive difference
between someone who funded a left
liberal who fundamentally believes in
regulated capitalism and some kind of
Democratic Socialist like Bernie
identifies as not the question the
question was what is the difference in
their policy proposal okay well here's
a practical difference and it also goes
back to what Virgil is saying on Friday
about how we need to suit up for war if
you put it a market-based solution on
the same level as a systemic solution
like I don't know standing up to a large
sector of capital like even if the plan
you start with if even if a plan the
left-liberal starts with is like very
good and seems to get you there if you
give an inch to the to the idea that the
private insurance industry should or
could exist in any kind of helpful way
like you've already lost and that that
opens you up completely to rolling it
back to means testing like you give
these people an inch it'll take a mile
well yeah but she wasn't she wasn't
advocating a market-based she was saying
either buy into Medicaid or a
medicare-for-all I mean neither one of
those is market right is neither than
one of those market-based one is there
are two different government programs
and buying into Medicaid the the
disadvantage I mean I guess the
disadvantages of buying into Medicaid is
that we've heard that states have too
much control over Medicaid as opposed to
Medicare which is which is run you know
by the federal government and is now
maybe theoretically in the buy into
Medicaid it's not under the same
restrictions that it would be on the
states but she's not advocating a market
one I just think that like it you know
from a political standpoint now maybe
she maybe she does seems like she was
leaving the door open maybe I
misinterpreted what she just said buy
into Medicaid she mentioned two programs
buy into Medicaid and Medicare for even
when you are asking people to pay for it
that's a compromise position that nobody
should be taking at this stage in the
fight the the III mean that may be the
case but she's not she's not doing what
you said she was in terms of like
promoting a market-based solution she
may be she may and may not that may be
an incomplete clip but in the context of
that clip and I think there is I agree
with you I think the idea of of taxing
and then having you know that that
relationship to the government is better
than to buy into two
but neither one of those is a is a
market-based thing what they're just
maybe I need to read the she run off
political capital that she has from that
article I really believe well I think I
did just to really simplify that
critique initially in the primary santa
sanders and warren are unacceptable it
should be bold and in an ad with like a
yellow you know marker around it and i
think you know to be fair to her what's
funny about her is i think like it she's
both obviously genuinely willing to
challenge those interests because she
has her whole career and she should get
the credit for that but then i think
this is where her instinct to quote
unquote get stuff done is not compatible
being a good campaign right I guess
