time's enlightenment comes from unlikely
sources a lot of people beef with Chris
Cuomo I actually think Chris Cuomo for
what it's worth is not I mean there's a
network that has Jake Tapper who is
consistently outdoing himself in whack
and whole you know cavalcade uh well
guess that I'm not particularly
impressed by but here is Chris Cuomo of
all people first he's parlaying some
right-wing
I don't even was the guy's name he was
born a Cortes Steve Cortes I don't even
know this guy they're talking about the
border and of course completely
artificial fake crisis to build on
people's racial paranoia's it signifies
absolutely nothing other than the
suffering created by this policy Cuomo
is parlaying that and first he goes in
the right in a brilliant direction it
was like actually I could tell you in a
national emergency we could deal with
poverty boom then that of course sends
off the Pavlovian response and all of
these idiots which is PO do so to bother
you about that as well and then Chris
Cuomo as a shocked Paul Begala looks on
has a more effective answer on Venezuela
than like over 90% of professional
Democrats I see in media let's check
this out it will fall that doesn't mean
crime will be eliminated it will fall
and look here's the thing about illegal
alien crime there you're right we have a
lot of crime in the United States and
we've got as ways we can't can and
should address that but illegal alien
crime is 100 percent percent preventable
in every single case we just had over
the weekend the arrest of an illegal
alien who killed an elderly 80 year old
couple in Nevada I mean this is very
real world pain that these people have
to deal with one of the tools to fight
that kind of illegality in that kind of
pain is a border your plans they no
other type of crime prevention in this
country the idea that something's a
hundred percent pro you know what's a
hundred percent preventable poverty you
know it's 100
preventible hunger in the richest
country in the world no urgency like
that I was poverty though you get
promoted are you gonna say soldier is
the economy up because you take a look
at Venezuela Venezuela cuz look cuz
that's a great strategy I go in there
right you starve these cobras support
pop then you create environments on the
ground where they can blow up and then
you stand back and watch and burn what
are we gonna do there now what are we
gonna do in the Triangle if he cuts aid
to them come on Steve look blaming
blaming the United States for the
problems of Central America I'm doing
that I don't show I'm saying that
cutting funding will only make it worse
and I I what I love about that clip is
is nothing really is no analysis I need
to do around it he nailed all of it the
only thing I would add is I do blame US
foreign policy for a great deal problems
in Latin America
