so here is an example of where these
elites could push folks like Paul Ryan
now Paul Ryan goes on the sunday show
faced and meet the is a Face the Nation
with John Dickerson and Dickerson pushes
a little bit and I think he pushes you
know relatively speaking as much as
you'll see anybody in the media press he
also did a good job recently with Mitch
McConnell's exactly the filibuster yes
but there needs to be more because if
the barbara boxer's and all of the
Democratic senators are willing to
sacrifice the Senate comity and get more
pointed in they're blaming the enablers
of Donald Trump then folks like John
Dickerson they'll go even further he
doesn't do this in a vacuum
he is X distance out from where the sort
of like you know the the safety lies and
if safety lives further out and I'm more
aggressive in terms of questioning and
holding these people to account then
folks like him will get more aggressive
here is on Face the Nation with Paul
Ryan and this is when is this on Sunday
right this is the day after the shooting
you've seen some Trump as president
Trump's rallies do those rallies
accentuate the things that unite us the
bipartisan achievements or are they do
they do something very successful in
politics is good wildly successful which
is so division in the countries do you
see that happening at his rallies
sometimes yeah sometimes meaning well
not always but sometimes I worry about
tribal identity politics becoming the
new norm plus it'll pause it for a
second excuse me so sometimes at Donald
Trump's rallies you see this
sometimes sometimes is that most of the
time or just like all the time sometimes
in the kapu or does he mean sometimes I
watch Trump rallies and every time I do
I see that but I only watch it sometimes
so I can't say all the tots what he's
saying cuz you know Paul Ryan's a big
fan of the I&C that right I'm just
trying to cut yeah but just I turn off
my phone yeah and I cut the cord on
cable so I don't see anything you're
trying to live a more money going to
Walden Pond
yeah all right go back just a little bit
yeah sometimes meaning well not always
but sometimes I worry about tribal
identity politics becoming the new norm
of how politics is waged as
conservatives we always thought this was
sort of a left-wing linski thing
unfortunately the right practices
identity politics now as well
equality in it so let me just get this
straight at what point did this
left-wing Alinsky thing happen on the
right was it when the former Speaker of
the House John Boehner refused to tell
members of his caucus don't push the
birtherism story
please don't introduce legislation about
birtherism was it then
was it the entire cult built around the
idea that Vince Foster was killed 20
years ago I mean I would go on and on
and conversely was the olenski thing
when Obama said that he would pay
people's legal fees if they pushed
people his rallies was that when that
happens new Black Panthers I got you
covered
yeah they're a honky in the crowd we
break it some male I got the bills
covered I got a special endowment from
Saudi Arabia for that there's my
white guy white guy you get God suit he
gets it what's up Billy Bob there you go
the right practices identity politics
now as well it's the day and age it's
technology and everything else identity
politics which is now being practiced on
both sides of the aisle is unfortunately
working and I think posit just there's
one party incidentally that is made up
of
one identity not total not a hundred
percent 95 percent there's one party
that is the Republican Party made up of
95 percent white people I think we as
leaders we got to figure out how do we
make inclusive aspirational politics
strategically valuable again you've
talked about in closets there he is Paul
Ryan admitting that it is not in our
best interest to make politics more
inclusive like I say there's one party
that is 95 percent one identity there's
another party in terms of like measured
by elections at the very least we're 40
some-odd
5% 40% is white there is it's all the
advance that women fault and all the
other identities huge mix of identities
a lot of tips strategically valuable
again you've talked about inclusive
politics which tries to unified as
president Trump practice that is kind of
politics sometimes he doesn't sometimes
he doesn't pause it Oh are there are
times where Donald Trump is inclusive oh
that's right he said there's my black
right there's times and he's like glass
people love me some of it everybody
should be nice I had Kanye I get I gots
Kanye I got some hey Kanye let me ask
you question there is a party that
already is incentivized to have
inclusive politics there is already one
of those parties there there may be
other things wrong with that party not
necessarily from Paul Ryan's perspective
but from mine but the one thing they do
do is inclusive politics now sometimes
he doesn't
how but I mean come on honestly I know
each other look on economic roof and
then tax reform on getting the military
and having veterans those are things
that he has led us to that have really
brought people together and he talks
about these at Israeli and that is in
closet no first of all like yeah John
Dickerson has to be like but really
seriously oh let me make up a couple of
things that are a Republican that
Republicans like like the tax cuts the
tax cuts are less popular than Obama
care the tax cuts are less popular than
Obamacare Obamacare is fifty one percent
support the tax cuts have somewhere
around I don't know forty percent
support the vast majority of it is
Republican give me a break it's nuts
