Trump's complaint about the intermediate
missile treaty is that Russia has been
violating it and I have to admit that I
am very used to well just basically
disregarding what Trump says about
things and but I've been reading that
actually this isn't entirely not true
that Russia actually has been stepping
outside of the bounds of this treaty and
also you as you suggested earlier that
Russia was not as receptive as they
might have been to President Obama's
push to rid the world of these weapons
and reduce Arsenal's which is really in
contrast to Putin's public branding if
you watch interviews with him one of his
complaints about the United States that
I've seen is actually a lack of
commitment to things like arms control
so he certainly tried to position that
he's sober and serious about these
weapons and maybe he's another person
that we should be used to disregarding
what he says as well what's the actual
truth of Russia and their relation to
this treaty and then you know is the
answer is that a viable play well
they're stepping out of it so we'll just
scrap the thing yeah so let me just
unravel this so the the intermediate
nuclear forces treaty INF treaty john
bolton and has announced that they want
to pull out of this and trump then made
that statement in one of his political
rallies a few weeks ago if that we only
have two remaining arms nuclear arms
treaties with the with the russians one
is this the INF and the other is the
START treaty the START treaty expires in
2021 and Bolton wants to kill that so
this is what's at stake if you let that
the INF treaty he stabbed in the back
the I in the New START treaty he wants
to kill in its sleep but just not do
anything and let it expire peacefully
you do that then there's no more
restraints there's no more limits
there's no more
inspections one of the things that
treaties give you is the ability to put
your inspectors into their weapons sites
so you can see what they're doing that's
why the military supports these kinds of
agreements it gives them transparency
against them predictability it lets them
plan more accurately so this general
military support for these arms control
agreements historically it's been it's
been that way it's been the ideologues
who haven't liked them not not really
the military so we'll Putin go along
with this well you know you coming up
very soon November 11th Putin and Trump
are going to meet in Paris and it's
possible that Putin can pitch Trump to
extend this treaty can go over the head
of bolt and get right to the president
and might convince him to extend the
treaty Trump might be willing to do this
you might you can disagree with Trump on
nine out of ten things but every once in
a while he is right and if you can get
him to do this that would be a good
thing are the Russians actually
violating the INF and again Trump is
right yes they are I was on the
international security advisory board
for the secretaries of State Clinton and
Kerry and I saw the Intel on this when
it was coming in in 2014 and it's pretty
clear they are violating it's a it's a
it's a relatively small violation it's
not militarily significant they've taken
one of this short-range cruise missiles
one of the ones they launched from the
ground so a ground-launched cruise
missile and they've modified it so that
it could have a greater range a range
that falls within the range prohibited
by the treaty so they are violating the
treaty and they deployed this at a test
site in Russia and one other site in but
in the Russian part of Europe and it's
it's just banned you can't do it you
can't have a missile like this does it
matter
not really they the Russians have lots
of other ways they can hit European
targets and we have lots of other ways
that we could hit those targets with
nuclear weapons but it is technically a
violation because Putin want to give up
his nuclear weapons no I don't I don't
think he does this is one of the last
vestiges of superpowers
that he has so at this point we're
talking about getting these two
autocratic leaders somewhat
irresponsible leaders certainly
undemocratic leaders to just agree to
the limits let's preserve the limitation
and inspection regime so that we might
have a shot at going back to reductions
when we have more reasonable leaders in
both countries so we talked about a
figure like John Bolton and a sort of
broader neoconservative and far-right
opposition to these treaties I mean
there's two components of it they're
both disturbing but I think and
connected but they are somewhat distinct
so one I guess I understand just from
that perspective
ideologically is just an opposition to
any agreement to restraint on us forests
period as a principle is right okay go
ahead no no you continues the idea is
that you know we're the good guys and we
have a Germany over the world with a
superpower you know who would you want
to be the superpower China France you
know we're the good guys so we should
have a certain amount of American
exceptionalism the rule shouldn't apply
to us we should be able to have the
freedom to exercise a military force
wherever we want because we will only do
that for good and what we want is
restraints on other people and the
Liberals think that you get those
restraints but mutual restraints by
treaties that mutually restrict both
sides military force and the
neoconservatives or the Conservatives
said no you only get those kinds of
restrictions by force by military
dominance and it has that that that view
was particularly virulent and
particularly sort of nationalistic right
now in in this administration it really
is you know America Ubbe Alice it's
really above all we set the rules and if
you don't if you don't go along with us
we will crush you one way or the other
you see that in where they're treating
Iran you see that in the way they're
trying to approach North Korea you see
it in their view of all international
mechanisms starting with the United
Nations definitely now I want to touch
on Iran and North Korea in a second but
the other thing that is incredibly
disturbing and obviously I you know
entirely I reject every single piece of
that view ideologically but the other
part that you read about and hear about
is also the notion of developing as you
said earlier battlefield deployable
or smaller you know nuclear weapons how
does that fit into it and is this
actually a legitimate thought process
amongst these people that these things
can be deployed in a more narrow way is
this something they react working on and
want yes it is and it comes directly
from this view that look we had this
military weapon why are we self deterred
from using it why do we why do we
hesitate to use nuclear weapons and and
part of the reasoning is according to
this view it is that they're too big you
know we now have bombs or basic bomb is
approximately 10 times to 30 times the
size of the Hiroshima bomb so we no
longer have atomic bombs that's
Hiroshima Nagasaki we have hydrogen
bombs basically duplicate the basic
energy force in the universe what powers
the Sun fusion of atoms not splitting of
atoms and those bombs you know our city
destroyers and so therefore the logic
goes we need to make smaller bombs with
back to human size or smaller so that we
can use them on the battlefield and we
can have an advantage and and we can
control the escalation so if you go to
the recent issue of Foreign Affairs for
example from the preeminent American
journals you will see a discussion of
nuclear weapons and it's led off by an
article that says we shouldn't be afraid
of nuclear weapons anymore
and it's it's it's just it's presented
as new thinking by some of the new breed
of young dr. Strangelove's that have
emerged in this town right oh really
they are out there and that you know and
that's what they think yeah you know
Elbridge Kobe at the Center for new
American security or tear leaver at
Georgetown University they're they're
out there and what they're doing is
recycling theories in the 1950s this is
what military leaders so and
conservatives thought in the 1950s
nuclear weapons are the weapons of the
future we need them for every
so we built not just nuclear missiles
not just nuclear bombs but nuclear
torpedoes concluded depth charges
nuclear landmines we eat my favorite
weapon was a nuclear bazooka we called
it the Davy Crockett if fire fired a
very small nuclear warhead about a half
a mile
now why anyone would want to fire a
nuclear weapon half a mile is beyond me
you know and even the Army's figured
that out we stopped making them in the
1960s but we went nuclear nuts in the
50s and we basically we don't have those
weapons anymore
we got rid of them and the Russians got
rid of them and you know now you have a
new class of these as I say young dr.
Strangelove's who want to bring them
back and want to put them on ships and
want to put them ground-launched cruise
missiles want want new artillery pieces
again we used to have nuclear artillery
and they're presenting this as just part
of the new great power struggle and this
is a weapon we should have it is it was
insane in the 50s
it's insane now I have to say just the
brief editorial here the the parallels
across every single part of public
discourse of ideas right-wing ideas from
the 50s and 60s getting recycled as
fresh thinking now is it's amazing it's
everything from like gender
relationships to new yes it's kind of a
job our society to the German American
Nazis these kinds of ideas that America
flirted with and rejected well they
never went away right and now they're
back and they're all being supported by
this well I guess be honest this kind of
white nationalist view that cuts across
all the issues at areas and this is how
it's being expressed in the nuclear
realm it is not apart from the white
nationalism it is grounded in that
worldview now I'm not saying that the
people who are proposing this would
identify themselves as white nationalist
I'm not saying that at all but I'm
saying this is the same thinking this is
his ideological route this is they have
a shared worldview and they have a
shared aim which is us and what they
general
mean by that is white us global
domination well we could paraphrase
Andrew gillum's right I'm not saying you
do but they think you are right oh why I
think all right I'm not saying you're a
racist yeah
but they think you're a there you go
dancing III right you know I haven't
heard this country just the first time I
think I've discussed it like this and
the first I haven't heard anybody else
discussing like this but but I believe
that this is true I believe that's
what's happening and I don't believe you
would be seeing these ideas giving this
much prominence were not for for donald
trump and trumpism and the nationalist
impulse it's writing
