[Music]
so not completely unrelated
there is a sophisticated critique of
Ilan Omar that she is a a you know is
racist towards white people and to Jews
Ilan Omar
che with all white people should have
ankle bracelets on them until we figure
out what the hell is going on
we know that that in her response to the
introduction of federal legislation that
would force anyone doing business with
the federal government to sign a pledge
that they would not protest against
Israel she said I don't feel like it's
right for me to have to sign a pledge we
know that she was smeared then with this
critique of of calling for that she was
claiming that Jews had dual loyalty she
was talking about herself as a person
who's not Jewish or anybody for that
matter who's gonna do business with 26
states that have legislation to this
effect or the federal government that
they should not have to sign a pledge
that they're not gonna protest against
well Israel or any other country for
that matter or any other business I
gotta you know it would get federal boob
contracts I have to pledged not to
protest against Walmart let me give me a
break
well here's the latest version
Ilhan Omar was on with Mehdi Hasan on
al-jazeera English on Maddie's program
and out front and here is the video that
Marco Rubio who's still hurting probably
because his federal pledge legislation
is not going to be law Marco Rubio
shared this is where Ilhan Omar claims
or supposedly that we should monitor
white people which I
reserve the right to say is maybe not
necessarily a bad idea but a lot of
conservatives in particular would say
that the rise in Islamophobia is a
result a lot of hate but a fear a
legitimate fear they say of
quote/unquote jihadist terrorism whether
it's Fort Hood or San Bernardino or the
recent truck attack in New York what do
you say to them I would say our country
should be more fearful of white man
across our country because they are
actually causing most of the deaths
within this country we should be
profiling monitoring and and and
creating policies to fight the
radicalization of white men so there you
have it she has said she stated the fact
that in terms of domestic terrorism at
least and then I would imagine you know
in other areas but specifically a
domestic terrorism we should be afraid
of white people which is simply
effectively true more people have died
at the hands in the past ten years of of
domestic white domestic terrorists than
than anything else
probably domestic terrorism for in
modern era
we should be concerned about white
Americans and then she went on to say
that we should monitor and surveil white
people now that seems to be a little bit
hypocritical because I would imagine she
wouldn't say that we should be doing
that for other people we should not be
monitoring and spying like that on any
group yeah here it's a little bit
hypocritical but I did notice there was
a white flash yeah it was in between
there and sometimes that becomes I don't
know if that's uh for a while I thought
that was just a sign that my name had
been cut out of something but it
apparently it just suggests that
something needs a hopless Sam cedar here
we go and others here's a here is that
comment actually as it was relate to
Mehdi Hasan a lot of conservatives in
particular would say that the rise in
Islamophobia is the result not of hate
but a fear a legitimate fear they say of
quote-unquote jihadist terrorism whether
it's Fort Hood or San Bernardino or the
recent truck attack in New York what do
you say to them I would say our country
should be more fearful of white man
across our country because they are
actually causing most of the deaths
within this country and so if fear was
the driving force of policies to keep
America safe Americans safe inside of
this country we should be profiling
monitoring and and and creating policies
to fight the radicalization of white men
but most of the posit for one second so
I just want to be clear what they cut
out was her introduction to that point
about monitoring white men which was if
we're going to allow fear to dictate
what our policy is that's what we would
do and then whose fear well just fear
but here now I don't support monitoring
a figure most of the funding and
attention even under Obama obviously
went towards Muslim community is one of
those communities is in Minnesota your
stately Somali American community in
Minnesota where I think over the past
few years more than 20 young Somali
Americans have left to go and fight for
ISIL or Al Shabaab or one of these
quote-unquote jihadist groups abroad
that's a real threat obviously no one's
pretending it's not a threat so what do
you do about it but I mean I think like
I said the the focus of our policies
should should be about keeping Americans
safe keeping us domestically safe and
and and where we actually find a
solution is looking at our foreign
policy looking at how we are engaging
with
these the the members of these these
communities and and and and the kind of
rhetoric right like that is being spewed
out of leaders within our city halls
within our state capitals and and and
within our nation's capital so there you
have it so Queen
I was really want you know I was I was
wondering because she wrote I think she
actually has a piece in The New York
Times saying it's not enough to just
reject Trump's racism we need to deliver
for economic justice basically for
everybody and and so I was very I was
when I saw the misleading the lying clip
I was surprised because I would you know
she doesn't make this kind of
essentialist hit for tat argument she
makes really smart arguments and of
course it was a distorted fake clip it
would be kind of cool though this is the
nation Obama's going on i l on Omar
proposed a complete ban on construction
of new Red Lobster's until we figure out
what the hell is going on Super Bowl
parties will be banned and chicken wings
not delivered no I don't hate white
people but they're bad people and we
don't know some as I'm sure some of them
are nice people but many of them are
listening to Kenny Loggins let's let's
