lastly as we do our roundup of the of
what's happening with 2020 this would be
the last time we talked about hopefully
for the day wow this is stunning Howard
Schultz the guy that you've never heard
of before really the past couple of
weeks the CEO or former CEO of Starbucks
is convinced that America is crying out
for him to run for president
is this the hypothetical disease say I'm
not gonna answer a hypothetical here yes
okay this is stunning let me tell you
something Howard Schultz is so rich that
the laws of running for president are
not going to even come close to
requiring him to do anything other than
say that he is going to be great here is
just the whole philosophy of how to
maybe redistribution versus growth and
I'm not sure that the stock market is
necessarily the barometer you want to
look at either but it's possible this
year we grow above 3% and there's maybe
a lot of reasons why why that's gonna
happen maybe it was set up by the Obama
administration but for eight years we
didn't never had a year we barely got to
two percent so there's this never-ending
argument about whether growth and
letting the private sector have more
capital keeping it in the private sector
and letting that grow the pie or whether
redistribution is the way to go I mean
if we end up growing it greater than
three percent this year would you repeal
the tax Reform Act would you raise taxes
on corporations back to where they were
if you were president well I don't want
to talk in the hypothetical about
whether what I would do if I was
president but let me try and say this in
my own way I think the greatest threat
domestically to the country is this
twenty one trillion dollar debt hanging
over the cloud of America and future
generations and the fact that interest
rates are going
we're going to be paying close to over
400 billion dollars in interest expense
which i think is the the number one or
number two issue in terms of federal
expense so wait a second
so he's a not gonna engage in a
hypothetical of like what I would do as
president right all that is I'm not it's
a hypothetical me when I'm president you
gotta ask me when I'm president I'm
gonna give away my plans right now
that's exactly what the other candidates
would like me to do because they're just
gonna adopt my proposals on top of which
not only am I not going to tell you what
I'm going to do as president all I'm
going to do is tell you that the the
biggest problem we have is something
that we would have to solve by me doing
the thing that I'm not going to tell you
that I'm gonna do when we're president
and so I I think this interview is over
just vote for me what I love here and
cuz I think we said earlier maybe I
guess before we are in air that this is
obviously some form of like threat from
the old guard class not nominate Sanders
or Warren that's probably like the most
rational interpretation of this delusion
but apparently they're not all on the
same page because Mike Bloomberg and an
act of just pure raw negative
campaigning and not focusing on his own
ideas as tweeted out in 2020 the great
likelihood is that an independent would
just split the anti-trump vote it ends
up reelecting the president that's a
risk I refuse to run in 2016 and we
can't afford to run it now and it links
to a longer memo can we pull this up
here I'll send a link but I just I mean
the fact that and I Bloomberg yeah is
the voice of reason like when Margaret
Bloomberg this is releasing you as a as
a fellow oligarch I think it's you
should listen I mean it's interesting
because I do think that what this this
move by Shultz is a way of basically
opening the door in the event that there
is a candidate that the oligarchs are
concerned about definitely and the idea
that I
Bloomberg would shut that down now if I
didn't run you can't run I didn't do it
you won't do it you've roaster you loser
I could never sit in my mansion
surrounded in money and know that
someone with a couple of billion dollars
less than me ended up being president
when I could have done it so I love of
the ultimate diss of these people is
like I voted for birdy Sandy's over you
that's how big a loser you are if I
can't have the presidency no billionaire
can have the presidency but whatever
back to credit where credit's due this
is esteem good for him totally good for
him yet good for him here I did my I'm
not gonna be president say you're not
gonna be president you son of AB an
official statement from Michael
Bloomberg I'm not gonna read as a citrus
independent to become president so
you're not either and all the same
people who tried to scare me for
consulting contracts of 2016 you're
about to lose out in a bunch of money
here's something Howard Schultz his dumb
fantasy give me a break
you sold coffee I'm gonna have a cafe
owner as president I'm gonna be
president if anybody's gonna be
president and I will not answer your
hypotheticals I do like that part
there you go a specific question
that trust my business experience what's
great though is that Schultz the way in
which they like the billionaire oligarch
argument is all the same like of course
Trump is a racist and a xenophobe in an
idiot and demagogue but actually the
core point there of like I'm not gonna
answer any specific questions I'm a
wealthy businessman right it's all you
should know same thing same argument why
don't we just compare our bank books and
that's who gets to be President yes son
of a cafe owner oh I was the guy who
made things of grandi instead of a large
boohoo I created a financial terminal
you
I ever I have a suggestion for you get
me a coffee
how about that
