[Music]
we no longer have a Acting Secretary of
Defense I don't know that in the history
of this country or at least in modern
era I imagined at one point
have there been less confirmed cabinet
members have there been an absence of
the Secretary of Defense and yesterday I
suggested and when we started off the
show we were talking about the
belligerents that we're seeing coming
out of particularly the State Department
towards Iran the Defense Department
weren't hearing a real lot and you know
I compare and contrast this to the Bush
era where Secretary of Defense was out
there donald rumsfeld he was pushing
pushing and pushing where is the
Secretary of State sort of tapping on
the brakes lightly apparently not hard
enough so and it's not necessarily
uncommon for the Secretary of State to
be belligerent but it's not it's not
typical and you don't think the
secretary is I don't know I I think
don't you think month
Pompeyo is unprecedented in terms of how
belligerent he's being i I don't know if
he's unprecedented I mean I think there
have been there have been times where we
have seen Secretary of State's who want
to go in in place like Syria correct
whatever they wanted I'm talking even
just in terms of probably not
necessarily hawkish but the fact that
the chief diplomat is taking on such a
that's true pit bull role fair enough
and no offense the certainly he's a pit
bull owner so yesterday during the show
we got word that that the Acting
Secretary of State
excuse me of Defense was
stepping down talking about Patrick
Shanahan and apparently there was an FBI
investigation into stuff that was
happening between him and Boeing but it
appears that the issue was some domestic
violence incidents that occurred during
the course of a messy divorce that he
had his wife was arrested after punching
him in the face his son was arrested
after a separate incident in which his
he hit his mother with a baseball bat
she got really really injured
it was extremely messy this happened
almost 10 years ago
surely the White House was aware of this
and in fact I think Daily Beast has an
article that suggests that the White
House was specifically quiet about it
bringing this to the Senate and it's not
like the Senate is been terribly
rigorous in rejecting any of Trump's
picks so in instances like this
yesterday I wasn't familiar with any of
the reporting as to where Shanahan was
on Iran it occurred to me that it could
go one of two ways
one it could be indicative of Iran Hawks
war mongers getting rid of an impediment
to a to their plans for war and I want
you to just to put a pin in at because I
think that's maybe a little bit broad
brushed or he Shanahan was one of those
guys that other people in the Pentagon
wanted out because he was interested in
going to war with Iran
well reporting to
suggested it was the former that
Shanahan was someone who was trying to
dissuade Donald Trump from being too
aggressive with Iran and these war plans
clearly we clearly can see you know what
the game plan is at this stage and that
is to make sure that the United States
its assets are in close proximity to
Iranian assets with the hopes that this
will create friction and I think you
don't need to be a physicist to know
that friction can sometimes ignite and
that's the idea and if it's not igniting
that maybe they throw in a little bit of
Flint I don't know whatever you put in
something to ignite
maybe's baby maybe they do have a drone
attack on ship and say it was a a mine
who knows it can go through the Saudis
Israelis or or maybe they just know that
there are hardliners within the Iranian
government just like there is in this
country and it may be in that their
interests to provoke some type of
conflict as well and so all they need to
do is provide opportunities for them but
clearly there is an element of our
government a significant element that is
trying to push for a conflict with Iran
we have Tom cotton who is out there
explicitly calling for it in the Senate
and you can be sure this is all
coordinated we're gonna be in the White
House we're gonna be in the State
Department we're gonna set the pins up
if we set them up
it's enough to you know a ball that may
just go errant they'll get knocked down
in the meantime Tom cotton is providing
sort of like some basis in the Senate to
respond and and frankly you know you see
Chris Murphy out there but nobody's
getting the thing that scares you don't
see as much attention for the people who
are arguing against this and that is a
little bit scary
I mean Sanders put on the table a couple
weeks ago a push to get a new
authorization because the you know in
which they wouldn't give them but this
is the other really disturbing thing
about this is Pompeo actually saying
that the same AUMF that they've been
using for everything right of course
attack Iran and that we've played clips
of where you've had news people asking
Pompeo do you think you have
authorization for this is well if they
do something we do you know and so
keeping it very very vague um I think it
is important just to say that I mean
Iran clearly evenly hardliners by all
appearances do not want to escalate and
I think you know there already is
conflict in some of these proxy areas
like Syria in some ways and and
Hezbollah and you know they're
restarting their proliferation that's
their punishment for us it's quite
public they're finally stepping out of
the deal and so as we suggested
yesterday it turns out that Shanahan was
a was putting on the brakes or
attempting to in terms of this push the
war and I'm sorry when a charge that is
10 years old about domestic abuse comes
up in this context and it should and it
should disqualify him the other things
maybe should have disqualified him
frankly anybody works with Donald Trump
should be disqualified as far as I'm
concerned but I'm simply suggesting that
these things sometimes get timed and if
Bolton and Pompeyo at all felt that
Shanahan was one of the obstacles to
ratcheting up tension
it's not surprising to see him go in
such a fashion unclear who is going to
be next named but understand who's
advising Donald Trump at this point
who's left in that White House who is
going to who has the savvy as to who
knew whom to pick and who doesn't want
war with Iran and that's why you see
everyone from Tucker Carlson to well
what's her name again trish regan and
whoever told trish regan to say those
things freaking out because they're
afraid that Donald Trump is going to
start a war with Iran and it's hard to
know how that works out politically I
would imagine you know it's not hard to
imagine that there's going to be a
problem a electoral problem for Trump
but it's also not hard to imagine that
something else will happen that will
make it that you know at least part of
the American public will rally around
the president
