so Wendell in the first segment we were
talking about the advantages of Medicare
for all we noted that there are there's
already a bill introduced in the house
and one in the Senate and before I want
to ask you how those bills get us
they're like what are like you know what
what goes first how do you expand it do
you if right now we have and we should
also know you know we talked about how
much more efficient Medicare is today
than the private insurance industry in
terms of how much is spent on care
versus administrative or profits and I
would imagine and you would know better
than I having been an insurance company
executive but I would imagine that
Medicare that includes everyone under
the age of 65 in this country is
actually going to be even more efficient
from an insurance standpoint because the
risk pool becomes healthier in some way
and you can predict costs much better
for people under the age of let's say
you know 20 to 45 or 55 then you can for
people are 65 and older and that would
actually make Medicare even more
efficient than it is today it absolutely
would just consider that we have a
public program that's very efficient the
Medicare program covers people are 65
and older largely and people with
disabilities in certain examples so
you've got this the oldest and the
sickest part of the population enrolled
in Medicare and it's not very very
efficiently and people are very happy
with the coverage that they have at a
and it's guaranteed you can't lose it on
the private insurance market it's
entirely a different story and one of
the reasons why we have such high
administrative cost is that doctors and
hospitals have to have staffs and people
who do nothing more than then every day
stay on the phone and and and beg to be
paid appropriately and beg that their
other patients are going to be able to
give a care that they think that they
need so there are great efficiencies
that can be brought to the system when
we have everyone in Medicare
and you're right when you have younger
people in the pool that that makes it
much much better and you can operate
much more efficiently and economically
when you have people who almost you know
the majority the people who are in
Medicare has some kind of pre-existing
condition and in chronic conditions that
require maintenance medications and
frequent trips to the doctor maybe a
hospital so it would be an entirely
different kind of system that would be
much more the economies of scale would
be so much better
okay so right now there are Democrats
who my sense from talking to reporters
about 50 percent of the Democrats
running in the last election we're
running on a Medicare for all type of
program the other 50 percent something
more than the ACA but not quite Medicare
for all Brian Higgins out of New York
State is looking to promote a Medicare
buy-in bill what what does that mean
and why is that the wrong move for
Democrats even though and we should say
nothing's going to get passed in the
next two years but what's going to
happen is the groundwork is going to be
laid for what the Democrats could pass
if they get control of the Senate and
the presidency
well the Medicare buy-in idea sounds
good
and when you until you really scrutinize
it because what would happen if you do
that you essentially would have a
continuation of this multi-payer system
that is so inherently inefficient you
just be adding even I think even more of
a challenge for a lot of people yes some
people would like to enroll in a
Medicare program but why would you
necessarily want to buy in and who would
be able to do that and chances are the
people who would be enrolling in those
in the Medicare plan if they were able
to buy into it would be those who are
the least healthy right it just doesn't
make any sense from a risk point of view
and and again
you keep this insanely inefficient
health care system that is a multi pair
system in place and that's one of the
reasons why the Affordable Care Act even
though I did a lot of good is not
sustainable you still what we did was
largely tinker with the existing system
and leave the insurance industry pretty
much still in control of it and that's
what would happen with a Medicare buy-in
I mean for people to just understand
this issue it really all comes down to
the risk pool doesn't it in the risk
pool being you've got a group of people
right now Medicare has the most
expensive people broadly speaking that
you could have in a risk pool of people
for health insurance and younger people
and more healthy people are obviously
cheaper and in the context of an open
market with a public option which is
what a Medicare buy-in would be there
would definitely be advantages to people
who are healthy but you know broadly
speaking people you know inertia kicks
in right like a body and rest will stay
and rest and if I'm getting health
insurance from my employer I may not
know how crappy it is because I haven't
needed it I haven't been hit by a bus I
don't want to get involved and you know
you know talking about health insurance
gives me the hives as it is the idea of
going out and signing up for something
else I'm hesitant to do it but if I am
blocked from getting private insurance
because of the way the private insurance
works I'm going to go to that public
option but chances are the reason why I
got blocked is because I'm more likely
to need health insurance because private
health insurance companies don't want
people who need their product because
that's not how they make money
and so you're you're messing up the risk
pool on a Medicare for buying all right
well then let me ask you this how would
what is the best way in your mind in
terms of like the mechanics of getting
to a Medicare for all what would be the
first and second and third things you do
would you would like you know if we were
to pass it would you want a bill that
says like on Friday everybody's Medicare
for all
how would we roll it out over and I
presume it'll be over a couple of years
yeah you have to have some transition
period because it is such an enormously
complex system and and it consequently
would be disruptive because people would
be changing from a private plan to one
that's publicly financed so there would
be that and you have to make sure that
the Medicare program is able to take in
this this new part of the risk pool so
it takes time but I would say at least a
couple of years and I think the in the
Senate version is a four year transition
period to that so that's that's
something that will be negotiated
determined but you also simultaneously
need to attack healthcare cause and
that's why in this legislation you you
have mechanisms for the the Medicare
program to really negotiate for better
rates certainly with the drug companies
and that's what we know days they've had
this sweetheart deal with with the
government since the Medicare drug
benefit was enacted in 2003 in which
they were able to get that legislation
passed in a way that prohibits the
Medicare program from negotiating with
drug companies that has to change we've
got to have a way that cost can be
controlled Obama and the Democrats in
2009 and 2010 made it you know they made
a deal we'll pass this so that we can
get more people covered and then maybe
sometime down the road we'll we'll work
on health care cost well we're seeing
that the Affordable Care Act is not
doing much of anything to control cost
so you've got to move pretty swiftly to
get people enrolled in the Medicare plan
everybody but you've also simultaneously
kind of figure out a way that you can
attack health care cost by giving the
Medicare program the ability to
negotiate certainly for drugs but also
to compensate hospitals and and doctors
in ways that are fair well Wendell
Potter we didn't get a chance to talk
about Elizabeth Warren's plan to
actually manufacture some generic drugs
which I imagine would start to put some
pressure downward pressure on the cost
not just of the generics but of all
drugs but we'll have to save that for
another time but as far as today met
care for all it it simply makes the most
obvious sense wendell potter always a
pleasure to talk to you
