[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday March 4th 2018-19 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of history at New York
University
author of the end of the myth from the
frontier to the border wall in the mind
of America Greg Grandin will be here
also on the program today
Trump blames Michael Cohen for his North
Korea failure Rand Paul supposedly
allegedly going to be the vote two
counters Trump's state of emergency and
in buckle up folks John Hickenlooper is
in the twenty twenty presidential
candidate drops in with a huge promise
of sitting down with Mitch McConnell
straightening all this stuff out two
guys sitting around having a beer
meanwhile sub Gorka out at Fox
probably because of a OCS hamburger
attacks the era of the pajama boy is
overed no charges for Sacramento police
who shot and killed unarmed stiff Stefan
Clark meanwhile El Salvador has gotten
so dangerous now
cops are fleeing the country House votes
on a massive anti-corruption package and
as the arctic cold hits the Midwest 23
died in Alabama as severe storms hit
across the south all this and more on
today's program folks of course will
also be getting to your calls and I am
the Jamie is out on her Mexican what is
it go over Mexican fiesta fiesta I guess
and Michael is just on it's my siesta
Michaels Monday Seattle one day so there
it is but we do have a special guest in
studio coming from Massachusetts I don't
do you want me to say unit doesn't
matter Joanne southern Massachusetts
sports fan
Joanne another Massachusetts sports fan
so folks first off let me just start by
saying I attempted to livestream from
the Bernie rally in Brooklyn this
weekend to very very little success
in fact zero success although I was able
to get out on Instagram and so if you do
not have Instagram or you haven't signed
up to follow us on Instagram listen to
grandpa talk about it this way
whatever you do to go on Instagram log
on to Instagram log on to Instagram and
do the thing where you can see our stuff
at majority report dot F M that's our
Instagram handle now of course I have a
couple of fences
but I just have those so that so the
majority reporter fans can't find me
just in case I'm looking at stuff that's
lurid so but the majority report
Instagram has at least you know some
footage from just where we were at the
beginning it was super cold and I don't
think that you can overestimate how much
this cold I mean it was a very
enthusiastic crowd and it was a big
crowd I don't I haven't seen any
specific numbers I have a feeling
probably around 10,000 but I'm not sure
13,000 30 yeah okay that makes sense to
me and but I think you know if it had
been 5 or 10 degrees warmer I think
people would have gone would have been
nuts but for I know for myself I was
like spending a lot of time gone like
doing this and it was cold and it got
colder as the rally went on the wind was
coming in the Sun got covered up because
of this storm that has you know that
came through last night I guess maybe
I'm not sure where it where that was but
but it was very exciting some great
speakers right before Bernie Sanders and
then here is one clip from that that
speech in the large profitable
corporations that emit in America listen
up because this applies to you we say to
the 1% in large corporations that under
a Bernie Sanders administration you're
not going to be getting more tax breaks
quite the contrary we're gonna end your
tax breaks and your loopholes you are
gonna start paying your fair share of
taxes
[Applause]
we will no longer we will no longer
accept the absurd situation where large
multibillion-dollar corporations like
Amazon Netflix and General Motors pay
nothing in federal income taxes
and when I could allow these
corporations and the billionaires to
stash their money in the Cayman Islands
and in other tax havens yes the wealthy
and multinational corporations will
start paying their fair share of taxes
we're gonna end austerity for working
families and bring a little austerity
[Applause]
that's a nice twist on the the program
of austerity it was about a 35 minute
speech and really ranged across the
board we'll talk more about it later in
the program but it was super exciting to
be at the the launch of that campaign
and and let me just say this you know in
terms of the primary like you know I I
don't think we're gonna do our best
around here not to get too heavy into
the primary too early but obviously as
people join in the race there's gonna be
end up being about another 50 I mean not
another 15 but I have a feeling we're
gonna have about 15 candidates probably
before this is over maybe more and but
the first debates are in June and you
know until then for the most part I'm
hoping that we're gonna be able to just
sort of talk about different proposals
that are brought up by different
candidates you know at this point we've
heard stuff from like Cory Booker the
baby bonds proposal which I think is a
pretty good proposal Elizabeth Warren I
think to be honest so far has introduced
the most interesting and dynamic
proposals when you think about universal
child care and when you think about
prescription drugs being manufactured by
the US government talking about generics
and then of course I think Klobuchar had
said something about tax advantaged
savings the tax advantaged and oh we're
incidentally we're gonna spend time
making fun of proposals like that when
John Hickenlooper or says that what I'm
gonna be able to sit down with Mitch
McConnell and work things out I'm gonna
make fun of that because that is that's
like Brandon Straka level of delusion
and anybody who can actually go on
television say that is necessarily
either completely out of it or just
totally lying and so some of that stuff
is we're not going to get treated but I
will say this we have lost some members
because they don't appreciate the fact
that we are to Bernie friendly here it's
not that many but whatever but and
that's fine if people you know I think
you know at least Michael and I have
made it clear like there's a plenty of
candidates that we could get with on the
Democratic side in the general election
I am you know between Bernie and Warren
I think I would be equally happy and
maybe there's other candidates to jump
it I don't know but here's one thing
that and I don't mind you don't want to
be a member
don't be a member but if you email and
threaten me with your membership to to
you know change the programming and this
hasn't been a problem as much in the
past couple of years but there was a
problem with this you know at other
times I will tell you that I will
develop a technology to keep you from
listening to even the free show I will
spend my time I will fire you
you will not fire me I will fire you so
just don't
don't try and leverage that is why we
have this system here that is why I
never wanted to be sponsored by a you
know some type of organization or
whatnot I mean sure I will make I would
be open to partnerships and whatnot but
because I do not take well to people
trying to leverage money I mean that's
just I mean that it may be a personality
defect and it may be a little bit more
extreme that it probably should be but
so don't email that way you can email
say like I'm sorry I gotta take a break
from the show because I just I'm too
supportive of blankety-blank and I get
uncomfortable with it totally get it but
if you email and you go like if you guys
don't stop blankety-blank
I'm gonna quit you're fired I will fire
you and if I'm in a good mood I'll tell
you otherwise you're just not gonna have
access to the show so and well I guess
maybe this might be a way to get around
that but may feel like cybercrime is
something that happens to other people
but stealing data for unsuspecting
people on public Wi-Fi is one of the
simplest ways for hackers to make money
when you leave your internet connection
and unencrypted you might as well be
writing your passwords and credit card
numbers on a huge billboard for the
whole world to see protect yourself with
expressvpn expressvpn you secures and
anonymizes your internet browsing by
encrypting your data and hiding your
public IP address for instance so if you
wanted to let's say I don't know if you
got fired from being a member on a
podcast and wanted to make sure they
didn't know it was you this is what you
would use when you were trying to
download but of course the Internet
security is the main reason for express
PP VPN and as easy to use apps that run
seamlessly in the background of your
computer your phone your tablet turning
on expressvpn protection only takes one
click and it cost less than seven bucks
a month expressvpn
is rated number one VPN service by
TechRadar comes with a 30-day money-back
guarantee a lot of people go out there
now with their phones and they use you
know all sorts of different types of
public Wi-Fi Airport you know it's free
great except for you you try and buy
something you are basically opening
yourself up to a whole a whole lot of
trouble you can protect your online
activity today find out how you can get
three months free at expressvpn dot-com
slash majority that's expressvpn dot-com
slash majority for three months free
with a one-year package it visit Express
VPN dot majority excuse me calm slash
majority to learn more Express expr e SS
VPN comm slash majority alright lastly
before we get to Greg Grandin I said my
schpeel
about about members who trying to
leverage membership for content changes
in the show I don't mind criticism I
just don't like it when like people try
and leverage that stuff I do not do well
with that but this was a great email
dear mr I started listening to the show
four years ago I've been a member for
about three I was a 28 year old
Taiwanese woman teaching English in my
country I had never left her an extended
period of time
your show not only informed me about
politics but motivated me to pursue it
in some fashion I decided to get a
masters degree in Paris a large part
because the tuition is literally 260
euros a year and every student gets
housing subsidy regardless of
nationality not quite the same at NYU
yeah not exactly the same my master one
thesis is on the Tea Party in
conservatism and my master two thesis is
on the rights history of fighting
culture wars from Buchanan to Trump you
can see majority reports influenced all
over them I've just been offered a
offered two fully funded admissions into
the political science PhD programs at
Berkeley and Columbia Wow and we'll be
visiting the campuses next month they
decide where to go
- thank you guys not only for inspiring
me in a passion for politics but
equipping me with insights and
perspectives that have helped me come
this far I'm anxious about starting a
5-year program at 32 but knowing that mr
will be with me every step of the way is
a tremendous source of comfort if I do
end up in New York and I get a chance to
go to your live shows I hope to be able
to thank you in person
I'm sure there are numerous stories like
mine out there but I thought I'd add to
the chorus that you guys are changing
lives and that's from listener Cara the
first of all if you come to New York
coming to the studio but a second well
thank you so much for this email
it's almost I'd almost don't even
believe that this is a real person but
it's it's it's incredibly sweeping and
very gratifying so thank you all right
we're gonna take quick break don't
forget you can support this show by
going to join the majority report com
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate uses a coupon code
majority get 10% off when we come back
the end of the myth from the frontier to
the border wall in the mind of America
Greg Grandin
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
history at New York University
best-selling author of Fordlandia and
now his most recent the end of the myth
from the frontier to the border wall in
the mind of America Greg Grandin welcome
back to the program thanks for having me
on again so all right let's start with
the because in some respects I guess the
this story starts with what you call
America's Founding paradox let's let
let's what is that Founding paradox
well the founding paradox is the idea of
the way way the idea of expansion was
built into the premise of United States
history that that that expansion will
solve all of the problems inherent in a
society founded on on the rights of
property and individual rights that that
was that early Republican theorists that
the concentration of wealth and they
were worried about very modern problems
the inequality political monopolies they
were worth and obviously were worried
about industrialization yet or things
like that but but all of the big
problems that go with a society founded
on individual rights more understood to
also generate serious vectors or venues
of corruption of monopoly control and
they've tried to figure out ways to work
around that and and what they came up
with and very and very explicit terms
was expansion you extend the sphere and
you dilute factionalism you dilute the
tendency of individuals you know what we
now would call class conflict in class
struggle so the idea is make just keep
making the pie bigger and then you're
not going to have people arguing over
how much pie they get because there's
going to be a never like a those are
going to be pie until infinity until of
course you run out of pie and then the
question is yeah where
where you gonna get that pie from right
right well eventually there is no more
outside anymore and eventually you hit
your hit limits I mean there's though
there were lots of different ways in
which expansion was understood to solve
the problem to solve the problems of of
uh to solve social problems expansion
was understood to dilute factionalism
dilute class conflict you can also you
can also use bar and you can use
expansion and the promise of limitless
growth to organize domestic politics to
establish how how what a moral society
look like and and this is a prerogative
that was very much unique to the United
States I mean look there's been other
empires and expansive nations but but
it's hard to think of another country
such that has for so long the centuries
and we're talking about cross the landed
frontier and the book is a long history
it's a three hundred year history that
covers the continental expansion across
the frontier across the United States
and then other vectors of expansion
military markets cultural political and
and it's hard to think of another
country that has has so come so
dependent on the promise of unlimited
growth in order to solve domestic
problems but also organize domestic
politics to kind of create a sense of
right and wrong to transcend
contradictions within political
constituencies foreign policy is has
been central to u.s. domestic politics
for for for a long long time
something that I argue isn't recognized
yeah all right well there's a lot there
that so let's let's just start with that
that notion of of why I mean is it as
simple because the United States is the
you know one of those rare I guess
countries that had because of the timing
in which it was was founded and the
amount of natural resources that it had
is that why that attitude is there or is
it simply because the founding itself
the idea of of you know crossing the
Atlantic I mean what why do you want in
the Atlantic yeah I think all of those
things I mean it's not one answer why
it's a bit over determined but certainly
the timing the relate to European
expansion Anglo expansion theological
debates and conflicts within
Protestantism between Protestantism and
Catholicism the way that those tensions
theological arguments get get played out
where the solution is understood to move
forward the settlers were either going
to open up a new front in old your
old-world battles or or the new world
provided a chance to start a new errand
into the wilderness to provide a model
of what of what a city on the hill look
like there's not there's there's many
different compulsions many different
things that moving forward certainly
material resources and and and the fact
that the continent was was was was was
understood to not not be held by a
sovereign power obviously the way Native
Americans right and that was and the
violence that was visited on Native
America's husband is part of the process
and part of the problem of expansion but
all of those reasons I think has to do
with the unique history of America and
what and what makes America exceptional
I mean I guess in some respects like you
know the the the first you know the the
the start the journey on the frontier
happened I guess when when they get on
the boats from from from Europe right
and yeah well even not from here from
Saxony relax in Germany Thomas Jefferson
three years before the Declaration of
Independence is very first political
track talked about the right to emigrate
the right to migrate to pull up stakes
you know and when Saxon freemen start
you know didn't want to submit to feudal
overlords they just moved over to the
Isles of Britain and then and then from
Britain to America so so the right to
migrate wasn't even was Jefferson it was
more than just a natural right it was
the condition of natural rights
it made Liberty possible because you
could just pull up stakes and and
escape tyranny and so is it was it was
per second you know Saxons from Europe
to Great Britain to the British Isles
and from the British Isles to the
Americas and then America West this was
before the Declaration of Independence
this was a foundational idea of the that
the ice that the right to movement and
in this case particularly to move West
was a foundation of what we call modern
political Liberty okay so let's all
right so let's when you when you talk
about the the idea of expansion being an
answer to domestic problems just for the
sake of you know and there's obviously
I'll you cover a lot of examples but
give us one so that folks can sort of
move from the conception to the sort of
the tale yeah on that yeah it's a it
seasons its you to easy to stay in the
abstract well one one example is there
was a lot of concern about granting
suffrage to nonprofit heed illiterate
white men what would happen if they
voted in socialism what would happen if
they stay out of majority vote and they
voted in some kind of class polity or
class politics so the ability to kind of
to give to use the land dispossessed by
Native Americans during an indigenous
Removal Indian Removal was key to
stopping that problem expanding suffrage
while not well not leading to while not
leading to a kind of socialist vote so
so you had Jacksonian doc democracy and
in hand and being absolutely dependent
on Indian Removal you had another very
concrete example is the the the regional
factionalism after the civil war between
north and south
that is transcended and overcome in the
war of 1898 the war 1898 is the way in
which southern Confederate former
Confederate sons and grandsons are
reincorporated into the US military
fully incorporated it started earlier
than that but but and and the the
mission to liberate Cuba from Spanish
Empire and the Philip
in the Spanish Empire from Spanish
medievalism was a way in which
southerners could could reclaim not just
a space within an expanding nation
through the military and through war but
claim the mantle of bringing democracy
to the world and they were able to
retranslate their Civil War that's the
session which was fought to defend
chattel slavery they were able to
reinterpret that as part of this long
crusade of bringing Liberty to the world
those are those are just two examples
but if you actually think about it
there's no progressive movement in the
United States moment that hasn't been
dependent on expansion I talked about
jacksonian democracy the civil war the
pacification of the West and the promise
of free land was key in building a loyal
Union Army the progressives who broke up
the Trust's were also interested in
breaking up the Spanish Empire the New
Deal was dependent on the expansion of
foreign markets and winning World War
two some suffragists voted traded their
support for World War one in exchange
for Wilson's support for the right of
women to vote so you can go down the
line and there has been a there is a
better way in which social reform and
the way that ruling coalition's use
social reform the established political
legitimacy and hegemony has been Oh has
been absolutely dependent on the ability
that to move out in the world now the
the the first example you gave of having
this uneducated you know uneducated
class of white essentially workers and
how are we going to prevent how we're
going to give them the vote but also
prevent their interests from being
misaligned with ours we're going to
co-opt them by giving them property and
on some level it sounds a little bit
like George Bush's ownership society as
it were but yeah but putting that aside
so that one it seems really explicit
right and it literally involves
physically you know physical expansion
the others involve expansion in terms of
you know
think what we could call now imperialism
how how is the United States unique in
in that sort of the second regard from
other imperialistic like how else would
may because obviously European countries
did not necessarily I mean I guess maybe
on some level this is what Hitler was
thinking in terms of trying to expand
Germany but European nations did not
have the opportunity to say like oh
we're gonna buy off part of our
population by giving them you know what
seems to be like a never ending this
amount of land that is uninhabited by
people that we consider to be people
right like yeah well there has been
there has been studies that looked at
what they call social imperialism that
the ability to use Empire colonialism to
buy off a working class in different
ways but what's unique about the United
States is one to deduct the denial of
colonialism right but it's an you know
it's an expansive power that became the
law of the the single most powerful
polity in world history while while
being able to credibly deny that it is
an empire or it is it is a colonial
power so there's a inbuilt denial
mechanism but there's also the kind of
concept of freedom which i think is very
unique to the United States right
there's a move across the west of
expanding a greater Liberty for for
white men by basically take putting down
people of color either to divert chattel
slavery their labor or taking their land
Native American or taking taking
territory for Mexico and then so moving
west and claiming a larger Liberty by
putting down people of color but then
defining that Liberty in opposition to
people of color
freedom was understood as freedom from
restraint and and I think that that's
one of the key things that are that's
that's particular to the United States
as self conception of itself right a
notion of individualism and freedom
defined as as a minimal state and
freedom from restraint and
that I think is one of the key things
that's different from maybe other
British colonial powers that developed a
more socialized they dealt more directly
with the labor question with the class
question with the social question by the
and the emergence of class politics and
social democratic politics which in the
United States has been has been long
action okay and so we have this this
this like sort of fundamental I guess
psychological it maybe is too reductive
but this this this character this this
national character that involves
expansion as a means in which to solve
problems at least you know domestic
problems and then once we run out of
literally run out of of of territory we
need to start to expand in terms of if
not in in capturing territory but in
capturing resources and hegemony around
the world and then once that becomes
sort of less more and more difficult to
do and I guess that that changes to from
it's less about ships and more about
maybe to some extent about ships but
less about ships and and Air Force is in
more about like capturing markets but at
one point that becomes it's just the
world is finite and so what happens is
it bounces back in on us is that
basically what happens back in and there
is there's different ways in which
expansion as yes of course the continent
and the idea of the frontier and the way
the frontier itself becomes a term
unique to the United States and becomes
a more of a state of mind and a site of
existential creation and the way that
then the word frontier is used to
discuss other forms of expansion be they
through wards the Philippines or market
expansion and there's been moments of
limits there's been other moments in
which the u.s. hits the wall so to speak
right this in some ways it's it's it's a
subjective wall their wisdom then the
Great Depression of the 1930s and the
emergence of the new
deal and then and in some ways the New
Deal was was very much steeped in a lot
of the kind of argumentation surrounding
the frontier piece see a lot of New Deal
thinkers understood the United States as
reaching the end of the frontier and
then so that they began to socialize
then they basically a fix the word
social on all of these old categories
social democracy social rights social
civilization social education social
medicine and so the there was a so
there's different ways of dealing with
hitting the hitting a wall and the New
Deal and the development of a kind of
new new ethos of social citizenship was
certainly part of the New Deal success
but then the u.s. also hit a wall in the
1970s with Vietnam and and the response
to and Vietnam and the energy crisis and
and and then the limits to growth and
all of that politics of scarcity that
emerged in that mid to late 1970s and
and the response then was reaganism was
was was was once again restoring a
notion of freedom as freedom from
restraint right so there was a and one
of reagan's energy advisers they asked
him what the agenda was you know in 1980
and he said the agenda is more more more
you know he's basically you know we're
going to respond to limits by pretending
there are no limits and pushing out with
and Reagan was successful in doing that
because he he couldn't push into the
third world there was economic
nationalists that could be rolled back
there was a you know he cut cut taxes
but then then jacked up military
spending and and restructured the
political economy of the United States
and that lasted for a while but now it
does seem we've hit another limit and
this one to me seems less subjective and
more more objective there's the endless
war there's the economic stuff but then
there's the environmental crisis which
seems to me not a matter of
interpretation but it seemed
to me really the end of the promise of
limitlessness so it so if I understand
this you know when they were looking at
in the New Deal they basically said we
were you know we found a new frontier
and that frontier is a new America where
we perceive we really socialized some of
these problems and we we enter into an
era where we as a society can tackle
things that we you know I did not as a
society had the awareness or the
strength or the courage to tackle as a
society in some ways right
yeah I think that that's absolutely
right I think to let a lot I mean
Franklin Delano Roosevelt took classes
with with free drew Jackson Turner
I got person who KU who basically
cobbled together what we know as the
frontier thesis and and Roosevelt was
unbelievably skilled at giving like a
two-minute pre-press ace of the frontier
thesis and then you know that US wealth
was based on expansion and being able to
move on and then you could just say you
know but those days are gone you know
and what four words you know he just he
just summed up a whole new political
universe you know a political positive
you know sense of possibility and
responsibility did did and that had a
certain durability as far as it went I
mean he we didn't travel quite as far
into that new frontier I think maybe as
some had hoped at that time but was
reagan's real in other words was you
know like like I say I don't know you
know people can argue about the
durability of the idea of the concept of
the New Deal
because it's sort of you know it's
remained in some ways static for a while
anyways but was reagan's
a real I mean I understand the sales
pitch which Reagan's are real a real
realignment well not just the alignment
but was there really a new frontier that
Reagan was uncovering or was it just
simply like I'm gonna plant every
question right I mean it's it's a it
depends you know it's a tense on what
level of
rotation you know one people would argue
I would argue that Clinton and Obama
were clearly working within the limits
and framework that reaganism set up
I mean reaganism was fundamentally
negative right it I mean it was it was a
new riot organized against against
prayer in school against
environmentalism against gay rights
again you know against abortion against
against a whole it was fundamentally
negative in nature but it also I think
it's I think Reagan success and
Reaganism successes that they were able
to turn that negativity into a positive
into what they imagined to be a positive
vision of freedom with because it had
such deep roots in American political
culture they freedom as freedom from
restraint right there is no government
mentality I think governments an
obstacle ourselves in government yeah so
I think I think it was I think it was
fundamentally negative in nature but I
think that that the success was that
that it was able that we that Reagan and
Reaganism was able to transform form it
into a positive ideology and a new
common sense that was still fighting to
to break out of in many ways in some
respects it was sort of like we're gonna
return to the old deal yeah they would
know what they were yeah they were they
would they were definitely going back to
the pre New Deal vision of freedom as
freedom from restraint as opposed to I
mean you know oh and it's not just FDR
but Rex Tugwell and Harry Wallace and
Francis Perkins they all drew on the
frontier thesis - aaghhh - basically
critique the frontier thesis and come up
with this and you know you know yes a
kind of unlimited frontier or believe in
unlimited they have created these realms
of political wealth and economic wealth
that were unprecedented but those days
are gone and we now have to kind of
create a new dose of social
responsibility and and they call
bureaucracy I mean that
oh the head the person who was put in
front of the National Recovery
administration that you know there was
eventually ruled unconstitutional but it
might have been the most radical aspect
of the New Deal he was a general you
Johnson he he called the NRA the new
frontier he was born in Oklahoma so he
knew what the open he knew what the real
frontier was he you know and and you
Johnson called the NRA the new frontier
this is this is the frontier now
government bureaucracy and he meant it
in a positive way right and we should
say the National Recovery administration
not not the all right so let's talk
about how it that brings us to the wall
and maybe we need to back up a little
bit at least temporarily because there
are the wall is I mean there are there
are sort of three elements to the
history of this right it's like how
immigrants and really I guess two
elements but maybe maybe three like the
immigrants and it sort of the
militarization of the border and the
idea of like we need some type of
structure there walk us through that
history of immigration and how it you
know interplays with that notion of
frontier well the there is there are
these multiple ways of thinking of how
we reach this moment there's politics of
border Brutalism and one of them is a
kind of bipartisan militarization and
criminalization of immigration and it
without going too thick into the weeds
we went from a system that was
relatively open where there was no
frontier I mean I'm sorry was no border
and Mexicans came seasonally to to work
in the southwest and and and and Midwest
cities and Los Angeles and New York to
increasingly that stream being divided
into a legal stream through guest worker
programs but asaro and and in a
criminalized stream and and the history
of the 20th century in some ways is the
growth of the criminalized stream and
the and and the the turning into a
trickle the the illegal stream and and
there's lots of different
suckers for this Mexico didn't have
quotas for a long time about how many
visas it could give out and quotas were
finally put on in 1965 but the but the
but this all goes into your point that
there was a kind of bipartisan
Republican and Democratic consensus or
policy towards militarization of the
border and was very much tied in with
NAFTA NAFTA signed but signed by rate
Clinton Bill Clinton into law in late
1993 went hand-in-hand with some of the
most exclusive growth of the border
patrol and and and the militarization of
the border there's that there's that
history but then there's also the
history of the kind of more explicit
nativism that that comes out of the
country's history of white supremacy and
how the border for even as the frontier
was being held up as this venue in which
the United States becomes more liberal
moves out into the world is the symbol
of a threshold into the future the
border was concentrating a lot of the
racist violence obviously there was
racism and Jim Crow laws in other other
places in the United States but one
certainly one lime one axes of racist
violence was the border with Mexico and
the KKK in the 1920s
then again the KKK in the 1970s a lot of
the lot of the kind of radicalization
and and extremism that happens in war
when veterans came back radicalized to
the right would would find release on
the border or expression on the border
my argument is that that was that has
long relatively been contained to the
border itself but what trumpism
you see a kind of explosion of that of
nationalization of that border brutality
before we get to that that that
nationalization of the border betrayal
brutality is it is that is that like the
flip side of the frontier in the sense
that like
if the idea is that we want this
ever-increasing pie and we've got to go
different places to find it and when
sometimes we've got to invent a new pie
as it were that the idea of of
immigrants and immigration they start
nibbling away at the pie and make it
harder for us to you know sort of claim
that it's ever-increasing yeah
absolutely I mean the the the that's
that's the opposition of polarity that
I'm trying for in the book I mean the
frontier is always at the same time a
border even if it's not talked about
it's a border but that you know the
boredom and and but then the frontier
itself becomes the symbol of
multilateral universalism the idea of
endless growth the idea that that um
that you know of a certain kind of
liberal universalism that everybody can
sit at the table that all boats can be
lifted that um that you can organize
politics and and of course this is
there's some truth to this the Unites
States after World War two does organize
an unprecedented becomes an
unprecedented world power in which it
did it economically develops the people
that the countries had it conquered and
defeated with the idea that you're going
to expand capitalism and the United
States will will benefit from that
expansion but at the same time the
border is you know there's different
expressions of nativist racism in the
United States but one of them is
certainly directed towards Mexicans and
and the board but the border doesn't
necessarily become a nationalized symbol
of the opposite of frontier universalism
until recently but but but it has been
that's exactly the tension Trump what
Trump says is there there isn't enough
to go around we have to take care of our
own it's a it's a kind of return to what
some people call a race realism that
that that has long current deep currents
in u.s. political culture but has always
remained marginal or marginalized and
and now we've seen it and we could talk
about why but it's become nationalized
and Trump isn't well yeah let's talk
about why because that I'd also like to
talk about like you know what kind of
what that suggests in terms of what kind
of language can can can
recreate I mean if we're stuck in this
paradigm that that Americans need to
have this sense and maybe I guess we saw
it like you know with space to on some
level right but this this paradigm that
Americans really have to have this sense
that there is a frontier for them even
if it's you know sort of a metaphorical
one but why has that happened I mean
what what what what do you think has led
to that sort of to what Trump has been
able to sort of either tap into or
promote well it goes back to the
question of Reagan and how Reaganism was
a restoration of an old ethos of
limitlessness and and and the way that
you know that reaganism continued in
different political projects whether it
be neoliberal some people call
neoliberalism or some people call
neoconservative ism and emphasis on
militarism but in in any case those
projects are exhausted the end of the
kind of sense that the US can use its
military to remake not just we make the
world but but that remaking itself would
provide moral purpose that the you know
the mission was sanctified I think
reached its limit with Iraq right
Afghanistan and Iraq and and and not
just the financially draining endless
war that the United States thrust itself
into but the but the morally
discrediting you know that there was in
the book I kind of indexed the rise of
border militia movements to Al bougar
aid right mr. omelette on you know just
when the whole kind of project is
revealed to be a sham and and and a
fraud on a on a staggering level I think
another kind of limit is the economic
model the the neoliberal model 2008 was
the financial crisis and and Ike and
then and was supposedly in a recovery
but it's a perverse recoveries
stockpiled wealth and revealed
inequality and and and social in
mobility and and so there's so in both
of the whether its markets or militarism
the promise of endless growth can no
could be used to kind of organize
domestic politics and then hovering over
all of this is that is climate
catastrophe I mean the the literally the
frontier is on fire the the large
enormous swaths of the West are burning
insects are disappearing and bats are
disappearing on record numbers the ocean
is a sort of high I think I think I
think that the the real limit that
hovers over over this is is is the
climate crisis and and and and and
that's why I said well you know some of
these other moments of limits were maybe
more subjective or or where we seem but
we seem to be you know in a moment where
where there's no going back to that
promise of limitlessness as a way to
respond to social social problems so so
if if I understand this it's almost like
we don't have the opportunity for growth
alright I mean usually like as a
metaphor is like I can't increase my
income but I can I can I can increase my
savings and if I spend it you know
expending in this way and some level
there's this perception that immigration
is some type of expenditure of of you
know our our bodily fluids our precious
bodily fluid yeah yeah so it's tempting
to see the wall is some kind of
disenchantment of the myth right like it
that that it's a better reflection of
the way the world works
there really are limits and the wall is
saying that there are limits and not
just that there are limits there that
you can't use the promise of
limitlessness as a promise for domestic
politics so the wall is a recognition
that we that that that not everybody
will rise up not everybody will sit at
the table that we have to take care of
our own but I think that that's only
half of the story I think the wall is
its own form of Enchantment right
because because it's it's it's it's a
it's it's it's a kind of gift sanction
to the kind of petulant cruelty and
hedonism that is trumpism right I mean
you know there's a lot of symbols of
this role
we're all in coal you know the idea of
just like yeah they're - in the face of
the other of the climate crisis which to
me represents a true universalism we
really are all in this together the
response is you know I'm gonna do
whatever I want you know we're gonna
build a wall and then we're gonna and
and and and then with and and then we're
gonna engage in these acts of cruelty
and and and hedonistic displays of
brutality whether it be against my
migrant children or families I mean
there's lots of different ways in which
Trump the cruelty the cultural cruel
cruelty of Trump is on display but I
would argue that yes it's against
migrants and particularly against
Mexican and Central migrants that it's
that it's that it's most consistent and
most spectacular in a way so it's like
it's fascinating because it you know
it's it's rare you stop to think about
like you know why why does the wall and
I guess is what you've done but why does
the wall why is it so interesting like
what's the material benefit that the
wall gives to its most ardent supporters
and it sort of feels like the wall and
all of what you're talking about this
sort of like cruelty and brutality
almost gives that same feeling as that
you know classic I've got elbow room
here you know and you know an endless
sky type of situation yeah yeah I mean
you know going back to the days when the
when the Puritans arrived like a sense
of aloneness and independence is only
predicated on genocide and the
elimination of the people already there
so there there's a long history of this
but but yes I think the wall is I think
what is so fascinating about the wall is
the way it is its exact opposite of the
frontier I think it taps deep into these
these cultural symbols and mythologies
of the US politics and any end and in
some ways that when
you know I know a little while ago there
was there was some talk in the media
that out Trump just stumbled on the wall
they you you know his advisers told them
to use it as a as or just a way of
remembering something I mean I think
that under cells the resonance and the
way it resonates within this within
within this this kind of nativist
traditions which again have always been
present the United States is an
expansive expanding settler colonial
nation founded on slavery and genocide
so all of that violence is always there
but but my argument is that ongoing
expansion has a lack the kept kept it on
the margins kept it at the border so to
speak and now what we're seeing is is
you know now that it can no longer be
kept at the book you know no longer the
violence can no longer be kept on the
fringes has now kind of the
all-consuming you know consuming
consuming national politics and
attention
Greg Grandin the book is the end of the
myth from the frontier to the border
wall in the mind of America it's
fascinating stuff thanks so much for
your time today I really appreciate it
thank you so much for having me I
appreciate it have a nice day you too
all right folks that is all the time for
our first and free half of our program
some frontier thesis yes fascinating
that there's that again that paradox
where you would imagine a wall is the
opposite of the frontier but it provides
sort of the the subtext carries through
folks speaking of the final frontier
that is we have we have hit a frontier
of sorts or the end of the frontier for
some of you for others I can offer an
expansive frontier some of you are going
to hit the wall pretty some of you are
about to hit the wall but some of you
will continue with us on to the fun half
you can join those in this new frontier
by going to join the majority report
comm join the majority report calm for
just pennies a day you can join us in
this new world called the fun half who
wouldn't want to live there and the fun
where it's fun all the time and it's not
even settler colonial no no it's there's
no it's it's internet time so it's it's
completely it really is untrue versed
also just coffee co-op fear trade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off a great company
really care about the farms that provide
them with coffee in a way that I don't
think any other coffee roaster can or
does and not to mention it's great
coffee so use the coupon code majority
good just coffee dot co-op Co Opie
tomorrow night if Michael recovers
there'll be the Michael Brooks show this
is always you never know he always
manages to recover by Tuesday it's
interesting it's like yeah exactly it's
the Michael Jordan flu game yeah that's
really weird really weird but and you
can check out the anti fada I imagine
they're still the podcasts are still up
just by the fact that they are out of
the country and Matt decides show up
work in person plug gigs there you go
literary hangover we did a short story
by a Nathaniel Hawthorne called
Wakefield we listen to the full thing
it's about a guy who decides to leave
his wife one day and moves across the
street so he can just watch her react to
his absence over the course of 20 years
and Wow that's fascinating tele just
disappear well most I guess I I'll just
spoil it he does return well no but I'm
saying did he tell her one oh no he said
I'll be back Friday and he just blew
right
by that Friday and then the went out to
get cigarettes 20 years already Wow and
he moved across the Avenue yeah he
wanted to be able to see her and there
was at one point where he's like looks
like she's really taking this hard and
there's like a doctor that comes and and
then she recovers from that and starts
going on with her life oh good for her
and this guy's just skulking around the
neighborhood I guess not to be seen yeah
exactly
Jesus sounds like fun
all right six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty is the number see you
in the fun half all right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
and the alpha males are just wanna
degrade the white man alpha males are
back back I take all of the device from
alpha males are back back back
almost has one
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg banner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation these you dance well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough with a break that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males are like almost says what
what watch watch watch watch watch
[Music]
on the back
[Music]
on the back
the back
back have you tried doing an impression
on a college campus I think that there's
no reason why it reasonable people
across the divide can't all agree with
this psych
[Music]
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis
keeping it 100
not the birthday to meet you boy I have
a spotting span of tinfoil and the alpha
males are black black alpha males
something needs to pay the price around
here we are back Sam cedar on the
majority of part it is the fun half
ladies and gentlemen the fun half indeed
let's go right to this it's breaking
folks John Hickenlooper Hickenlooper
former Democratic governor of Colorado
former governor of Colorado Rays he's
former governor right yes he
I think his his jumping into this
election proves my point that the that
we're talking about like a very very low
cost low barred entry here there's
something going on with the phones okay
and he's either looking for somebody to
be somebody's I guess VP although I
don't know why someone would pick him as
VP but Booker Hickenlooper 2020 yeah I
guess in a in it but here he is it is it
is shocking to me I mean this is
genuinely shocking I mean this is almost
like this is almost like the most
radical thing I've seen in this election
right that somebody could actually say
this on national television and not be
laughed off the stage at this point I
almost think like this is almost like
criminal behavior if you're like you're
a Democrat even to if we had speech laws
in this country
right this is the type of speech that I
think should actually be made illegal
here is Hickenlooper he's on what is it
the this week was stuff this week is
Stephanopoulos
here is his prescription here is what he
is picking up on what's going on in the
country now let's let's put some meat on
the bones your elected president you
come in Mitch McConnell Republican Mitch
McConnell still the head of the Senate
they still have majority what's the
first thing you do with him
what can you work on together well you
know just like anybody people are
responsive to people that they think
respect them and they feel heard I
learned this in the restaurant business
when someone's angry you don't you know
fight back on them or argue with them
you repeat back their words and if Mitch
McConnell cut if I got came into when I
come into office I would go to Mitch
McConnell to his office and I would sit
down with him and say now then what is
the issue again and we would talk and I
would continue to speak back to him
sounds silly right but this works this
is what I did with the suburban mayors
and they hated the city of Denver you go
to any metropolitan area in the country
the arguments between the big city mayor
and the suburban mayors they're almost
endless we're the one place where this
has got gotten done and I think it would
work in Washington then this is such
sheer insanity and now I know there's a
market for this from people who don't
follow politics and aren't aware that
Mitch McConnell made it his lifelong
mission on day one to make sure that
Obama did not get reelected literally
said this fine that's your I certainly
been working to make sure that Donald
Trump doesn't get it reelected that
Mitch McConnell who was willing to
essentially destroy the Senate so that
Trump would get elected in 2016 the the
naivete I mean if he believes it if he
doesn't believe it then you know he's
just an all an outlier but I mean to
actually believe that the problem is
somebody hasn't sit down with Mitch
McConnell and not called them names or
overheard yeah Barack Obama really just
that being of a guy I'm gonna get in
there and I'm gonna listen to Mitch
McConnell's feelings I mean I thank you
for validating my feeling
I feel heard I guess well you can have
that Supreme Court pick back what were
we talking about Supreme Court listen
you guys can I have Clarence Thomas cuz
I feel like I've been listened to today
Hickam Hickenlooper sits down with
mcconnell mcconnell just breaks into
tears you're the first person who's ever
come here and call me Mitch let's hug it
out he goes to take a selfie with him
and Mitch starts crying because no one's
ever asked him for a self first person
to take a picture of me not ironically
I'm a composer oh my god I just can't
believe is he a millionaire yeah he has
a successful chain okay
Kraft buried was like wait a second who
is working on his campaign that is
telling him this is he must have a lot
of just his own money he must be
self-financing something and then boom
that's it of course
yeah he's telling us the worst story to
our friend Howard Schultz Brendon this
is a new I don't think it's new but it's
a subcategory that I've been enjoying
this time around is businessperson
getting in and telling them how their
business practice will be the best way
to deal with government because I want
like a weird business person getting
there I want like a like a cattle farmer
to get in there and be like well you see
when I I have the cow I want to stick my
hand in its ass its grab on to the
organs that's what I'm gonna do with it
yeah government's just like a restaurant
or maybe government's like coffee shop
he honestly the if if I leave this show
like the other job that I feel like I
want would be go to really wealthy
people and tell them they should be
President and that I'm the guy who can
make it happen
just and see if I could last like six
months just going like yeah just I mean
I you know what the best part about this
would be if Steve Schmidt is also
working for him too because at that
point you double-dip
called from a two four zero area code
who's this where he come from Lou this
is a problem hold on let me see let me
try that again it doesn't sound very
good does it
it's on the fritz it's like I'm a
functioning robot let's try it one more
time here
what was it I say he went down to the
bottom two four zero come from a two
four zero area cut who's this two four
zero two four zero we may have a problem
with our phones call from a 9:04 area
code who's this hey uh we may not have
phone used today folks
I know Kyle's been working on thank you
for calling in to the majority report
that sounds alright Sam we'll be with
you shortly
bear with us one more second folks all
right let's see here calling from a two
four zero area code who's this where you
calling from
can you hear me no yes okay we're back
who's this where you come from
hi veto from Maryland's veto from
Maryland what's on your mind beat up so
um I've been thinking what was wondering
if you've heard of this there's this guy
I guess he's running for president
Andrew yang Oh and vaguely I think I'm
not sure but yeah so
one of the things that he's proposing I
guess is this idea of universal basic
income right and and so I guess the idea
is people would get $1,000 a month and
anybody between the ages of 18 and 64 we
get $1,000 per month he says this would
be paid for using a value-added tax and
I always I always thought a value-added
tax in other words he's basically what
he's saying is it's similar to what they
do in Alaska in other words everybody in
Alaska gets a check based on the oil
revenue and since and the rest of us
should get a sort of a dividend check
based on technological mechanization
changes you know from corporate you know
corporations like Amazon or Apple or you
know Google but my my question is I'm
not sure how that would apply to a
company like Amazon when really they
don't really add any value anywhere
along the line I think they just have a
platform for people to sell things right
I don't really understand how a
value-added tax would be well first of
all I don't know what a value-added tax
has to do with the dividend from from
from fossil fuel exploration up in
Alaska but my understanding of a
value-added tax is that it's basically a
consumption tax and that it's pretty
regressive is my I haven't you know for
a while there was talk about it and I
think I had read in on it then but
that's what I recall about it I you know
a ubi I think is okay if somebody was to
just drop it on us but my fear would be
that it would come at the expense of of
like of
other supports
Jers and other programs that the
government runs that's what that's my
concern if somebody just you know
dropped it in I would be I think fine
with it broadly speaking but there are
you know automatic economic stabilizers
that are still super important and you
know so that I mean that's my my sense I
I don't I'm not sure I follow the the
value-added tax scheme that he's talking
about I'm not sure but I'll look into it
but did you have a a point beyond that
no I just was you know my understanding
of value-added tax was always that for
example lumber is sold say to a
furniture manufacturer at $50 right and
then if that's whatever place they sell
if they pay 50 and they settle to the
furniture company for 100 and the
value-added tax would be on the $50
profit on that like the stepped-up basis
I guess the tax I'm right I just right
right but I just I don't see how that
would apply to the to the tech industry
the way it does does with anything else
I don't know
anyway I'm not sure if you get it if you
get a chance to look into that I want to
look into that give me let me you know
thanks me too I appreciate it all right
I mean I suppose I could see like you
could calculate the value added tax by
some type of sell-through rate I have no
idea I really don't but I will maybe
look into it come from a 509 area code
who's this where you come from
Hey look at you always calling in early
these days Ronald Reagan 10 myth there
with the phone system for a second but
you guys figure it out so good for you
thank you hey you guys played a clip of
Van Jones I'm Freddie
oh yeah we did and you kind of yeah you
talked right over the the punchline he
said I've never seen a bird fly with
just a right wing or left wing not even
in Berkeley right get it yeah no I get
it cuz Berkeley so left-leaning that
even their birds compute even their
birds need two wings
people laughed really hard like that
loud at that and I guess this is what
you and Andy are always talking about
what I do
they don't understand it's not a joke it
doesn't make any sense like what is
wrong with their their brains but Regan
haven't you ever been in like a date a
church and like the priest is trying to
be funny and he obviously is telling
jokes even though they're not funny
everybody laughs just because it's like
example of what you're talking about
first of all there's two types of people
who are gonna get laughs at CPAC okay
one is a lefty who's ostensibly owning
or not sensible lefty who's ostensibly
owning the the the left right and that's
by you know saying San Francisco values
or Berkeley values right that's what
that joke was and then there's another
and that is somebody who is just there's
just so much sick sick sick of fan tree
there that they laughed at anything
Ronald Reagan I give you Donald Trump
jr. on a panel with Charlie Kirk what
said Donald Trump Jr's girlfriend's name
Kim Gilfoyle oh yeah Kim Gilfoyle she's
off a fox now right and who is the other
woman there's Jerry Falwell and do we
think it's Jerry follow his wife Jerry
Falwell and Jerry Falwell wife now no
mention of that cabana boy right
wasn't that cabana boy there's there's a
settlement there I believe oh there's a
settlement so they're not lies no what
they're laughing about okay okay I just
want to be clear and here is the joke
that Donald Trump jr. tells this is
careful buddy do you don't want to hurt
yourself three weeks ago tomorrow we had
our second granddaughter
and like I said a few weeks ago yeah and
her name is Reagan how presidential is
that beautiful Reagan Elise I lobbied
for Trump but it was a little too soon
maybe so Trump is not the most feminine
name that we could make it the liberal
playbook it doesn't matter you know it
doesn't matter we can identify how we
want oh by the way she is a daughter
she's our granddaughter she's a and
we're raising her as a girl she's
outraged tomorrow that you decided for
God God makes the choice of what the
babies are gonna be and God decided she
would be a girl you don't have to raise
them as a girl she just got a little
baby doll right there are every second
when my boys always have guns in their
hands we didn't that's not something
hashtag me too that's not something you
teach as far as those cows you mentioned
I've got a hundred cows
you just letter Alexandria Cortez show
up in my house and try to take my cows
away yes I love cows Jerry they're
delicious first off let me just go cool
let me exactly let me just sort of like
I have to say this because I'm just sort
of amazed at the just sort of like how
rotten to the core these people are like
that in some way they're amused by sort
of mocking people who are struggling
with you know with establishing their
their gender identity like she's sort of
like this sort of it's literally like
some like first graders in like 1972 it
feels like you sort of like just so you
know just the cruelty of being a child
but just the ignorance that came you
know just yeah total ignorance this is
the comedy equivalent of like pointing a
laser pointer in someone's eye yeah yeah
Don junior you know he get
yeah it feels like all of us have it's
kind of like having a political
convention after a long game of
telephone where they don't actually know
anything but it like the issues have
been explained over and over again in
sort of a superficial way like through
20 different people and then the people
on the very end of that are the ones
that go and talk about these things at
the convention so like Alexandria
caudillo Cortez wants to take away my
cows you know I'm going to murder her
with my gun as if that even remotely
close to reality but hey I wanted ask
you real quick what's your take on
Michael Jackson total molester right uh
you know my understanding is that he
yeah that there was some issues but I
haven't watched as the the documentary
come out yet what is going what is what
is the newest news about this I think
part one came out last night right yeah
and there's a lawsuit ongoing yeah I
didn't see it I'm gonna watch it tonight
but but I mean my sense is is it was
Hegel problem like wacko Jacko right
right yeah no wacko Jacko is weird
yeah alright appreciate the call all
right thanks let's go to some IMS here
stiff okay something's terribly wrong
with the audio on the phone line I think
we got that fixed Fram from Philadelphia
Sam if you read Doug Henwood critique of
mmt and jet and Jacobin you know what I
have not I have pulled it I have it I am
tend to read it
Winnipeg Craig Sam if you don't stop
wasting money on s'mores pop-tarts for
Matt and Brendan I'm canceling my
membership
those are Matt's I would never eat those
oh why do you have like oh yeah
pop-tarts Matt there's s'mores pop-tarts
there we should actually like create
like a little just area-specific shrine
you're the garbage that you're eating
for breakfast that day like like
pop-tarts are actually at least like a
genre of Records for cereal exact
they're horrible but usually it's like a
candy bar or M&Ms or something like that
Snickers is borderline I feel like you
eat much worse than when you started
here that's possible baked filled Sam
Matt is it possible that Michaels at a
podcast studio across the street high as
a kite watching the show to see how you
get on without JJ cool hey Sam what do
you think of the moneyed interests of
the Democratic Party have a strategy to
upset the the Bernie campaign by
targeting very specific areas of his
platform on a macro level Bernie's
platform would bring structural change
that is unmatched by any challenger
instead you have different candidates or
commentators drilled down into things
like reparations gun control costs etc
basically death by a thousand cuts if
you will I mean it's fascinating to me
to see the fervor in which people are
want to know Bernie's reparations plan
and I mean I think he's probably got to
come up with a more sufficient answer
but just because that seems to be
attacked but I don't think it's hugely
relevant I mean this happened yesterday
and you know look III think there may be
a little bit too much made of the
nefarious nature of this but the problem
is is that and it is the case MSNBC I
don't know that there's a contributor on
staff who is more Bernie friendly than I
maybe there is but I'm not aware of them
and for the most part there are people
who come off of campaigns I've never
done that so I don't have any sort of
like you know pre stated bias or I
should say you know professional bias
let's put it that way
and Zerlina is a perfect
a nice person and but I think I think
like MSNBC owes it to its viewers to
offer full disclosure as to where people
are if they are predisposed and and also
if you make a mistake that's
particularly that's this blatant you
should fix it and and here is Lena
Maxwell on on MSNBC saying that that
Bernie speech about at his opening rally
lacked any reference to race or gender
except for 23 minutes in and here it is
but we did broadcast I know but but look
um there were a couple times that you
had a couple I rose and just explained
explain your thoughts as you were
listening to Bernie Sanders look I work
for Hillary Clinton so I have a lot are
you going in that was it right there
buzzer so I mean at least okay so at
least there's that full disclosure
upfront right I worked for Hillary
Clinton good right there Bernie Sanders
but you know to be very serious about it
I clocked it he did not mention race or
gender until 23 minutes into the speech
and just for point of comparison I went
back and looked at Elizabeth Warren's
opening speech for example she mentions
race and discrimination in the first
paragraph so that's a big difference and
as somebody who is a black woman knowing
that black women are going to be a core
constituency for any Democrat who hopes
to win the nomination I was looking to
hear messaging specifically from my
community and I did not at least until
23 minutes into the speech a lot of what
Bernie Sanders is said today we've heard
before right his economic messaging we I
could probably quote it to you Alex but
I think that what was missing was sort
of a building upon that economic message
where he's fully understanding that
those economic that those economic
messages intersect with other policy
problems that people of color and women
have to deal with and so until he comes
up with specifics in terms of policy to
address those issues I think that he's
still going to have a problem in this
crowded field and
kradic primary that's going to rely on
that those constituencies I do think
that the message obviously resonates
with a large swath of the Democratic
primary electorate and I think that
they're it's not taking anything away
from Bernie Sanders there are a lot of
people that support Bernie Sanders the
problem for him is that that message was
not enough in terms of the math to win
the last time and he has not tweaked it
to win over voters that he needed and
that he will need in 2020 right now I
think
Serleena has a very good point and even
a better one if it was true now I want
you to think about issues of of race and
and look it's his first speech he didn't
lay out any specific proposals on
anything really right
I mean people rarely do in in in that
opening speech it's just not where you
start to go through a litany of specific
detailed proposals but what would be the
issue sets that are involved in
particular in terms of race things like
maybe criminal justice reform things
like voting rights
incidentally Bernie went to Selma the
next day I think there may have been one
or two other candidates there preceding
Bernie was representative Terry
Alexander was Jean King and Nina Turner
three speakers african-americans all and
there was also a guy from one of the the
Pennsylvania strikers a union guy within
the first three minutes he talked about
criminal justice reform in six minutes
he talked about fighting Trump's sexism
and racism in 13 minutes he talked about
mass incarceration and that first
sentence really I mean you know you got
a couple of minutes up front of like
thank you for being here
I'm happy to be here I greet you know I
went to college here he literally went
to college there that type of stuff but
as soon as he starts talking about any
substance the first thing I have his
mouth is about sexism and racism and he
says you know we have this inequality
and it's not just income it's not just
in terms of economics it's in terms of
and no you could say it wasn't
sufficient but to add that level of
specificity and to have clearly not
listed to begin it's what happened you
got to come out and apologize and I
think she did on Twitter but it was
still it was still sort of like well but
the I don't really consider criminal
justice reform to be a racial issue it's
a very narrow definition of racial
issues and all he said was sexism and
racism like I don't you know this was
sprinkle throughout his speech and I
think in a very conscious way because he
did this was a deficit for him in 2016
he started his campaign not thinking he
was running for president but thinking
he was only going to message on the
issues of wealth inequality and the
plutocracy and how it impacts our
elections and then it was very hard for
him to pivot as his election went on and
so I think her critique I mean in terms
of like what he needs to do in this
campaign is correct but I don't know
that for sure Lena in particular that
he's ever going to be able to achieve
that bar because they may not be
listening closely enough to him and she
wrote back ivory watch since yesterday
and while I can acknowledge that I
missed some missed the passing line at
six minutes I mean I don't know what the
difference is between the first sort of
substance of remarks that you have
outside of and it being a passing line
it was a passing line because she passed
it I stand by my point since talking
about criminal justice is not the same
thing as talking about race and gender
and if you don't get why Bernie won't
win again
I mean it's just not the the case
he said sexism and racism so I think
there are legitimate critiques that
Bernie needs to continue to work on this
but frankly when you when you make those
kind of critiques and they're not
legitimate you hurt your own cause and I
think you know in this instance
certainly in his cause is doesn't want
Bernie to win the primary and you know I
understand that there are people I don't
know who they're leaning supports but
there are people that I would prefer not
win the primary - you just gotta be
careful about what you attribute to them
let's go back to the Iams here water
boat from Kashmir good afternoon
majority report thank you for an amazing
show you guys do every day your
integrity is what I have find attractive
even when on a remote occasion I
disagree with you you have helped me
remain sane and seriously actually
helped my mental health I'm sure I'm not
the only one thank you I can't justify
becoming a member yet even though I work
I am in school but you will have a new
member in 15 months I live on coffee
these days and I find that just coffee
is actually cheaper than buying coffee
outside I recommend cold brewing saves
time and ton of money yeah we should get
some cold brew going in here that's what
I want to do cuz I don't like that too
hot coffee we can do that let's do that
thank you and as a reminder if you are a
member or you want to be a member and
you have troubling affording a
membership send us an email at majority
reporters at gmail.com we will hook you
up
no one is locked out because of cash
JB it's pronounced John frakkin lover
Cory 11 hi Sam Hickenlooper is a great
name for a quirky shop owner from a
musical in the early 50s
Denver Dave Hickenlooper running for
cabinet office DOL Department of
Education or Department of Commerce
maybe EPA to keep fracking safe for
militant centrist party jeffrey one will
super Hickenlooper a next state trooper
admit he drove a Mini Cooper
Haim and gate what do you think about
Bernie's federal job guarantee plan yeah
I mean that's actually I think a big
deal I need to dig more into it he
mentioned it I I think it's huge I think
it'd be helpful I think we need a
tremendous amount of improvement of our
infrastructure and I and I mean that in
the broadest of sense and what better
way then paying for it paying workers to
to build it and build it out bullfrog
the trope against millennial snowflakes
needing a participation trophy meets its
match with the story of trumps Nobel
Prize nomination being forged I will
check that out and I'm the free-speech
stuff they're always on is just
participation trophy but for speech like
everybody's take right it's racism sure
right right right
human brain a while ago I seem to
remember there was a libertarian study
about the effect of regulation on
business economy showing pretty much
none do you all recall what it was I've
been chipping away at that one of my
good friends to bring him back to
reality love y'all please continue doing
what you do or I may have to cancel my
membership also Andrew yang did an AMA
on reddit the other day maybe a good for
y'all to get the gist of his ideas I
don't think he has much viability as a
candidate sap Gorkhas business card Sam
last week you said there was no momentum
for Klobuchar I would argue there's a
lot of momentum in the binder flying
towards her interns Bo FET didn't a OC
and some other Congress people to do
that but Mitch was on the lam and some
flophouse somewhere I guess that was to
go by I come from an eight for seven
area code who's this where he called
from hey Josh from Chicago what's up
Josh oh hi Sam I've missed you oh well
I've missed you Josh it's great to hear
from you I know I really I want to
actually talk about the Bernie that
common on MSNBC and also I was at the
Bernie rally I was too I don't see you I
was onstage actually not that I'm a big
deal or anything well excuse me yeah
national TV I mean I thought his speech
was really good I think he did talk
about race and I think what the person
MSNBC said she was clearly shifting like
moving the goalposts and she clearly is
someone who won't vote for a Bernie but
you know everyone can decide who they
want to vote for um my thing is on this
and I again like a lot of what he said
in a speech and also in his Chicago
speech I think he talked about race and
also housing stuff in a really good way
that will be effective in a place like
New York I do think we especially as
white Bernie supporters should make an
effort to be a little less defensive
when people of color have actual
criticisms of Bernie when he talks about
race I agree I mean I think that will
help us well I think listen you know and
I've been saying this in for for
two-and-a-half years since the the BLM
folks you know went on stage at Netroots
nation that Bernie needs to to learn to
talk about these things in a more
inclusive way that I think is in some
respects you know maybe generational
he's not as sensitive to it but I also
think in terms of the from Vermont in
the language but I mean he has a long
history in the civil rights movement and
and I think he and I think he's doing
better and I think he's got to do better
but I mean I certainly certainly
walking the walk
you know and and I think he's definitely
trying so and you know I mean I think
but I agree with you I think there's got
to be a lot less defensive nough sebat
it because you know it's okay to concede
that he has work to do there and can do
it because I think the idea is that you
know he's earnest and and certainly the
policies he's talking about are going to
help but he seems also to be aware that
it's not there's not just an economic
solution to the problem of race and
sexism in our society yeah and I and I
think I'm the thing that I the reason
why I bring that up in particular is
because I noticed a lot of people
criticizing mark Lamont Hill who is
sometimes criticized Bernie and I think
one of the things that we have to
realize is that there are some people
like black people who might be undecided
who might think oh that was a little
insensitive of Bernie or he's not
talking about race in specific way and
we just heard when we get defensive we
turn these people off from voting for
him and it's also one thing to get that
defensive about it Frank yeah in
addition to it it being unhelpful it's
also just wrong right like the you know
I'm sure there are some white people
that exist that have a full awareness of
you know of all they need to understand
in terms of race and I'm sure there are
some men who have a full awareness of
all they need to understand in terms of
the experience of women in this country
and I don't know them and and I'm
certainly not one of them and they're so
few unless that they all are you know
they're the only people on Twitter then
we shouldn't hear from them people
should should keep an open mind to this
stuff that's important you know outside
of the context
of of the race just in general first
reaction should not be defensive miss it
should absolutely um
okay I also just make a quick point and
did you read the Cynthia Nixon op-ed
that she wrote no because you're talking
about Hickenlooper who I think is a joke
but he's he's talking about the
bipartisanship she wrote this against
Joe Biden comment he made about calling
like decent guys yeah but there's
something in there I'm just gonna quote
directly and I think there's also
directly about what you're talking about
how the foolishness of bipartisanship
the problem in legitimizing an agenda is
legitimizing the agenda of hateful
discrimination and she says basically
there's a sense among genteel Washington
that partisanship is routing borscht
when you're fighting for the rights of
marginalized communities are under
attack it's okay to stop being polite
this is not a time for hollow civility
she didn't she was talking about Biden
but particularly this is the message
that resonates with people and not the
Hickenlooper over the world and the
Biden's of the world unite and I think
she nailed it in that article and there
was a jerk response offense but it's
kind of what we've all been saying for
years that the Republican Party is just
a racist party and there's no point
trying to find common ground with them
well I I mean I'm stuff you can't find
on yeah exactly I appreciate the call
Josh calling from a 9:04 area code who's
this where he calling from 9:04 hey Sam
this is Adam from Florida hello Adam
what's on your mind well first off I
just want to say I called in last week
and spoke to Michael about the
differences between Sanders and Warren
on their idea of the filibuster and I
was glad to see that you also did a
second I think is a the next day kind of
giving your two cents so I was happy to
hear that
um my real question today is is about
this national emergency nonsense that's
going on right now right you know before
that you know before Trump actually
officially declared the national
emergency people were saying you know
that a positive side effect could be
that a Democratic president could
declare a national emergency on
something real like climate change right
I didn't really understand why like a
president Bernie would need to have a
precedent set in order to do that but
like I guess that nation of funds that
is the issue here right it's one thing
to celebrate I can declare a national
emergency but the other is is like that
I can declare it in such a way that I
now have authority to re-appropriate
funds that Congress has not well there's
there's two different levels to this
right it's one thing as if Congress
hasn't even addressed it we've never
taken up the question of and we haven't
specifically not funded climate change
or whatever it is in this instance
Congress specifically took up the
question of funding the wall and decided
not to and so the the president is
saying that we have a national emergency
and then you have a couple of questions
there like is this really a national
emergency even if it was is it is it
appropriate to reauthorize funds in this
in this manner reappropriation sin this
manner
specifically when Congress has basically
determined it's not a national emergency
right like there's no even the argument
would be really hard like there's been
there's no material difference between
the day that Congress voted against
funding the wall and the day that Trump
said we have a national emergency so I'm
going to re-appropriate funds to fund
the wall there's no material difference
not like Oh last week they voted against
building a seawall for New York and this
week a huge
storm surge you know put half of New
York under water right like there's not
that situation here so that's why you
need that precedent on some level that
to be set for having such a low bar and
not just a low bar but bar that runs
contrary to what Congress has actually
decided on this very issue yeah okay
yeah that makes sense but now like on
the on the idea of precedent setting uh
I'm a little worried now that we have
all these politicians come together to I
mean like that that whole idea kind of
got me on the bandwagon of like okay
screw it give the guy his national
emergency so that we can do something
real I mean I wouldn't know I wouldn't
invest too much in Democrats doing that
I mean the you know they're you know the
idea that you have some Democratic
senators who were like we should
reestablish the filibuster for Supreme
Court justice is right after this is
just insane that's the natural tendency
of a Democratic lawmaker and I imagine
this is going to get tied up in the
courts but so I don't know I wouldn't
invest too much in this one way or
another let me put it that way yeah I
just you know I'm thinking you know if
the if we do cancel the national
emergency it's not going to cancel the
national emergency because they're gonna
he's going to veto this bill and I don't
think they're gonna override the veto so
it's gonna end up in the courts okay do
you think our chances are that we can't
take back the Senate with the next
election are there actual chances where
we can have all three houses after this
election you think it's possible I mean
I hope but you know we'll see I mean I
think it's gonna be close
frankly appreciate the call column from
a four one nine area code who's this
where you come from I Sam this is Mike
I'm Conference Detroit Mike from what's
on your mind I made I'm calling I'm
welcome you
longtime member and I love your show
thank you my laptop I want I'm calling
about a couple of things that happened
the past week and they're pretty minor
but the first is last night I was
playing poker and sitting at a table of
10 middle-aged men who decided to start
talking about Trump because his CPAC
baton came up so about eight of them
were like just not in love with Trump in
love of what he what he has to say there
here's a couple of books just let him
build the damn wall he's the president
he's a real man they lost and now
they're trying to take away his rights
this was the level of discourse there I
decided not to engage because I just
wanted to take their money anyway
maybe a heart of next time baby I'm
sorry go ahead could record them
surreptitiously next time well never
mind baby if you dropped it if you drop
the microphone in there like and that
was a podcast just like in this
conversation of eight Trump supporters I
I would listen I would listen to that I
find that endlessly fascinating you know
just go to a poker room and sit at the
table bring them up it'll just start
going off wow it was nuts all right
and you know what what occurred to me
sitting there was that there is nothing
in the world that will convince these
guys nothing in the world that will show
them that this this man has does not
have a single interest their interest at
heart at all you know there was like
Latinos there blacks or working-class
whites union members they're all there
and we're all just in love with him
Wow so a completely complete mix of race
and and and what about but but all
working-class guys yeah absolutely
absolutely I bring this up because I
received a fundraising text from Bernie
campaign this week and I started to
engage with sky a little bit because I I
love Bernie I love everything he stands
for I worked for him last camp or I
campaigned for him I donate
to them I bought a damn t-shirt all in
for birdie and then when he lost I
switched and and went over to pillory I
I'm not gonna engage this time with
Bernie and I'm not going to support him
this time because I was so upset with
the ways that we could not turn Bernie
supporters to actually support their
candidate and I don't think that did you
trust them again
what percentage of Bernie supporters do
you think supported Hillary you know I I
it's probably a high percentage but I
will tell you with my Bernie friends on
i'm social media and and in my workplace
they were so vitriol against vitriolic
against hillary they're so horrible
online and in public about Hillary and
her campaign
I just couldn't it was horrible I you
know all the effect of that in the ways
that they might persuade other people
just to decide not to vote or to decide
to vote for Jill Stein or whomever I
don't know what kind of effect that has
overall but it was it's pretty nasty and
I think it had some effect I mean it it
may have had some of that but it
certainly wasn't inconsistent with with
what we've seen in the past in fact I
think more Clinton voters from the 2008
primary abandoned Obama than Sanders
supporters now yes it's not an apples to
apples comparison because there was a
decent amount of non Democratic voters
who voted for Sanders but in some
respects that makes it even a more stark
difference I mean all I can tell you is
that I wouldn't predicating your support
on a candidate based upon you know sort
of your anecdotal perspective of some of
his supporters I don't think is the
wisest way in which to assess who should
be the BET who should be the next
president frankly oh well so
I will absolutely support him if he if
he earns the candidacy um I just can't I
don't want to support him or early I
don't think we can trust the Bernie
supporters who don't understand the idea
of a two-party system who I think a lot
of money's gonna support I will probably
hold off but Warren is I think the most
obvious choice at this point
fair enough I don't know I think one
other thing I think Bernie's supporters
believe that the many of the Bernie bros
believe that the power their arguments
are gonna allow them to win the guys at
the poker table will not be persuaded by
the arguments I think we owe my news for
you those guys in the poker table are
not going to vote for Elizabeth Warren
either they're not Harris I think we can
we can't win by expecting people to wake
up I think we can only win by motivating
young people and women and people of
color to get out and vote
I mean the bottom line is in Michigan
and in Wisconsin in particular you need
to motivate people of color to come out
and vote that's how Democrats win I mean
that's just the bottom line
I mean I think you know there is
obviously a significant particularly and
you know in in in Wisconsin but also in
Michigan a lot of voter intimidation and
suppression that I think we won't see
the same amount and but and and maybe a
visit or two to those states by the
Clinton campaign could have made a
difference it certainly wouldn't hurt I
don't think but you gotta motivate
African Americans to come out and vote
in the numbers they traditionally vote
in you know over these presidential
elections and and then you know I think
the strength of frankly of women who
have become now a massive driver of our
elections at least in 2016 I'm excuse me
2018 and yeah I don't think we're ever
going to convince your buddies sitting
around that poker tale but and so that
shouldn't be the bellwether
I think look I think your your remarks
are a cautionary tale you know for
somebody who donated and worked for
Bernie's campaign to be disillusioned by
some of the people that you were working
with I can understand that I again I'm
not necessarily I don't think that's
necessarily the best way to vote for a
candidate by by by assessing the worst
elements of their supporters but I guess
you know you know at least Elizabeth
Warren I think is sort of consistent in
terms of her politics I appreciate that
I appreciate the call okay thanks
I mean I I think let's say having white
supremacist support you is a little bit
disqualifying or that should be a first
you know flag that's one of the problems
that Donald Trump has but he also has a
lot of other problems like outwardly
courting these people I don't know if
Bernie Sanders in some ways outwardly
courts you know dead-enders and I really
bros yeah but numbers on the Hillary
McCain defections as opposed to the
Bernie Hillary defections it's 25
percent 25 percent where do you where is
that John sides wrote a piece and wopo
last year about it okay more from a few
polls aggregation okay
where was Bernie so Bernie's was at well
twelve percent for two polls and six
percent for another voice is good now
now that's Democrats right yes so there
was also a percentage of Bernie voters
who were not Democrats who may also not
have voted for Clinton and maybe those
people voted for Obama but in terms of
delivering Democrats
I mean well and any of the non Democrats
that Bernie actually did eventually
deliver for Hillary are like deserves
bonus right
so I don't know that's a very I just
think if you don't vote for a candidate
because you find their supporters on
Twitter to be obnoxious you need to take
a step back and say why am i why am i
supporting a specific candidate like on
some level that's just as performative
as some of the idiots who are like I'm
not you know I'm gonna teach the
Democrats a lesson and I'm gonna shoot
myself in the foot this is not being
bagged this is not being back this is
not being bagged somebody mentioned do
you think we're gonna carry the Senate
in 20 in 2020 it's gonna be tough part
of the reason is we're probably gonna
lose a senator in Alabama now I don't
know for sure Doug Jones got in there it
was a special election and he's up for
re-election I believe in 2020 if I'm not
mistaken but good for him
while he's in there to go on Face the
Nation just as the Democrats in the
Senate and the house have introduced a
bill to read to to provide a formula a
new formula for section 5 of the Voting
Rights Act which essentially gutted the
Voting Rights Act when the Supreme Court
ruled that there was no proof that these
formerly racist states are still racist
and then of course like literally within
months there was proof that half of them
were racist again via lawsuits and
whatnot in terms of their voting
restrictions but here is Doug Jones
basically saying we need to reinstitute
the Voting Rights Act a backsliding that
some raise you use particularly on the
Voting Rights - these days who do you
blame for that well I think it's a
combination of things I mean I think
that we've had some losses in the courts
but I also think it's a political power
grab right now
where people are trying to gerrymander
districts where people are trying to
prevent people to the right to vote give
them free access to the vote we need to
be expanding the voter rolls and trying
to get people to the vote we need to be
pushing the percentage of Americans up
who are who will to vote on Election Day
and instead we seem to be working and
the powers that be seem to be
constricting that and I think we've got
to change that there's a new bill
pending right now introduced last week
on the voter enhancement try to put some
teeth back in the Voting Rights Act who
do you blame for this well you know I
think if you hit look at carefully you
have to look at the state legislatures
governors and members of Congress that
are Republicans for whatever reason they
do not want African Americans and other
minorities to vote I assume rather than
rather than trying to get those votes
they seem to want to restrict those
votes and I think that that's incredibly
unfortunate we need to have more
dialogues in this country rather than
monologues and then we can do it about
Voting Rights Act we talk a good game
about everybody having a right to vote
in a duty to vote but at the end of the
day we seem to be working to try to
restrict that and that's just law I mean
that you know he's got to do a lot of we
and the powers that be in this map but
when he got push came to shove he was
one to call out exactly and everybody
knows it I mean they don't put it in
their platform but they certainly every
Republican intellectual has said like we
do better when there's no voting yet
that Wisconsin lawmaker was like oh this
this voter suppression this is gonna get
us one or two points in the general
election guess what it did pretty
important ones too yeah
what was the difference in Wisconsin
7,000 or 12,000 in the presidential
election 22,000 in Wisconsin Wisconsin
are you sure about that oh yeah yeah it
was I'm sorry was 12,000 in Michigan
22,000 that's still it's chump change
we're getting didn't AOC and some other
car congresspeople to do that but Mitch
was on the lentil right right okay
angel Matt's impressions on point lately
is that why Michael keeps calling in
sick is he at home writing some new
material get it Matt my favorite my new
favorite mr impressionist what's that
Michael who PDX Tony I'm pretty confused
about MMT I heard stephanie kelton
debate and Obama White House economist
on esra clients podcast and it was a bit
demoralizing honestly I'm wondering if
he paid any attention to the left on the
Left fights going on about it Matt
breunig and Doug Henwood both posed mmt
is a format for payment of big social
programs as your sense of the usefulness
of mmt changed at all over the last few
months look I think it's gone a long way
in terms of of empowering and embolden
inquiry about how we're going to pay for
things and as the sort of I don't know
how much of it can be attributed to just
Donald Trump stepping in and blowing up
the whole you know gotta be afraid of
the deficit or what but I think part of
it is also mmt I think well I've got to
read these pieces by by henwood to be
honest with you but I mean the bottom
line is I think we should have taxation
of wealth largely to be confiscatory
like largely because of the implications
of the political power that is so out of
balance but it's good to know that we
don't need to tax to spend yeah I think
it's good in that it helps you avoid the
national debt issue I think it's bad
when it is used by people to avoid the
military industrial problem and the
problem of how rich people have too much
money right john spiegel ER is a
thoughts on Debbie wasserman-schultz
coming out of her dungeon to criticize
ill on Omar your good pal David Cross
had some nice choice words I didn't see
her do that but I mean give me a break
give me a break farmer Gillian
as a former Colorado yes that's how it's
spelled Colorado
you per is just another flavor of Howard
Schultz centrism he's been widely
criticized for budding up with the
fracking industry in Colorado which has
been the horribly devastating throughout
the state at the 2017 Democratic
National Convention fracking protesters
shouted Hickenlooper down at a Politico
event confronting him on stage plus he's
best buds with anti-choice ur former
Ohio Governor John Kasich oh it can
looper Kasich 2020 any ticket we have
video I give me a break
honestly I Devi wasserman-schultz of me
give me a break she was universally
hated by both the Clinton and the truck
and the Obama people why is this bad why
is this back on Ilhan I thought like the
news was there as a West Virginia
legislature like a poster of Ilhan being
the enemy of America right and now we're
talking about Ilhan rhetoric right well
I kids like angle from New York brought
it back up in some weird way Mia
Hickenlooper hell no I'm done with warm
fuzzy always negotiating Democrats
grudge to tugger Carlson Jane Mayer is
an important new piece in New York
filing in the filling in the debts of
the depth of coordination between the
White House and Fox News he I'm gonna
check it out deep fried globalist Bernie
had an awful interview on The Breakfast
Club he said he opposed reparations and
couldn't name a single bill that he
benefited black people who might want to
take back the credit you gave to Zerlina
maxwell now she's on Twitter calling
Shawn King not a friend to black people
oh my god I think Bernie's specific
answer was he he isn't supportive of
reparations in the way Cory Booker and
Kamala Harris have been saying they're
supportive
like general programs that redistribute
wealth but he said he opposes cash
transfer am I remember you should
forward members emails complaining about
too much Bernie to John from San Antonia
call from a nine five four area code
who's this where he come from hi my name
is Ching I'm calling from our Dania each
okay I was this a first-time caller so
I'm a little bit nervous sorry
you're doing fine ah good so I love you
guys I'm going to become a member
because you guys just mentioned that if
you are email you guys I only get paid
$15 an hour send send us an email I will
buy one thing that I've noticed because
I like to comment on like YouTube a lot
is that a lot of people always have a
lot it's like disgruntled hate towards
atheism for like I don't know why
probably because of light you know Sam
Harris and Jordan Peterson and all that
pull it I know it's not your guy's
responsibility there are some good
atheists out there yeah absolutely
I consider myself like half the the room
just raised their hands I consider
myself largely one I mean I don't feel
too strongly because like in the same
way that I don't feel too strongly that
there isn't you know an Easter Bunny I
mean I can certainly understand you know
I understand the the desire for there to
be a God and I also think that it's sort
of you know you can believe in God and
it can be perfectly fine for all of your
fellow citizens and human beings
the problem is when there's a certain
amount of fundamentalism I think things
get a little bit problematic so I mean
that I I'm surprised to hear that
there's like animosity towards the idea
of being atheist as
opposed to some specific branded New
Atheists I mean did you know like they
tend to be seems to me more anti
religion than they are anti you know
people who believe in God and I just
think it's like the idea of saying to
people like it's silly for you to you
know to be to actually get emotionally
invested in the idea that other people
believe in God just seems to me to be
that's your religion right like I don't
a tional about it oh yeah I just want
like you know a little bit of like
separation of church and state you can
believe what you want to believe I want
plenty of inaccurate right I think it's
just bizarre like I was called like a
Nazi and other on like YouTube I'm
like of course this is YouTube and I'm
trying to have like a productive
conversation about how light humanism is
like not just like a religious thing
it's like it's a human nature we want to
be good to people and here's my ID
promotes that I here leave socialism
smokes out a lot yeah here's my advice
don't try to have too deep or legit
conversation on YouTube that's my advice
- gotcha advice appreciate the call send
us an email we will grate that call from
a 2:03 area code wonder what godless
ceremony they're gonna have to get
married I said this is rule from
Connecticut hello will from Connecticut
so I had two things I wanted to talk to
you better vanity point Dennis Hughes
thing so I go to a bit of a more
right-wing school Virginia Tech and I've
had we've been blessed shall I say with
appearances from both steven crowder and
charlie Kirk Wow and yeah just a
interesting thing I noticed about them
there
appearances though was for some reason
they seem to be very under advertised
with posters for them only going up the
day of the event so it seems like you
know no one can really plan to you know
maybe go there and cause a bit of a
ruckus right well they also don't know
heavily subsidise they don't necessarily
need big attendance at these things and
i Wenda so the other thing I want to ask
was my representative jim Himes is a
chair of the New Democrats coalition
lovely I want to know if you had any
thoughts on trying to push someone like
him to be further left and say
co-sponsor the green New Deal
legislation if you think the solution
there is just to support a primary
challenge it's always to support a
primary challenge because that will have
that impact okay all right well that's
about a legend so I appreciate the call
well if you want I mean I guess one way
to convince to try and convince someone
like Jim Hines who comes from a
financial background is to talk about
all these investment opportunities there
are four banks in the green new deal
right but you know like they know where
they they're landing on these things it
is it's purely you know the calculations
more limited Oh folks Oh big news now I
hate to do another entire episode of
this program dedicated to Brandon Straka
but he he put some of his hundreds of
thousands of dollars that he's earned
through his highly unsuccessful walk
away campaign and now to be fair I think
he did get a couple hundred maybe
millions of videos sent to him saying
they were walking away but they must
have been all lying because we know in
the last election after the first full
year of operations would walk away we
know that the Democrats got more votes
than they ever have in the history of a
midterm and they won in terms of votes
granted I know Brandon didn't work on
on on gerrymandering or redistricting
that was not his he wanted to just get
single bodies individuals to walk away
from the Democratic Party and not vote
for them I think he wanted him just to
walk into the wilderness but apparently
they didn't they walked back to the
voting booth because Democrats got more
votes relative to the Republicans who
also I think had a very good turnout
means the Democrats must have done that
much better than in any midterm election
since forever
so based on that in the wake of that
success he was voted to CPAC he was uh
he was sometime after diamond and silk
right he came up after diamond and silk
and he brought the really hilarious
comedic relief
[Applause]
good morning Patriots good morning
rebels where is that coming from
it's him I've been so hoping you guys
would pick up on that does he know that
this was getting picked up on microphone
rebels good Mort oh my running patriots
good morning
rebels
[Music]
did you ever dream that you'd see the
day that it would be an act of rebellion
because you want to make America great
again because you want to keep America
greats you know what's amazing right now
is God is picking rebels and putting
them in positions of power right now we
have the greatest rebel in the world
running this country right now it's such
a rebel I think since the day I could
talk I've always been a rebel from as
far back as I can remember I've always
felt a great compulsion to defend the
underdog to befriend the outcasts do not
worry my head too much about the need to
fit in I didn't know then how these
qualities would end up one day informing
my decision to start what has now become
a cultural and political phenomenon
posit the cultural and political
phenomena that has swept the country and
actually created even more votes for
Democrats than at any time in the
history of midterm elections
hmm behind every great rebel is a mind
that sees the world not just for what it
is but for what it could and should be
to never accept the status quo certainly
not because it's the easy thing to do
it's the driving passion for change that
tells the rebel posit undreds of
thousands of dollars incidentally this
guy is earned
I'm just imagine a disembodied mind
floating behind there's a disembodied
mind that's just going ching ching ching
ching ching ching
this guy raised something like three
hundred thousand dollars and he said it
went towards a gala thing that they
charged like a hundred and fifty dollars
per plate or something I mean he's just
rolling in the dough took a clearance at
the Bill Burton school of phraseology
rather political movement exactly
shouldn't for change that tells the
rebel to disrupt the establishment and
to never ever take no for an answer
it is the need to always be true to
one's core values and oneself so always
think independently growing up gay in
the 80s and 90s and
Catholic Nebraska farm community being
an independent thinker wasn't even
really a choice I was just one lonely
outspoken advocate for the gay community
and I suffered the repercussions of
being that weird guy as a result
positive you know what the beauty of
this is is that all of the people
sitting in that room if they're over the
age of like 25 we're actively
responsible for making sure that he felt
like that outcast at that time like to a
person they were in some way advocating
or promoting to make sure that that kid
living you know in in the 80s and 90s
felt like an outcast and was literally
on the receiving end of peer pressure
and bullying to conform so he should at
least thank them for crew making him
such an independent thinker a weird guy
as a result after high school I ran as
fast as I could to New York and I
quickly fell in with a very liberal
crowd I mean after all these were gay
people in New York City so it was kind
of like shooting liberal fish and a
Democrat barrel positive what does that
mean
I guess shooting liberal fish in a
democratic bow means like there was a
lot of gay people in New York and they
felt a certain way about politics for
whatever reason maybe you know right
party's trying maybe because they had
just left their hometowns where they
were ostracized and New York and
liberals where there was was the only
place that was hospitable to a lot of
these folks but can let's continue this
now this is of course our 35th episode
that we have dedicated to Brandis
rah-rah-rah because he is the the mind
behind the most important political and
social movement of our time of course
I'm talking about the walk away movement
this is the movement that encouraged
more voters to vote for Democrats in the
midterm election than in any time in
history and it's brilliant the way he's
done this because he's framed it as if
he's trying to get people to not vote
for Democrats but by doing everything
he's doing it's actually driven people
to Democrats I mean that's his argument
anyways isn't it is that what it is I'm
doing a walkaway campaign to get people
to vote for Democrats not just the
campaign right it's a movement this is
how he wraps up the speech here and so
now the table has been set and it's time
for walk away to launch our strategic
plan to stop the Democratic Party dead
in its tracks before 2020 we now have
the walk away foundation our educational
nonprofit organization which will be
supporting our nationwide Roadshow
speaking tour our college campus tours
our walk away video series dedicated to
debunking liberal media lies and myths
and addressing the issues that affect
our society we will continue to use
creative mediums to communicate with and
affect change in minority communities it
is time for all minorities in America to
walk away from where or to what but just
get out of the way you all you
minorities at CPAC walk away yes I would
love the camera to turn it around and to
see like who he's talking to
incidentally the way this racket ones is
you make yourself a non-profit and then
you can take huge donations and it can
be completely opaque as to who's giving
you the money and then of course he
doesn't derive any money maybe from the
nonprofit although maybe he does like he
did on profits gonna need a director
right and that's the salary could pay so
it's it's a non-profit and what they do
with all the funds they pay the
executive director Brandon Straka and
then of course they've got a they're not
going to
Brandon's gonna charge the schools and
the locations directly and the nonprofit
will pay for him to get there and
there'll be some hinky dinky thing like
this this dude's gonna make a ton of
cash and I mean frankly CPAC is the
perfect place for him because it really
is just a series of grifters who are all
launching their product lines
essentially it's sort of like it's like
the NAB you know or the net you know
where they start to like show like
here's our technology and we're hope to
sell this we're gonna bring this to
market in the next month that's what the
CPAC is it's just for grifting for
political grifting and so kudos to
Brandon he was able to do that is that
all the footage we have of him because
we're running out we need to do another
episode is there any more
and we are going to connect with the
youth of America and we are going to
shift the youth vote to the right it is
time now for every conservative American
to be a rebel because the most
rebellious thing one can do today is to
stand up boldly and proudly and say I am
a proud and patriotic American and I
will not surrender my country to the
party of hate wait what I know we were
the party of hate wait no this is I mean
this is like literally I want to say
it's textbook but it's like if you read
the reactionary mind by Corey Robert I
mean this is exactly what like
reactionary what what it means to be a
reactionary that is to rebrand bringing
back the old and existing power
structure as if what you're doing is
rebellious in some way we his conception
of how to liberate minorities he calls
himself the unsilent minority is to stop
the Democrats dead in their tracks
that's all we need to do really threat
right minorities we're gonna bring it
back to a time where listen we're gonna
be rebels by making sure that there is a
patriarchy and making sure that we
maintain white supremacy because the
there's nothing that's but that's no we
don't have that we're gonna bring it
back I love we're not bring it back we
gotta just invent it for the first time
I love to characterize myself as a
defender of underdogs and then talk
about how great Trump is right exactly
what just amazing all right but speaking
of Donald Trump Donald Trump visited
CPAC and gave a two-hour speech he loves
it there where are we starting with with
these with these speeches
oh yeah there has been a lot of
reporting on the sexual assaults that
that have taken place in around the
border and amongst the children who are
housed at these at these facilities to
basically stockpile immigrants I don't
think that's what Donald Trump is
talking about but they look at how how
sympathetic he is to to immigrants
yes southern border it's 2,000 miles
down from our southern border
I wish Mexico would stop them but they
have their own difficulties frankly I
understand that we're working along well
with them and they are doing a lot of
things to help us with asylum and other
elements of what we're doing but mothers
who love their daughters give them
massive amounts of birth control pills
because they know their daughters are
going to be raped on the way up to our
southern border think of that true story
told to me by the Border Patrol so true
and so said think of how evil that is
think of how bad it is
those caravans you look at those
caravans and some of phenomenal people
but in those caravans you have
stone-cold killers you had the interview
done by some innocent person who I think
is that yeah okay so instead of Donald
Trump saying hey by making these people
undocumented by by by by forcing them to
rely on smugglers and allowing them to
be exploited once in their country in
our country
the solution is not to help these people
but it's to make it even worse I guess
so that they don't do this there's a
story today about police officers in El
Salvador who are fleeing the country
because of the level of violence there
they are being targeted and they are
fleeing the country because of the
violence even if decades of our foreign
policy in Central and Latin America
wasn't at least one of the major
proximate causes for this level of
violence today when you have mothers
even if we take everything he's saying a
complete face value mothers who are so
terrified of their daughters being raped
that they provide them with birth
control they're still willing to send
them north because of how dangerous it
is in their countries right how can you
come to any other conclusion other than
the humane thing to do is to let them in
to this country and give them asylum
like how can you calculate and say like
look at the horrors that these people
are willing to send their children into
that's how horrific their current
situation is and so our response is what
I mean he's telling them the story
because he's trying to make it seem like
these people don't care about their kids
that's what this story is about he's not
showing sympathy or empathy with these
people he's trying to make them out to
be some type of animal and they are
lapping it up at sea back and we're not
talking about somebody who has an am
talk show you know in South Carolina
you know the South Carolina and Georgia
and you know the worst parts of Florida
I'm talking about the president United
States fits right in with that CPAC
crowd
here is I mean the reason why it gives a
two hour speech at CPAC is because this
is the lunacy that is the right and this
is the lunacy that's been the right for
years in many respects Donald Trump is
uncovering a a massive problem that
we've had in this country just because
he is a perfect reflection of it he is
of it and it's just as risen now to the
point where it's completely not you
can't ignore it some try John
Hickenlooper or whatever his name is
tries to go on TV and pretend like none
of this is real like it's just isolated
to this one guy but it is a significant
portion of the country he's represented
by the ideas and and this guy and I just
represented our he is representative of
them
that's just the reality here he is
talking about the problem that we don't
have enough brief free speech in this
country that's the problem now it said I
will be very soon signing an executive
order requiring colleges and
universities to support free speech if
they want federal research
[Applause]
if they want our dollars and we give it
to them by the billions they've got to
allow people like Hayden and many other
great young people and old people to
speak free speech
and if they don't it will be very costly
that'll be signed very soon every day
we're restoring common sense posit first
of all I don't believe that he's gonna
sign that but it's also a ridiculous
it's not free speech to force a college
or university the government to force
them to allow specific speakers to speak
that be state subsidized speech that's
right yeah and that would be for speech
in fact that's what the basis of the
supposedly of the the Janice ruling was
right that you can actually force people
to speak even if they're not adopting it
even if they're not even speaking
themselves so I mean horribly
unconstitutional will will not pass any
mustard would be my guess the roar of
the crowd though wasn't saying oh yes
and I love the fact that we can gag the
speech of doctors when it comes to
abortion advice but continue or in
common sense and the timeless values
that unite us all we believe in the
Constitution and the rule of law we
believe in the First Amendment right and
we believe in religious liberty there
you go I don't know what happened to my
German music but with all due respect
lastly here's a Donald Trump at CPAC and
the US economy serving everybody
according to Donald Trump this is uh
this is his this is part of his two-hour
speech
but everyone in this great country right
now because of our great new economy is
doing well except of course for the
nevertrump errs but they are on
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation
snap them out they're hanging in there a
couple of them I mean these guys have
gotten me wrong not only never Trump
errs you have never Trump errs you have
certain hardline they basically
dishonest people well there you go I
feel like it's swoop is getting he's
having to go further and further down
the side of his head
am i is it my just imagining that her
you know they might be fixed yeah
plastics oh just a tangent I was
watching Sex in the City this weekend
yes and Donald Trump makes a cameo in
that show oh is that right yeah there it
is your president at CPAC ladies and
gentlemen all right we're not gonna have
time for any more phone calls let's play
this though because I do want to play
this to a certain extent this is a
correction want to make a correction
here we have claimed probably off of a
according to Jerry Seinfeld miss reading
of a New York Times piece now he he
characterizes it a little bit less a
little bit more I think sort of like
innocently then I think it was but my
understanding it was in the context of
New York Times and it was not it was a
complaint that he was echoing and using
someone else's claim as authority I have
the quote here it says I hear that all
the time Seinfeld said on the heard with
Colin Cowherd
I don't play colleges but I hear a lot
of people tell me don't go near colleges
they're so PC right and but but what
what's more important is why is he
saying that like does he say before and
after that like and that's ridiculous
no he says they just want to use these
words that's racist that sexist that's
prejudice he said they don't want to
know what the hell they're they don't
know what the hell they're talking about
that's what Jerry Seinfeld says correct
so in other words here's the evidence
for my assertion that these people are
wack and but apparently he doesn't like
the blowback he's
getting from that here is a conversation
with I'm sorry Andy Kindler I apologize
that the Jerry Seinfeld has with Ricky
Gervais on this very topic it's not good
enough and I've never thought it was
good enough or I'm torn I'm torn I think
it should be good enough to say I was
joking but we don't tell certain jokes
because we know they're in inverted
commas wrong always we've always done
that from the from the court jester had
to do that the court jester could make a
little fun of Morales but not too much
all right thanks about the right thing I
just like you know he would make fun of
all this guy's too powerful you know he
could crush this off and that guy would
be laughs as long as the case laughing
it's okay
and you learn that it went on the
streets when you're a kid that's right
he's the bigger kid like doing jokes
like oh he beat up a nun he would laugh
at that yeah you couldn't attack his
weakness right the mental agility that
is required to execute this job is an
essential part of it possibly one second
me now I just want to make it clear here
though there's one thing to say the
court jester can't question the power to
directly or they'll get their head
chopped off right like the good court
jester was actually mocking the king and
the king did wasn't aware of it you were
actually working on two levels
right that's what good comedy does works
on multiple levels but understand when
we talk about mocking trans people or
mocking gay people or mocking people
because you know based on race or
whatnot you're not you're not
challenging the power understand that
but nevertheless continued Ron
bennington is the third mic there by the
way comedian okay this job is an
essential part of it people are
comedians complaining
oh I can't do this joke now because
so-and-so is gonna be offended that's
right you can't
so do another joke we'll find another
way around it use a different word it's
like slalom skiing you have to make the
gate biker I sort of do a different way
because I know you've been quoting I
don't miss truth you say I don't want to
play colleges anymore because they're
too PC and they stop with that that's
not true no it's not true right so
amazing those legs that guy good I'm
glad he's not true I said it in the
times I had an interview in The New York
Times last week
and the guy asked Nevada can we please
put this to rest I never said it here's
what I said a comedian told me he
doesn't want to play colleges in him
right that's what I said
right that might make me wanna play
colleges if someone says they won't like
your study yeah when am I on yeah I mean
the problem is that you followed up as
if that was backing up your claim that
these kids just want to say sexism all
the time maybe you know look there's
there's no doubt that among the youth
and I would say you know it's probably
true and the younger you get that their
understanding of this stuff is less
sophisticated than somebody who's like
you know 25 or 30 but that's true of
everything right
whether it's Donald Trump is bad
president or or nutrition or whatever it
is yes
children kids college students have a
less developed sense of things broadly
speaking generally than older people
that's the profundity are you just
resenting that in their hands these
ideas become out of control it live I
promise you you're gonna be fine that is
the best-case scenario I mean sort of
like what Diane Feinstein said to those
kids who came in about climate change -
I mean jester's probably had a lot of
leeway to make jokes about peasants
yeah lotta leeway a lot the people are
complaining about the gestures making
the jokes of the peasants they're just
like throwing stuff around like
exploitation and words like that they
just like to say it you're exploiting
the peasants versus a black dator
earthquake they don't even know what
exploitation meat let's do a couple Iams
and we get to get out of here
Sam's tinder profile hey girl swipe
right and I'll show you just how
expansive my progressive movements rocky
tea texts Sam it's my 33rd birthday can
I get a shofar indeed you can
[Music]
producer Lauren wasn't Reagan the name
of the girl possessed by the devil and
the Exorcist no offense to Regan Gomez /
the vash Doug in Denver Hickenlooper
Kasich shows there's no difference
between Dems and Republicans Sam what's
your first debate in the libertarian
race I can look into that Sam snuff
stash tooth Kentucky Fried comrade they
say I make fun of Hickenlooper all you
want but many of us find his new
campaign slogan it why not
compelling refreshing wingman 2020 do
you know what my shirt is made of
boyfriend-girlfriend material that's the
that one's free bruh really cool the
front frontier is where it's at unless
you hit the wall eh-hem the paywall
USA in the UK have you seen Pete Buju
gate current mayor South Bend in the
last eight years he's a millennial
Afghan vet road Scholar openly gay
married to a man who may not be the one
for 2020 but one to watch in the future
I listen to a full pod save episode with
Pete on this weekend and he's good yeah
he is good isn't he dave Dawson from
Minnesota please Sam let's be honest
what they want to hear about the race
and gender it's a promotion of
meritocracy across race and gender lines
they want to hear anecdotes about
dreamers who graduate at the top of
their class they don't want to hear
about racialized poverty or criminal
justice reform they just want somebody
who's going to pander but as soon as
Bernie did that they would accuse him of
pandering congressional baseball fan a
ball field is not a ball field without
both the left center and right field so
lefties hitting into right is only
natural left is best three more herb
Marquess Lexi Tom from Lexington
intersectionality is useless without
clash consciousness these Hillary people
missed that completely David from
Montreal ten years ago today according
to Jewish calendar my father died to
skin cancer at age 67 he had melanoma
four times over 20 years fortunately we
live in Canada where universal health
care is free for all citizens had we
lived in the United States it might not
have been so fortunate he might not have
been able to afford treatment or his
insurance could have been refused in the
u.s. he could have died in 89 rather
than 2009 thanks to free universal
health care he lived 20 more years
health care is a right and should be
free for every human being keep
the fight can I get a shofar from my dad
yes you can
and the final IM of the day demos and
strees it's important to note that the
wall is an implosion of our right of
expansion over our neighbors to the
south we are the ones who get to expand
and will prevent others from doing so to
enable ourselves see you tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
I was
[Music]
feel any better yeah
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
