[Music]
there's also something very strange
that's going on that is uh that is that
I want to call your attention to that I
think it's going to have some pretty big
implications going forward in terms of
of hearings I mean right now we are what
the Democrats are doing I don't think
politically it makes any sense
and frankly it doesn't make a ton of
sense to me in terms of just pure from a
like a policy standpoint but they are
investigating the bringing of
impeachment articles of impeachment it's
not quite an impeachment inquiry because
they haven't sort of like put themselves
into impeachment mode but according to
Adam Schiff they are in a mode that
there that there should there subpoenas
should be favored by courts I don't know
if that's the case but there's something
very weird in this story apparently the
there was a whistleblower who came
forward to the Director of National
Intelligence we don't know the nature of
the whistleblowing
maybe they do on the Intelligence
Committee federal law mandates that this
must be reported to Congress and the
information there's a specific procedure
to protect whistleblowers because if you
don't let the air out of that tire then
you get a lot of leaks the Inspector
General apparently of the Director of
National Intelligence interviewed this
whistleblower found them credible at
least in a first blush perspective but
apparently the DNA is DNI has been told
by a higher power not to fulfill their
federal statutory obligations here is
Adam Schiff on with Margaret Brennan on
CBS Face the Nation this weekend you
issued a subpoena on Friday for the
acting director of intelligence
alleging he's withholding a
whistleblower disclosure possibly to
protect President Trump that's a pretty
significant allegation here we're
putting up a quote on the screen from
you have you gotten a response to this
letter we've got a response and the
director has said essentially that he is
answering to a higher authority and
refusing to turn over the whistleblower
complaint this is deeply troubling no
director well at this point yes ignoring
the subpoena ignoring our request no DNA
no Director of National Intelligence has
ever refused to turn over a
whistleblower complaint and here
Margaret the significance is the
inspector general found this complaint
to be urgent found it to be credible
that is they did some preliminary
investigation found the whistleblower to
be credible that suggests corroboration
and that involved serious or flagrant
wrongdoing and according to the Director
of National Intelligence the reason he's
not acting to provide it even though the
statute mandates that he do so is
because he is being instructed not to
that this involved a higher authority
someone above the DNI well there are
only a few people above the DNI so we're
concerned this area this involves
wrongdoing that's under investigation by
our committee and we're going to do
everything necessary to make sure that
whistleblowers not allowed to provide
the complaint to us but can come
directly to Congress which the directors
also prohibiting at this point I order
you not to hand over the whistleblower
I mean it's only because we're of the
left that we don't contemplate that it
could be God who did this everybody's
like is probably Donald Trump it could
be God could be God you leave him alone
don't you let that pence on that gig
Schiff see the whistleblower Adam shift
Adam trying to undermine God so it
could be Trump or maybe bar uh I don't
know where if bar would be considered to
be an authority over the DNI I just
don't think he's in that flow chart I
don't frankly know who would be in that
flow chart maybe the chief of staff I
don't know the rest of this yeah but
Mabel I don't know I do not know what
constitutes a higher authority maybe we
should ask somebody on that but I for
one would be very interested in hearing
that whistle blow everybody knows who
the man is Ivanka nobody knows nobody
knows just like we don't know good job
Jerry it's so funny general mattis said
it's better to have cigarettes in a beer
and then this woman who looks like a
librarian comes along and she says pull
their toenails off it's tough stuff
tough stuff but the stuff that he's
outlining there like it could be they
saw a abuse on some type of like spying
program right I mean could it mean
certainly whistleblowers have been
ignored in the past although guy like
Thomas Drake actually went to Congress
and they found his claims credible it's
hard to know what it is that someone
outside of the DNA and I would be
quashing at this point I just have to
say the fact that Trump called him you
know Adams really was one of his
better pieces of work and the fact that
he also managed to write in the tweet D
California good work that was good work
god I'm still that with erect Lee
correct in a preemptive strike maybe it
was the same higher xxx that
those Bahama gang members they couldn't
get on the boat higher authority it's a
higher thirties
