this week of the fourth national
assessment of climate change released by
13 agencies give us a sense of just
basically what that is sure that so this
is a congressionally mandated report
that has published every four years by
the this organization or we should say
it's a governmental body the u.s. global
change research group which as you
allude to consists of 13 different
agencies including NOAA NASA Department
of Interior etc all of whom are involved
in research that's relevant to our
understanding of human-caused climate
change and so there's this
congressionally mandated report every
four years that describes as best we can
based on the best available science our
state of understanding of climate change
and it's impacts on the United States so
how is this report different from let's
say something like the IPCC report what
we mean what makes this report any
different from others yeah so this
report focuses specifically on the
United States and on impacts both the
impacts that have been observed that we
are seeing now and that we might expect
in the future under different possible
scenarios it's much more focused on the
United States in particular than the
reports of the IPCC the the reports of
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change the IPCC and I would say that
this report is really focused more on
connecting the dots really explaining in
a way that's accessible to the public
what the impacts of climate change are
and what they're likely to be in the
future if we don't tackle this problem
okay and I want to get into the what
those dot dots are in a moment because I
think that is what is particularly
unique about this this report is it
really does show on a fairly granular
level
what the implications will be of and
what they are now of climate change but
before we go any further because you
know all we you know the the coverage
has been largely around this notion of
13 governmental agencies put this
document or created this document it's
congressionally mandated the executive
branch has no option but to release it
they chose to release it on the day
after Thanksgiving which is a very slow
news day essentially or at least part
you know people don't pay attention to
the news on that day and so the dynamic
is between Donald Trump who's basically
said he read the report it's fine he
doesn't believe it and the report but
but one of the things we keep hearing is
that the reason why these people wrote
the report is because they wouldn't make
money talking about climate change I'm
sure you've heard this criticism plea
doing their jobs in these agencies and
are simply talking about a factor that
impacts what their job is absolutely and
in fact this is a voluntary effort on
their part there are government
scientists but there are also many
academic scientists who contribute to
this report and they're doing this on a
voluntary basis they're not getting paid
for it in you know the case of academic
scientists scientists at universities or
in positions where they have to raise
grant money to support their salaries in
a sense they're actually putting
themselves at a disadvantage because
they're spending all this time on this
voluntary effort it's a labor of love
it's communicating the science and its
implications to the public but that's
time that they could be spending writing
grant proposals and doing other things
and so you know as is often the case
when an accusation like that is made by
Trump or those who support his policies
those sorts of accusations are typically
made in bad faith and they reflect what
we call projection right the reality is
that those who are attacking the report
the scientists trying to undermine the
public faith in science
are actually bolstered by tens of not
hundreds of millions of fossil fuel
industry dollars that are behind this
very well-organized a very well-funded
effort to discredit the science of
human-caused climate change and thereby
do the bidding of fossil fuel interests
who don't want to see us move away from
fossil fuels to renewable energy what is
necessary if we are going to prevent
catastrophic climate change alright
before we get into the specifics of the
sort of the the the connecting the dots
what you called it I mean just give us a
sense of contextualised this fourth
national assessment of climate change
with the other three it when were those
released
I guess it's every four years but but
give us a sense of when they came out
and what what what you know what's the I
guess what's the change in these reports
right well under Republican
administrations under George HW Bush's
administration for example there were
similar efforts to try to you know make
sure that the report didn't get as much
attention as it might otherwise there
were discussions try in fact trying to
prevent the release of the report and
ultimately that was deemed not lawful
its congressionally mandated it has to
be released under the Obama
administration and so there was I think
one 2014 report would have been released
under the Obama administration it was a
sober assessment of the science of
climate change I'll tell you here's the
difference it isn't so much the
developments in the science although
there have been significant developments
in the science we're better able to
connect the dots when it comes to the
impact that climate change is having on
extreme weather events when it comes to
the threat of global sea-level rise
we're just in a matter of a few years
the scientific community has literally
had to double our estimate of how much
sea level rise we could see by the end
of the century it's gone from about
three feet to now we're seeing maybe six
to eight feet by the end of this century
because we now are using more elaborate
models that are better able to represent
the dynamic nature of
sheets like the Antarctic and Greenland
ice sheet we now understand that those
ice sheets the dynamic nature of them
allows them to collapse more quickly and
contribute to sea level rise
considerably more quickly than we
thought they could just a matter of a
few years ago so the science you know
the the developments in the science send
a sober message about the threat of
climate change but there's something
else that's happened the extreme summer
of 2018 the summer that we just went
through where there was an unprecedented
spate of wildfires heat waves droughts
super storms floods that we know were
exacerbated by climate change the
science tells us that but more than that
people can see it with their own two
eyes people now see the impact of
climate change playing out on their
television screens in their newspaper
headlines in their social media feeds
and I think that's the difference people
can now connect the scientific evidence
with what they are seeing interesting
and also that much more disturbing
because as we get as it becomes more
obvious the situation becomes more dire
and our ability
I guess the window for our our society
taking action what we're watching is
basically that window close don't we
we're seeing the tip of the iceberg
right if the if the impacts of climate
change have become so obvious that we
can now see them play out in real time
in terms of disastrous super storms like
Michael and Maria and Florence
unprecedented flooding events in Houston
in North Carolina and of course the
California no longer even has a fire
season California is a fire season now
and that again what that tells us is
we're much farther along than we should
have ever allowed ourselves to get
because if we're seeing that already
there's a fair a more bit of climate
change in the pipeline if we're seeing
that happen already if where the impacts
are becoming so obvious to the person on
the street
well we've baked in at least another
half a degree Celsius another degree
fahrenheit of
and things will get worse the question
is how far down this dangerous highway
are we willing to drive all right we've
got to take a quick break when we come
back we will talk more about this fourth
national assessment of climate change
the dots that are being connected and
what in a better world we would have our
government do about it we got to take a
quick break I'm Sam seed a ring of fire
radio
