we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday May 28 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrious Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today
[Music]
Sean McElwee of data for progress on
effing gerrymandering and the DNC
blacklist also on the program today
Supreme Court punts on dealing with roe
v-- wade head-on in this term or I
should say the next term and Missouri is
days away however from effectively
having banned abortion in the entire
state
meanwhile in Texas the Secretary of
State resigns after attempting to
disenfranchise a hundred thousand voters
and making a big boo-boo
speaking of boo-boo
Joe Biden plans to ride
underexposure and low enthusiasm all the
way to the White House the brexit party
makes big gains in the British
contingent to the EU Parliament Trump
White House launches the war on the war
on climate change hope Hicks faces
subpoena apparently she gets to choose
whether she's gonna comply must be nice
and a major opioid trial begins today in
Oklahoma all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen
hope that you had a good Memorial Day
weekend apparently Michael never made it
back from his extended break he is on a
retreat full retreat and but everyone
else is is is here with us today hope
you had a good Memorial Day fairly quiet
weekend as far as these things go in
terms of in terms of news Donald Trump
of course is in Japan and he is
ostensibly negotiating trade deals or
just going over I think he criticized as
soon as he landed criticize some of the
hospitality but then said good things
about Japan buying weapons from us which
is always nice we've got the best guns
make some deals planes rockets missiles
they bought those I mean it's we don't
have that clip do we you know I it just
occurs to me that clip I heard it over
the weekend he was praising Japan for
buying all sorts of military hardware
from us and then talked about how the
world has changed and such that he
needed I don't know what threat Japan is
facing that they didn't face a year or
two ago or five years ago but
to champion the idea that the sale of
arms is something to to praise because
of all that's going on in the world it's
a very strange construction to use its
about youth ideals I can understand but
sort of say like you know when as if
we're living in some type of like more
belligerent or blue rigid blue red blue
I can't even say the word belligerent
thank you
era is I don't know a little bit scary I
found the whole thing a little bit
disturbing but the disturbing this did
not end there apparently over the with
this help of the weekend Kim Kimal Jung
Kim jong-il rather criticized joe biden
and john bolton called john bolton a war
monger
they must be reading they must have good
intelligence reports that Iran in some
ways trying to isolate john bolton in
the administration and and maybe this
was also this was a way to reach trump
with a little bit of like a little bit
of medicine a little bit of sugar the
medicine john bolton there's a warmonger
and also joe biden not that bright and
here is trump responding to this they
give you pause at all to be appearing to
side with a brutal dictator instead of
with a fellow american the former vice
president joe biden well kim jongwan
made a statement that joe biden is a low
IQ individual he probably is based on
his record i think i agree with them on
that but in terms of criticism that
you're sort of supporting a dictator
instead of an american vice president
well when i look at what's been done by
our vice president and the president
when I look at the horrible Iran deal
that they made
what happened since I terminated the
Iran deal look what has happened to Iran
Iran when I first came into office was a
terror they were fighting in many
locations all over the Middle East they
were behind every single major attack
whether it was Syria whether it was
Yemen whether it was individual smaller
areas whether was taking away well from
people they were involved with
everything now they're pulling back
because they've got serious economic
problems well I mean aside from the fact
that I may agree with the worst
president in the history of our country
arguably and a brutal dictator on Joe
Biden's
than the estimation of Joe Biden III got
to take a little exception with what
Iran was doing before certainly they
were funding terrorism around the Middle
East when you talk about Yemen I think
arguably we spread as much terror there
as Iran perhaps maybe in some respects
even more because we certainly have
enabled the killing of thousands upon
thousands of civilians not to mention
just you know what has been created
there in terms of like a famine and and
whatnot and in an inability to deal with
the famine and natural disasters there
so I don't know but it's interesting to
see Joe Biden's like no appearance no
enthusiasm plan getting under a Donald
Trump skin even abroad pretty impressive
pretty impressive stuff folks it may
feel like cybercrime is something that
happens to other people but stealing
data from unsuspecting people in public
Wi-Fi is one of the simplest ways for
hackers to make money when you leave
your internet connection unencrypted you
might as well be writing your passwords
and credit card numbers on a huge
billboard for the whole world to see
protect yourself today with expressvpn
expressvpn secures and anonymizes your
internet browsing by encrypting your
data hiding your public IP address
expressvpn has the easy-to-use apps that
run seamlessly in the background of your
computer your phone turning on
expressvpn protection only takes one
click super easy and it cost less than
seven bucks a month expressvpn is rated
the number one VPN service by TechRadar
it comes with a 30-day money-back
guarantee look you can protect your
online activity today find out how you
can get three months free and Express
VPN dot-com / majority that's Express
expr e SS VPN dot-com / majority for
three months free with a one-year
package visit expressvpn dot-com /
majority to learn more hey I've said
this before we have it's rare you I mean
it look I like all the products that we
we discuss on this show there's
sometimes we get ads I reject them but
the New Yorker is one of the few ads
that we run where I feel like oh that
reflects well on us New Yorker
represents the best writing in America
today both online and in print The New
Yorker covers a full range of topics
including politics International Affairs
climate change popular culture fiction
and food as well as unique subjects like
the world's diminishing supply of sand
and heirloom beans who knew the New York
also publishes some of the best writers
in the world like Ronan Farrow who wrote
breaking news in Harvey Weinstein and
won The New Yorker the Pulitzer in 2018
Helen Rosner James Beard award-winning
food writer who joined The New Yorker as
a roving food correspondent 20:18 covers
all things gastronomic there's all sorts
of things what we just have a a writer
from The New Yorker on most recently I
know you go through some of the
the pieces in Fed Masha Gessen on many
times before and writing about Pelosi's
tactics affirm the trumpian style of
politics which is I think a huge problem
frankly piece on I am Pei who died was
it this weekend famous architect I'm
sure you're familiar with if you're not
you should check it out Jane Mayer
they've course got Jane Mayer piece on
whether bado can bounce back dubious but
and it doesn't give the answer just
gives the question now you can get 12
weeks of home delivery on the print
edition as well as unlimited access to
New Yorker calm with 10 to 15 exclusive
cite only stories every day for just six
bucks that's half the regular price you
also get the New Yorker tote bag as well
as access to apps online archive
crossword puzzle and more just go to New
Yorker dot-com slash majority New Yorker
dot-com slash majority enter the code
majority for that awesome awesome deal
and lastly if you're looking for
something to give to your dad or to give
to a new graduate get them a
one-size-fits-all gift like a new oral
health routine with quip I mentioned
this before you know I gave one to my
sister my sister literally unprompted
send me a text like my dentist said that
my teeth look better you know from a
from a hygiene standpoint with guiding
features like a built-in two-minute
timer that reminds me when to switch
sides a sensitive sonic vibrations that
are gentle on sensitive gums quip makes
sticking to good habits simple and if
you sign them up for a subscription
they'll get brush heads delivered
automatically on a Destin dentist
recommended schedule every three months
for just five bucks it's no surprise
equip is one of the first
toothbrushes accepted by the American
Dental Association and with the quip
electric toothbrush you can show your
thanks when it really counts
folks I've said this million times the
thing about dental hygiene you got to do
it every day you get an electric
toothbrush too big doesn't fit on your
sink Falls
it's uncharged what not quip gets away
it dispenses with all those problems it
is basically the size of a regular
toothbrush it's far more stylish and
every three months you uh basically they
send you a new chargeback lasts longer
than that - yep new brush heads all the
times that's why I love quip with only
with over 1 million happy healthy
Mouse's mouths do - rather I should say
quip it starts at just 25 bucks if you
go to get quip comm slash majority right
now you can get your first refill pack
free that's your first refill pack free
at get quip calm that's GE tqu IP comm
slash majority let's do this clover char
thing this is pretty funny we don't do a
lot of coverage of Amy Klobuchar
candidacy in part because there's 25
people out there running now I think for
the office in part because we don't
think that she's going to be a major
factor in this in this race the
Klobuchar factor yeah I would say the
Klobuchar factor is like basically nil
and I mean maybe we're wrong there are a
lot of people who are down
I'm sure who have less a share we don't
talk about them either
you know the we'll talk about the the
bad O's and the Kamala's and the maybe
people just don't know about the tax
advantaged savings accounts maybe they
don't know about her tax advantaged
savings accounts cuz that doesn't fit on
a on a poster very well but things like
you know
I don't know Amy for America I guess
it's a a I don't even know that people
like I wouldn't even am a.m. yeah but
but in this one this could be the only
time that we actually even discuss her
on the show in any meaningful way also I
don't like her politics particularly I
mean they're okay they're better than a
Republicans but I'm saying in the
context of the Democratic primary she's
not offering anything I find terribly
compelling tax advantaged savings
accounts are not terribly relevant for
the vast majority of Americans who can't
save in the first place what was that
figure like half of Americans couldn't
get four hundred dollars in an emergency
yeah something like that it's pretty bad
pretty bad and that's from the Fed
ladies and gentlemen that's that's a Fed
study meanwhile aside from that this
type of stuff is very weird to me as
well I like it there's a couple of
things about this statement that I find
bizarre like first of all why do you
need John McCain to argue that Donald
Trump is bad in addition to the fact
John McCain is dead but why do you need
John McCain to argue that Trump is bad
it seems to me it's very weird thing to
appeal to John McCain as the voice of
reason in this context first senator
mindset yes it really is
but then listen to some of this which I
find sort of hilarious
it didn't just start with the 2020
debates no no the arc that we are on
this arc of justice started that day
after that dark inauguration pause it
for one second I'm sorry to stop it so
quickly but when I first heard this I
thought like oh good for her she
realized that the problems didn't start
today this has been a problem that's
been growing for decades and which
starts about the arc of justice I'm
thinking like wow maybe she's going back
200 years 250 years maybe she's going
back I don't know 40 years is gonna be
interesting we start know the arc of
justice apparently is not that our key
it's not that long it's just about you
know 24 months the arc of justice but
right so go back a little bit
it starts after Trump won the election
yeah that's when justice had to start
maybe that was part of the problem with
the election is that the arc of justice
was now did he know how did John McCain
know Donald Trump so well that seems
weird but all of it all that this just
seems super weird to me this military
body language training
he picked Sarah Palin to be his running
mate yeah yes maybe that's why it's such
great insight into Donald Trump well so
of course you know Klobuchar is gonna
get some criticism of this because it's
just so silly but my dad dad's name out
of your mouth okay well here is actually
that in fact it happened
criticism not just did not just come
from people who were sort of like felt
it was a little bit of pablum
it was also Megan McCain who I feel like
is going through some type of low-grade
breakdown a higher grade breakdown it
could be a higher grade and I you know I
I'm not rooting on anybody having a
breakdown
but she megan mccain took to Twitter and
said on behalf of the entire McCain
family Amy Klobuchar please be
respectful to all of us and leave my
father's legacy my father my father and
memory out of presidential politics
which is I mean it's pretty stunning he
ran for president his day I don't
remember her ever speaking up like this
when the millions of times that people
have cited what Trump said about McCain
not just Trump but I'm saying everybody
who's cited it just seems like a very
weird hill to to die on I don't know
what like what what the fight is about
there but apparently maybe Megan McCain
does not like Amy Klobuchar or I don't
know what very strange very strange
thing for her to come out at that time
and is it she's supposed to be one of
those like moderate Democrats who can
reach across the aisle and work with all
the moderate Republicans like so much
yeah you hate to see the center break
down like this it really is a shame the
center is not holding the center is not
holding all right we got to take a quick
break when we come back we'll be talking
to Shama Kelly
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the founder
and CMO that its chief meme officer to
you Shawn McCauley of data for progress
welcome back to the program Shawn thanks
so Shawn there's two things that I want
to discuss with you first came up
because the Supreme Court just I guess
it was Friday
blocked two gerrymandering rulings in
Michigan in Ohio lower courts had tossed
out the congressional districts
Congressional Maps I should say in
Michigan and Ohio both those situations
up until 2018 in Michigan's case but no
hyo's case still continues to be highly
problematic in terms of the how many
people go out and vote for Democrats and
then how many Democrats end up in the
congressional delegation you know places
like Wisconsin obviously the worst of
stuff like that and you are part of a
new initiative to I guess it's what the
kids are saying today
gerrymandering would tell us about that
yeah absolutely so we teamed up with the
folks at pod state America one media
whoa whoa excuse me
yeah you know there's a massive enormous
platform really large base and we wanted
to get out this initiative to as many
people as possible and so fair enough
we're working with them you know
ironically enough I actually wanted to
come with the blue Virginia project and
they actually came up with the profane
name rounded up words I can't even speak
it on the air and you know how I don't
like sauna I don't like saying swear
words so I don't hum yeah
the the idea behind this is that yeah
absolutely the courts have for the most
part stalled on on gerrymander a you
know there's no progress being made but
right now the most effective way that we
can fight back against train and ring as
individuals is by supporting you know
candidates down ballot to help break
these these Gerry members and so the
first state they were taking a look at
whose Virginia which has legislative
elections since 2019
it actually has had their mastery drawn
the the maps were so racist that the
courts threw them out so what we want to
do is we want to make sure that in this
cycle progressives are really investing
to make sure that we gain the most out
of these Sarah maps and don't let any
any seeds go to waste so every month
data for progress does some math looks
at some mathematical models and comes up
with ten candidates that we're going to
run in a slate and folks can donate to
those ten ten candidates on the slate
none of us take anything off at the top
it just goes directly to the three
candidates now okay so these are ten
candidates in the state itself like
running four per person to the House of
Delegates the state Senate okay but
personally you don't do like three in
Virginia and three and I don't know
Pennsylvania well suppose we have all
that change in 2019 but yeah in the 2020
cycle we're going to probably expand it
to do more states and we'll select
candidates across those those things but
um just sort of because 2019 is the
first year we're doing it and Virginia
is the main state in which
gerrymandering is playing a significant
role that's not okay okay and people
should also be aware that in 2020 is the
year that the census takes its its
census and these are the numbers so
really we have and
till the 2020 through the 2020 election
to get turn as many state houses blue as
possible
to to impact the redrawing of these
districts which happens following 2020
essentially after the new census
material comes out right yeah absolutely
so as I was like we're using Virginia
sort of a pilot that that's sort of how
excited people are about this idea you
know already we're seeing hundreds and
hundreds of people contributing so once
we break the gerrymanders in Virginia we
are going to turn to the other key
states where folks should be investing
down-ballot I think will like one of the
most exciting candidates we're
supporting is actually a woman named
Sheena Bynum Coleman and she is actually
running against Kirk Cox who is the
Speaker of the House of Delegates he's
the guy who drew the racist districts so
I think it would be sort of poetic
justice if he ended up losing to a black
woman after drawing this incredibly
racist map so she's one of the ten
candidates we're supporting with this
fight the other ones that you're pushing
is it Joshua Cole yes absolutely tell us
about Josh McCall came up just short in
2017 it was he was outspent three to one
but still closed in and lost by a couple
hundred votes that district was sort of
under looked at the time because there
was an Obama Trump district and the
party was at that time really investing
in this idea you know we got a we got to
win back the the suburbs and really
focusing on those Romney Clinton
districts that flip so this is a chance
for us to invest early in coal you know
he was outspent three to one last last
last like when we think that if he
if he was really on parity he has a
chance to flip that well what is the
impact of money in in in races this
localized I mean I you know one of the
things that I noticed in in the wake of
Trump's election I think I must have
gone to three or four ad hoc semi ad hoc
women's groups that had set up for the
very purpose of funding state races
across the country like adopting you
know the Colorado Legislature or legend
in these places and I never really saw
any data or any follow up on how much of
an impact it had for a state senator to
get an extra I don't know ten fifteen
twenty fifty thousand hundred thousand
how much money we talking about makes a
difference in these races sure so so a
couple things on that one is the theory
of change that we have um I think there
are a lot of groups that do this they
spend a lot of time like you know give
us money will you know have this
overhead and then we'll you know pick
these districts and you know we'll sort
of we'll play we're like the general in
the army you know with the money in my
view is actually that that actually
doesn't make a lot of sense we run an
incredibly bare-bones operation you know
we have people who build the models but
the most part once they're built it's
just the matter of running the data um
so we don't like to do the thing where
we like our generals on the battlefield
you know making PAC expenditures and
in-kind donations our view is we find
the races that we believe are the most
likely to be the pivotal see the sort of
last safe Eclipse and we encourage you
to give the money there there's no
overhead it's just an act blue form that
we continuously update so we really try
to do as bare-bones as possible um we
did this last cycle with give smart and
there's actually a study that we did
were sort of obsessed for the same
question that that you had
um and our targeting was incredibly
precise right at the pivotal district
nearly all of our money went to races
that were decided by fewer than 10
points most of the money going to races
that were decided by fewer than five in
multiple races that we supported ended
up in recounts which shows you just how
close those races are and we ran a
regression model controlling for a
variety of factors and we found that
being on the big IFS mart list did
predict a higher probability of winning
than what would expect for just
controlling for sort of district
specific factors like prison share of
the 2016 vote so we're fairly confident
that this money has a big impact and the
last thing i'll say is these these races
are often you know won and lost by a
couple hundred votes in many cases these
candidates are raising you know a couple
hundred thousand dollars would be a big
campaign and so if you're considering
you know giving money to be the like the
extra ten dollars on a presidential
campaign that's already going to raise
ten million dollars and a quarter you
know why not be the extra ten or fifteen
dollars that decides whether or not a
campaign can you know pay for a mailer
or you know pay their canvassers to do
another walk you know most of these
candidates are not going off on an
errand expensive TV ads you're funding
the bare-bones operations your money is
going to go a lot further then you know
being another dollar in a at a
consultant's wallet there's got to be
some type of you know figure where you
can say like one dollar to a state
Senate campaign or a state assembly
person campaign is the equivalent of
like giving a hundred thousand dollars
to a presidential campaign right I mean
that's more or less what it's got to be
your one dollar is relatively speaking
can can have that type of impact all
right let me ask you this question about
the
you know what now you've asked me I will
I will sit down the team and they will
work on those numbers and as soon as we
have them I'll come back on the show and
sure we found
oh you mean Shawn none of the guys that
pod save America thought to look into
that stat no oh that's weird
alright why because they're so
knowledgeable about politics it seems
like a fairly obvious question for the
that's alright I'm just curious they're
so funny they're so funny but anyways
you know no fine fine they've got a much
bigger platform I understand Shawn now
so let me ask you this when you have the
ten candidates how do you choose how do
you decide that it was going to be ten
did you say let's do ten as a round
number or we're only going to do
candidates where we think our money has
an X percentage chance of changing the
outcome and also in that question to
what extent did you guys assess their
politics like you you clearly like the
Sheila Bynum Colman race and you like
Joshua Cole do you have people in there
that you'd be like well they don't
necessarily they're not on my wing of
the party but at the end of the day the
most important thing is we need these
seats we need to have the congressional
districts drawn in a way that gives
Democrats at least a chance if they get
more votes to have more representatives
yeah so the ten is you know reasonably
arbitrary but I will say that the number
the number stays the same but the people
that we're supporting is going to change
each month um so we are going to be
recalibrating based on you know how the
first month turns out if we have a
candidate who you know was on the first
round and we're looking at their their
numbers and we're feeling pretty
confident then we're going to sub in
someone else on the question about the
ideology that's definitely something
I've been thinking a lot about it was
something we didn't um weighs heavily in
give smart initiative and what I am
doing right now we're actually working
on about four different down valid
projects that are each going to have
different missions because we really
want people to feel empowered when
they're giving money down balance so we
are planning and should be rolling out
very shortly an initiative that is
explicitly focused only on progressive
candidates and then we will have climate
and a very interesting immigration
criminal justice initiative as well and
I assume you're doing those with like
slate gabfest
and and who else what else you gonna do
like one with the Joe Rogan show or
something like that
I we can talk about that sure we talked
about I'm very well may do that all
right so you've just negged me into
partnering with you that's right
what do you think it's all about how do
you think this business got built so all
right so we've we put a link to to the F
gerrymandering campaign at the where you
can go to the a clue page and you can
contribute I mean I you know this is I
mean we've been saying this around here
for for a couple years this is the
dollar for dollar this is where you're
gonna get the most value out of your
campaign contributions and in terms of
the long-term health of the country
frankly it is it is crucial and it's
quite clear now it's quite clear what's
going to happen at the Supreme Court
they're basically going to say there is
no there is no prohibition against
partisan gerrymandering regardless we've
talked about this issue quite a bit
Anthony Kennedy had set it up above six
seven years ago eight years ago that he
just needed some type of way of you know
ask social scientists to come in
and help us determine when something was
overly gerrymandered it should be enough
to say you when you look at Wisconsin
and say Democrats won 56 percent of the
vote yet Republicans control 64 percent
of the Statehouse it doesn't make any
sense and if the courts aren't going to
do anything about it which it appears
it's not the only way to fight this is
going to be through initiatives like
this and so Virginia is one last thing
please you know Virginia has to kind of
centuries senators math NASA best
governor lieutenant governor at the
current moment and I think think one
thing that I see these investments sound
balance is really building the next
bench right of you know Democrats and in
you know in a lot of cases I mean in the
last cycle you know we really put you
know half a dozen and women progressive
women of color
we're not colors we refuse to take money
from Dominion energy and that is the the
bench future Congress member of senators
in statewide elected officials so really
investing in young people of SM young
talent is really important particularly
because there is real a real age divide
within the Democratic Party younger
representatives and legislators tend to
be much more committed to the
progressive movement in the values of
progressive movement than the older
legislators are okay and lastly if you
can I would love Jon Favreau's autograph
that would be great Oh appreciate that
would be great
he went to Holy Cross my hometown of
Worcester yeah all right now let's talk
about what's going on with the
d-triple-c because if we've you and I
have talked about this in the past the
last time we talked it was right after I
think the d-triple-c had announced that
if you are working with a primary
opponent to a sitting demo
regardless of who that Democrat is if
you are a vendor you provide phone
banking technology you provide a website
design you provide list making or
polling like you might Shawn then you
are blacklisted by the d-triple-c
and if you you will not get any deals
from them or any contracts with them
what just briefly tell just explain to
people why that's a big deal
sure I mean in a lot of ways it ended up
being not as much of a an impediment as
the d-triple-c at home because a lot of
vendors are still willing to work with
these progressive challengers in if you
want I can explain why it's that in the
2018 cycle there was a lot of new
Democrats who are being recruited not
like New Democrats in the sort of caucus
but like New Democrats and you know
people try to run for office before and
so they really relied heavily on the
d-triple-c to tell them who to work with
so the d-triple-c was able to sort of
like use that power in in this cycle
most of these Democrats are running for
a second term in red to blue districts
so if you know you already have been
using a vendor that you trust you don't
need the d-triple-c to recommend that
vendor for you um but the the idea that
the d-triple-c theorized was that
basically they were going to be able to
starve these primary challengers from
vendors I mean to some extent it worked
there were you know Murray Newman lost I
believe it was a mail vendor and a
digital vendor and then a polling vendor
but the problem that the d-triple-c I
think didn't Percy was that within a
couple days they were flooded with mail
vendors meadow vendors digital vendors
and pollsters who were more than willing
to work with them and and who is Murray
Newman just be clear done oh sure yeah
sorry about that
Murray Newman is running against dan
Lipinski damnit Penske is a member of
Congress a Democrat and finger quotes
from Illinois third he is anti-gay he's
the only Democrat who opposed the recent
legislation to extend civil rights
protections to LGBT Americans the
democrats pass through the house he is
anti-choice he's the only Democrat who
is a member of the pro-life caucus and
not only is he a member he is actually
the co-chair of the pro-life caucus he
voted against the Affordable Care Act
I'm after working to water down
contraception access and then he
actually refused to endorse Obama in
2012 so now he comes from a deep deep
red he must come from a deep deep red
district right I mean that's the only
way that you could justify having a
Democrat who votes on all of the at
least substantial issues that we talked
about over the past couple years with
Republicans so his district must be
super deep red for the d-triple-c decree
protecting him because you don't
understand Sean if it's not for danfa
Lapinsky
that district would obviously obviously
have a Republican correct well turns out
that is a that is not true
that district Clinton wanted by
double-digits it is a safe on district
it's so safe that Republicans basically
don't even bother contesting it last
cycle the person who ended up winning
the Republican primary was a literal
neo-nazi so yeah it's it's not a
district that Republicans are interested
in testing it will not be a district
that they're going to confess if human
one there is absolutely no excuse for
protecting San lepenski and you know to
be honest it's it's really the circle at
a time when Republicans are passing
abortion
that the Congressional arm of the
Democratic Party is you know working
tooth and nail to protect a an
anti-choice incumbent didn't Cheryl
boost us didn't she just now have to
pull out of a fundraiser for Lipinski
because of this and she is that the the
she the chair the d-triple-c yeah she is
and it's actually worth noting she's
gonna get on a blacklist because of this
I mean she can lose herself I mean if
you take a look at a lot last cycle um
Ben ray Lujan was a chair the d-triple-c
he's not I think like a sort of Ilhan
Omar AOC sound progressive but he is you
know to the left of center of the
Democratic caucus and he actually
refused to endorse dan Lipinski and at
the time reporters were speculated the
reason he refused to endorse an Lipinski
is that dan Lipinski refuses to pay dues
to the d-triple-c
he says he refused to pay these dues
because he wants to only select members
who would agree with his right-wing
values so not only is the d-triple-c um
going to to bat for the scoreboard
comment they're going to bat for an
incumbent who doesn't even pay dues so
by their own sort of logic this is not
someone that they should be protecting
it's it's quite frankly just I think
shows how you know how much this
institution has been poisoned and Cheri
Bustos you know she first came to
national prominence by sort of playing
up the fact that she's a she's a
Democrat in a Obama Trump district and
her goal is to go to war with the
progressive wing and a party and I think
that what she why she sir nothing was
raised is because she wants to crush
progressives and she views dan Lipinski
as a vehicle to do that
what do you think it's about Lipinski or
do you think it's just about the
institution I mean if sort of feels like
maybe Lapinsky like you know I don't
know has pictures of him and Obama and
some like compromising situation I mean
what what is that what is that about
I I so I so I really think that there's
two things were here one is is that the
weighted Bustos one the d-triple-c chair
was promising to really take a hard line
on challenges and really making sort of
incumbent protection from primaries her
top priority which is you know ironic
given that these people see always
pitches itself publicly is this
organization focused on frontline
Democrats but they didn't choose Bustos
because they wanted to we never found my
Democrats they they picked amused us to
to protect centrist incumbents in safe
seats the second thing is is that if you
look at sort of grew so this entire
career you know the big quincy political
profiles of her her big sort of theory
of the case is that democrats have gone
too far to the left and they need to
sort of move back to the to the center
to win elections and I think that what
she sees
with Lipinski is this opportunity to go
to the caucus and say look you know dan
Lipinski is the worst of the worst when
it comes to safety Democrats but I was
able to protect them I was able to be
back.this and progressive insurgency if
you make me you know Speaker I'll make
sure you never hear from these
progressives again I think I really do
believe that she wants to crush the
progressive movement and she wants to
make Illinois sir an example of hers now
Farnes yeah that's yes and that's why I
think progressives need to really invest
in his district because if she wins
she's betting that that is going to
crush the momentum going in to places
like New York where there are a ton of
incumbents who are facing challenges
right if that's fascinating I mean
the the so many times in so many of
these dynamics the the the last thing
you think about is not because there's
an actual investment in this fight but
that it creates a precedent or it
creates a model or it's symbolic of
something ends up being the answer why
these things are fought so that they
don't even have to fight the later
fights that that down the road I mean
this is I've heard that story many many
times in a bunch of different contexts
--is alright Sean let me ask you this
and this is just a last question and
it's a little bit meta because this
comes up and it's going to come up over
the course of the primary because
certainly there will be there's there's
at least a percentage you you know this
that that's what you work with all the
time that there may be a candidate who
wins who some of us don't like in the
primary and this came up in 2016 it
comes up now why you are clearly
associate yourself with views that are
to the left of where certainly the
establishment of the Democratic Party is
certainly the major institutions within
the party and probably with most of the
party here to the left of what is why
why do you expend your your your
energies on these projects within the
Democratic Party as opposed to without
on the outside of the Democratic Party
sure yeah this is something I've been
thinking about a lot recently um I think
that the goal of the progressive left
should be to become a member in good
standing of the sort of broad democratic
party apparatus and I don't by that I
don't mean like you know the DNC and
anything means the most for the most
case like the d-triple-c there's the
Democratic Party is the sort of broad
network of activists and organizations
that are broadly like sort of invested
in the Democratic Party winning
elections but I think that if the the
progressive last
has a meaningful caucus within Congress
has you know like real organizational
grassroots organizations that are
capable of influencing democratic
primaries and as you know a basis people
who are really committed to the ideals
of the Democratic Party even if not the
often the the ways that that gets
diluted down and policymaking we can
start to influence that institution and
moving in our direction and I think that
at the end of the day many people who
think of themselves as Democrats hold
ideals that are very close to my own
they're supportive of the green new deal
they're supportive of Medicare for all
they think that ice is run amok and it
needs to be reined in if not abolished
and I think that by making taking that
case to those voters we can win them
over to our vision and I'm fully I'm
fully capable of believing that that was
not true in the past but I think that it
is true now more and more that
particularly the next generation of
Democrats holds these ideals and that we
should create avenues for them to gain
power and to wield bad influence and I
think that you know we often can
overstate the sort of influence of the
left independent of Democratic Party but
with the control if we control and have
a say in that institution we can do
amazing things I really look at the
conservative movement in the Republican
Party as a as a sort of vision of that
Shaun McElwee data for progress we'll
put a link to the F gerrymandering
despite you know who he ended up
together we will talk about this we will
all right we'll talk about it absolutely
oh I want to get your thoughts on my
many take at some point though I knew
only one well we can I thought your
thoughts
my man take your thoughts on your
metatag meditated the things I just said
oh the meditate yes no I mean I largely
I agree you know there's uh the it would
be nice to own the levers of the
apparatus frankly and to at least have a
hand done on the apparatus that's you
know I like the idea of taking control
of pre-existing institutions that is the
most successful route in my estimation
to to change but we will talk more about
that in the future Shani McElwee okay
what what is it I was gonna do like a se
you know I think that there are a lot of
people who have been won over to her
view and a lot of what you might call
Normie Democrats um we see her and look
up to her and I think that's an
incredible amount of influence that the
left has to be something that we should
invest in doing more and more I agree
totally Shaun McCauley
data for progress thanks so much buddy
talk to you later let me go one might
[Music]
does great work honestly the best choice
of a podcast to align to I don't know if
I forgot to ask him have you seen him on
that show
yeah huh wonder how that happened
it definitely makes me question his
judgment a little moon hmm well that's
alright alright folks we're gonna take a
break
head into the fun half as you know that
happens after this after the free half
of the program and the free half is of
course completely funded not completely
we do have ads so I would say closer to
like ninety percent ninety three percent
funded by our members
it's our members who do this and say
thank you to our members we give members
extra time we also we also give them
things come
Alfre and I mean I'm not gonna be creepy
about it but I like them like them are
join the majority report calm head over
to join the majority report comm become
one of those people who support this
show and get this extra stuff and of
course if you are one of those people
who you've run into some financial
difficulties right now some people
living on a fixed income some people run
into just life stuff happens but you
would like the extra content every day
it would be helpful to you and your
interested in it send us an email
majority reporters at gmail.com give us
a little bit of time and we will we will
hook you up we don't reject anybody for
the sake of of cash join the majority
report column also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
support a great company just co-op just
coffee co-op is a great employee owned
enterprise that is very very supportive
of the suppliers of its coffee and you
can get the majority report planned
there will be no tea MBS this week
because Michael has taken a vow of
silence but jamie has not it's true
do tell alright so this week on the anti
Fattah I'm so excited we have a new
history as a weapon out today it's a
two-parter because this is really a
doozy we're talking about well I say we
I'm actually not on it it's Sean and
Matt Chrisman from chapo Trap House it's
only mildly annoying to me that I'm not
on the best thing that we probably do
but I just I don't have the I don't have
all the history that they do so in this
history as a weapon titled pivotal
decade the 1970s Sean and Matt break
down the political economy of
stagflation
the rise of Nixon and the politics of
aggrievement the
backlash to 60s social movements the
waning influence of trade unions and the
failure of the new politics Democrats to
synthesize all of these currents into
some sort of lasting working class
coalition they also discuss the early
formation of what we recognize today as
neoliberalism and the degree to which it
was over determined by the 1970s crisis
of capitalist accumulation so check that
out it's for patrons we may eventually
unlock it we usually do that with most
of our stuff but I shouldn't say that
and part two was out on Friday so check
it out that uh yeah brand-new episode of
literary hangover on Margaret Fuller she
was a transcendentalist editor and
writer she wrote woman in the 19th
century the cool thing about her is you
know the transcendentalist like Emerson
are known for their self-reliance sort
of individualistic sort of thing and
fuller realized that as a woman she
can't just you know as Jordan Peterson
would say clean up your own room there's
thing obstacles in society that are
stopping you from doing that so she's
very interesting became a a Socialist
was the first foreign correspondent as a
female and she reported on the 1848 late
1840s revolutions in Europe Wow Oh just
a reminder mention this up front
somebody on Twitter has corrected me
just a point about the brexit party
majority the combined vote for all the
remain parties was much higher than the
combined brexit parties so that's that's
that so I guess you Kip is no more and
it's basically the brexit party indeed
all right gonna take quick break add in
to the fun half six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty Jamie and I may
have a disagreement yeah you can't just
say whatever you want about people just
cuz you're rich I haven't
Lu try to mark them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you you nervous a little bit
upset yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes I'm
happy now listen to me five times eight
four seven nine oh six five oh one four
five seven six five dance dance dance
[Music]
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
[Music]
all right take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there take whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
I see some people Shitler what such
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly I
gotta say I every time I I watch and
listen to that thing I am amazed like
each time I think I see something new on
it
I just can't I cannot get over that
thing it rewards repeated listenings and
viewings it certainly does I think it's
just bull prog doing it all - it's not
like did he have that video in his head
when he made the song or she my bad I
think so but yeah we got the we had the
song like for six months and then I was
in the video came out the video makes it
makes so much more sense yeah but I
wonder if it went if it if it was if it
was built that way that's still that's
my ongoing question about about that but
let's go to the AIIMS column from
Nebraska my congressman is hosting a
town hall this week he is a climate
change denier is it worth to press him
on the issue or does he just deserve
verbal abuse on the microphone I think
it's better to press the issue in a sly
sort of semi earnest kind of way yeah
yeah and then if it's you know is
recorded you're not just doing it for
him you're doing it for everybody
watching yeah let the people at home do
the you know
common idiot and stuff right I mean I
always think that like you know if you
approach it with something like you know
the the nine out of ten doctors have
told you you have cancer one says you
don't I mean and even to be honest with
you it's really closer like ninety-nine
doctors have told you that you have
cancer one tells you they do you haven't
and that what that one who tells you
doesn't is an optometrist but but but do
nine out of ten always give a little bit
in that way because you're just this is
a and you say wouldn't you wouldn't you
undergo treatment wouldn't you not say
like well treatments gonna be expensive
and there is that one doctor who said I
don't have cancer so I mean I really
don't want to spend all this money on
treatment and there is a doctor who says
I don't have cancer so I'm not gonna do
it I mean I think that's basically what
you you throw out there because the idea
is that look you're not gonna cheat you
know beating up on him is not gonna
change his mind and what you really want
to do is you want to cast if you want to
plant a little seed of doubt in the
minds of everybody there at that town
hall and make the congressman feel like
like like make that that palpable in the
room and that's gonna be helpful
Jonathan Armstead Sam you're better than
man than me I don't know if I could
interview a guest who partnered with pod
save America once I heard them say that
I would just reply thank you for saying
that Sean you are a madman
goodbye pyjama Boy hey Sam I think
Michael forgot to mention his retreat
was so that he could really get into the
Marianne mindset he's ditching Bernie
for Marianne yes Ryan from Ohio Sam if
it makes you feel any more superior to
the pod save guys you should know that
the name they came up with is a play on
 Jerry which makes it a horrible
name I'm sure you would have thought of
a much better one oh my god I was gonna
ask him about that but but I just
thought it was too frivolous a question
they made they made that in there their
video about it they made that
pretty explicit the branding firm behind
fire festival right yeah
rack'em Sam Shawn's characterizing of
the blacklist is not a big deal is not
entirely true I'm in the district and
Newman is still having trouble securing
vendors that are actually in the
district to work on some basic things
definitely folks are looking for someone
to donate to Murray Newman needs the
help also boosters pulled out of a fund
raiser but it's still committed to raise
money quietly for Lapinsky
interesting I died uh died Dodie sentry
I don't know you folks should use that
attention libertarians debate Sam cedar
call now as the stream thumbnail on the
YouTube sometimes they might bring in
some libertarian callers sure Coleen
from Connecticut please do your part to
stop the spread of fake news ten is a
triangular number it is not a round
number come on Matthew
Shadia Stevens Sam you were very mean to
that nice boy Sean I don't think that I
was joking
lobster cook Reuben currently melting
down at Twitter due to mild the IDW on
IDW criticism in colette well I mean
since you brought that up
oh look at what I have right here in my
hand now I haven't read it fully I just
have seen its characterization and I did
I'm going to cop to this I did in fact
tweet about it to Dave can we bring up
my tweet because I wanna so this is the
the article how the IDW can avoid the
tribalist pull and it basically you know
talks about the author is Kathy young
and she refers to herself as being
sympathetic and sometimes critical
observer of the IDW arguably something
of a fellow traveler she's not overly
fond of the term intellectual dark web
but intellectual descent web would also
work
maybe okay huh no and anyways she talks
about you know Harris and then goes
through here and then you get through
some of this and then where do we get to
tape Rubin is mention in this oh here it
is
okay page three of my thing
however it's equally essential for such
a movement to stand against the
identitarian populace right and that can
be a blind spot for some IDW figures
would you mind highlighting this all
right there yeah this paragraph right
here yeah and then here Rubin this is
the Dave Rubin I believe has a
particularly troubling track record in
this regard I should note that I was a
guest on his show in 2016 it had an
entirely positive experimenting that hmm
he has been rightly criticized not only
by progressives but as libertarians as
Anthony Fischer for providing a
sympathetic forum to far-right activists
including Paul Joseph Watson Mike
[Applause]
Tsarevich Stephan Melania and Lauren
southern Rubin and his supporters
typically respond that he cannot be
faulted for interviewing controversial
guests true enough however where have we
heard this critique before he doesn't
simply have them on but treats them as
allies against sjw's or the regressive
left and allows them to masquerade as
reasonable anti PC centrist hmm I have
to say that my brain is still in
recovery mode from taking in so many
high-level important ideas there is a
video compilation of Rubin addressing
Watson a youtuber has promoted
conspiracy theories about water
fluoridation of fluoridation I can't
speak today Barack Obama's birth
certificate in the 2007 Virginia Tech
shooting Serna vich who has flogged
pedophilia panics and declared that
diversity is code for white genocide I
would also add was actively denying
existence of date-rape online also
pushed pizza gate heavily not to mention
is a failed getting a contributor fired
at NB c-- r-- anyways
also an Molyneux who routinely rants
about low IQ rapey minorities as fellow
members of a new center here is what the
new center it looks like according to
Dave Rubin someone put up this video
it's like you and me our whole
life we're gonna be like will be fight
in ten years we'll be fighting the right
again and then in another ten years
we'll find go left again yeah so that
Center so where do you actually consider
yourself politically I think I have a
good sense and one of the things we've
been talking about here is sort of this
new growing Center so five years ago
where liberals and conservatives were
just fighting about everything now
actually there's a new center developing
and I think both of us are sort of in
that huh
so I guess when this writer says that he
is including them in the new center like
literally hmm
and he goes on to say let's see when
southern and a Canadian ex libertarian
turned white identitarian appeared on
Ruben show she argued on challenge that
the alt-right icon Richard Spencer was
not really a white supremacist but
merely a supporter of a white ethno
state southern also appeared on ben
shapiro show hmm interesting it's kind
of like the difference between
pedophilia and a feeble philia yeah
all of what she's written here is i
would say the only editorial is that
that stuff's a problem everything else
is just completely factual right like we
just saw a video of dave rubin saying to
all those guys you and i are part of the
new center and she thinks it's
problematic to define them as the new
center
and what's dave's response here is he
upset about this can we can we check the
let's see Oh bonus special for Kathy oh
he's attacking her now here's a primer
on what nationalism and populism
actually are courtesy of Hasani author
of the virtue of naturalism oh wow he's
really upset about this huh what else
does he say wait this is whole thread on
this this is all from today yeah oh my
gosh
hey this is really upsetting to me Dave
I just can can everybody just go away
for a minute because I just want to talk
to Dave alone and this of course is the
tweet that I put up well let me let's
turn to that in a moment I just want to
say to Dave listen to me as you like to
say Twitter is not real life I think
you're getting a little bit upset and I
think you just got to let the ideas be
out there and refute them now we can cut
to my eye my tweet because I as I said
hey a Rubin report condolences it seems
like the IDW is calling the herd that's
just a way of saying that they're trying
to cut ties with you in some way hang in
there brother seems like nobody on the
right is open to ideas want to come on
the show to discuss and then of course I
did the hash tag solidarity Dave my door
metaphorically speaking is always open
and I'm happy to come on your program
and talk about it if it would help or
you come on my program and talk about it
or if you just want to meet for coffee
and are willing to videotape it and take
sound I would I would do that too
so you hate to see the IDW circling the
wagons I hate to see that it you don't
want to see the IDW circling the wagons
around dave rubin and keeping everyone
away from him yeah keeping him
yeah that's it's really big of you yeah
so there's that
Collin from an 8-3 to area code who's
this where he come from oh hello hello
okay so hello my name is Ryan I'm from
Houston Texas okay Ryan
what's on your mind okay so I think this
was I had a comment on or a question or
I guess an opinion on your second class
phone call on Wednesday um after maybe
you may need to be a little bit more
specific as to the content of that call
oh yes let me on the go ahead after your
second to last phone call concerning the
support for impeachment
I thought perhaps impeaching Donald
Trump isn't the greatest idea just to
just to start off with I am I am my
intentions here are to stop Donald Trump
as much as you do but I think Donald
Trump symbolizes the hypocrisy of the
Republican Party can I believe that a
proportion of Christians the religious a
large portion of the religious I mean of
the right um I grew up in I grew up in
Houston
I believe the Christians know this I
grew up in Houston Texas and living in a
red state this has been my experience
Democrats I know walk in lockstep
against Donald Trump
recognizing that he's no good for our
country at least coming from my college
experience of course some of my
Republicans friends still some still
voice support for Donald Trump but I
have great success convincing the
Religious Right to recognize the
hypocrisy in voting for the antithesis
of American values so I was wondering if
you could explain why you think
impeachment was a good idea because I'm
a recent listener to the show I just
started about a week ago I've been
listening every day so I haven't had
time to like go back and read uh well
hear your comments on a people I mean I
I have been I've been I think sort of I
wouldn't say hugely skeptical of
impeachment but pretty skeptical of
impeachment in the past in so far is at
one point my
his concern was that if he wins the
election I'm not saying that impeachment
will help him win election but if he
wins the election after impeach that the
house really has no no more arrows in
their quiver but I think the the big
reason why you impeach now is because he
has earned it and there is and then I
would just say like you know just on an
on an ethical and a and in terms of like
holding people in power to account if
you do not impeach him even though you
will not remove him Mitch McConnell
today announced like we're not even
where do we won't deal with impeachment
at all he's trying to throw hot water on
it a cold water I think Nancy Pelosi
should get up there and say we're going
to impeach him or we're gonna start the
process let's put it this way we're
gonna start the process it will give us
more subpoena power because impeachment
subpoenas subpoenas issued under
impeachment inquiry has more power as
viewed by the courts to compel people to
testify and if we impeach him and we
send it to the Senate I have every
reason to believe that the Republican
Party has lost its way so much that they
won't even take it up and that will be
on that agree you have voters but I'm
saying this is what Pelosi should say
from rhetorically because I think
because I think there's there's there's
political value in this I mean aside
from like it's super important to hold
powerful people accountable and show
them at least there is some will buy
some sector of society to say you cannot
do this even if we can't stop you or
remove you from office we can say you
cannot do this it's important to put
down a marker but if Pelosi gets up
there she can put it on the Republicans
for not convicting him in the Senate and
the the flip side of this is that there
is a huge price I think a bigger price
to be paid to not impeaching him
politically than impeaching him I think
you will lose like either your message
about Donald Trump becomes
incredibly muddled if you do not impede
and well I just my opinion is I believe
that we should have the greatest I
believe if you impeach him you mobilize
the right into basically saying like
they're there and the of course Fox News
is going to spend this they're gonna say
you know they're trying to take Donald
Trump and I believe that this is gonna
run in you you think it'll run through
the election or you I believe that
should be a longer process it shouldn't
be if we do impeach him it shouldn't be
like right before the election or
because I do think they're gonna run it
through like it could take anywhere from
like six six to six to 12 months
theoretically and you would be you know
you could impeach him and and and he
could run cuz he's not gonna get thrown
out of office
will it mobilize Republican voters
Republican voters are already mobilized
they're already mobilized they I mean
listen the Democrats just had the
largest victory in the history of
midterm elections okay not in terms of
seats because we know those are
gerrymander but in terms of votes and
with that sound the Republicans had one
of their best get out the votes maybe in
the history of midterm elections as well
so this is not gonna be about you know
there's gonna be some demobilization you
got to be worried about but I don't how
would Republicans get more mobilized
than they were in 2018 because I believe
the right plan to go forward is because
I if you look at the history of the
elections Democrats only Republicans
have held the house of Republicans for
one one term at a time historically
Democrats have held it four to two turns
or more so I believe that if like
because I think the the greatest the
greatest decision for our I mean the
greatest choice for our country like
what I think about is our the children
who grow up oh yes no idea my grill for
I agree I I mean I know to say let me
let me just characterize your argument
and and and I don't know different
people have this but your
your argument is Democratic voters are
going to get out there in droves no
matter what even if they the impeachment
doesn't happen they're not going to be
demotivated but Republicans could get
more motivated traditionally they don't
do as well on presidential election
years etc etc you may be right you may
be wrong that's you know basically in
that type of situation I default to
doing the thing that is really the best
thing to be done sort of I don't want to
say morally but at least in terms of
athletic ethically and structurally and
to me that is hold powerful people to
account alright get a jump appreciate
the call though good call you're not
gonna bet white evangelicals to
abandoned Trump it's just not happening
I think I think the argument is not that
they will vote for the Democrat but they
just will not show up now that has
happened in the past there is an
argument that were not for that open
seat on the Supreme Court you would not
have had that kind of mobilization
one-to-one our buddy here can convince
maybe some some fundamentalist
Christians that hey you know you're
being a little bit hypocritical but and
maybe it's because if there isn't an
open seat there isn't as much of a prize
there for them their stakes aren't quite
as high it doesn't feel like well he's
already shown that he's gonna give them
what they want exactly so I mean I agree
iiiiii I don't I I I'm just clarifying
that I think the idea is that you'd
immobilize them as opposed to convert
them like they jerk they just feel so
gross that they don't go vote but you
know it didn't quite happen in the right
way it was supposed to in 2016 call him
from a 6 1 0 area code who's this where
you come from
that's me yes it is you of course
oh it's me from Pennsylvania okay so
with a twitted tariffs and something you
had on a few months ago as far as
illegal when you were in Las Vegas a lot
of
compounds for drugs come from China yes
rare earth minerals which are used in
technological equipment what happens to
that with tariffs going up and in case
there's ever any I don't know if the
right word is hostilities whether it be
just a verbal not note not military
action you know what does the US do
without those two things I don't know I
think it's problematic I think it's
problematic there's a there's a strong
argument that it may be problematic from
a national security and I'm using that
term broadly I don't mean just in terms
of like military but in terms of like
technological in terms of infrastructure
food in some instances to have
outsourced to your supply chain to a
arrival that has its own agenda that
that is unaligned and misaligned
sometimes with yours I don't know what
happens with this tariff stuff I really
don't I just you know I of course we
have we have going as well they've given
up all technology which probably most of
it was even US military and government
gerontology not really growing yeah I
agree I think it's problematic but I
just I don't know the solution I don't
know what's gonna happen with this but
uh appreciate the call not a quick
question nope
sorry we have a new phone system and so
things are a little bit delayed I
noticed when I hang up it's like he's
still there for 30 seconds not dead
Oh since we were talking about Eric
Lipinski we just talked to Sean McElwee
who is out there and and and pissed
about the d-triple-c protecting in
particular it's dan Lipinski not Eric
Lipinski what you put
Lipinsky there is it it huh
oh he's yeah he ran their cross-country
with him okay but it's dan Lipinski and
here is New York Times reporter Jonathan
Martin talking about what we were just
talking about but I was in Chicago the
last couple of days on the story talking
to activists out there progressive
activists and I tell you what
that they are sick of this congressman
who has been there for about ten years
ago his dad had the seat before him
it is a seat that looks a lot like the
ones that a osc1 in New York
and Presley one in Boston last year
historically kind of cops and
firefighters a working-class Polish and
Irish now much more affluent and diverse
and Congressman I think it's been some
real challenges going into next year he
won by two points last year as primary
facing the same challenger next year and
the question is will Democrats support
somebody who on this central issue isn't
with them so they're talking about that
challenge by Murray Newman to dan
Lipinski and this could be the year the
dan Lipinski goes and that's why you
know we were mentioning I just want to
reiterate this so many times the fight
that you're looking at is really just
the shadow of the real fight that's
going on and so the d-triple-c they
don't care about dan Lipinski more than
likely they just need to set a precedent
and they need to be able to go and say
look at who we would protect if we add
Dan Lipinski's back I don't even need to
make the case to you that we have your
back because obviously we do and if dan
Lipinski we helped dan Lipinski win then
I Got News for You anybody's gonna
challenge somebody whose credentials are
not so horrific as Dan Lipinski's forget
about it you don't even need to come
don't even bother
it's a show of force there's a show of
force it is the on some level it's like
it's the that Fonzie
theory where he told richie cunningham
that of course I don't know if you guys
know happy days yeah this is where he
hits the music box it's yeah he hits the
juke box but he basically told rich
Cunningham like I hit one guy once and
I've never had to hit anybody again
this also reminds me and you can go back
and listen to this I don't know when
they we did this interview maybe in 2012
where shannon moore up in alaska used to
do talk radio up there was fighting for
pebble mine and that has come back
around but she told me this story about
going in with the lawyers for pebble
mine they want a mine in this area that
is like the number one source of wild
salmon in the country and the part about
this story i specifically remember she
went in there with all sorts of facts
and figures
she made the case she had the case she
showed it to the lawyer she had an
opportunity sit down with lawyers and
explain it to him she was like i'm
convinced that they're gonna this is
gonna be a no brainer for them and at
the end they were like we don't care
about pebble mine we don't care about
this or any of that we're fighting this
so hard
because we cannot let the epa win we
cannot let activists win because if we
do that puts in jeopardy all the other
places we don't care about this one
thing but we will fight to the death for
it because this one thing implicates the
whole world for us and i think that's
what's going on with dan Lipinski for
the d-triple-c less about dan Lipinski
more about the precedent it sets and
that's the way that you should view this
and why it should be important to
progressives because this is the fight
that it's not just about dan Lipinski
understand it's basically saying we
start with Lipinski and then we come to
you unless you start voting better
that's basically it that's frankly the
way it worked with the Republicans
that's you know at the time it wasn't
the Tea Party it was Grover Norquist's
and Club for Growth and I remember in
Pennsylvania I think it's uh years ago
was a the Senate the the senator from
there before when it was just um I I
can't remember his name now but uh he
died but Pat Toomey was running against
him it's like that guy's alone
he's never gonna win and they kept
pushing and pushing and eventually he
ran a couple of times he won and that's
that's basically well I think the era we
are in on the Left it's pretty rich of
Lipinsky to say that shunning this is
how we got President Trump people felt
like they weren't welcome in the party
that is just bizarre it does bear
mentioning though like the force is
pulling the Republican Party to
quote-unquote the right I guess we
talked about this a lot like how much of
this is Trump and how much of it is just
normal Republican stuff I think it it
went they went a little bit easier to
the right then the democratic party
would go to the left but I will see well
yeah yeah I just I do I think that is -
I think that's too narrow of perspective
I think look I think they started out
more to the right then then the Delta
between the the Democrats and the left a
B I would also say that there was far
more resources behind the Tea Party that
were distinct from the Republican Party
in terms of like coke money and whatnot
I mean the Koch brothers like a people
powered people versus money grassroots
thing right and the Koch brothers have a
an electoral you know a basically a data
operation that dwarfs the Republican
Party now and so they have the the I
mean in many respects I think I used to
describe it is it's Coke and Pepsi
they're all the same industry there's
just different
but he's in there in the difference
between the coke and the Pepsi's not so
great you know what a fun thing about
the rise of the Nazi Party in Germany
was about the the the businessmen they
did fund the Nazi Party but they also
funded everything else on their right -
it was just the Nazis who could get the
popular you know priority behind it
right they're throwing down a thousand
seeds will bloom and there's just happen
to catch on the left
you're just not seeding as many
different places and so it's it's
structural there's a structural there's
it's much harder without a doubt and the
the left will never well I don't know if
never but part of it also on the right
was that they promoted this they built
their Frankenstein they just thought
that they could control it
I played that game secret Hitler yeah
have you heard that
it's like mafia you heard of that game
yeah I've never played mafia but it's
secret Hitler the video game off you
know it's not a party game it's actually
a party game yeah I'm not interested Wow
Matt boom so Joe Biden has a strategy
and this strategy I think if you've been
a regular listener to the program makes
total total sense at least based upon my
theory as to why Joe Biden will
ultimately falter now he may not I have
I have conceded every time I've talked
about this this may be a product of
motivated reasoning as they call it may
be aspirational on my part but I'm
convinced by the fall deep into the fall
Joe Biden will be maybe third in the
polling instead of first and the reason
my my theory is based on the idea that
people right now who are supportive of
Joe Biden largely are doing so because
they perceive him as Uncle Joe and as
the as Obama's vice president and they
do not have a recollection of Joe Biden
the man Joe by
who ran unsuccessfully for president in
1988 and ran unsuccessfully for
president in 2008 and was horrible in
the Neda Hill hearings and was horrible
on things like protecting credit card
businesses interests over human beings
interests in the writing of the
bankruptcy bill and horrible on race in
other areas I mean just on and on and I
am convinced that over the course of the
you know when people start paying
attention to the primary people gonna
are gonna see that some of them are
gonna get turned off then all of a
sudden his electoral invincibility is
going to be less which has also been a
key selling point for him so what do you
do if you believe that - and your Joe
Biden I'll tell you what you do very
little post is reporting that Joe Biden
is is decided to run a quote campaign of
limited exposure how effective of a
strategy could that could that be well
Craig I don't think this is gonna serve
Joe Biden well in the long run because
the peeling candidates have to be have
to expose themselves to the people they
have to you know show who they truly are
to voters and show their personality and
I think when you have staff potentially
siphoning siphoning them off and not
allowing them to you know press the
flesh as we say in politics on the
campaign trail and really get to know
folks by Quarantine them off I think
that can be a dangerous trajectory
especially in this field of 24
candidates and we all know I mean Ali's
on the ground and Iowa right now we all
know that Iowa voters I mean they flirt
with a lot of candidates it's almost
like dating they go on a lot of dates
with candidates and then they ultimately
decided they want to support but they
want to meet everybody they want to have
real conversations and I think if Joe
Biden's team is somehow sectioning him
off from that ability then that's gonna
hurt him in the long run yeah I don't
agree with that I think that's going to
help him in the long run because people
have an idea of Hinnom in in their mind
and there's nothing worse than having
an ideal of someone in their mind and
then actually dealing with the real
person so Joe Biden is smart to hide the
problem may end up being when people say
like maybe this isn't an energy thing I
mean maybe it's Joe Biden making it
sound like we're gonna play the
incumbent game where the incumbent
usually stays in the White House and
doesn't come out and that type of thing
but maybe what's really going on is Joe
Biden just can't handle the campaign
trail looks like no the low-energy guy
could be I don't that still is probably
the best strategy for him and this this
Hillary lady was so stuck on
personalities like people know his
personality
lots of people like his personality the
thing that they really don't want people
to see is his policies and his record I
don't know if people even know his
personality in the same way they might
they might but like Obama's curmudgeonly
lovable old friend sidekick guy the Joe
Biden from The Onion Magazine basic yes
but the problem is is that when he gets
up on stage with other people like how
is he gonna react and again this is
gonna come down to how lucky is Joe
Biden it's gonna be a coin toss on some
level if he's up there particularly with
Elizabeth Warren I think that's
extremely could have extremely
detrimental outcome for Joe Biden I mean
you know he'll get critique from other
people and other people are situated but
Elizabeth Warren practically entered
politics on some level because of Joe
Biden and she's going to go directly at
him because she's going to have to and
she's not gonna be as afraid to alienate
his voters as I think all the other
candidates might be and Joe Biden's
condescending sort of dismissive
qualities are not gonna look so good
when he's saying that too you know the
the nice lady from the Midwest I don't
know we still live in such a sexist
country though like it comes down to
whether people are going to be choosing
based on policy or based on their
general vibe because I think if you go
based on general vibe Joe
I didn't beats Elizabeth Warren people
think he's cool for some reason like I
say I what I am banking on is that
that's gonna change when they're sitting
on a stage together but you may be right
or they could just hear her being like
this shrill whiny woman like we need to
protect consumers blah blah blah and
he's like Oh forgive me Father haha
I totally consumed anything happened to
we're gonna see that's why that's why
we're gonna do complete coverage of the
debates in June and July and August and
September October November
whenever the debates are that's why we
will be doing all of that hours and
hours of debates come from a 9:04 area
code who's this where you calling from
hey my name is Carl calling from Des
Moines Carl from Des Moines along with
what some people on one second here in a
second what hey so yeah I've got a
couple things on my mind today by Todd
I'm kind of worried first-time caller a
little nervous I don't want you to hate
me for fact-checking yeah oh yeah yeah
I'm not with team I'm not with I'd like
the truth Tulsi or whatever was like
about a week and a half
you ran a thing about like there's a
graphic about like voting for the
military under Trump and it had that
Tulsi had apparently voted for the 2019
like 717 billion and I was recently
involved in a debate online and I
referenced this and I got eaten up
pretty quickly and then I did the
research myself and I wondered if maybe
that information in that graphic was
maybe incorrect and it appears maybe
that Tulsi has indeed voted three times
against Trump's military budget I'm
gonna be honest with you did read over I
gotta be honest with you that was not me
who did that it was a Michael
contributor here well you referenced the
article you referenced the article on
your
chauffeur's I wrecked yes you are right
Michael ruff did did that graphic
girlfriends tulsi yeah hello hello I
didn't I didn't reference tulsi gabbard
I referenced I think if anything I
referenced that the Senate had voted to
last week if I recall correctly I
referenced that the Senate Armed
Services Committee voted to increase the
Pentagon budget for the second year in a
row I don't ever remember even
contemplating how Tulsi Gabbard voted on
it
okay well regardless like all I'm saying
is like there might be something wrong
with this article so maybe this is just
something from Michael then don't mean
to offend you Sam again I didn't you
know like I said I wasn't on troop Tulsi
or anything but listen I I I am more
than happy to dig into it and tell
Michael to correct it if it was wrong I
have no problem with troop Tulsi or
group Tulsi or the I mean I have no that
doesn't that doesn't bother me no I'm
not in any way offended
well they I mean I just know you're at
all with even the assertion that she had
voted I had never contemplated I if you
had asked me I would have assumed that
she would have voted against it
sometimes people do me this for
procedural reasons I don't know I mean I
think like I what my issues with her
have less to do with I mean I I also I
think we're fairly aligned with her in
terms of intervention I think that in
most instances we should not be
intervening in any of this stuff I
certainly have been outspoken about not
going into Syria since 2011 at least on
television and agreed with that said I
also don't think that makes Assad some
type of martyr or good guy I think he's
a horrible
or human being a torturer and about as
low and despicable as you can get but
for me the calculation is can we help
that situation or can we make it worse
and from my perspective right all the
evidence points that we can make it
worse
so the tulsi thing I'll ask Michael
about it but I honestly I don't can one
thing though
i coat painted an article over the
weekend about who they thought the best
candidates were in terms of their
anti-war position yeah and this article
very well I think articulates each
candidate for you know the Democratic
primary for president it's very well
details their stance and I think it
really gets at the heart of you know
where Tulsi has been and how she
sometimes equivocates on this and I
think some of the facts put forward in
this article match up perhaps better
than that other article referenced
majority reporters at gmail.com okay we
should call like I'm gonna do I got to
be honest with with folks like I I don't
think that Tulsi Gabbard is a you know a
major force in this election in terms of
like her ability to win I think she
would be a good voice to have on the
debate stage because in some narrow sets
of stuff not the least of which you know
our militarism I think that she's pretty
good and so I you know welcomed that on
there to challenge different people
about it
but I don't talk about her candidacy
that much because Twitter's not real
life in that respect I mean I just I'm
interested in who has the best chance of
the candidates that are declared to win
that are most closely aligned to
basically issues that I care about and I
would also add
that I think our that that that the
presidency can have some influence on or
you know cuz I think there is an
argument that less militarism is
downstream from some major changes in
the way that we look at power and the
way that resources are divvied up in our
own society domestically
people follow that I mean a that I think
that you make those changes at home
first and then you're able to project it
out much easier that if if people have
health care if people have child care if
people have jobs that do not require
them working 60 70 hours a week or two
members of the household just to have
you know basic subsistence I think it
then becomes easier to shut down basis I
think it becomes easier to pull back on
military contracts I think it becomes
more compelling to people to say like we
don't need 800 bases around the world I
think it becomes people become have more
political power and economic power and
so they say like on one hand I don't
need to go to the military to have a
future and we don't why you know why are
we getting involved in this stuff I mean
I just think that like the domestic
stuff is downstream in my mind I should
say is upstream from the way that we
project militarism outside the world and
not to mention I mean not every
candidate has said this I wish they
would say it more to the question of oh
how are you gonna pay for all this stuff
how are you gonna pay for a welfare
state take money away from our bloated
military spending you know that tweet
from Elizabeth Warren was kind of
terrible where she connects like the
green new deal in fighting climate
change to like having us
wrong military-like no that's not how
we're gonna do it let's go to let's do
this here you know who is all in favor
of more intervention and this is gonna
come as a huge shock but the daughter of
Dick Cheney
who was not only a champion of the idea
that the president is a monarch in this
country but that he should use his his
military might freely and liberally in
the in the broadest sense of the word
here is Liz Cheney anticipating right
now she's a representative anticipating
maybe bump it up to Senate with the
resignation of what's-his-face I can't
remember now yeah who is it
well here is a Liz Cheney talk about
Iran announcing this week that they're
sending 1500 more US military to the
region is that the right move or could
that increase the the possibility of
miscalculation it is the right move and
when you look at what we've seen in
terms of the threat level what we've
seen in terms of what the Iranians have
now are now doing and I want to be
careful not to talk about classified
material cause a nation we just say this
that little trick there first of all she
is genetically coded to go and lie to
the American public about the threat
coming from outside of this country
genetically coded and this like I want
to be careful I get news for you Liz
Cheney's not day she's not just have
access to special documents that show a
special you know growing threat from
Iran that is such horse crap now I'll
tell you how I know this
well actually I've got to be careful
about secret sources we've seen in terms
of the threat level what we've seen in
terms of what the Iranians have now are
now doing and I wanna be careful not to
talk about classified material and
information but there's no question but
that this threat as chairman Thornberry
is not business as usual and it's very
important for the Iranians to understand
that we'll do what's necessary to deter
them from attacking us or our interests
and that will do us necessary to make
sure they understand we aren't going to
simply sit back and allow them to take
action that will put our people in
harm's way so I think the president's
doing exactly the right thing and I
support the actions Budaj
is calling what he witnessed in
Washington this week beeping my back and
tell me it's raining don't piss down my
back and tell me it's raining yeah well
that's what Liz Cheney is doing he's
basically saying it's pouring rain
outside and guess what I'm doing right
now I am urinating on all of you
the this is what they're trying to set
up there are secret plans that the Iran
the Iranians have that we now know about
to harm American interests and if they
go through with this this is this is
like literally and what's amazing about
this is at least in her father's era you
would take time and you would build a
lie you wouldn't just go out there and
make up something and then just expect
everybody by you would take the time
involved and you would invest the effort
in lying to the American public so that
you could get everybody on board and
these guys these days that's the problem
with this new generation they just think
they can just throw out any dumb lie and
everybody's gonna buy it now they also
may not need the American they also may
have come to the conclusion like it
doesn't even matter if we have the
American public with us we can do this
because remember Liz Cheney John Bolton
Mike Pompeo this whole next crop of
neoconservatives they don't necessarily
care about if they get their war with
Iran they know there's the the these
guys are still part of that that of the
same crew who said like you guys are
part of the reality-based community
what we do is you see reality and then
you react to it what we do is we we
fashion reality we're gonna go make the
facts on the ground we're gonna put our
ships in such a way and our assets in
such a way that the chances of Iran
bumping into them is increased right
like I want to uh I leave something in
the dark and in the hallway outside of
Saul's door I know like there's a chance
he's gonna hit it maybe I want him to as
he walks out cuz I want to hear what
he's doing if he's getting out of bed
and that's what they're engaging in and
they're looking for Iran to mess up and
start something and then I don't know
give the green light to Israel and say
go ahead bomb them we'll be right here
yeah with the way Martha Raddatz says is
this the right move or does it increase
the chances of miscalculation it's like
it's the right move because it increases
the chances yeah the answer to that
question by Liz Cheney is yes yes it's
the right move because it increases the
chance of miscalculation it's so nuts
that they would let her talk about this
on TV like what do most people think of
when they hear the last name Cheney like
probably being lied to about WMDs and
you know getting into an endless
horrible war in Iraq like if they think
they can fool people twice in the exact
same way I mean they could be right
we'll see honey bad you don't care
they really don't let's listen to Ben
Shapiro this is the pillar of the
intellectual pillar of the right we are
told right is anything new the cool kids
philosopher cool kids philosopher
apparently it turns out cool kids they
make stuff up and where do I have this
sheet here oh yeah they make stuff up
stuff that even like without even having
to Google you're like wait a second
that's not right
but if you say if you say it in a way
that makes it look like you have like
your other people have humanity and so
I'm going to say it now this is going to
make it appear that I am actually
delivering information that is both
profound and intellectually rigorous in
its presentation because I why else
would I be here I'm not even someone who
can make eye contact what him
why else would I feel confident enough
to speak in the stupid voice if I wasn't
saying real things when you talk very
quickly and you say things that have
been pronounced in such a way with a
vocabulary that is been cultivated by
sometime at eight Ivy League school
people tend to accept what you're saying
and they say with someone with so little
amount of charisma it must be of course
based on the facts that our people are
responding to what I my messages here is
trying to argue I mean just because the
facts compel him to the superiority of
new judeo-christian world which
apparently he's not even aware is a
relatively recent at least moniker Ruth
is that the the vision of modern science
the idea of hypothesis and hypothesis
being rejected by evidence that sort of
science experimental science is unique
to the West there's a difference between
technological progress which does exist
in a vast number of civilizations and
that technological progress is generally
linked to the human need to overcome the
environment around them there's a
difference between that and the pure
idea of exploring science for its own
sake which then has technical
applications later that is something
that seems fairly unique to the West
which is why you see thinkers in the
West like Isaac Newton who are who are
trying to figure out general rules of
the universe in a way that very few
people were doing in other civilizations
that doesn't mean that every other
person and every other civilization was
incapable of doing this obviously there
were strides in science and mathematics
particularly in the Indian world as in
like India in the Indian world or only
we're just gonna stop here for a little
bit
now I imagine it hasn't occurred to him
that maybe part of the reason why he's
more familiar with Isaac Newton has
something to do with the language that
he spoke and I am steeped I mean I don't
know maybe ben shapiro
was steeped and raised in a context in
which history was presented to him and
scientists ioan sand in all forms of
human achievement were presented to him
from a let's say Asian centric Far East
Asian centric worldview and he's
overcome that to realize that folks like
Isaac Newton are the most important
folks that we have but also what is
India like when we're talking about like
I mean presumably Isaac Newton's around
in in the the 1600 17th century right
what do maybe a little bit earlier what
what is what is India at that point I
mean is like the Far East is he pleased
broadly speaking of India didn't exist
way during the timeframe that look what
differentiates India from Pakistan in
his mind yeah what do you think that is
hmm because usually when I hear people
talk about different you know
contributions to science that's the part
we talk about oh yeah
algebra and optics and Islam but I guess
no yeah I mean that's much what's here
well we're doing in other civilizations
that doesn't mean that every other
person in every other civilization was
incapable of doing this obviously there
were strides in science and mathematics
particularly in the indian world as in
like india in the indian world in the
first millennia but in the first
millennium but the great expanse of
science was deeply wedded to
historically speaking the the
judeo-christian belief that in order to
investigate god you had to investigate
God's universe and that was tied to a
Greek natural law evidentiary based
position that the way to discover
natural rule
was to look at the evidence I mean it's
an Aristotelian idea so as I say this is
not to discount any of the discoveries
of other civilizations the question is
why the West did it best and the answer
is that the West did it best not just
because they were making technological
advances against technological advances
exist throughout history the question is
why is it that the West came up with
this idea of science this generalized
idea of science which was then used to
create tremendous technological change
far beyond what you get if you were just
in a field and you needed to figure out
how to make a plow is there any morning
okay all right first of all I'm quite
sure that the idea of science did not
exist but for maybe a hundred or two
hundred years ago like these people are
going like this is science for science
sake no they were exploring things about
their world and did not codify it in
some form narrow form of like of
academia now in addition to sort of just
like instinctively saying like wait a
second no that's not I'm sorry
Judea Christians were not the only ones
to just to to develop and think about
the world in the universe and the
physics of things and this sort of the
non tangible things right it wasn't just
like oh the Jews and the Christians they
just left behind all that stuff about
how do you make the money make the plow
better I'm too busy thinking about the
Stars they weren't the only ones and
Juan Cole did a real devastating
takedown of ben shapiro
he writes everything shapiro says is
wrong this is the professor of Middle
Eastern Studies from University of
Michigan who incidentally was offered I
believe tenure or tenure-track at Yale
until until hardcore right-wing Zionists
prevented him from taking that position
while Cole goes on say judeo-christian
as a term was invented by
nineteenth-century missionaries intent
on converting Jews and only came into
common parlance in the mid 20th century
in part in reaction to the rise of
fascism and communism many Jews have
found the phrase objection all and any
in any case nothing called
judeo-christian underpinned Western
science but beyond that he said even the
Aristotelian 's were relatively cerebral
and more based on observation than
experiment observation would be more
like hey is this gonna work better for
the plow more over Western Europe lost
contact with Greek learning from roughly
410 until the 1200s during those
centuries Aristotle Plato Galen Pattullo
me among others were cultivated in are
you ready for this the Muslim world yes
no with the Abbasid rulers 750 to 1258
commissioning translations in funding
further study that the Abbasid Caliphate
actually more over the Muslims made
substantial advances of their own work
within the Greek paradigm as for
Christianity and this I think most
people faith spent like five minutes
would think about this it was often
inhospitable to science what and even to
general literacy in the print revolution
astronomer Tycho Brahe was exiled from
Denmark and charges of heresy the
Inquisition summoned Galileo you'll
recall didn't he didn't he end up dying
in the like a jail or something like
that
1616 to warn him against teaching that
the earth goes around the Sun that seems
to be very non-christian of them but
then again it turns out to be super
Christian of them
there's also Giordano Bruno with
was maybe put on a stake I'm not sure as
for a Jews Jewish authorities in
Amsterdam somehow managed to
excommunicate and completely shun
Spinoza placing him under a ban why
because he said that God is the god of
nature hmm their minds were blown by too
many high-level ideas in other words Ben
Shapiro is just shoveling out BS as
history and expecting everyone to slurp
it up and lick their lips although he
built on Greek discoveries in youths and
script number system Mohammed eben Musa
al qassam II 780 to 850 C II of Baghdad
is generally not created credited with
inventing algebra which I suppose you
could argue this is my commentary was
just to figure out how many oxen it
would take how do you get the plow to
plow baby huh well wait a second I've
got this big field here and how many ox
would take what is the X in this he also
invented the algorithm which is an
Arabic word well Ben again that was a
very practical implication how remind
you they feel of flying fields Ben
Shapiro's got some problems with
algorithms lately yes
Hassan Ben I'll hire them known as Allah
Zen in live in the 11th century is among
the first scientist explicitly to have
laid out the scientific method of
hypothesis and experimentation that
shapiro praises more than likely he
found it from a jew or a christian and
just adopted it or by his own he also
first explained optics as light bouncing
off an object in hitting the eye which
is also very important as you're plowing
when you're in the field plowing the
fields you need to know how it goes
through translucent body is when you're
plowing a field there'll be times where
you are plowing the field and someone
will come over and say how do you know
that oxen is there and you must say that
it's because the light bounces off the
oxen and goes through my eye and I call
that optics but the most important part
I'm talking about is the plough just
technology just technology
the sophisticated astronomical
observatory in Elk on Iran during the 12
hundreds at the moraga made
breakthroughs in understanding planetary
motion which of course is extremely
important when you are plowing the
fields if you are not aware that the
moon will rise and the Sun will rise
then you cannot plow the fields cause
it'll be too dark when you go out to do
it honey I'm heading out to the fields I
have no way of predicting weather Italy
sunlight out or moonlight and then of
course he goes on to say like and this
is to say nothing of thousands of years
of sophisticated Chinese science China
and the era of the Song Dynasty 962 1217
I essentially saw the invention of
modernity with high levels of
urbanization industry woodblock printing
progress in engineering science and
mathematics along with paper money
gunpowder weapons in the invention of
the compass those are all technological
that China India whatever yeah it's so
crazy like non-muslim Chinese I mean not
not that that has anything to do with my
assessment it's just how is it that I
gotta say like how desperate are these
guys for their business model that
they're all having to go and like sort
of all roads lead back to the
judeo-christian values that are
predominant I want to find out a nice
way to say this well he's trying to do
this weird
Orientalism on the entire Arab world and
say oh you only invented science because
of material factors when the West which
by the way modern concepts of the West
are fairly recent and have not always
existed it's kind of a made-up fantasy
thing the West did it for for
philosophical for ideological reasons
like it's this utter resistance to
historical materialism or like material
explanations for why people do things
like they couldn't possibly be a
material explanation for why people in
the quote-unquote West believed the
things that they believed like he wants
things to be driven completely by by
ideology and by stories by myths which
is like pretty anti-scientific if you
ask me it's also biology
biology is also what makes these people
just question things in a more
sophisticated manner well yeah I mean
it's ironic in that like the main reason
that Western quote/unquote feudalism
would support something like astronomy
is is mainly for things like going
across seas so you can take over land
from other nations and things like that
like there's always a material basis for
the things that happen in history right
well that's different
it's a you're yeah let me make an
analogy I'm saying that let's just say
for the sake of ease non-white people
who don't believe in Christianity or
Judaism they look at the field and
they're just interested in playing field
and I'd think it is to the credit of the
white people who are like we need more
fields so how are we going to get that
and we will then you're it's it's that
first jump well we need more the
argument against practical science to is
interesting coming from the right where
normally they say like why don't you do
something that can lead to like making
money on the market or citing the course
well you just took it he took a break
from that like the Muslims should be
like why don't you guys get a real job
exactly unbelievable speaking of
unbelievable we mentioned this Missouri
bill that was passed week or two ago in
Missouri the band's most abortions at
eight weeks of pregnancy except in
medical emergencies it was signed by
Governor Mike parson on Friday on the
same time this morning the Supreme Court
basically punted on another abortion
question I don't have it right though I
can't remember what state it was from
now Indiana and they got rid of all of
it they said it was okay to apparently
bury fetal fetal tissue if that's what
you want to do but the the main
which largely banned abortion was was
rejected at least or just not it was a
punt is basically what it is because
they know there's a bunch other cases
that are coming this one and I think the
idea behind this was we're not gonna
take this question up right now but with
all that said Missouri has one clinic in
which you can get abortion in the entire
state and it's in st. Louis and it is a
Planned Parenthood clinic and today
Planned Parenthood released a statement
that said Missouri's Health Department
is refusing to a new renew its annual
license to provide abortion in the state
if the license is not renewed by May
31st Missouri would become the first
state without a functioning abortion at
clinic since 1973 so in many places
around the country there is abortion is
out of the reach of many women who live
there because of material difficulties
I can't travel three or four hours to
get there
etc etc in Missouri we could have the
first state that has no abortion clinic
and on May 20th the Missouri Department
of Health and services notify Planned
Parenthood of three issues that could
impact license renewal you know they're
doing this for ideological reasons right
here is a CBS clip that outlines this so
there's a counter-argument in that the
people of Missouri elected these
lawmakers right - and they passed these
laws and it's not like you can't have an
abortion somewhere else in the country
you could just drive to another state
who's affected by this that's I think
what's so heartbreaking about this story
is that the people who are affected by
this are the women who can't take
another day off of work they can't
afford to drive four hours to the one
clinic
that's in their state and they really
can't afford to travel five hours to go
to Illinois and you know one thing we
spoke about in that package was there's
the 72-hour waiting period
so you have to do that two times and so
really who gets impacted by this are low
income minority women who don't have the
means not only to have an abortion let's
have a child so this that's not even the
this is the three things that Planned
Parenthood have been requests one of
them is adjusting who at the clinic
provided the state mandated counseling
they added an additional pelvic exam for
abortion patients right one of the other
hoops that people are have to jump
through you know what's the grand total
now the third request though according
to Planned Parenthood is something that
they cannot comply with the Health
Department said it was investigating
quote deficients practices and needed to
interview seven physicians who provide
care at the clinic Planned Parenthood
said it could offer interviews only with
two who are its employees the remaining
physicians provide services at the
facility but are not employed by Planned
Parenthood and not agreed to be
interviewed the Planned Parenthood has
no control over that the the clinic will
remain open but will stop providing
abortions as of three days from now and
so this is what it's like this is what
its gonna be like and of course like the
commentator said there on that clip
women without means to go to different
states are forced to be pregnant and
give birth to a child and that's that's
the new normal that is the new normal in
this country and it's gonna get it's
gonna get worse people got to start to
be conscious of this yeah I mean it's
been pretty bad for a while like we've
been talking about you know abortion
rights they're suffering a just by a
thousand cuts
so maybe my hope is anyway at least with
these laws being so
extreme and getting so much attention
maybe this will be a breaking point
where more and more people prioritize
the fight for reproductive justice which
of course by the way needs to be part
and parcel of the fight for healthcare
in general right because it's not just
abortion care that poor people can't
afford it's any kind of health care
whatsoever that's it's it's getting dire
I just I I hope I hope we gets the
attention that it needs
here's a clip former guests on the
program
Marissa Varadhan I guess she was on what
like two years ago two or three years
ago has been on a TMDs more recently and
here she's on MSNBC talking about the
wealth inequality and in in racial
wealth inequality in particular I mean
if you recall the biggest the biggest
source source of of wealth building is
real estate and on this program very
easy to find interviews with people who
outline how the US government
systemically
as recently as the 50s prevented black
people from building wealth
intergenerational wealth through real
estate the government actively promoted
this subsequent to that you had
redlining you had more but they weren't
necessarily official government policy
certainly in the context of the 2008
financial crisis many low income people
were were basically defrauded by given
loans by banks and I will remind you
there's a reason why they call them loan
officers because they have a fiduciary
duty
they are there to assess whether or not
someone can repay a loan and a lot of
people lost their homes here she is on
MSNBC with Ali Velshi basically saying
you know the limits of capitalism in
terms of fixing this widening racial
inequality in terms of economics these
programs fail because the benefits of
capitalism always accrue to the owners
of the capital not to the people living
in enterprise zones or promise zones
using capitalism to fix the racial
wealth gap will work only if there's a
means to transfer capital assets wealth
or housing what's the practical
application of that how does that
actually apply to policies that we're
developing now yes so I mean what we've
done for you know 30 or 40 years when
we're talking about these formerly red
line areas but again I want to repeat
were created by federal mortgage policy
and all that we've done is give tax cuts
and incentives so from the Clinton era
through Obama and now Trump's
Opportunity Zones program where we're
saying okay big investors private equity
firms we will give you a tax cut if you
come invest in this formally red line
area what we call an opportunity zone so
what it means is if you're going to be
an investor and then you can you know
make the neighborhood better or
revitalize it or whatever you're gonna
get the equity right the best-case
scenario is that the people that live
there maybe get jobs and things like
that but we're talking about the racial
wealth gap we need equity so you need a
neighborhood that's gentrifying for the
people who live in that neighborhood to
get a cut of that increase equity right
is awesome that doesn't happen right
often it they're they're either renters
or there's no way to monetize the
benefits of gentrification because your
house so there you have it let's go to
the phones come from a 509 area code
who's this where you come from
hey yes
Ronald Reagan how are you sir if you
have a good long weekend I'm good yeah
I sure did good how about you it's okay
um that's that just okay yeah
just okay mmm you get stuck with the
kids ah let's not get too let's not get
too indepe here okay okay here we go
yeah sorry about that really put you on
the spot yeah you did
the Shapiro's thing is surprising I went
not surprising but I went to a really
conservative university and I remember
taking a pre history class and I just
remember our textbook was basically this
Jared Diamond book gangs germs and steel
which talks about how the the
civilizations at one one quote unquote
it was basically a matter of luck in
circumstance but that a lot of the
civilizations that were toppled had you
know better technology or so you know he
went to Harvard it seems like he would
have learned something right I I wanted
to talk about the jim bakker fiesta pail
real quick right first of all i i i I
paid for it was a hundred dollars you
know no big deal
but wait a second are you paid for
ichael a message Wow yeah okay all right
the whole thing was my idea so and I
sent him a tweet before the show and I
was like the other day you made it sound
like you thought you could just open it
and there would be food in there but
make sure you have access to hot water
because I'm pretty sure that's not how
dehydrated food works right now let me
be hydrated now let me let me just point
out something I think you're putting
emphasis on the word dehydrated because
that means to lack water to to have
water ducking out of it okay now I also
want to turn to the description of the
product at the jim bakker website which
says that
the bucket has all the fixin's to
prepare over a hundred delicious Mexican
food favorites but you need to mix and
match the ingredients using your unique
culinary spin and your options are
endless which i think is true and you
know basically what we had was a show
where Michael was putting dehydrated
cheese in his mouth and and then of
course it's going to be disgusting
that's not how you eat dehydrated food
so I eat anything frankly I mean you
make a meal you don't just shove it in
your mouth and then there's different
components yeah I'm really disappointed
but you know I guess it worked out for
him because he made a bunch of money
hiking it and so were you were you never
let me ask you this because I'm more
curious as to if you felt that you were
something was over-promised I guess
that's my question to you now I know
this isn't fair Michael's not here to
defend himself but I mean that's what
happens when you take your own what but
of course of course it was oversold
under-delivered and I also want to say
like you know this is a bucket with over
a hundred delicious Mexican food
favorites right and we're acting like in
this story well just over now it doesn't
see Abel exactly so it doesn't seem like
it seems like Michael's ready to move on
and not quite
oh this needed water and we didn't have
it I guess you know under the next
thousand patrons and the opportunity to
redo it is sitting right there you know
so I'm a fair they did eventually
prepare it using the water from the
electric kettle that they knew was
sitting over there on the counter I
don't use that kettle yeah it's like
honestly if I was to turn my head to the
bucket as to where it is I first have to
pass the sink with the hot water kettle
well no we've considered using the
coffeemaker but I didn't want coffee
Kurt I don't want to ribs not a coffee
maker it's right next to the coffee me
no I didn't know that existed though I
didn't know we have had tea I have seen
you
I've even got joining
of tea made with that electric kettle we
haven't heard okay this is Matt look at
Matt now I haven't touched I don't know
if you guys you guys just forgot about
it but weird I feel like Michael could
he could have thanked me a little bit
more for you know rescuing the show and
the entire premise of this this Fiesta
pill Fiasco well we're starting to look
like Michael didn't even want to eat it
even though he had promised that he
would I mean that's the part that I find
really upsetting but well we don't want
that impression yeah yeah if he was
against it he could have told me that
before I sent a hundred dollars to a
terrible terrible human being
welcome Baker Oh juju his wife right you
know I had to send them the money like
it seems like a waste my producer Andy
was asking over the weekend he's sort of
known as a dumpster-diving freegan he
was like oh is this up for grabs and I
was like hmm better check with Regan
first could be I have a feeling of it
but Michael Sam sorry I do have an idea
for you for some sort of you know pledge
drive or whatever you you know set a
goal either a dollar amount or whatever
and then I think you need to have a
sun's out guns out summer week where you
wear either tank tops or just a sweater
vest Suns down guns out I see what
you're saying yes then dark the weather
is getting really going about some short
shorts yesterday down at the mall I can
and I think the people would throw a few
dollars you're waiting to see you at
least you can learn something
professional in the regular house if you
want but then we want to see tank top
Sam theater and the fun half there at
least a couple of shows and maybe with
the money you could build like an actual
studio for the other people whatever
their actual studio camera the camera is
not only pointing at you Sam oh yeah
that
the second half yeah no no I write we
could probably put in a better camera
system yeah yeah no there's a lot of
things we could do there don't outgunned
out sun's out guns out I will I will
take that under advisement a week's
worth of guns out during the fun half if
we do some type of Drive now let me let
me just say this if I do do it it's not
gonna be like oh I tried it on the
Monday but I got chilly so I decided to
just wear my regular shirt the whole
rest of the week like I'm not gonna be
like it's you know what show my guns as
much as I want it's gonna be I obligate
myself for doing it because as that's
the way I promise it that's the way I
roll on this show so yeah all right well
Ronald Reagan thank you for the idea we
will I will throw it up the the chain
here and see what see who bites Michael
picked a hell of a week to go on silent
meditation Richard yeah no kidding can't
even defend himself attorney Andrew the
pod save guys went on Colbert last week
to give their opinion why Beto hasn't
taken off John FAFSA pinyon was that
people don't know how to pronounce Beto
so it doesn't have a lot of name
recognition so yeah correction that must
be it correction on the abortion ruling
today the Supreme Court upheld a law
that requires the burial or cremation of
fetal remains following an abortion
Kagan and Breyer joined the majority and
holding up this aspect of the law I
wonder if that was those two there's
been a lot of speculation that they on
at different times particularly under
the the ACA did some horse trading I've
heard I've talked to people who say no
there's no horse trading on there and
then other people say I guess there's
totally horse trading so that maybe that
how do you horse trade if you just read
the law and try to determine what the
law means J tingle please open the
spigot on the Maggie Haberman public
relations piece on behalf of hope Hicks
one of those articles Maggie doesn't
tweet
that doesn't tweet out a link to I
wonder if that must be one of her
sources hope Hicks because that would
explain it so that was a story where do
I have that thing here that came out on
Thursday night
I think 23rd didn't really get much play
until later I feel like on Saturday but
it involved like a very stylish pic
picture of hope Hicks I mean one that
you know you see that picture if I saw
that on bumble I'd be like this is
someone's gone too far some type of
shoot I'm not gonna that's what's going
on up there yeah look at that like
that's a at swiped life left because
your lifestyle looks a bit out of my
yeah I would look at that and go wait a
second no I'd I'd never been in a
context where anyone I was around dress
like that I don't know it's like a
fashion shoot catfishing you if you see
that I'm bumble Oh totally and New York
Times politics ho picks one of the
best-known but least visible former
members of President trumps White House
staff it's facing an existential
question whether to comply with a
congressional subpoena now I may not
know what existential means I'm starting
to think because this seems to be a lot
more practical of a question I'm gonna
look up existential here concerned with
existence especially human existence I
she's questioning her existence as to
whether she should comply with a
congressional subpoena she goes on the
aid the former communications director
hope hex who left the White House with
an enduring mystique that inspired
countless news media profiles is now a
private citizen living in California she
went on to become one of his closest
advisers while managing to maintain a
personal relationship
his daughter Ivanka and Jared Kushner
but she has not completely left her time
at the White House behind she was
witnessed she was instructed by the
House Judiciary Committee to turn over
documents by June 4th and to appear in
person June 19th
she was subpoenaed to testify well gone
I received one declined to appear he
said that he viewed the White House as
his client and that after the White
House instructed him not to comply he
had to fly out follow his clients wishes
but Miss Hicks was an employee and she's
no longer an employee this is just
bizarre the White House spokesman did
not respond to an email so you can
comment about whether they will instruct
miss Hicks to follow mr. Morgan's lead
or what legal grounds they might invoke
to do so but for Miss Hicks the options
are fraud to comply or not to comply
[Music]
the likeliest possibility would be a
compromise where she would submit to an
interview as long as certain topics are
off-limits while severing the white
house mystics never appeared on camera
unless it was at mr. Trump's side never
gave an on-camera interview so the six
was mentioned on 28 pages in the Mulla
report she comes across in her
interviews with the FBI is trying to
alert mr. Trump to the possible news
media reaction he might face to any new
information about what took place from
the campaign this is just unbelievable
like can you imagine this being written
about like anybody else who was being
investigated mr. Trump Miss Hicks told
investigators seemed upset because too
many people knew about the emails that
she was gonna be sharing with Congress
but I don't know what that this is just
unbelievable
this is this is clearly Maggie
hammerman's
a former source may be an ongoing source
and this is why you write about your
source that way they're still your
source I can't remember who coined the
phrase beet sweetener but that is the
sweetie and sweetness of a beet I've
seen in a long time folks that's a great
picture very stylish
yeah it is flattering I like a o'seas
response to it where she said what gets
me is news news breaks that this woman
is weighing committing a crime before
Congress and it's getting framed by the
NYT is some lifetime drama called hopes
choice this is a former administration
official considering participating in a
cover-up led by the president treat her
equally good for her
Kentucky Fried comrade the phrase that
will disturb Sam the most welcome to the
pod Shan McElwee who are your guys said
by Marc Maron I don't mind
Sean go now Marc Maron I've been on a
couple times that's finally I'm over
that show's gone downhill ever since the
on whatever Spencer I designed a house
for clients who are at the retreat with
Michael I hope he didn't talk to Scott
and Joan all right well we'll see
Michaels impression of Sam hey for a
good analysis of the EU elections check
the happy hour with Kristin Kevin
YouTube
Jamie's Jamie's that life profile I
don't know what that means that life is
a fetish dating sites oh okay hi you
should watch Jesse Lee Peterson's
interview with DC young fly it's imagine
oh yeah we saw that it is so good it's
pretty funny it's amazing
Michael's though those sun media kick Oh
Michaels thoughts on his media's retreat
that's at his meditation retreat is
there a way I can bring up Loula right
now but like silently Fenton hates
Brandon wait Brendan Brendan BAP wait
you're taking IMS now instead of the
show like you after after the show how's
the worklight wife I get it Sam's really
hot okay you whoever that is you gotta
stop doing that Congressional baseball
fan here's a story of how our health
insurance system is broken I work for a
government employee and signed up for
the so-called premium dental plan with
death Delta Dental because I knew I need
work done after being without coverage
since getting laid off in 2013 I'm going
to the dentist today and over the next
weeks to address a serious gum issue and
my portion of the bill with insurance is
just over a thousand dollars that's
insane for any comrades that can help
I'm posting a GoFundMe on my Twitter
thank you play ball sorry to hear that
Ruben David can you talk about Dave
Rubin suggesting a solution of Internet
censorship is the government cloning
popular websites and having clone sites
operate as a public good yeah you know
this this solution just in general I
think is highly problematic the fact
that it would come from these people is
even more bizarre the government you
know like an I've thought about this the
the nationalization of a Google or
Facebook I think there can be a public
option I think that's fine
but the fact is you've got to break
these companies up there is a definitive
problem and I think there is an argument
that in some level if you g-platform or
someone on Facebook or on Twitter these
things have become so ubiquitous and so
essential or on Amazon for instance too
they have become so primary in terms of
our communication that you got to break
it up you got to break them up how would
that even work though like I know you
can make them relinquish some of the
companies they've bought but with
Facebook like well you're gonna break up
the timeline from like the photo
galleries or whatever seems impossible
there's a bunch of different services
that throw in stuff and data you
basically make it you weaken the
companies that's basically what it comes
down to you weaken them so that they are
more their you you you you do not allow
them to integrate horizontally and
vertically in the way that they're doing
and the reason why they're so powerful
and ubiquitous is because you can sign
in to all these different other things
with your facebook login because I can
access my you know my security camera
with my Google account with my you know
I mean all of these different sort of
like integrations strengthen the
companies and make it impossible for
other people to break through god bless
you people have plans to break this up
and it's doable and then if it fails
then you look at other options but you
can't if you have the government in
charge of Facebook you're just gonna
have a constant show oh yeah I
don't trust this government to be in
charge of Facebook I wouldn't trust any
government to I wouldn't trust any
government to not one that has a First
Amendment No
peg Craig any thoughts on Richard
Spencer calling Jimmy door the most
honest man on the left now I know a lot
of people think that I just made that up
I did not make that up let's put up the
tweet listen just because Richard
Spencer just because Richard Spencer
says he's a fan or easy respects you
because you're a you're honest does not
necessarily reflect on Jimmy door fact I
would imagine Jimmy door does not want
Richard Spencer to give him plaudits
because now I don't know how Richard
Spencer came to sort of like watch a lot
of Jimmy door stuff I imagine this is
gonna hurt
Jimmy doors monetization because my
theory is you get D monetized not based
on the content although that's part of
it but the how people where people are
coming from to visit your site play that
video I'm curious as to what the video
is proof that US is provoking Iran into
war I mean this I think he means well if
you listen to some of the other members
the Senate Intelligence Committee for
example was briefed last week according
to a member of the Committee on some of
this intelligence members who have
security clearances can pick up the
phone and call it ask for information so
members of Congress who have security
clearance over there's lots if they
could just pick up the phone and call
them and say tell me what you know they
could get to do that and one of them did
all those that are angus King of Maine
who's one of the heat caucuses with the
Democrats but he's an independent he's a
more measured voice normally on issues
like this he says yes there's alarming
intelligence but then he adds this I
don't think there's faulty Intel here
necessarily I think the Intel may be
accurate but the unanswered question
again is are they reacting to our
assertions of
action in the Middle East or are we
reacting to them I think so he's not
sure okay so posit so this is just a
skepticism of the way that this is being
concocted concocted and Iran has
contingency plans they always do we have
contingency plans when one starts to to
start their machinations and whatnot so
I don't know why why Richard Spencer
thinks that Jimmy Dore is the only
person who's talking about these things
in terms of Ron but and I'm glad Richard
Spencer doesn't think that I'm the most
honest man on the left I don't care what
Jimmy would Richard Spencer you would
presumably respond though oh I would
definitely respond I would say hey
Richard Spencer go after yourself
how's that for an honest opinion you're
a piece of garbage how about that you
know I called him a terrible person to
his face once it was pretty satisfying I
bet now where did Jimmy not respond to
this
it doesn't appear so hmm got to take the
views when you can get him to be fair
Richard didn't tag him in that so no
that's true you may not even be aware of
it choose your Geordie fabric regarding
impeachment do you think part of the
establishment is scared by any
impeachment proceedings will surely
trail how broken our system is
establishment seems scared of a
revolution and no I don't think it's
that sophisticated I think their fear is
just that it's gonna hurt them electoral
II all right folks I know a lot of
people have been holding for a long time
I'm sorry we're not going to get to
nearly any of you just gonna take top
collar seven one eight area code who's
this where you come from
hey this is route David again from
Maryland rube daven from Maryland all
right gotta be quick um so you already
covered my question but oh all right
well let me take another call then I'm
sorry you mission accomplished all right
bye all right okay one more who did not
hang up 484 who's this where you come
from
hi mom yes did you call me mine oh hi um
no I said am i on yeah no this is Andrew
I'm calling from Pennsylvania okay
Andrew from Pennsylvania what's on your
mind um I wanted to talk a bit about
specifically the um I guess the issues
we've been talking about a lot about a
mex it or Theresa Mays exit regs it from
the Conservative Party I want to address
specifically the I guess issues that
this is going to have for other
countries specifically Ireland my family
is from around that area and I know
there's been a lot of concerns that if
someone like a Boris Johnson for example
there's a lot hardline on Briggs it
comes in and is going to make sort of
more authoritarian I not authoritarian
but further right for sure alliances
with a party like the DUP the Democratic
Unionist Party up there yeah that you're
going to see more escalation of violence
in the north or sort of not maybe you've
returned to like 70s or 60s here but
still sort of violence in a way that you
definitely wouldn't want to for example
a journalist was actually shot last
April in the head by the IRA back there
in escalation of this pressure do you
think there's any chance of this sort of
effecting flare-ups in this sort of
thing in this sort of way I mean I
wasn't aware of that
that someone have been shot I mean I
look I think there's a and I know I'm
not going to pretend to have any deep
knowledge about this but I think there's
going to be a whole bunch of
crosscurrents if if there's finally a a
brexit and it's done in a in such an
abrupt I think and sort of like I mean
abrupt is not the right word obviously
they've been dilly-dallying for a couple
years but done in a such an acute manner
let's put it that way this is gonna get
ugly I mean I think it's I think it's
gonna get ugly and I don't think there's
a way to avoid it getting ugly it's just
a question of like what what you know
where the ugliness is going to come from
and how and how ugly but it's going to
get ugly and I think you know frankly my
sense is if there is sort of a hardcore
ver
brags it it's gonna get ugly and then
it's gonna get uglier I mean if they
somehow avoid it talk about that it's
gonna be ugly but then it's gonna get
sort of better yeah
because people talk a lot about the
financial things but the political
violence sort of the sense I get talking
to people has really been gearing up
there I mean the shooting last April was
I get the sense that a lot of people are
worried that's just the tip of the
iceberg when it comes to this thing and
that it's you know unfortunately only
going to escalate in a very violent way
um if you know break that goes through
in the way that it's going right now yep
I think you might be right about that
well but we're gonna have to yeah all
right Andrea I appreciate the call yeah
thank you for taking her colleagues
alright folks that's it for calls today
sorry people have hung on for a long
time our new system is makes it
impossible for me to tell exactly how
long you've been on but I can tell it's
been a long time I'm gonna read a couple
IMS then get out of here Rob from Austin
ticks in regard to impeachment I worry
that not impeaching would depress
Democratic vote and we need every vote
we can to keep the house and not lose
much of the Senate indeed silk and stuff
should we be concerned that the right is
now dragging MLK because some
revelations found it's supposed to FBI
tapes is there a definitive go to
article debunking the story you know of
short of a hundred percent I don't know
even what that story is
have you heard about any new tapes is
that I mean is it presumably the tapes
that they allegedly got of him having an
affair or something over a phone thought
that was a long time I feel like the the
scandal even if that was true and I
don't know if it is true but even if it
was it'd be that the FBI was making
tapes about and okay that's okay
one night Lemonade Stand YouTube
historian you fellow steven crowder
debunk or three arrows was in chat
asking how to get on the show
unfortunately it looks like their
retinas into reticent to as they put it
push themselves on the show how about
extending the invitation to three arrows
I'm not a look into him yeah they're
pretty cool uh Sean likes them he
watches their videos sometimes yeah they
can always call in to ID I mean I don't
know I'm not familiar with their work
but men man about town I have a question
comment a previous callers question of
the second last call
Ryan in La Shapiro mentions India
because Muslim haters claim everything
that the Islamic world discovered
actually came from India it's not to say
India did not make many great and
important discoveries but that isn't why
hero and his ilk bring it up yeah
covered the swastika there - all right
two more oh courier 11 hey Sam did
Ronald Reagan just make a dog whistle
suggesting you build a new studio for
David Pakman and dr. chaos MD is the
final item if the open seat on the
Supreme Court was what turned out
evangelicals to vote Trump will the GOP
pressure Thomas to retire an ounce
settle a retirement before the election
to drive turnout again also seeing how
conservatives are impervious to shame or
hypocrisy is there anything to prevent
SCOTUS from announcing retirement to
drive the vote but if their party
doesn't win the presidency then rescind
their plan to retire I mean none of what
you say seems out of the realm of
possibility
III speculate that they don't want to
leave that seat open that if Thomas
retires they will replace him with
someone just much younger because then
you know frankly the idea that Ginsburg
and Breyer are gonna last deep into the
next term is very very hard to believe
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
[Music]
feel in defense
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
