[Music]
to the array of back crap crazy things
coming out of the White House today
before we get on to the also horrific
things coming out of the White House
today that on Tuesday yesterday in
addition to saying that Jews have dual
loyalty and are failing at it in
addition to cancelling a visit to
Denmark because they won't sell us
Greenland president Trump signed a
presidential memorandum outlining new
procedures to launch nuclear power
systems into outer space now it's a
great week to do this because we just
had this wonderful story this week of
evidence that Russia may be trying to
cover up a tragic nuclear accident after
a blast
on August 8th killed at least seven
people at a naval weapon site
there was fallout that was found quite
some distance that's how people know
about it so why do I bring that up as
Trump directs the Department of
Transportation to issue public
guidelines within a year for commercial
companies seeking a license to launch
spacecraft with nuclear systems into
space I am pointing upwards because
that's where it will be let the free
market decide and I imagine that this
memorandum which gives NASA 180 days to
create an interagency nuclear safety
review board 180 days that's plenty of
time to do that to ensure the safety of
launching radioisotope power systems
fission reactors used for power and
propulsion and more up into the sky and
I'm sure the benefits of this will reign
upon us for years and years and years
come competition would start kicking in
III just might even better keep the
testosterone flowing as well I I'm
feeling pretty good about going on
vacation
