[Music]
this one here this is we're gonna talk
about the the james comey tomorrow but
here is we know that Donald Trump's
trade war is not really helping anybody
as far as I can tell but certainly
there's no one out there who's speaking
out in support you wouldn't you would
you would know it because they would be
at the White House every day there'd be
some guy in a hard hat or there'd be
some CEO but it seems that like
universally Donald Trump's tariffs have
been have had a bad impact on everybody
across the board here is here is one of
trumps advisers he is the chair of the
Council of Economic Advisers Kevin
Hassett on with MSNBC's Stephanie ruhle
president Trump wrote the art of the
deal not the art of war and I think that
we're gonna start to see the deals that
he didn't write the art of the deal in
fact the person who co-wrote it has said
that the president is not a master
negotiator so well he says he wrote the
art of the deal he didn't and I do want
to ask you quickly before I ever say
when I read it it sounds like him so
that if someone else wrote those words
then they really know him well because
when I read it you know that it sounds
like well the person who wrote it well
you know what we're gonna leave it there
all right Kevin thanks for having me
yeah how hard to know Donald Trump it's
not real like you sit with him all day
and you just like huh how could I
personify this guy that's I'm great that
deals deal but that's a tough thing to
say right after it's been said this guy
also says he doesn't know how to make
deals well I've got to say it sure
sounds like he knows him so thanks for
having me Stephanie he knew him when he
was talking about the book not from the
other part not from pre not a pre book
yeah all Trump heard is like oh he read
the book
Wow hey thanks that was great
