and we should say about tonight's
announcement by President Trump that
President Obama wanted to address the
nation about immigration
what was this five years ago for well I
don't even know what the date is today
and all the network said no we're not
interested is too political
somehow they have found it within
themselves to reverse themselves when I
fellow Americans I'm announcing a
complete ban on white migration to the
United States too long these male
brained monsters have emerged from caves
and wreak havoc across the globe we
can't stop all of them but we can make a
first step here is lastly the NBC
national security and justice reporter
Julie Ainsley who fact wrecked Mike
Pence's interview where he was claiming
that that the the border wall was a
national emergency and necessity on
Stephanie ruhle the caravan that would
have arrived after the election I didn't
hear much of it showing that this is not
about a crisis it's a political ploy I
want you to walk us through your
reporting because it is so desperately
important as I mentioned conservative
Americans like my mom and dad who watch
conservative media outlets are being
lied to by journalists by the White
House when they're told things like
4,000 terrorists are pouring in and I
want to share a bit of what what Mike
Pence said when Hallie asked him about
it with regard to terrorists we've seen
more than than 4,000 known or suspected
terrorists attempt to come into our
country through various means but on the
southern border but let me stop you on
that number because it isn't misleading
claim that's been fact checked as I
because that number is for all forts
eventually including airports well and
that's what I was saying it is from all
ports of entry but on the southern
border last year alone 3,000 special
interest aliens were apprehended trying
come into our country okay great so
we're having some champion wordsmithing
here Julia walk us through this for
those Americans who do want to live in a
safe positive environment and the
fear-mongering that's going on out of
our white house so Hallie what we have
is a theory that is being pushed by the
administration that has been fact
checked and as we fact check it they
changed their talking points so you're
right leading up to the midterms it was
the caravan as we put more fact checks
about who these people were how they
were mainly asylum seekers and Families
they've changed the message now to focus
on terrorism we heard the message over
the weekend and from Sarah Huckabee
Sanders last week that there were 4,000
we fact checked that and found that only
six and the first half of 2018 came
through the southern border more than
that came through the northern border
those are people on databases or what's
known is known or suspected terrorists
it doesn't mean that they are going to
be arrested or charged with the
terrorism related crime that's a higher
bar but these are people who have names
on a database that are known to the
United States and to our law enforcement
officials now they're changing it again
they're going to an even lower category
which known as special interest aliens
and saying that 3,000 of those across
the southern border in a year that may
be true that's not data that I have I'm
the data on the six is from the
databases the known and suspected
terrorists but what I will say about
special interest aliens is they are even
further from what we would categorize as
a terrorist or anyone who would we be
able to arrest or charge in the United
States on terrorism-related charges
these are simply people who raise a red
flag usually because of their travel
patterns I followed special interest
aliens for a long time
it could be someone who is simply from
India who shows up at the southern
border and they're not sure how they got
there it's more rare for someone outside
of the Western Hemisphere to be crossing
on foot that just makes sense if you
look at the map of a world it is much
harder to get in that way you've already
taken a flight so why wouldn't you just
take a flight to the United States so
they raised a red flag and people do
more and digging on them that doesn't
mean that they raise to the level of a
national security threat all right now
what's also hilarious about this if you
can click through that link
this is the homeland security page that
says myth versus fact known and
suspected terrorists versus special
interest aliens and this is from no this
is from yesterday they posted this in
recent days the term special interest
aliens and known and suspected
terrorists have become more frequently
used as part of the discussions about
the federal budget and border security
these terms are not synonymous nor
interchangeable but are two separate
terms that are commonly used in national
security community to describe different
types of potential threats there are
people in the Department of Homeland
Security who are clearly upset that not
only are they pissed that the White
House is conflating these things I think
they're pissed that their own boss is
conflating things clearly a different
person and the one who wrote the secret
Nazi code post yeah exactly
this is this is you know we're watching
the entire sort of apparatus of our
government say like this announcement
tonight is total BS and here's the thing
that's scary about it the media is
saying it's total BS the government
broadly speaking is saying it's total BS
and it's still gonna happen and there's
no way to stop it and that's what's the
scary part right where you start getting
into this whole thing where it's like
you know everybody's going around doing
this or they're like you know okay wink
wink you know we all know we pretend to
work they pretend to pay us to have a
situation well maybe they're not getting
paid right now and that's why they're
slacking on their white supremacy that
could be it you can want some fake stats
to drum up a fake crisis to racially
scapegoat a group of minorities to
leverage your authoritarian government
you got a pass it's gonna come into the
deep state finally bucks Trump because
he's skimping on payments indeed that
wouldn't be actually how the deep state
would finally take Trump down as when he
just finally just gives them like the
you did some renovations in my hotel
treatment exactly
my brown bearded friend said the tsa
agents didn't even remember to racially
profile him on his way back from they
look for like think of like a very like
poignant face way welcome to the country
Achmed no I won't be looking at your
bags you look perfectly fine to me it's
a true story by the way gone from a six
