so earlier we had referenced the some of
these folks who were in line waiting to
see Donald Trump in Wisconsin and the
idea that they're going to get the you
know that there is any hope that these
people are going to get some type of
message about how problematic it is that
Donald Trump's rhetoric has essentially
inspired a bomber and oh this is
Charlotte okay yeah sorry this is
Charlotte and I imagine not much of a
difference but if you had any notion
that somehow folks are gonna the fever's
gonna break or the craziness is gonna go
away if Democrats control Congress I
mean understand it's definitely gonna be
helpful from ours perspective I mean
hugely helpful right it's like but just
since it's Halloween I want you to
imagine the Friday the 13th guy coming
at you with a chainsaw you know in this
instance Congress is like you know a
baseball bat or maybe even like a sword
that you can stop this person and
mitigate it but it's not going to make
that person any less crazy it's just
gonna give you a tool to end them to or
mitigate the damage they can do but it's
not gonna make them any less crazy and
in fact there's an argument it's gonna
make them more crazy you just got to
hope that the tool you have is going to
be up to the challenge and if the people
wielding that tool think that that
person's going to be less crazy
that's a problem because they're not
gonna wield that tool properly but here
are some folks from Charlotte North
Carolina waiting to see Donald Trump
what their perspective is on this whole
bomber thing just because somebody has a
trump sticker on their car doesn't mean
they're fan I just want to go over what
we've just heard the first guy wearing a
trump hat who turns out coincidentally
to be a Trump fan says that just because
they're stickers on the van doesn't mean
that he's a trump supporter now I don't
know if this guy had access to his TV or
could see all the pictures of this guy
at all the rallies but the idea being
that maybe this is maybe this is not
only just a false flag it's also they've
created an entire false identity for
this guy and then the next guy says
Obama mailed it to himself and Hillary
Clinton probably mailed it to herself
they probably get they probably got on
the phone they were probably texting
each other or emailing from her server
in his in her bathroom that okay
remember on Friday or Thursday that's
we're gonna send each other he's bombs
let's cross I bet they had a Secret
Santa sort of system set up that's
probably the way to like we won't know
who it comes from it's all gonna be
secret everybody's gonna pull their name
out of Hattin you're responsible for
sending a pipe bomb bro mom off the
train of soros conspiracies it's going
to say
this guy actually sent these bombs even
though I probably had it done I'm a
fighting to do those radical people on
all sides there can be people that are
problem creators they create problems
like people on the left and freedom
people in the - create I think I heard
something about it being Bernie Sanders
supporter you know there's so much news
going on right now people don't know
what to believe you know they stick with
what they know let me go to my friends
in the conservative movement he was a
trump supporter and he sent the bombs
there isn't any talent nor has there
been any responsible Republican to say
anything other than that oh my god where
do we have a list of all the people who
said false flag at the beginning now of
course definitionally right Hugh Hewitt
is saying no responsible Republican
leader well yeah it's just that
unfortunately for you a lot of your
colleagues are highly irresponsible and
I guess it's definitionally what
constitutes a if a leader or a major
figure in that world I mean every single
one of them had kiss the ring of Rush
Limbaugh there's definitions by which
these people still try to say that Trump
isn't a conservative leader right I've
seen all sorts of games by how they play
that those definitions and then the next
move there is to blame them on the
voters right exactly
let's go to the phones no I just think
after three Halloween's Mike Myers gonna
say is this really who I want to be
oh yeah here it is Ann Coulter James
Woods Geraldo Rivera Candace Owens Bill
Mitchell Rush Limbaugh Mike savage Lou
Dobbs Mike Flynn jr. Dinesh D'Souza Curt
Schlichter Laura Loomer Jacob well oh I
guess it's wrong for us to include these
people it's not like for instance Donald
Trump just retweeted and said an
interview with Dinesh D'Souza was
interesting literally like a day ago
it's not like you know Candace Owens is
invited to the White House or Rome or
Rivera is in touch with them or any of
these people are
considered you know yeah yeah did Trump
jr. liked one of the tweets he's Michael
Flynn jr. was a member of the Trump
administration dad
Rush Limbaugh gets invited to every
major Republican event that exists on
and on and on
