speaking of bifurcation of their
terrible attitudes Joe Biden realizes
that he may have a little bit of a
problem with certain sections of the
black community particularly heightened
as he's going down to South Carolina is
that the South Carolina Democratic
convention sat down with Al Sharpton
it's the only interview I think I've
seen him do and I have to say this my
experience al Sharpton is not the most
aggressive questioner of people watch it
careful it's my experience Reverend al
Sam I understand this guy's had a
Reformation I can tell you that but
nevertheless I like the old guy
nevertheless how sharp is not going hard
at Joe Biden and here's Joe Biden though
having an opportunity to explain how
what was it Eagleton that he was talking
about not Eagleton Eastman's Eastland
Eastland how Eastland an old
conservative Democratic racist senator
never called him boy
always called him son and here's Joe
Biden explaining apparently one of his
advisors said oh yeah Joe about that
there may be a reason why they didn't
call you boy right here you Tim mrs.
King said to me you can't say things
that hurts when you talk about boy I
need something different to us it hurts
when you call a racist like it
normalized you know that's not
understand oh I do for leadership that's
not what I said though they didn't print
the whole deal you know what I mean the
context of this was totally different
and by the way they all acted the matter
is I green and against all those folks I
got on a Judiciary Committee to defeat
the man who head of the committee I'm
the guy who extended the Voting Rights
Act 25 years not five we finally got to
the point when I was a senior member of
the Democratic on the Judiciary
Committee to get 98 votes to extend the
Voting Rights Act let me tell you
something it got to deal with what's in
front of you what was in front of a
bunch of racist we had to defeat them as
I said in that statement I said that
statement that the fact of the matter is
of the meanest man in the world I've
ever dealt with in the United States
Senate was a guy from Georgia named
Herman Talmadge and I included
Eastland and Jamieson and so but this is
you know I do understand the consequence
of the word boy but it wasn't said in
any of that context at all but you
understand never called me son no but
what they call Bob and then they called
Teddy Kennedy boy that was the
distinction the reason he called me
senator surrounding the meaning more
because I I mean son because I he said
I'm not even qualified to be innocent
I'm not old enough I'm a kid I'm a kid
wait what so he was saying that they
called Kennedy boy but they didn't call
him boy they called him son which is
supposedly more demeaning than boy and I
wonder why it is that they called
Kennedy boy and him son maybe Ted
Kennedy was out there doing a little bit
more for a different group of people I
don't know I'd be curious
I would be really curious to just I like
its it I feel like I could do a half an
hour interview with Joe Biden about that
just that one thing like what were you
trying to communicate hey mom is he
trying to communicate you know how it is
daddy oh no I mean that bead is too
current hey
go for a second and I never called mr.
fingers boy hmm
Robert you know I'm not a jive Turkey
yeah you know what it is Reverend wasn't
talking about the context at all yeah
Canada yeah I'm not a jive Turkey you
know that you know that you know better
than that I'm not a jive Turkey said it
was cause Kennedy was just off the boat
but anyways I shouldn't said that he'd
really bless me Father for I have sinned
yes he called me son he called me son
that was a big accomplishment
yo yo yo let me holler at you for a
minute Reverend when he called me son it
mean he liked me less than the guy has
cowboy yeah the boy was a terrific dear
me that means we disagree on buses we're
ardently fighting each other at civil
rights better recognize call
