[Music]
alright let's go back to Fox and Friends
they are just IKEA Brian Kilmeade what
the hell is wrong with the Jews what is
wrong with the Jews Brian Kilmeade wants
to know you talked to evangelicals many
of them went to the polls and voted for
the conservative which was Donald Trump
in the last election because of what he
would do for judges because of his
pro-life stance and because of his
pro-israeli stance it's important to a
lot of Christians there most Christians
around the world for us to support
Israel but by system okay I will tell
you this she is right that is probably
the the best analysis I've ever seen
from Ainsley Earhardt the part about the
whole Christian support for Israel
incidentally bad news for for some of us
Jews it's part of a bigger plan
it's young chicken Emporium syndra's it
my understanding is two-thirds of the
Jews get sent to Hellfire and one-third
gets sit on the right hand side of God
do I get a the offer on the right hand
side of God I have put in
I will cop to having submitted a form
explaining that I have eczema and that
Hellfire but you don't know Republican
man very it irritates my eczema
significantly I voted for Rudy Giuliani
because I was concerned about crime
which you could interpret as a pro
Christian vote so I would like to I did
not vote for either I'm not talking
about you I'm talking about more
plausible Jewish entrance on the right
you're going to help to you're not
making no I you are they don't care
about your eggs oh no you can put in
requests later you can like with testing
anybody can put in requests you can put
in tests but not anybody gets on the
right so let's see it but but Brian
Kilmeade
what you can't believe it's like I get
it why the Christian support but where
the Jews a lot of Christians are most
Christians around the world for us to
support Israel but but stunningly most
Democrats most Democrats support excuse
me
most the
the majority of the american-jewish
support goes to Democratic candidates
president Trump all I got 24% when
President Bush 43 and this president
have been the better allies to his
starting to change you're totally right
historically that's been the case
incidentally that's not starting to
change in fact every single election
cycle we are told that that's starting
to change and guess what it has not
changed in fact there is no group of
people in the country who have changed
last in terms of their voting patterns
over the past I don't know 50 60 years
I love how kill meets like wait
how am I gonna say this so it doesn't
sound like ambition on the Jews are so
dumb I mean they're awesome no wait a
second I mean ah I don't get me wrong
very smart they make a lot of money but
they vote that dumb way what's also like
you wonder as he's saying this stuff and
trying to formulate it in such a way
that's not gonna be a sound that he
thinks he's gonna sound offensive he's
gonna step in something you wonder if
there isn't a moment in his brain work
just like clicks in and like wait a
second wait a second we've been sitting
here talking about how criticism of
Israel is anti-semitic but why does the
majority of Jews never mind just support
Democratic candidates but also support
the idea of holding Israel to account
why why would that be that doesn't make
any sense
you wonder if like just in a flash just
like there's like a little hiccup like
you know the thing that makes you like
do this while you're sleeping you think
you're gonna fall like if that happens
in his brain here just go back
occasionally takes yes sometimes I think
sometimes you may I wasn't with Lindsey
Graham well we're talking about nuking
the mullahs not all Iranians that's not
cool it's afraid to say American Jews
here to use hilarious for us to support
Israel but but stunningly most Democrats
most Democrats support excuse me most
the the majority of the American Jewish
support goes to Democratic candidates
President Trump all I got 24%
see AIDS lis aids is just like I
honestly don't care about any of this
but I would just say be careful be
careful bro real touchy about that
you're an alert right alert
careful I got some chicken salad eat I
want to have those meetings you ever
seen one of them try to return a chicken
south oh and hey exist exist
I love hexes reaction which is sort of
like wait we're not supposed to we're
not supposed to mention that it's
changing its changing yeah right right I
think it's really changing I mean you do
have you ever did Jackson is I think
yeah I think I think except this by far
the most likely just blame or are
gonna vote for us definitely I thought
that's a he's totally anchorman he's
tiller I thought it was a great segment
everybody else is looking at it like
what did you just say now because you
know part of the problem is a hexxus has
to maintain so we watch one clip where
kilmeade sort of comes to the revelation
and either is just very worried about
saying it in the wrong way or just
actually has a revelation that makes him
stumble a little bit when he's talking
about jews voting for democrats and
therefore not supportive of Israel it
just makes it very hard to do the whole
criticism of Israel is anti-semitic
thing hagseth
jumps in to say wait that's changing and
part of the reason why hexes how to do
that is because here's hexa this right
now making the argument that oh two Lib
Omar when they attack Israel it's of
course it's it's terrorism and that the
point that they made their exposes their
agenda and then as you said Brian then
why not to say they're not a democracy
and not an ally they are our strongest
ally in the Middle East bar none they're
the only democracy in the Middle East
surrounded by countries that want to
kill them and the organization we're get
we're going to get to in a second that
was going to sponsor this trip is
supposed to be in charge of Palestinian
democracy knew that 97 percent of
Palestinians live under the Palestinian
Authority which is not held an election
for a decade because if they held an
election Hamas would win just like they
did in the Gaza Strip Hamas is a
dedicated terrorist
he was gonna go on to say Hamas is a
dedicated terrorist organization it's
like we were actually no longer a
dedicated what we haven't been dedicated
for four years now it's actually okay no
literally the Hamas has been yeah
significantly less dedicated since 2006
all right folks now for the moment
