with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in the conference rooms of any
elite
they are unanimous in their hate for me
and I patron we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it is Thursday March 7th 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Michael Thursday and
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal on the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program two guests a double-header Juan
Cole professor academic legend and
Middle Eastern Studies author of
Muhammad prophet of peace we're talking
about the state of the Israeli elections
the Netanyahu indictment the smears
against Ilan Omar and the pushback and
then the great meg and a Jacobin
magazine she was at the Bernie launch
we're talking about Bernie Sanders 2020
and class warfare that's what it is
exactly
Democrats put off their smear alon omar
resolution because of grassroots
pushback
although rahm emanuel has opened his
mouth to slander her and i would just
like to take this time to remind
everybody that rahm emanuel helped cover
up the murder of a child by a Chicago PD
officer who is now in jail
so look Rahm can say what he likes and I
can too and that will be the only thing
I say about Rahm Emanuel Bernie Sanders
comes to the unequivocal defense of Ilan
Omar and open discourse Elizabeth Warren
far more vague and Kamala Harris
somewhere in the middle
better than Warren not as good as Bernie
teenager killed by Israeli sniper in
Gaza as investigations move forward on
crimes committed against Gaza and
protesters the Democratic National
Committee rejects Fox News for debate
citing the New Yorker article which I
guess is just formalizing what we
already know which is that is
functionally a state propaganda network
it's actually an insult to state
propaganda Network it is I have to say
is someone who studied in Turkey the
state propaganda it's a lot cooler there
Trump just made sure you won't hear
about how many civilians are killed in
drone strikes they're even higher than
under the Obama era and in a blued blow
to conservatives a national business
group is staying out of a supreme
Wisconsin Supreme Court race and senator
Macauley former Air Force pilot says a
superior officer raped her in her time
in the Air Force
the US government contradicts homeland
security secretary Bridget Nilsson
admits that 471 migrant parents have
faced deportations and the congressman
rohana suggests the Democratic Party
should oppose all large-scale sanctions
against Venezuela and it'll it and over
30 Congress people finally signed a
letter to crying Jerry Belson Arrow's
assault on rights in Brazil and note
that Lula the most important politician
of the country was barred from running
and what they call questionable
circumstances we're gonna get to that in
a second but first
Donald Trump has really been on a pretty
steady comedic decline since being
elected president the only thing he's
really good at in life is inheriting
money and dunking on Republicans and
being a you know a messy bastard work in
the press look in the press but uh I
mean look I guess if you want I mean
some people might get sensitive to this
because this is definitely a guy's just
brain and pure decline here but this was
funny for me yesterday
this is Donald Trump with uh Tim Cook
Tim Cook was at a table of Boston ro a
couple of weeks ago in Davos so the
Apple CEO very comfortable consorting
with fascist Syria's meeting with the
clown fascist and chief Donald Trump now
used to say Tim you gotta start doing it
over here and
really have I mean you've really put a
big investment in our country we
appreciate it very much Tim Apple that's
also not true of course Apple still is
hiding a massive amount of assets and
overseas tax shelters and using
sweatshop labor and their hardware any
manufacturing but let's just play that
one more time put a big investment in
our country we appreciate it very much
Jim Apple Jeff Amazon sent naked
pictures of himself it was sad bill
windows bill windows great guy I want
that to be purposeful shade it's
probably not though no that's the milk
people are in my brain if you can
abstract away from all the bad outcomes
Trump is without question the funniest
president we've ever known Obama never
did so Bob was just like yeah Tim apples
here whatever I think good JFK or
Lincoln are also very funny
JFK could JFK actually would do the like
Tim apples here like he would do the
shade JFK was talking to Eisenhower
during the Cuban Missile Crisis and
Eisenhower says like I don't think
that'll make them shoot them off and
they talk about nuclear missiles and JFK
psycho Oh God JFK i underst I don't want
to get into the whole JFK debate but one
thing that you just cannot deny is that
the man had very well developed sense of
irony there's in that speech at American
University which is you know who knows
maybe he would have followed up a policy
we don't know because he was
assassinated but where he gave like the
the basically a call for like really
de-escalating the Cold War and pointing
towards disarmament and talking about
how like 70 what is it like 70 percent
of our body is wada and we all share
that same water and the ocean I mean
it's it is a great speech taking in its
own terms and the thing though it's
funny in the beginning so we it's a
funny piece of historical kind of trivia
but Robert Byrd is there the senator who
died you know only a couple years ago
and he's already
senator and Robert Byrd another
extremely complicated figure and in many
ways a bad figure but in other ways a
very admirable figure who did apologize
fourth right Lee for his badness brainy
right he was a B was a poor guy from
West Virginia so he was getting his
degree at night school from American
University and Kennedy said like I have
a former colleague who's here who was
receiving his degree after working
nights for several years I'll be getting
the same degree in two hours it was just
like the type of joke that you would do
today it was very interesting because
you see like we talked about how comedy
dates itself quickly and JFK's like the
president and his like sense of irony
and Sensibility it's like like you look
at Reagan and there is something like
what was going on in the 80s that people
thought this was so amazing and then you
look back at Kennedy and you're like
yeah makes sense
really yeah yeah it's just just on a
cultural level I also like the stories
about LBJ's Hogg oh yeah yeah LBJ
hilarious in entirely different ways in
entirely different ways and I mean my
god if well again I'm a racing a lot of
history here but you know if not for
Vietnam the guy will be looked on pretty
fondly I think there's something about
like there hasn't been like an sob who
was like occasionally on the right side
and like quite some time like I got like
just like stories of him like
terrorizing segregationist senators
there's something like very satisfying
about that the image of the hamburgers
will live in our minds forever Trump
gave us hamburgers
never forget which I think we under
covered on this show yeah we did yeah
maybe not so let's start actually with
this we're gonna get to the other clown
fascist who completely humiliated
himself junior bowls an arrow and the
fun half because he twittered tweeted
something out about carnival but car
let's start well we'll bridge this
segment together we'll get to carnival
in a second this is really important and
I will say in generalities that people
particularly with TMDs but
obviously also this show we're part of
the context of helping make this letter
happen is how I'll put it and about 30
members of Congress included by
congresswoman Susan Wilde who's a really
good labor oriented congresswoman out of
Pennsylvania and also Co led by row Cana
and maybe let's just you know run down
some of the other names on the list of
course Alon Omar is there jamie raskin
Bobby rush Adriano Espaillat ro Cana was
the other lead on it
Alexandria Acacio Cortes Deb Holland
Jose Serrano Frank pallone jr. but also
charlie Crist as an example mark Pocan
James McGovern Alan Lowenthal and others
I wanted so these are people you should
look at the letter and make sure that
you thank them and they have signed a
letter written to Mike Pompeo and again
this is the type of thing that will
register in Brazil it's gonna make no
difference obviously to current US
policy but this is a big deal in Brazil
and I'll read just briefly I'll read the
first two graphs and then it goes into
detail on the abuse of the LGBTQ
community under bolsa narrow the assault
on indigenous people as well as the
assault on labor and pensions
dear secretary Pompeo we're writing to
urge you to publicly emphasize the
importance of defending the human rights
of the people of Brazil since the
election of far-right Canada terrible
sorrow as president we have been
particularly alarmed by president by
both senarios threat poses to the LGBTQ
community and other minority communities
women labor activists and other
political dissidents in brazil we are
deeply concerned that by targeting
hard-won political and social rights
balsa narrow is endangering brazil's
long term democratic future as is still
developing democracy brazil must be
particularly vigilant in protecting its
institutions and ensuring the
separations of power in the country even
before bolson ro took office the
regressive trends pushing against
Brazil's democracy were clear it should
concern all who are committed to
Brazilian democracy that bolson era was
elected after former President Luiz
in√°cio Lula da Silva widely acknowledged
as the most popular leader in the in
Brazil
co-leader in Brazil was barred from
running in controversial circumstances
that put to risk the right of the people
Brazil to truly freely choose their
president of course the next letter must
be stronger zero evidence and he is in
fact the world's most prominent
political prisoner and there's some new
stories about that case again zero
material evidence is literally jailed
for indeterminate acts the second
sentence he was just hit with a forensic
analysis showed that the judge copied
and pasted part of the first sentence
into the second sentence and there's
another story that might be coming out I
can't comment on yet that will blow a
whole other hole into judge Sergio
Morrow's case Carnival is a site of
resistance in the Caribbean and it was
no different at this year's Brazilian
Carnival which is part of the freak out
of the bizarre Brazilian President this
is a report from Michael Fox for the
world news network about resistance and
Lula Libre at Brazil carnival Brazilians
are in the streets for Carnaval millions
across the country and for many of them
it's an act of resistance supporters of
former President Luiz in√°cio Lula da
Silva have formed free Lula Samba groups
around the country like this one in
florian√≥polis they've been practicing
for several weeks they took the city
streets over the weekend we are here
today with everyone who wants to combat
fascism in Brazil this is a political
act to combat Lula's unjust imprisonment
and transforming carnival into a big
grassroots action against this former
president Lula has been in prison since
last April he was convicted of accepting
a beachside apartment from a company
seeking government contracts but the
ruling was based on plea-bargain
testimony no evidence was ever found
his jailer judge says immortal is now
president jo bole shinato's justice
minister Lula supporters say his
imprisonment was just a move to block
him from running in last year's
elections today the greatest grassroots
leader that we've ever had is unjustly
imprison a
accused of crimes that he didn't commit
and for which there is no proof and we
need to agitate so we can get him out of
prison so he can be free
they've also removed a protection for
the Amazon and indigenous people which
is an almost genocide all threats to
those communities in Brazil and a threat
to the entire global ecosystem of tho
leaders in both scenarios new government
have called things like global warming a
cultural and Marxist plot they also have
an advisor from who's a Brazilian who
lives in the state of Virginia who's a
fascist that does astrology consults who
recently was actually asking on social
media for money to help get health
coverage the ironies and disgustingness
of these people abound lifteth our neuro
bowls our neuro lula lifted 40 million
people out of poverty and he and the
Workers Party helped transition Brazil
out of a military dictatorship in the
1980s so thank all of the Congress
people particularly congresswoman Susan
wild and ROH Khanna but also AOC Jamie
Raskin Jim McGovern Andriana
s Pilat Bobby Rush we're gonna all be
tweeting this out again and an app
Ramallah Gipe all Jesus Chuy Garcia
Peter Welch and many and Jayne
Schakowsky rosa DeLauro and several
others they need to be thanked and they
should be pushed to do further letters
maybe even a resolution in the house
condemning the political imprisonment of
Lula and the cancellation of democracy
and fash rise of fascism in Brazil and
also if your congressmen didn't sign it
your congressperson didn't sign it call
them and ask them why not all right
today's show if I can find this I know
Sam usually loves to read these because
it's the New Yorker he gets all excited
did you see Dad The New Yorker
represents the best writing in America
today both online and in print a New
Yorker covers a full range of topic
including politics news international
affairs climate change popular culture
the arts fiction food humor and cartoons
not to mention the New Yorker touches on
subjects that many people may not have
previously put much thought into the
like the world's diminishing supply of
sand paper jams stink bugs and hunting
down heirloom tomatoes some of the New
Yorker ISM incredible writers include
contributors like Ronan Farrow who's
written breaking story news stories on
Harvey Weinstein Les Moonves and many a
Brett Kavanaugh along with Jane Mayer
the new Jane Mayer piece on just how
specifically Fox News functions as a
propaganda network all incredible
reporting and Helen Rosner a James Beard
award-winning food writer who
contributes essays and reports stories
on all things gastronomic I keep up with
the New Yorker I read The New Yorker
regularly you're still gonna get
incredible deep dives the piece that I
did last year on this show on how the
Tory PR firm price pot bail Pottinger
worked with the Zuma government to
create a fake populist campaign in the
service of foreign direct investment and
to distract from corruption scandals in
South Africa is one of the great pieces
that one of the in-depth deeply reported
pieces that you expect from The New
Yorker along with um you know really
good columns and broad arts coverage I
read every issue and now our listeners
can save 50 percent and get 12 weeks off
in New Yorker for just six dollars when
you go to The New Yorker calm slash
majority and enter majority you'll get
an exclusive tote as well as unlimited
access to The New Yorker app online
archive crossword puzzle and New Yorker
calm with between 10 and 15 exclusive
site only stories every day that's New
Yorker dot-com / majority enter majority
we are gonna take a brief break we'll be
right back with Professor Juan Cole
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks at the helm here joining
us now is the legendary proprietor of
the informed comment blog he's also
teaches history at the University of
Michigan and as the author most recently
of Muhammad prophet of peace professor
Juan Cole thanks for joining us thanks
so much for having me professor Cole
let's start with Israel what's actually
happening there an election has been
called a prime minister sitting Prime
Minister has been indicted a left-wing
parties been banned from running even as
a even further far-right extremist and
overtly racist parties enter the
political process what's your kind of
broad read on the electoral landscape of
Israel right now
well Israel for the past couple decades
has been trending not just right the
really far right and it's politics and
you know in some ways some of these
trends are similar to what's happened in
the United States there's enormous
increase in inequality a handful of
billionaires really are running the show
it's getting hard for ordinary people to
pay their rent and places like Tel Aviv
and then on top of everything else you
have a severe racial divide in Israel
between Jewish Israelis and Palestinian
Israeli is about Oh close to 25 percent
of Israel is probably of Palestinian
heritage often you see a statistic of 20
percent but any case is very significant
and their party the party that tends to
represent them ballad which has also
Jewish Israeli supporters as you say is
a far left party and it has just been
banned from running by people like avid
or Lieberman the former
Israeli Defense Minister on the grounds
that it's insufficiently loyal to Israel
that is to say that it's largely
supported by the Palestinian Israelis so
this will be overturned by the Supreme
Court but the Palestinian Israelis
really are increasingly checking out of
the Israeli political elections and this
will will probably also further hurt
their turnout which is what Lieberman
wants so it's a little bit like voter
suppression in the United States where
laws are passed like ID laws and so
forth to keep african-americans from
voting in Israel the the the right has
the luxury of just announcing it's not
going to let their party run at all
now some people who will defend the kind
of resiliency of Israeli institutions
and I and look I don't really see a
contradiction between acknowledging sort
of three things that there's an
occupation there's a siege on Gaza
those are both unspeakable violations of
every kind of principle that you would
hold if you had even just kind of basic
democratic and liberal values then
there's the you know the growth of
Israel as an extreme far-right State in
the last decade even and then there's
the fact that there are still some
mechanisms certainly of democracy that
work I guess in some ways and apply to
specific things robustly so how do you
kind of balance out that calculation in
terms of how to read and understand
exactly what Israel is as a state
embodying all of these contradictions
sure well as you say things are on a
spectrum within Israel proper there are
regular elections and however there's
increasing signs of them not being
entirely on the up-and-up so I would say
that you know the freedom house has
those three categories of not free
partially free and free and Israel is
only
ashlee free for many reasons one is
again these steps that are taken to
limit the franchise of the Palestinian
Israelis but also within the the Jewish
Israeli majority the the corruption
charges against Prime Minister Binyamin
Netanyahu are not in my view just
corruption
they're about the destruction of
democracy it's it's far beyond you know
monetary corruption he is yes charged us
with you know taking gifts from rich
people to do them favors which is
ordinary everyday corruption that
happens everywhere but but in addition
to that the casino mogul Sheldon Adelson
in the United States started a newspaper
in Israel which is a cheerleading
instrument for Netanyahu himself and
gave it away for free you could just get
it on the street corner and just pick it
up for free
and it's it's a full newspaper it has a
staff it does reporting and so it was
competing with real newspapers that were
founded just to do news and not just to
support Netanyahu and Netanyahu is
accused I'm going to one of the real
newspapers and saying look I know your
business is being hurt by this free rag
we're giving out we can print more of it
or we can be less of it if you're nice
to me we'll print less of it so you know
Netanyahu is accused of shaping the the
reporting on him in the national press
by blackmailing the newspapers with
bankruptcy and using shall Sheldon
Adelson's casinos as a piggy bank
essentially for his muscling of these of
these newspapers and and there's more of
that kind of blackmail and and pressure
put on these newspapers you know because
the government is in charge of licensing
and so
so I mean that that's that they they're
calling it corruption charges but
they're really dictator charges yes so
can you that's right that's really
important and I'd like you to actually
compare and contrast former Israeli
Prime Minister a who the Olmert was
released from prison about a year ago on
corruption charges all mert is I mean
certainly a much more charismatic and
repealing personality than Netanyahu he
certainly presided over his own great
crimes against Gaza and Lebanon as Prime
Minister but he also recognized
rhetorically and if you believe in a
two-state solution framework he probably
he certainly put on the table the most
substantive offer of an actual two-state
solution to the Palestinian leadership
and he suggests when one he had a funny
line that he felt bad for Netanyahu
because of his delicate mental state
which was a funny like he knows he still
knows how to throw a jab but he said his
claim is actually that the corruption
charges that took him down which were
purely of the you know money in a in a
shoe box to do a favor variety were
actually spearheaded by Sheldon Adelson
and far-right forces in the United
States because he was willing to buck
the extreme right in Israel so I mean
maybe he's just justifying himself but
can you kind of compare and contrast the
Olmert saga where this guy actually did
go to jail and then the the actual stay
the much larger stakes of what Netanyahu
was accused of and then all mert's claim
that he essentially was corruption
charges were the engine to move him out
of the picture because he wasn't
appeasing not only Israeli far-right but
he actually really points the finger at
the american far-right which is
fascinating
oh sure well the american far-right is
extremely influential and in israel and
indeed you know now there's this big
issue over a pack and it's lobbying and
giving campaign or directing campaign
money's directing other organizations to
give campaign monies to american
politician
to get them loyal to to Israel and the
fact is that AIPAC doesn't represent you
know the American Jewish community the
American Jewish community leans laughed
at 70 percent of them vote Democrat the
AIPAC is you know represents a handful
of extremely wealthy very far right-wing
Jews and and and cooperates then with
the with the right-wing evangelicals to
generate you know messages to Congress
and and and to the media and so forth so
you know the the the fact that that the
the mechanisms for the Israel lobbies
are in the hands of a right-wing group
in the United States is then has this
enormous impact on Israel itself I think
that ol mare is just crowd I mean he was
taking money from as you say for favors
even going back apparently to when he
was mayor of Jerusalem
and I think the Israeli Israeli police
are some of the last unconditioned in
Israel in this regard and they really
are willing to indict a prime minister
which you know as you suggested it shows
the Israeli democracy is not completely
gone and the fact that the the attorney
general who was appointed by by
Netanyahu is willing to go forward with
these charges against him is also a sign
of the continued robustness of elements
of Israeli democracy but there are
starting to be as I said these severe
constraints on it that you know between
the manipulation of the press and press
licenses and the the corruption and and
and the this the this enfranchisement of
large numbers of voters and and then the
ongoing occupation I mean this is a very
complex situation and just calling it a
democracy is
would be a misnomer how does this play
out in the sense that you know I mean
again all mert I'll just you know
referring to him he quite confidently
predicted that all mert that uh
Netanyahu will lose the election he said
that you know parties from the
center-right through the left have been
asking him for advice which I guess is
probably his stand-in for being sensible
but you could have a situation where it
seems to me just as likely if not more
likely that another even more extreme
far-right coalition wins Netanyahu's
returned to power with these dictatorial
aspirations and his response to these
charges so far in my read has not been
to deny them I mean he has denied them
but he's almost been asking for like
them to be crushed in an extrajudicial
sort of process I mean how does that
sort of how do you see that dynamic
playing out right well with regard to
the upcoming election the polling
suggests that Netanyahu's right-wing
coalition will get 61 seats which is a
bare majority and that Lu code will be
the largest party in the coalition and
and that would mean that Netanyahu gets
another term as Prime Minister 61 is a
very slim margin in a parliament of 120
and whether whether the the far-right
will get that many is of course
impossible to actually predict and so
there's uncertainty about this there is
a strong a center-right tendency which
is offsetting the far-right to some
extent but you know it's been pointed
out by my my colleague mark tesslar that
in the last few elections a center-right
always emerges and does relatively well
but then withers on the vine after the
election and doesn't quite get to a
majority and it's it's it's there's kind
of now you know some of these things are
ethnic but there's kind of a
constituency
for the far right of various sorts the
ultra-orthodox the the the the Eastern
European Russian immigrants the mizrahim
or the Jews originally from the Middle
East itself all of them tend to
relatively far-right politics so it's
hard for the center-right when what is
the center right now is it is that is
labor considered center right now we
talk about know your elapids party like
what would be center we yeah yes I'm
tolerant calling Gant's and yeah yeah
yeah look he does center-right and I
think it's in Israel they're called
centrist but I think they would you know
in American terms they would be
center-right or in European ones no
labor is is on the left but there's
labor as a shadow of its former self it
doesn't amount to much right and I said
what about Moretz they don't you know oh
that's their deaths you know yeah
they're done they're done
I met Shulamit Aloni years ago and we
got along fine and I was joking with
Israeli colleagues years later that if I
were in Israel since I like children
that maybe I'd vote for Moretz but these
were these were Israeli lefties so they
called me a running dark capitalist and
imperialist for that but but Moretz
which which is center-left is those
parties really just don't are able to
get significant representation and
that's important to underline right
because Moretz is by Americans you know
I I would deem you know labor to me is
definitely in very much the center as it
were and particularly with regards to
things with the occupation but Moretz
you know could be fairly deemed I agree
with you a center-left party and in the
current Israeli context I mean they
might as well be communists who want to
live in one state I mean that you know
that's how far the pendulum has swung to
the far right in Israel yes
oh absolutely that's what I'm saying
that yeah well you know it depends on
how you measure these things if you're
looking at issues in wealth distribute
which is traditionally the way you judge
whether something is left to right then
labor is left you know their support
labor unions and things but which lucu
does not but if ya if you get outside of
internal Israeli politics and look at
issues of occupation will labor engineer
the occupation and so there's not that
much difference between them and the
right on that issue Alon Omar has been
speaking out on this in and so what's
your what's your read on that yeah well
before we move to that we should just
mentioned briefly that that one of the
ways that Netanyahu hopes to get his 61
seats and a majority and the new
Parliament is that he's encouraged one
of his coalition allies to bring onboard
a terrorist organization you know the
the oh it's my yahoo dieter the the
Jewish power faction of kahanists who
you know various forms of kahana's and
going back to Rabbi Meir Kahana I have
been term terrorists by the US State
Department by the Israeli government
banned them from from running for office
they some of their members celebrate the
massacre at the tomb of the patriarchs
in 1994 by bauru Goldstein who shot down
28 innocent civilians and a little bit
the way that the that the Trump machine
has you know authorized support by the
white supremacists in order to get a
margin over the Democrats so Netanyahu
has authorized this coalition with the
with the kahanists and one of their
their leaders who couldn't get into the
United States for being considered a
terrorist or
member of a terrorist organization has
just been allowed to run by the Election
Commission which is controlled by the
laoco√∂n the ruling far right-wing party
so this is a very distressing
development you know Israeli politics is
far-right but these people are crazy and
even the American Israel lobbies are
upset and and I think they're afraid
that this is increasingly a a hard sell
to the American public right and I well
and and this is the other actually maybe
we should put this on the table - I mean
this is the thing that when leaders
again like an a hood Barak or an a hood
Almer would talk about the need to end
you know they meant it in different ways
but some form of ending the occupation
having a two-state solution they would
couch and they used the word apartheid
before anybody else a lot of they would
they would couch it in those terms they
would say look American Jews by and
large are you know frankly pretty
liberal they care about things like
civil rights and this just isn't edible
but the new Israeli leadership has
clearly made the calculation that first
of all there's plenty you know there's
an extreme far right that supposes civil
rights in the United States there's
resurgent neo-fascists in Europe and
then there's governments that you can do
business with that don't even have you
know of course in the United States case
it's obviously hypocritical and
contradictory but as an example in China
or Russia or something there isn't even
a kind of pretend human rights discourse
so you can just you know go about your
business and if the Liberals don't like
you anymore then you know so be it seems
to be the calculation that's right well
I think the calculation is that wealthy
far-right billionaires are the ones you
need to please and they don't care about
things like occupation in fact they're
looking for ways to profit from it right
right and so that's and that's how this
and so in the in the context this
emerges Elaan omar basically saying and
I think look I'll just stipulate I I've
I've kind of removed the
the nuance in my analysis because I
think there are times and places for
things and I think that there was a time
when maybe you could have a carefully
calibrated conversation we're calling
her anti-semitic or calling her into
question for criticizing Israel's wrong
flat-out wrong it's a smear it's
dishonest disgusting and then you could
say um some of her language
I particularly actually language that
she used the only one that I've been
identified to me was the hypnotized the
world tweet from 2012 and I think yes
that's legitimately ill-considered and
just strategically don't do that but
we're at a point now where a sitting
congresswoman has had a target put on
her back in a act of political terrorism
to keep her from speaking honestly and
freely on the conduct of a sovereign
nation state in the same way frankly she
has on many others and it's exposed
fault lines in the Democratic Party that
it seems to me people like Nancy Pelosi
are just not adroit enough to read
because you know there are those of us
who are you know in that coalition who
are younger who not only don't want her
to be in any way condemned their silence
we find the whole exercise to be bigoted
and disgusting
anyway you could tell I have a lot of
feelings about this but that's my
preamble professor and feel free to
correct me or elaborate either way no
I'm with you I think you know admittedly
I think some of the brouhaha is because
ohand
omar is coming from a subculture right
that doesn't practice the rhetorical
nuances of American politics and so you
know people who grow up in the United
States are in politics are aware you
know that the Israel lobbies are
powerful and they may have mixed
feelings about this in some instances
but they don't think it's illegitimate
because they're also aware that there's
lots of ethnic lobbies in the United
States I mean Nancy Pelosi led a charge
to try to get the Turkish government to
admit it the Armenian Genocide why
because there's lots of Armenians in her
district in San Francisco and and they
wanted her to do that so I think the the
line you cross is when you say that the
the Israel lobbies are manifestation of
Jewish power that is somehow
illegitimate or as you say you know the
hypnotizes or is is somehow out of the
mainstream because it's not well it's
just how politics are done in the United
States if you have an interest and you
don't have a lobby then you're stupid
and so I think she she does that she
didn't come up through that system right
and and in her subculture which focuses
on the in justices of the occupation
which is something that Americans don't
generally talk about I mean you and I
have talked about it here but let's face
it there is almost never a report on CNN
ah our in s NBC on what's going on in
the West Bank right almost never and and
so this is just not up for conversation
and so when what she's thinking about is
why is this massive injustice being
allowed to go on and why are people
attacking her for speaking out on it and
and and more particularly people who
don't seem to have a dog in the fight in
ordinary terms and then she's saying
well you know it's because AIPAC is
directing organizations to give money to
their to their campaigns it's all about
the Benjamins and and I had no problem
with that one right sorry yeah the other
side of the coin that there's nothing
illegitimate about it either but but and
that's what that's what's objectionable
to the attacks on her is that she's now
not being attacked for somehow
suggesting that Jewish political
interest in the United States are being
expressed in a illegitimate way she
didn't say that she's being attacked for
simply pointing out the truth which is
that there isn't there are Israel
lobbies and they are influential
and if you're gonna attack somebody as a
racist for saying that
then the word racist just has no longer
any any meaning well that's the other
amazing thing is that they're deploying
and you know again I always say that
some of my critiques of certain misuses
of identity politics go back in fact to
early conversations I had on Israel
where I was like no because I share an
identity with somebody I'm not going to
support them utterly subjugating another
group of people sorry and that's not an
argument let alone a justification for
the obscenity of these policies and so
we're in a situation where of course
then of course this whole conversation
is loaded with a huge amount of racism
and xenophobia and Islamophobia targeted
at her and then you know you're and then
you you have these grotesque spectacles
of Steve Scalise who literally called
himself David Duke without the baggage
employing the actually do actually
indirectly implying that she has dual
loyalty in terms of getting intelligence
briefing something that she never did in
terms of you know what people are lying
about what she said and it just you know
and I'm wondering though if the dam is
kind of breaking here I mean Bernie
Sanders had her back in a very clear way
and what's interesting is it's it seems
like everybody's showing the ball
because some people like me are coming
forward and saying hey look my politics
are such that I want everybody to have
full equal democracy cultural rights
security and protection in that area and
in my view that's probably some type of
secular binational state in my ideology
and then people like Brett Weinstein
who've been smearing and lying about and
in a very bizarre and and sick way Ilan
Omar for a while are coming out and
basically saying essentially yes that
criticism of Israel is a form of
anti-semitism which obviously in my view
is in fact anti-semitic because you're
reducing a incredibly persecuted and
global population to one nation state
which is inaccurate
oh absolutely well I think it's very
dangerous
the for the Jewish communities in the
world that this principle of criticizing
Israel as anti-semitic get established
because first of all we've already
discussed about how politics in Israel
is horrible right if if you're not able
to discuss it or criticize it with
without implicating the entire Jewish
community then that is a you know a
backdoor form of extreme anti-semitism I
although Jews don't want to be tagged
with with Netanyahu and more especially
with Kahana right so I mean this is
enormous irony that because of the
backlash from the Democratic Left Pelosi
is now going to only have a condemnation
resolution condemning hate speech but
who is a bigger purveyor of hate speech
than Benjamin Netanyahu the Prime
Minister of Israel so it's it's it's a
little bit Alice in Wonderland ish but I
think that you know representative Omar
if she manages to keep her seat and go
forward will eventually find ways of
navigating the the rhetoric that that's
necessary to deploy to be effective on
this issue and this is the one place I'm
a big supporter of hers I don't want on
your mind her but I do think if you're
talking about political effectiveness
that that there are ways of expressing
oneself that that maybe are a lot more
likely to result in in actual
achievement well and I I agree with you
and I think every indication is that
she's obviously incredibly talented and
diligent and she'll you know absorb it
and I think also not only strategically
but legitimately I think she's actually
clearly a very empathetic person who's
interested and engaged and I will you
know I'll say you know I didn't think I
would contribute money to anybody
besides Bernie Sanders and it wasn't
much but it felt very satisfying to to
contribute money there her congressional
committee and I hope everybody else will
do the same because she knew
I think I mean this is a flaring but I
mean ongoingly she's gonna need to she's
gonna need an enormous amount of
solidarity and support to fight back
against all of just the lies and base
bigotry that will be targeted at her
yeah well the other thing to say though
is that what she's done is I think
enormous ly useful yes in the sense that
the Nancy Pelosi's think they're
progressive and have never done anything
at all for the the oppressed
Palestinians who are stateless and in
some instances under siege and in other
instances are actively having their
property and the right stolen from them
by armed Israeli squatters on their land
and Pelosi won't admit this has never
admitted it goes to AIPAC and talks
about how the alliance with Israel is
essential to being American which is
exactly the kind of thing that Ilhan
Omar was complaining about and and the
Democratic establishment has to come to
terms with the reality of the occupation
which is not going away which is going
to produce more and more crises in my
nightmare is that some someway somehow
the Israeli far-right will find a way to
destroy the Dome of the rock and the
mosque the Aqsa Mosque and and and I
have I think they have no idea what
that's going to produce in the greater
Muslim world because you know in Iraq
the Peter Galbraith said that the most
successful act of terrorism in Iraq
killed no one which was the the blowing
up of the Samara golden dome which was
sacred to Shiites and they kicked off in
2006 a massive civil war in Iraq and
people care about these religious
symbols in ways that I think secular
pundits don't understand so there are
lots of things about the occupation that
could produce further conflict and and
very dire conflict but that's the one
for most in my mind and so the the you
know the idea we could you know Mitt
Romney and 2012 was asked about the air
was really kind of like then he said we
just have to kick the can down the road
there's nothing that can be done and
that is extremely dangerous professor
Juan Cole he's the author of Muhammad
prophet of peace you got a read informed
comment if you want to understand what's
happening in the broader menno region
but also other things like sustainable
energy it's an indispensable resource I
learned so much from you professor Cole
thank you so much for your time it's
been great talking to you Michael thank
you alright folks we're gonna take a
brief break and then we're gonna come
back with our second guest the great
Megan de Jacobin magazine
[Music]
you
welcome back to this doubleheader
majority report joining us now is Megan
day she's a staff writer at the Jackman
magazine her latest pieces are wielding
the imperial presidency and among the
Bernie Bros in Brooklyn Megan thanks so
much for joining me thanks for having me
again so Megan um let's I want to start
with your piece I was at the same rally
you were in Brooklyn and you know as
were thousands and thousands of other
people and I want to put just one quote
in relationship to your piece and then
I'll throw to you for your impressions
of the speeches and the people who were
there and so on and the energy of this
campaign there was a piece in slate
where they asked the handful of Bernie
supporters about the Bernie bro moniker
and some you know and some of them I
guess would fit that definition and they
sort of joked about it there was one
woman they talked to as a woman of color
they described her as a woman of color
on the somewhere in Upper Manhattan
he's door West who was a nanny is 35
years old and she contributed $3 to
Bernie's campaign and she was basically
like yeah I'm like pretty serious about
politics and I kind of need this agenda
in my life and I died don't like I'm
sorry I don't sit on Twitter all day I
don't really know what you're talking
about
I thought that was like you know if we
could give her voice and millions of
other voices you know unmediated time
we'd have a much more stained and honest
election cycle and I think your piece
did that as well so what were your
impressions of the rally and what did
you come away thinking the main thing
that stood out to me about Bernie as
Brooklyn rally is that it was enormous
Lee racially diverse for a Bernie rally
I mean it's something has changed I
think in the political discourse over
the last few years it's not to say that
there wasn't a diverse base that Bernie
supporters in 2016 there actually was
especially among younger people which
isn't to say that he didn't struggle
with the black vote in the south but I
think that I think that something has
changed actually I think that people of
color in particular are
to warm up to Bernie Sanders and young
people of color are not just warming up
to Bernie Sanders they're coming out and
droves and that's what I saw at the at
the Brooklyn rally it's also true that
you know Brooklyn's a very diverse place
the neighborhood is mostly a POC
neighborhood that the rally was held in
and it was held on the Brooklyn College
campus which Bernie attended for a brief
time before transferring to the
University of Chicago and many many
Brooklyn college students were there the
article that I wrote which is called
tongue-in-cheek among the Brooklyn
Bernie Bros it actually came out by the
way the same day as a New York magazine
piece sort of profiling sort of like
like left literati of Brooklyn and so
you can see the sort of different
visions of what left politics I have to
say I was like I read that piece and I
some people not like my hot take I
thought it was hilarious and I thought
somebody I thought the jabs landed I'm
not gonna lie I mean it's it was
distorted and it's unfair and
unrepresentative but there was it was a
funny piece yeah I was pretty colorful
and like those people were obviously
present saying those things so you know
you have to expand review of who
actually constitute bruiser Brooklyn
West and what I found was lots of young
people lots of young women lots of young
people of color of course in addition to
men and white people but people of all
ages as well mm-hmm
came out and they came out because
they're extraordinarily excited about
Bernie Sanders platform and this is what
everybody everybody that I spoke to was
very quick
without my prompting to pivot to the
issues the two issues that came up over
and over again were Medicare for all and
free college people also wanted to talk
to me about the importance of a $15
minimum wage a green new deal and
serious climate policy and criminal
justice reform and people sort of this
is a Bernie rally so these are Bernie
supporters but they sort of uniformly
felt that Bernie had the strongest
approach to these issues but Medicare
for all and a free college tuition
seemed to be resonating
very personal level with a lot of the
people that I spoke to it I'll give you
an example
I spoke to 20 year old Brooklyn college
students they're both children of
they're both Muslim women children of
immigrants come from working-class
households they're friends with each
other other names are my are Alice and
Ronnie and Menaka calm and mmm-my are
said you know she said you know when I
was making this is a quote from her when
I was making my college decision tuition
was a really big deal I got other offers
but it didn't really matter because I
knew my family couldn't afford it
the gut-level reaction to the potential
for individual freedom that bernie
sanders is free tuition proposal
actually would make a huge difference in
her own life and then and then Monacan
said i come from a low-income household
and just the other day i had to walk out
of a dentist's office i have insurance
but i couldn't afford the copay so i
just left and these were their
justifications for why these were the
first things that they told me when I
asked them why they had come out to
support for any Sanders and they also
mentioned that it was really important
to them to be hearing from a
working-class child of immigrants who
grew up in Brooklyn himself and attended
Brooklyn College and that's something
that really stood out about the Brooklyn
rally as you probably read and all of
the coverage Bernie took turn toward the
autobiographical which is
extraordinarily unusual for him but
never one to abandon politics or settle
for mere pandering he Colima sized it
almost immediately and launched into I
thought a wonderful a portion of the
speech where he compared his own
working-class upbringing to Donald
Trump's upper-class upbringing and I
think it really resonated with a lot of
the people in the crowd across lines of
racial difference of gender difference
of difference in citizenship status or
or ethnic background and so on yeah I
mean I was there and that was I mean it
was hugely effective against Donald
Trump and also yeah I got I actually
almost teared up when he talked about
his background and that and those were
two things that I also wanted to put on
the table one I'll take them one at a
time okay so one look again there
in a broad generality like who would not
love to see it like a african-american
woman candidate beat Donald Trump like
just destroy embarrass and humiliate him
in the electoral college in popular vote
and people's need and desire to have a
different representation in the White
House is correct and valid and totally
legitimate I and obviously I don't think
it supersedes vital class and policy
differences which is why I support
Bernie and you know that's just the base
of the conversation and I think we can
be respectful hopefully and good faith
about it on both sides of that equation
and I'm clear where I stand and I also
but I don't want to deal ajith amaya
sentiment either
that being said to see a man whose
family was directly close relatives
killed in the Holocaust whose family
fled Europe in that context the old
white man moniker I'm actually gonna say
is essentially anti-semitic disgusting
and I'm not like I don't want to hear
that so let me just put that one first
one across yeah I'll give you a quote so
you know not being myself a person of
color I will give you a quote from a
young woman of color that I spoke to at
the rally it so I asked this young woman
who she's 22 years old she lives in
Manhattan her family comes from
Palestine I asked her if she agreed with
the liberal talking points that Bernie
is unable to represent people of color
because he's a white man and she
responded no no no policy over identity
and then she continued people who say
he's just an old white man and more of
the same are ignoring the importance of
his policies for people of color the
people who will benefit the most from
Medicare for all for example will be
working-class people of color when he
talks about championing unions and
workers rights he's talking about the
well-being of working-class people of
color as someone who's a person of color
and an immigrant not an American citizen
I would vote for him I could and then
I'll go on and address the gender piece
being a woman myself I can say that you
know I understood being normally
satisfying to see a woman in the white
certainly to see a woman beat Donald
Trump but the fact of the matter is that
Bernie Sanders proposes that we tax the
wealthiest people in society who are
disproportionately men to give millions
and millions of people who are actually
differently women because women are
disproportionately poor universal health
care Universal child care free college
tuition student debt relief and he also
proposes that the United States
guarantee women full reproductive rights
gender pay equity stronger workplace
protections and unions that they can
turn to in the event of harassment and
mistreatment and a living wage and as a
woman I see my own interests reflected
in that platform and I have a very hard
time justifying opposition to Bernie
Sanders on feminist grounds for that
reason of course some people will say oh
well you know Elizabeth Warren likes all
of these things too and she's a woman so
why wouldn't you just prefer Elizabeth
Warren but my answer to that is very
simple which is that in like 2008
Elizabeth Warren was writing white
papers about how single-payer was
actually you know a preferable approach
to health care for the working-class
majority she seemed to understand that
that was the case and yet for many years
after that she actually declined to
champion it she in 2013 called it called
Medicare for all
politically unacceptable in 2012 I
believe when she ran she didn't run even
though her opponent did and that's very
different from what Bernie Sanders was
doing at the exact same time at the same
time in fact four decades prior Bernie
Sanders was actually making decisions
about the kind of politician that he
wanted to be not based on quote unquote
political acceptability but actually
trying to push the boundaries of what
was acceptable by using the office as a
bully pulpit for ideas I mean he and
Warren agreed but they both agreed that
single-payer was preferable for the
working-class majority and you know
especially women but Bernie Sanders was
the one who was actually championing it
running on it and making it ultimately
into a mass demand and so for me it's
pretty obvious that he's the more
serious candidate
with regards I mean there's gonna be
enormous pushback on Medicare for all
who do we trust to actually muscle
through this extremely ambitious reform
the person who was cowed into a pose of
submission by the idea of political and
acceptability or the person who refused
to accept unacceptability it actually
pushed the boundaries of the impossible
right absolutely and let alone all the
other candidates who you know have
obvious oh you don't even have like the
progressive credit oh damn you know yeah
right exactly so there's the difference
between Sanders and I mean we title the
recent episode of Michael Brooke show
the difference between Sanders and
Warren and everybody else right like
there there's there's this thing to hash
out between two good candidates who have
right you know are absolutely you know
in the same realm and then Bernie has
major advantages in terms of activism
structure and commitment and then you
know in fact the other candidates but
that was the other thing too that really
came across was not only was it
important and correct and actually
moving the way not only he spoke of his
biography but definitely being a Turner
and Shawn King the way they framed it
but it struck me that you know with a
lot of boomer candidates it's like you
know you wheel out particularly at the
convention time or something like hey
I'm Bill Clinton and I'm marched for
civil rights and you know I haven't done
a goddamn thing for 40 years but I was
there and the thing that was so
interesting about this was this
candidate who's so hesitant about
exploiting his biography in that way you
realized like not only is it not sort of
biographical anecdote did this really is
just a through line I mean this is the
same person that got arrested protesting
housing segregation in Chicago is the
same person who ran improbable campaigns
become mayor of Burlington and protect
the public park and empower small
businesses was actually a nationally
recognized effective mayor and then
toiled in the House and the Senate for
medicare-for-all and voted against
welfare reform that opposed the Iraq
invasion and talked about wealth
concentration when everybody was
deregulating wall street this is the
same and
and even in 2019 the last thing I'll put
on this he is a better candidate in 2016
both as a communicator and he's more to
left and what's so interesting is that
not in all areas but the areas in which
he's been pushed like he talked about
gentrification he said the word
military-industrial complex he's like
okay yeah I will get better on race and
racism so I'm gonna talk about
gentrification I'm not gonna like you
know do the Naenae I'm gonna talk about
this actual stuff and incorporate it
into this broader agenda and again
there's more to do it's not perfect but
these are significant strides and the
same person that was that youthful
protester right I actually think that
Bernie Sanders is not content with
pandering he finds it to be
reprehensible and actually in some cases
it held him back because he doesn't
realize I have he hasn't necessarily
realized in the past that there's a
degree of communication about the
importance of these issues that he might
be lacking hoping that the policy ideas
will speak for themselves I think you've
gotten a lot better on that front
and after Brooklyn he spoke in Chicago
and he did an excellent job not just
paying lip service to racial justice but
actually presenting a coherent political
worldview about the conditions under
which racism is actually manifests and
shapes people's lives their life
outcomes you know degrades their living
conditions and what what a politician
can do to change it but I also want to
add to that that the main theme that I'm
seeing coming through after going to the
Brooklyn rally and after going to the
Chicago rally is not the autobiography
and it's not the specific focus on
racial justice it's actually a broader
focus on the importance of movements to
his own potential presidency and I
actually think this is really important
and I'm going to tell you why it's that
Bernie Sanders is somewhat of an
accident of history so I'm a socialist
an organized socialist I'm a member of
the Democratic socialists of America I'm
a writer for a socialist magazine and I
can tell you with great certainty that
socialists while while Bernie Sanders is
2016 run with a massive boom
the Socialist Movement we would not have
designed that this way if we could do it
on paper what we would have designed
instead was the growth of the labor
movement strong unions the growth but
possibly of a party or at least a party
like formation that was capable of
running and disciplining candidates from
within its own ranks and the growth of
left social movements throughout the
country in all sectors that would be
able to support a presidential candidate
and we would have that candidate rise up
from that organic left groundswell but
that's not what happened
what actually happened was that Bernie
Sanders had is it like a is like a time
traveler from the last time that class
politics was on anybody's lips in the
United States and he kind of went
underground a little bit he had this
sort of like four decade-long wilderness
period he's obi-wan Kenobi people it's
like him in Corbin yeah totally yeah
it's ordinarily lucky that he did not
compromise on his principles like so
many people who came out of the New lash
did and he stayed really really
consistent and we're also really lucky
that he's still alive and still has the
energy to be you know a leader and that
he has the will to do that so there's
some subjective qualities here and that
happened to line up with the objective
material conditions you know the
financial crisis happened in 2008 occupy
happened in 2011 and the mood of the
nation changed and Bernie Sanders
happened to still be alive still be
consistent still be principles still be
a Democratic Socialist and he's built up
the record to actually justify him
taking a leadership position and the
American political sphere so the reason
I'm saying all of this is because if he
becomes president he is going to we
don't have that organic robust left
infrastructure populating this space
between dog catcher and president either
in the electoral sphere or in the non
electoral sphere we still are very happy
about Bernie Sanders could become
president for a variety of good reasons
but it is it does pose some tricky
problem you're gonna face a hostile
Congress he's not going to have the kind
of sympathizers in the state he might
not even have people there's not might
not be a robust political education
outside of the state to make sense of
the pushback that he's going to get to
his agenda
so the only way to actually get around
this problem is to build mass
extra-parliamentary left social
movements that can create crises outside
of the state in the form of protests in
the form of strikes and the form of
pressure campaigns in the form of media
attention in order to pressure lawmakers
to respond to those crises and solve
them and therefore that that go along
with Bernie Sanders is agenda even
though they don't want to even though
they're beholden to their donors and so
on and so forth I think he understands
that the importance of
extra-parliamentary
movements and you saw that at the
Chicago rally in particular where he
brought up an 18 year old black lives
matter activist as the first speaker at
that rally he brought up an anti
gentrification activist who was also a
young woman of color and then he spent
the bulk of his racial justice speech
talking about his political history
outside the state that's what's really
important when he talks about his
political history now he's not just
talking about his record as a mayor as a
congressman as a senator he's talking
about his political record when he was
just like you in the crowd when he was a
when he was a just an ordinary person
who wanted to make change in the world
and who put you know his body on the
line and he devoted his time and his
energy to actually participating in
movements to make that change and that's
in the in the final couple of minutes I
mean that's how you talk about him
wielding the presidency is that actually
and he's really nailing I mean another
thing that I noticed in the Brooklyn
speech was he reformulated that Obama
not red states not blue states but
instead of a kind of like mushy call for
sort of like shared civility
he was like recognize that you're all
workers and yeah yeah yeah right and so
that's the one issue yeah
yeah go ahead please I have an analysis
of the houses that Obama was trying to
unify and not polarize like that was his
strategy was like let's just were all in
this together but he was unable to
identify protagonist and antagonist but
Bernie Sanders wants to unify literally
by polarizing along new lines which are
class lines he knows that we can unite
the vast majority of the American people
against the billion
our class because most people in America
are not billionaires so it's actually a
completely different strategy than
Obama's even though it has some of the
same features they're not red state not
blue state you know uniting across lines
of difference Obama was just uniting
across lines a different period that
would be good
Bernie Sanders is unite across lines of
difference against the people that we
are almost different from who are the
billionaires who are controlling the
levers of society and as a final thought
I mean this is and that's where like not
only and of course like he is in many
respects he's the front-runner he has
the most organic support he's the most
significant candidate as you know he has
the credibility a you know of a
successful previous run and then unlike
being a front-runner obviously there's
just this I mean there's this sort of
natural like I understand again
sometimes there's valid criticisms of
him those valid criticisms come from the
left of him so usually sit are not even
electoral II represented and then
there's even just like hey look I'm a
centrist or I'm in part of a different
political machine okay you're not gonna
support Bernie Sanders but there's also
a huge amount of just rationality and
weirdness in the dislike of him so
there's that sort of um you know yeah
look at what a yeah this nice old Jewish
guy wants to give you health care what
an you know that that just sort
of bizarre dislike of him that comes
across in mainstream media circles but
so that's the the dialectic and
ultimately he will win even as the
front-runner as a grassroots
door-to-door candidate and even more
importantly that's actually how he'll
govern and the only chance we have of
both his agenda and also the broader
social and class conflict we need to
have if we're gonna get our way out of
the climate the inequality you know any
of these predicaments the predicaments
of capitalism it's kind of lucky for us
in a way even though this is an accident
of history and it's not how socialists
would have landed on paper its kind of
lucky for us that he'll be in this
predicament and the White House of not
having any friends in the state because
it will actually force him to get any of
his agenda passed there will actually
force him to use the office very
differently he will have
to use it as you have to be a Tribune
for class politics from the position of
the presidency building movements
outside of the state in order to get
anything passed just on a sheer strategy
level which is fantastic in a way right
because it reduces the possibility that
he's going to capitulate to the
structural pressures of the presidency
because if he wants to pass Medicare for
all he's sure as hell did I have to get
people out on the streets flooding you
know I'm having town halls letting you
know politicians offices holding mass
protests in order to get it done if you
can't do that then it's not going to
happen so it's gonna turn him I think
into a very effective grassroots
movement though they're justified by the
nature of the dynamic Meghan Day I agree
with you completely and people should
read all of Meghan days just
indispensable work at Jacobin oh really
everywhere you're coming honestly
because I send it to people to who were
you know like in the baby boomer cohort
people have different you know we're
actually the worst Gen Xers the people
are different different Paula and you
and and and you're the type of writer
that people can be like okay I at least
I get this more now across the board so
I really really appreciate your work and
thanks so much for taking the time Megan
day thank you so much thanks for having
me take care all right folks
that was a good doubleheader become a
member of the majority report today less
than a cup of coffee today a day to
support robust unbought unbossed
independent media with a you know i mean
look at all of the terrain we've covered
from tim apple to socialism how do a
Bernie's presidency would work to the
real nature of Israel to freeing Lula
and restoring Brazilian democracy and
that's just on the first half of the
show we're gonna see you in the fun half
of course I cover a lot of similar
things but very in-depth coverage of
international relations philosophy all
sorts of other areas on the Michael
Brooks show I would become a patron of
it today patreon.com slash T MBS this
weekend elicit history of Caribbean debt
and Imperial colonial relationship
with Tom Anisha John PhD candidate at
Florida International University this
past Sunday Ben Burgess joined us to
talk about logic for the left and who is
really suppressing free speech our
YouTube channel is flying a ton of clips
there we can get a sense of it go to
Michael Brooks show on YouTube subscribe
there and of course patreon accomplished
EMBs Jamie what's cooking with the anti
mother effing fada I thought of that guy
who complained about his kidney ring too
much swears yeah you gotta gotta protect
the children
Amara's for the children shade so why
are the children you should swear more
so they can learn I mean so they can
learn how to be cool for school that's
what I said but you know I'm not the
boss of this show so if you want to hear
me swear you can listen to the anti
Fattah this week we kind of effed up the
sound but you could still hear us they
say you're not a real podcaster until
you've lost a whole episode we had on
Hamilton Noland of splinter news to talk
about labor organizing in the media and
beyond its millennial entitlement good
for labor organizing I don't know what
else did we talk about
I don't know well we got all entitlement
the attic the intern generation yeah so
effing entitled the people who's like
hey um is it possible to oh of course
don't worry about health care but do you
think maybe I hit like a subway voucher
for doing like free unpaid labor for
your multinational super entitled yeah
Hamilton and I also squash an ancient
beef that we had and he talks about his
successful labor organizing drive at
Gawker right before it was you know oh
good drive yeah good right before
you-know-who came in and messed with
everyone's world I talk about my own
successful labor organizing drive at the
place I used to work check it out folks
patreon.com slash the anti Fattah or any
podcast app
yeah Wickfield by nathaniel hawthorne a
short story we do the whole thing check
that out also for YouTube the
unparalleled Adventures of one hunts
fall is finally up there in all of its
three hours and 20 minutes sorry folks
we'll see you on the fun half
[Music]
you
you hate that we're here right now
you
welcome back to the fun half we are here
in full effect let me start with this I
am because I'll get to this story it's
very important Kentucky Fried comrade
hey Michel reporting out of NBC
yesterday found that the DHS and
coordination with border patrol were
compiling internal lists and
investigating journalists involved in
caravan demonstrations November this
includes DHS bringing journalists in for
screening that's right I'll quote now
from a this is a write-up in from
Reuters the US government is
systemically identifying a monitoring
journalists who cover immigration civil
rights attorneys and protesters who
demonstrate against President Trump
according to two news reports dozens of
reporters immigration lawyers and
activists particularly those covering
the us's controversial treatment of
siloam seekers near San Diego or
representing refugees there were being
tracked by a quote unquote secret
database accessible to the Department of
Homeland Security DHS agencies and the
FBI according to NBC San Diego a report
sourced from documents leaked by
homeland security official in some cases
their passports were flagged and they
were interrogated by US officials the
document dated January 2019 titled San
Diego sector foreign operations brands
migrant Caravan FY to 9:00 to 2019
suspect organizations coordinators
instigators and media show individual
photos sometimes from their passports
their date of birth home country and
their alleged ties to the immigration
caravan they include ten journalists
seven whom are US citizens a US Attorney
and 47 people from the United States and
other countries labor labelled as
organizers instigators or their roles
quote unquote unknown Border Protection
told NBC that it is quote unquote
protocol following these incidents to
collect evidence that might be needed
for future legal actions and to
determine if the event was orchestrated
so first there is a long history of this
you can look at reporting on even like
the environmental movement and the depth
of surveillance and harassment
by group organizations like the FBI of
people including even just doing like
basic like leafletting on local
pollution issues so this is a systems
wide problem but you can also see that
there's a long and of course famous
examples like Cohen's help row but this
stuff didn't go away in the 60s and 70s
this went through the environmental
movement the anti-globalization movement
there has always been heavy and of
course anti-war protestors under the
Bush era there's been heavy intelligence
apparatus focus on any kind of
progressive activism what is interesting
in light of having a fascistic president
and all of the fake news memes is that
what already is procedure from
authoritarian institutions in the
federal government they said something
about in this response from the customs
official they've said basically what
what I just said it is protocol
following these incidents to collect
evidence that might be needed for future
legal proceeding legal actions and to
determine if the event was orchestrated
well who said that if Caravan was
orchestrated nobody doing any real
reporting nobody with any actual
experience involved in that but there
were plenty of crackpots involved in
right-wing media that talked about
George Soros and all sorts of other
conspiracy theories so even that word
orchestrated shows the feedback loop
between the lies and right-wing media
networks and then actual governmental
action we saw a black lives matter
activist put in jail briefly but doesn't
matter jailed based partially off of
intelligence services following a report
on Infowars so that is the feedback loop
we have here and again the last thing
I'll say I think please please please my
god
can we stop being pretty identical out
the use of the word fascism Jesus Christ
and that's not counting the black lives
matter active
found dead under very suspicious
circumstances right absolutely like they
have a history the government has a
history of doing this so it's not like
some crazy conspiracy theory to think
that they might still be doing it it
would be a conspiracy theory does not
think they're doing it and you know it's
we know about COINTELPRO but the the
actual thing that is I think more
submerged is that this is more
decentralized than that like this takes
place in police departments across the
country without right no federal you
know orchestration right and there's all
sorts of formal and informal feedback
loops you're calling from a seven one
eight area code who are you where you're
calling from
hey just much abused caller don't do
your Peter Thiel impression it's Greg
from New York Oh welcome back right it's
sort of good to hear your voice
maybe we'll see how this goes all right
Greg we're on a very tight tight tight
tight tight time wise Wow better than
anything yes what's on your mind yeah
it's good to hear from you no I I am
thank you very much for asking I you
know tuned in to your show recently as
mostly following other progressive shows
no I'm very happy Bernie's running he's
like as a person he is my number one
favorite candidate as a policy I would
say number two actually who's number one
Andrew yang Andrew yang of course with
the UVI and how the serving size no but
I do have one pet peeve with Bernie I
just want to kind of bring up and ask
you what you think is this thing sorry
I'm just kidding yes I love everything
about his policies what's not that the
universal health care sure what's the
pet peeve is he calls himself a
democratic socialist but he is clearly a
social democrat and the problem I have
with that is that in the age of Trump
with all this you know Trump calling
himself a nationalist and people on the
Left get triggered like the word
nationalist the same way people on the
right
suddenly you know go ahead and call
Bernie oh you want Venezuela you want
bread line do you want your socialism
doesn't work and that is a conversation
I feel divides the electorate that we
could actually Bernie I think back in
the past maybe he was more socialist and
he just kind of stuck with it but he's
really a social democrat I wish the
conversation was let me not hear you I
hear it oh I hear you I hear you
so I'm gonna let you go and I'll answer
your question all right thanks for the
call
honestly it's nice to hear from you we
were worried about you
so I'll just stipulate so okay and I
think Jamie will have a lot of thoughts
on this but let me just say really quick
[Music]
to the very talented James thank you
though just joking
yeah it's just just joking oh I think
that Bernie Santa for all I do think
Bernie Sanders is actually legitimately
in the Democratic Socialist tradition I
do and I think that particularly if you
contrast him to the state of Social
Democratic parties in like Europe today
he does have a conception of class
politics that's really clear and
interestingly enough when he was 10 he
certainly supported um socially
responsible businesses and he actually
gets a lot of credit from you know
companies like seventh-generation and
Ben and Jerry's but he was very
supportive things like coops and that is
a form of worker owned democratic
socialism so he is in that tradition I
the second point to be honest I just
don't care
i I think I also like if people insist
that he's a social I I think there's a
specific argument that is relevant in
our circles about why is the Democratic
Socialist versus a social democrat that
kind of matters in general i don't care
i think the terminology stuff i don't
care
the third thing that i'll say
specifically to you is they called Obama
a socialist who wanted to turn the
country into Cuba or whatever so they're
gonna say that if Andrew yang got the
Democratic nomination as a venture I
think he's a venture capital guy who
supports you bi they will call him a
socialist who
Venezuela it will call Camilla Harris a
socialist that wants mad Venezuela
they'll call Amy Klobuchar a socialist
that wants Venezuela they will call Joe
Biden a socialist that wants Venezuela
so building any frame based off of the
lies of the write about your character
about your history about your politics
 don't see it an inch d'lai
anyways I know yeah there's there's kind
of a fine line between democratic
socialist and social democrat that I
don't think people always realize when
they're like oh well he's like he's a
democratic socialist like what does that
mean I feel like the descript that the
modifier democratic is often appended to
socialist to mean like oh but you know
not to socialist like we're still gonna
have some form of markets or some kind
of private sector even if it's like a
mixture of coops and whatever which is a
little bit strange to me because further
left formations politically are also
very democratic right like anarchists
want full democracy basically if they
want everything to be made by workers
coops and syndicates and all decisions
to be made in a very horizontal astray
by these like community councils and you
know if you have a larger governing body
your delegates are gonna be recallable
and extremely accountable to the people
so I guess the the framework is a little
bit weird to begin with of democratic
socialists and I think Bernie could
totally fit the rubric so I don't really
get what the problem is on on a purely
pedantic level on like a social level in
terms of how words are commonly used
like if if he can make socialism sound
good - people like I'm fine with letting
him call himself a socialist you know
like and I think at a time when it's
just relatively small and weak like we
need all the help we can get
really is if there are some people out
there who called themselves socialists
who maybe are just like Social Democrats
or like Bernie Democrats whatever
whatever like that's fine I'll take it
plenty of people join DSA calling
themselves socialists who don't totally
know what that means and then you know
they get there and they come to our
political head meetings hopefully they
get involved in the struggle and they
learn a whole lot more about it so
genuinely contested terms yeah like even
like these are not there is everything
from a legitimate american eugene debs
tradition that is absolutely a form of
socialism to uh you know to people who
are like serious readers of Ho Chi Minh
and trying to like formulate a guerra to
Julius Nair a to the fact that all of
what we call certainly continental
European Social Democratic parties they
literally they have labor and in and
certainly in German have literal Marxist
roots so I'm not big on either the
import I just want to detoxify and plant
the word socialism besides that I truly
don't care um I want people to not be
children about Marx because even if
you're not a Marxist do you have to read
Marx that that's really all I care about
yeah I don't know how everybody who used
the term democratic socialism thought of
it but George Orwell used it
specifically after the Spanish Civil War
basically to distinguish between you
know his critiques of the USSR and its
role in that conflict so like I think I
actually don't I'm not as sensitive and
I know Griscom has the same sort of
sensitivity to using democratic or
social oh but not that kind of socialist
yeah that kind but there was at that
time like that's the thing and it wasn't
quickly it was and it wasn't cuz Orwell
didn't it wanted more a more
market-based social because like he
wanted more democracy so the actual term
democratic was like and I actually don't
mind for grounding that especially as a
way to like get people more comfortable
with the term I agree with that
and then I think the substantive
disagreement is Social Democrats and
Democratic socialists would have
something to do with to what degree
workers own the means of production and
that is a more substantive argument but
frankly it's not a present argument and
I think the closest distinction though
that I can see in real lived politics is
Elizabeth Warren is a great progressive
maybe even Social Democrat who has a lot
of really good ideas and a lot of really
good commitments Bernie Sanders is
something of a movement Democratic
Socialist who wants to reconfigure power
relations in this country and I do think
that that is a it's just a different
starting point and how that plays out
practically we'll see yeah they're all
reformist trash to me so call yourself
what you want really do you speak that
way to your father how dare you calling
yours you're calling from a 509 area
code where are you where you're calling
from
hey Reagan hey Ronald Reagan thanks for
calling what's on your minds welcome so
you do really good impression and it's
true kind of for two reasons I think
that you you know that boys right mostly
not only the most but then you uh you
most the time but they also do this
thing where you like juxtapose the
character with the real life person
mm-hmm in interesting ways and I thought
that yesterday when you did neoliberal
shill Jamie it was like your best
impression ever when did I do honestly
don't even remember when did I remember
this either
when did I do that it found it well it
sounded so much like Jamie that I
thought it was actually Jamie but I knew
it wasn't because you were like
neoliberalism actually came from a good
place and it's not out of this one
character that you've ever done so have
talked to you I love you all
yeah bye guys Jimmy Carter saw that
there was diminishing profit margins and
he needed to deregulate the airplanes
spot odd spot on that was that was
provocative all right not even gonna
take that in a serious direction because
it was hilarious let's do some more
sound do you want a reminder if you
still really need one why Joe
Scarborough is trash listen to his band
listened to as well
don't subject yourself to that that's a
lot but here's here's a guy and I'm not
gonna see jet like let me just say as a
baseline Joe Scarborough is not known
specifically for like a history of like
race baiting uh for sure he was elected
as part of the Gingrich Republican class
of 1994 which could absolutely I mean
there's slightly less overt than Trump
but that was a class in a campaign on
the dog whistles of crime and welfare
that could absolutely compete with
anything that comes out of today's
overtly white nationalist Republican
Party and Joe Scarborough I mean again
another failure of certain resistance
mindset it like it is so bare minimum to
get that Donald Trump is an incompetent
scumbag who should not be managing a
Friendly's let alone the White House
that I mean is this really what we're
giving credit for and this is the
fallout from that credit Joe Scarborough
saying disgusting ridiculous things like
this questioning Jews loyalty to America
and suggesting that Jews can't be loyal
to both America and Israel at the same
time or that someone like me who is pro
Israeli cannot be loyal to America while
also being loyal to to Israel in
believing that a strong Israel is good
for the Middle East
I mean and by the way
even while I'm disagreeing profoundly
with Benjamin Netanyahu's leadership
there so it just it's very offensive and
I mean unless this party wants to
dissolve into a left-leaning version of
party of Steve Kings and a party of
David dukes they need to call her out
any time this anti-semitic trope is
trotted out and if that means condemning
those statements every day they should
she did not say that period we can play
that statement again from yesterday
where she did not say that at all yes
same thought there was another clip as a
result of after that yes that's the clip
that they're lying about Mars Mark
Ruffalo who's a Jewish activist and he
said I was there I didn't hear anything
fought against anti-semitism my entire
life this is literally a party we played
it yesterday where Steve Scalise who
campaign I mean David Duke without the
baggage is calling into question her
patriotism the security of her being on
the Foreign Relations Committee which is
the play of these people to get her off
Foreign Relations not only because of
Israel Palestine but because of Elliott
Abrams because of Venezuela because she
talks and has courage about speaking on
u.s. foreign policy and Joe Scarborough
takes up all of this fake currency he's
built up after enabling and promoting
Donald Trump by the way for over a year
Donald Trump had the easiest most cushy
appearances on Morning Joe it was a
great joke you can look at that clip
when when Donald Trump did that
impression of that reporter with musk I
think was muscular distrophy check out
how funny Joe Scarborough thought that
was uh and you know I'm someone who
makes who had never hid how funny I
think Trump is okay that was actually
even the one where I was like is this
 really gonna work like I get the
racism and sexism is gonna fly with
Republican voters but this is the type
of thing that as a any type of even semi
developed 6th grader you're like maybe I
did that but that kind of feels wrong he
so Joe Scarborough has zero moral
authority and he is taking this woman
who is the bravest member of Congress
who's already under threat who's already
literally has republican local officials
putting her face on a 9/11 poster and he
has the temerity to compare her to Steve
King who has never been condemned by the
house who still is retweeting white
nationalist on a what seems like an
almost weekly basis and David Duke let's
play this this is a hot mic cuz Donald
Trump again is the biggest racist troll
in the country he's the President of the
United States and this was no secret
this is he launched his campaign on this
this is him a hot mic with Joe and Mika
getting a real window into yours yeah
that makes Jo look really good
you should call and send app respectful
email to MSNBC and tell them what you
think of a guy who enabled Donald
Trump's uninterrupted propaganda when he
was running for president and
occasionally strategically condemned
things before having a monoghan to yuk
it up
what'd you think of him calling a Muslim
immigrant woman of color who is speaking
on the foreign policy of a sovereign
nation state and comparing her to the
worst most objectionable member of
Congress any person that everybody in
the United States disavows oh except for
Donald Trump Joe Scarborough man
that's disgusting these
people yep showing their asses right now
if they side with Trump on this versus
you know a Muslim woman of color you
just heard that you just heard that you
should say that again what's the choice
here you're siding with Trump or a real
progressive who speaks the truth who
speaks truth to power it's you're siding
with Trump an advisor to Trump called
her a piece of human excrement and and
I've said a million and I but I will
continue to say this across the board by
the way with all of these things there
are so many more conversations that
could be had in good faith among people
who are allies in movements when people
make mistakes in their words or actions
we're and if you wanted to have a
conversation with L on Omar particularly
about the 2012 tweet say hey this is a
better approach strategically you might
even be unconscious you know genuinely
making a little bit of a misdial istic
mistake whatever if you actually care
about that you would talk to her
privately and she would listen to you
and everything would be better if you're
out in public doing this you are an
enemy of progress and you were siding
with the worst people in this country
it's like a friend of mine said Ilhan
Omar might be on the 9/11 poster in the
Republicans boots but she's on the 9/11
poster in the Democrats hearts I mean
well it's I mean right now we're pushed
back we're at an interesting point
because it now looks like we might have
actually won this battle they seem to
have backed off of the the statement I
mean the more important thing if they
want to release that statement if they
have to release that statement to keep
bill Han on the committee then fine but
that's that's the only thing I really
care about I mean they shouldn't Elliott
Abrams has said as of now he's not
making any move to take her off the
committee or not Ellie dangle who is the
chair eliot engel is is the very right
leaning Democratic head of the Foreign
Relations Committee so in this whole
week where Ilan Omar is getting attacked
by the worst people in the society one
of the genuinely worse people on the
planet sat down at Medi his son and what
I cannot really understand is why so
many just truly horrible human beings
sit down with many his son for his
head-to-head show on al-jazeera because
it never ends up working out for them
unless they either have a subconscious
desire to unequivocally reveal
themselves or if they're Erik Prince the
founder of Blackwater that this is
really literally just like I'm
loaded and run a global mercenary firm
and I just don't care what drives you
when you kind of come up with these
plans to do private security especially
not these Muslim majority countries
because you yourself have referred to
the people your men were fighting in
Iraq as barbarians who crawled out of
the sewer you say in your memoir these
were the chanting barbarians American
troops had been sent to liberate sure if
you if people that think it's okay to
drive a car bomb into the middle of a
square in the middle of a marketplace
while to attempt to kill an American and
in in doing so they kill dozens and
dozens of civilians absolutely that's
barbaric which is true I think if
referred to terrorists you call them
whatever you want but you said these
were the chanting barbarians American
troops have been sent to liberate you
weren't sent to liberate terrorists
you're talking about Iraqis sir look
little words from your member the
decision the decision of their life the
the u.s. decision to go to liberate rock
from Saddam Hussein who did a lot more
horrid things than we can even speak of
here that was certainly the intent I
certainly had no role in that policy
decision and here's the second clip
about members of Blackwater who have
been convicted in US courts of murdering
Iraqi civilians a u.s. court of law in
December prosecuted one of your men for
first-degree murder for killing a bird
rabbi and his mother and elsewhere yes
three other to hold him let me finish
three other men were prosecuted for
manslaughter four of your men murder and
manslaughter in not Iraqi courts US
Court that's right and they prosecuted
them four times and they finally got a
conviction the first time he was thrown
out for prosecutorial misconduct kill
second they found him guilty no no the
first time he was thrown out for
prosecutorial misconduct the second time
it was overturned the third time it was
a mistrial the federal government
finally got them in a DC sir in a DC
jury on the fourth time that you see
jury not a legitimate jury I would say a
jury of your peers does not really
compare to the rest of America no that's
a that's okay okay so some juries
illegitimate some not like so-called
judges or so-called juries where he's
implying that DC would have an unusual
amount of black juries jurors Muslims
Muslims maybe maybe it's just being in a
city so Wow
that's Eric Prince that's also I believe
he is a fascist and these types of
contractors are still regularly used in
Afghanistan and Iraq also is he the
brother-in-law or brother of Betts eat
of us the other of Betsy DeVos who's in
charge of our education system let's
have a little palate cleanser sadly
enough I don't know I've never watched
jeopardy but Alex Trebek announced that
he is very developed cancer so that's
that and we wish him well and here's
just an opportunity to watch him
if I knew jeopardy was like this maybe I
would watch it it's called Newark or hip
hop it's nerdcore hip hop yes
it's people who identify as nerdy
rapping about the things they love video
games science fiction having a hard time
meeting romantic partners you know it's
really catchy and fun losers in other
words great oh yeah well Alex Trebek
you're calling from a 7/32 area code who
are you where you going
rapping about the things I love video
games
science fiction you're calling him a 73
to area code you know okay one more time
you caught up seven three two sorry it's
too much I can I'm not gonna wait for
the log black time you're calling from a
Skype two six six I believe yours as a
Skype hi Michael yes hi cami yep I am
Raj calling from India
hi Raj what's on your minds I do have a
couple of criticisms of maybe biases
that you guys have on your show okay
which have to do with Postini and a ot
okay sure sure go ahead
sure okay so the first brainy the first
thing is tax returns he has not released
them and it's kind of bugging me because
I really like Bernie but yeah they
released him he said he would do it he's
had two years all right so I'm just
gonna say Raj I noted this is a normal /
let me put it this way if you asked I
think even people in the studio not have
much money and don't but don't have like
like he's a piece of personal he's a
person who files personal tax returns
with his wife he'll
get them out there's never been any
reporting or any type of indication of
anything that there's any they're there
and I'm sure it will happen if his tax
releases get returned and he secretly
runs like an Emirati hedge fund I will
stand corrected I once you give that
okay but let's see that's two years to
do all right but can we mix us something
more serious like I just don't take that
that just doesn't matter what do you
have it what's the other one
I'm sorry I'm not trying to be rude I
want you to use your time effectively
that's okay yeah
oh that's appreciate you taking my call
all right please I'm the one the other
thing is with AOC I do feel that she
okay so there was like maybe a couple
months ago you took a call with someone
remember the thing about Sam not getting
the percentage of the u.s. population
right you guys sort of coasted and
didn't really address his issues which
has to do with AOC like slipping up in
things that really matter now when it
came to the Amazon headquarters she said
that the three billion dollars was a
subsidy that could have been given to
other people to to the smaller
businesses in New York but those three
billion dollars I know you have
addresses as that but like she needs to
not slip up like that and because if she
had done the math and she had like it
would take a lot of math to do and
people come out and say that it's
incorrect or they would basically just
shoot down everything except if she had
done proper math and calculated that 26
billion or however much they promised
wouldn't would actually cost New York
State and New York more money than they
would actually bring in I would be cool
with that
but she didn't do that she just said
three billion dollars that could have
been that's not three beyond earth and
York has to give to people they threw in
dollars that would have been like a
discount on their money that Amazon has
been yet now I don't like Amazon I'm
pretty sure it was gone the same way as
Foxconn in Wisconsin but if she actually
could prove that that would be good okay
does anybody have anything to add to
this not really I mean I understand the
point about about talking about subsidy
money that you might get that companies
might save from future
lower taxes as by and I guess your
complaint is that she talked about that
as if we already have that in the
Treasury now right that's your complaint
yes but it's more like I mean if she had
a thing is I don't think he it's every
day that a multi-billion dollar company
is going to bring their headquarters in
and you know I'm sure they would bring
lots of jobs in just a construction of
the of the headquarters plus the job
that's going to bring in would bring in
a lot of revenue now I don't know okay I
just just really quit it was really
really quick I'm not trying to interrupt
you but literally someone just I am well
this is I'm sorry this isn't new
Oh for I sorry forget it but Bernie
Bernie's the Bernie's tax returns from
2016 which were released and he's gonna
release them but it's like yeah he
earned his salary as a senator as well
as Social Security benefits that's it
one year yeah and it'll have a little
bit more from books that I'm again I'm
gonna I'm gonna try to be so okay so let
me say this
Bernie stuff don't totally irrelevant
unless it becomes relevant so just don't
worry about that that's irrelevant
doesn't matter the aoc stuff it doesn't
matter it doesn't matter he's not hiding
it doesn't matter if he if it comes out
then it comes out don't worry don't
frown it may never happen the aoc stuff
um look she could she could you mean
she's doing a huge amount of media
sometimes everybody who does a huge
amount of media makes mistakes uh and
she probably should you know she could
she she needs to have some people on her
staff tracking a little bit more of this
on the other hand she's scoring way more
than she's not scoring and I have to say
like I find so right now her response to
L on Omar has been a super insufficient
no I got it I got the point he doesn't
have the privilege he doesn't have the
privilege of making mistakes but was but
she does right but she does that's
assault
here's the problem you call those you're
making a self-fulfilling prophecy so I'm
not going to indulge in that
and their response so far to AOC has
been they've been trying for as long as
she's been on the national scene to
either just they go straight up crass
sexism and say she's stupid which is
demonstrably sexist and false or they
try to make high a on these more narrow
nerdy points which I can't I got it to
be honest with you and and and this is a
really hard thing for liberals in
general because sometimes it's not good
because it benefits people on the right
people don't give a
they don't care I don't know a single
normal person who has any concerned
whatsoever about any politician miss
stating a subsidy number when they're
getting the larger story correct
literally nobody cares except for people
who like you who are super tuned in and
super smart and engaged but you're
worrying about stuff that the only way
they will become stuff is if we make
them stuff so let's not make them stuff
thanks for calling he's also making a
larger argument the Amazon would have
been good for work I don't think that's
what he was saying I think he said he I
think he wasn't going I've seen people
take issue with how how ALC does that
right like and but I think if she's
right I don't think she's wrong like
it's just a about tenses right like you
definitely are carving out billions of
dollars that you're not going to be able
to use for schools that like yeah that's
the that's the thing it's like there is
actually a broad aggregate truth in
literally if you take three million
dollars out of the budget that makes
Amazon moving here less valuable to the
city yes and that also means that
somehow that money doesn't go somewhere
else
and yes money's allocated blah blah blah
blah blah but this isn't a policy
seminar and frankly you know this notion
and it's a very fine line because of
course it's a problem for a democracy
that people don't have a greater
understanding of policy and substance
and there's a huge role in education of
course but then on the flip side
that nobody in a Democratic Society
should have to be taking a kennedy
school seminar to figure out who to vote
for like being a simple clear
communicator is what's most important
and I refuse to make this either of
those things a story cuz they're not its
pedantry its pedantry you're calling
from a 605 area code who are you where
you're calling from
I say again and Dylan from South Dakota
hey Dylan what's her mine what's going
with uh well I would like to direct
everybody's anger and the too pedantic
calls we've had so far today and
directed towards my state's governor she
introduced this week which is the last
week of the state legislative session
like two bills one of them which would
establish a civil penalty for something
called riot Thursday which like they
define as contributing money or
encouraging protesters to engage in
violence now the Keystone pipeline like
Keystone XL pipeline like its last leg
of construction that's probably gonna be
here in the state of Montana and that's
all we can happen either this year next
year like I'm really sure how long it's
gonna take them to start construction
but um yeah she's basically trying to
like make away so like at the last
minute introduce a bill in the state
legislature to make it so that way they
can find everybody who donates to like
GoFundMe for the protests that are going
to happen yep yep well this is a big
actually gene Basler on and I wrote a
piece on this where we compared the
Turkish AKP party to the Republican
Party in the United States for Jacobin
and one of the things we did was we
showed all these state initiatives to
just criminalize protests and those
bills are written in horrifying broad
ways that could get people like I mean
it can indemnify and somebody's like
indemnify people that ran over
protesters hard that's definitely my
favorite one yeah we did that
yeah those North Dakota - like don't try
- yeah it was the two Dakotas that did
that
Jesus Christ you know what else I wish I
wish that all of the people who were so
freaked out about Elizabeth Warren's
like is she Native American did she lie
about it I don't know if half of those
people cared half as much about the
Keystone pipeline but I don't because
it's really all about just racism
okay well that's disgusting we need to
fight that it's incredibly dangerous
what's the second thing
well I guess the second bill was just
trying to make it that way the pipeline
company you would contribute to any
extraordinary like cost fear to policing
oh well that's that bring in like trying
to fund the fascism and that also would
include I'm sure funding like that like
the power military and mercenary groups
that come in yeah you know that can be
even more suppressive and violent yeah
Tiger Swan Tiger Swan was the one that
was I mean just on the face of it making
the pipeline company pay for the law
enforcement I don't know if I like that
or not yeah I was gonna say that one
seems slightly less objectionable cuz it
might make it hurt more that my yeah
then you know like the more you protests
the more money's coming out there palm
exactly but there might also be a
loophole that allows them to bring in
private militia forces they're probably
already doing it
police at the protest before were
private one yeah and those things though
like Tiger swans for instance like those
companies need to be outlawed right
those companies just yep ever Blackwater
Tigers funded those things just has been
outlawed it's it's a slide into some
like neo feudalist hellworld or
everyone's got their own private army
like do you really want to be ruled by
warlord Peter teal yes all right thanks
for the call man thanks for a good
reminder of reality here yep thank you
do we have that tweet though we never do
we ever get it the the JR bowls an ro1
so we talked before and again please
thank congresswoman Susan wild
congressman Roe kana and all of the
other thirty signatures of that
incredibly important letter jr. bolson
ro is in a fascist government militarily
subservient to the United States
undertaking a wholesale assault on labor
unions on pensions on indigenous people
on the LGBTQ community and as a long
robust history of racism and massaging
everything else now again it bears
repeating and this is actually an
important press coverage thing because
the origins of this go to the removal of
dilma rousseff from office after she won
her second elect her second term as
president essentially on grounds of an
accounting era literally and and one of
the leaders in that motion is actually
you know in prison or under
investigation the president that took
over Michel temer has been caught on
tape talking about bribing people and
then of course with zero evidence zero
material evidence Lula da Silva who led
the only candidate he led Jared bowls an
arrow by double digits in the polls was
put in jail and barred from
communicating and is held in solitary
confinement so democracy was already
eroding in a grotesque way because of
the coup against Dilma the imprisonment
in Lula and the rise and threats from
the military every step of the way
the u.s. Business press The Wall Street
Journal endorsed terrible cenar Oh
Canadian businesses were excited the
tweet went up from the CBC the Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation the day he won
saying well he's controversial but this
might be great for our timber companies
so that willingness amongst the upper
class to boos huazi class and Brazil and
against foreign direct investors from
places like the United States yes it's a
little embarrassing that junior bolson
ro said he might prefer his kid to die
than be gay and it's a little weird that
it seems like there's all these
connections between his family and mafia
cartels and way more violent and serious
corruption
and anything that was ever proven
against the Workers Party but let alone
Stephen some of the other actual
seriously corrupt parties in Brazil this
is a buffoon clown gangster government
supported every step of the way by
Western finance and he's historically
unpopular two months into office and
carnival was a site of huge resistance
there were not only people protesting
for freeing lula supporting the rights
of all there was also floats of Mariela
Franco the assassinated Afro indigenous
city councillor and leader who's the
cartel that assassinated her is almost
certainly connected with the balsan ro
family through secret bank accounts the
person who the group that won the
carnival was afro-brazilian and had
Mariela placards so bolson ro hates
presumably carnival but at the same time
carnival is a great tourism attraction
an important for the Brazilian economy
so what do you do if you're a stupid
fascist with a Twitter account and you
can't ban carnival yet but you also
don't want to embarrass your country and
remind everybody of what the Wall Street
Journal in the United States regime
endorsed in terms of what a jackass and
buffoon you are well here's what you do
if you're a like a gerbil snarl
and I should say this is literally
pornography what we're about to play I
don't know if like it might get a strike
like maybe we just pause it we didn't
actually have to play it so we don't
have to play it
he literally tweets out presumably this
was shot during Carnival but it is part
according to reporting that I understand
it's a it's a gay pornography video of a
guy peeing on another dude it's not that
pornographic well no no the shower
between friends no no I don't think it's
between friends I think they're actually
shooting literally shooting a video I
think that I think they're reporting I
think Greenwald I gonzo porn I think
that's what it is
so he took and of course like yeah
people are dancing up on each other and
all sorts of stuff but he took something
that most likely is literally a staged
production a production outside of
Carnival again I'm not a hundred percent
sure but that's my under
and he wrote and we're translating you
know the translation service on Twitter
is not great but you get the gist of it
I don't feel comfortable showing it but
we have to expose the truth to the
population knowing and always taking
their priorities this is what is turned
away many Street turned many street
blocks in Brazilian Carnaval comment and
remove your confusions let's see a
Brazil this is from the official ok
thank God
take you a little twinkle then there was
a follow-up tweet where jr. bolson are
apparently asked what a golden shower
was and response to being mocked and
there was a golden shower account that
popped up and asked who Junior Bowl
scenario was oh this is who donald trump
is of course tight at the hip with he's
gonna be visiting making a state visit
to the trump administration soon should
be greeted with a huge amount of
protests should be greeted with a huge
amout of golden shower and then of
course this is also a guy who was
praised by well as dave rubin calls him
bill sign for in a row both are in a row
so dave rubin takes this takes this
class story and i don't know this story
apparently it's right and of course it's
rubin so I cannot take it at face value
right by definition but apparently Dave
Rubin is saying that there's a school in
Birmingham Alabama which drew its
lessons on LGBT acceptance because 400
Muslim parents petitioned against it
this is not the way forward now I could
tell you with almost complete certainty
that if there was a coalition of
religiously conservative parents it
absolutely could have concluded Muslims
who were wrong and opposed teaching LGBT
acceptance I really doubt that an
Alabama a slow a solely Muslim fueled
movement did that job on their own I'm
gonna guess that there were other people
in that movement like I don't know
potentially the Christian community and
if there are any followers of the ben
shapiro style jewish community
Dave's friend who won't bake him a cake
I'm assuming they'd be part of it too so
I'm just gonna stipulate here that I
have no doubt that right-wing Muslims
could be part in our part of course
bigotry against LGBT people but the way
Dave is framing this like everything
else that comes out of his mouth I mean
I don't even think I don't know I
wouldn't even go that he's lying I'm
just sure he saw a top line and didn't
research it oh it could be well why do
why is why isn't why isn't his reaction
that these 400 Muslim Alabaman parents
just want to get rid of the SJW nons
well school this is of course the great
point and I don't know if we still have
that sound but this is of course the
mother lode of rad ideas on Twitter says
this is the same guy who prays bowls an
hour for quote unquote getting rid of
the SJW stuff and schools in school so
which is it Dave well that's the problem
when you hate all identities that aren't
your own equally wait but this is Dave
maybe he's had a change of heart maybe
this is him talking about Alabama being
more respected inside the broader in
United States and the SJW stuff in
schools this is Dave Rubin her opinion
on Brazilian Prime Minister Boas our
bowls are narrow regarding there's a lot
of things moving here deforestation of
the rainforest PS I'm a Christian I
baked you a cake though you know I don't
know enough about him but it sounds like
he really hates Marxism and he's and
he's really pushing Brazil to become
more of a world leader and that he
actually is for capitalism and he's
trying to get some of the SJW stuff out
of the schools I just saw a tweet by him
a day or two ago so you know I would
imagine that it's very possible that
some of those Muslim parents who were
involved in that despicable effort in
Alabama this is even true are small
business owners they don't like
capitalism quite a bit it seems as if
their race is maybe the only thing Dave
Rubin has a problem with yeah it seems
as if their outfits and their race
otherwise that might be the
distinguishing issue here is they're
also trying to get the SJW stuff out of
schools Dave in fact if you go to places
like Saudi Arabia I could tell you
there's no sjw
tortured relationship with right-wing
Muslims cuz on the one hand they hate
them because they're Muslims also I
think they're a little bit jealous that
they've maybe made more strides in
making their religion political yeah
Chrissy yeah yeah and on the other hand
they yet they dislike them cuz they're
Muslims but they like them because they
are right-wing theocrats right so they
can't really figure it out but they like
to slot them in along with LGBT people
when it suits them like this is all this
crazy cultural Marxism figure it
out guys well I agree with you and I
would say that this is actually a
helpful so I have my I have plenty of
problems with new New Atheism and I you
know I'll continue to say I just don't
like broad bigoted categorical
statements about any group of religious
people because it's inaccurate and a
historical but this is the interesting
difference between the new atheist stuff
that bled into the IDW because like
Richard Dawkins who's totally a prick
about Muslims and obviously has weird
issues there he though is still has a
broadly just anti religious stance and
that's his kind of stand by but the
element of the New Atheism that was
really more about reactions things like
immigration and globalization and those
types of issues they now are involved in
a movement where you know two of the
leading lights of it are religious I
mean one bench bureau is a overt
right-wing religious person and you know
Jordan Peterson is at the very least a
massive religious apologist and then of
course you know empty head Rubin has
gone from you know supping at the cup of
Sam Harris worship to you know I don't
think he's publicly embraced God yet but
he's you know he's tweeting out abortion
conspiracy videos this is where there
are stated principles were totally
disingenuous from the beginning almost
like that
this goes to yes are just to cover our
bases that might have been Birmingham UK
in which case the points about sjw
nonsense in school still stands so says
no you know what and then we're okay
great I stand corrected if it's in the
Birmingham in the UK it absolutely could
have been spearheaded by Muslims and
it's a huge problem in the UK
that there is basically hugely
religiously Taunus schools that can
enforce policies like that and it's a
huge problem in all communities
including the Muslim one in the UK and
it's wrong and it should be discarded
and part of how you would discard it
would be by injecting some SJW stuff
into the British public schools as it
should be restored in the Brazilian
public school and integrating immigrants
into society instead of treating them
like second-class citizens
exactly discos do pretty reek response
the barrage is call no need to be a dick
well I don't really think I was being a
dick Michael really gives you the
impression that you can't handle any
Bernie's criticism some may be legit if
HRC would release or wouldn't release
her taxes you would've been all over it
just say yeah should do that and move on
well first of all that's not true yeah I
mean first of all that yeah okay so even
then if you go back to my response to
things like her emails I didn't give a
including about all of the WikiLeaks
emails that came out that so many people
thought were so damning mostly we're
frankly just prosaic campaign
so we've got some of them quite charming
and some we're kind of charming but like
you're so okay so you're wrong on the
merits on the other hand again I'm sorry
we got to get back to reality here
Bernie Sanders is a senator and he has
book contracts Hillary Clinton and Bill
Clinton made tens of millions of dollars
running a global nonprofit that brought
a huge amount of money in from
corporations from foreign governments
they got paid millions of dollars a pop
for speeches so their finances are way
more complicated and will raise more
questions by definition and that being
said I didn't even do all that in the
first place so you're just wrong uh and
look I've you know whatever you're being
that's a pedantic and it I'll be a dick
about that I am that's a that's a bad
take I ain't got to I'm not going
greatest ISM of Bernie if it's
legitimate and that was dumb we do
legitimate crisis I have plenty of
legitimate left criticisms of Bernie
that wasn't it and also my left
criticisms have no bearing on whether or
not he's still
the best viable candidate running right
now I am NOT going to feed dumb media
manufactured narratives I didn't even do
it
with Hillary Clinton who I fiercely
opposed in that primary let alone Bernie
Sanders we spent 20 minutes I'm tad
Devine exactly actually I'd prefer to
spend some time on this John Bolton was
speaking with Jake Tapper and uh look
this is so interesting because this
whole effort towards this Venezuela coup
and threats of invasion first of all
look at Trudeau and the and the the
pseudo woke scandal engulfed Canadian
government Trudeau signed up on efforts
that regime change in Venezuela but has
been I believe photographed with the
Haitian president who organic non
outside engineered interests are
demanding he be removed Haiti has one of
the most important social movements
happening in the world today right now
go to the TMDs Channel and watch the
history of it with France fence wah and
again there's organic opposition inside
Venezuela and the Venezuelan government
has absolutely committed abuses there's
no doubt ken Silverstein just wrote a
really good report there from the new
Republicans look look made plenty of
mistakes on the other hand the talk of
crisis is manufactured and made up and
most Venezuelans even if they oppose
Maduro do not want a u.s. engineered
regime change this should not be that
complicated to figure out the Trudeau
their resistance people the people who
are so naive that somehow they're able
to rightly say that Donald Trump is a
racist monster who rips children out of
their parents arms all of a sudden oh no
but no in Venezuela I mean obviously
that would be the one case where of
course there's genuine human concern
here and as evidenced by the fact that
his his point person is literally a
ghoul going back to the 1980s who has
done spin and cover for every type of
death squad and mass murder available
imaginable Latin America
not to mention also tremendously harmful
work in the Middle East of course I'm
talking about Elliott Abrams at least
this administration you know Amber Lee
frost had a great piece about why
leftist don't like the New York Times
but we liked the Financial Times and the
one of the things she said was she said
you know there are times doesn't know
that we're in a fight
Financial Times is on I'm paraphrasing
here the Financial Times they're on the
different side of it but at least they
know we're in conflict here so don't
listen to the nonsense you know Bill and
Hillary Clinton tweeting out you know oh
but it's time for the Venezuelan people
and blah blah blah all this nonsense
this is John Bolton telling you exactly
what is going on with US policy in
Venezuela but you do not see that the
United States support for other brutal
dictators around the world undermines
the the credibility of the argument
you're making no I don't think it does I
think it's separate and I think look in
this administration we're not afraid to
use the phrase Monroe Doctrine this this
is a country in our hemisphere it's been
the objective of American presidents
going back to Ronald Reagan to have a
completely democratic hemisphere I there
you go well I think the word he was
actually looking for was capitalist
wealth fear well and also you know the
Tapper sure is right to point out the
hypocrisy but the appropriate follow-up
question which Tapper did not ask is
what about literally you know I mean
again over forty nine coos death squads
your point person on Venezuela was lied
to Congress about iran-contra was
involved in covering up some of the
worst massacres in human history in El
Salvador a genocide in Nicaragua how
does that fit but Bolton he said it I
mean the first point was the important
point this is the Monroe Doctrine it's
our regional Imperial hegemony that's
what this is about and that's why again
in a broader conversation of course
there should be a serious analysis of
Venezuela and of course anybody who
tells you that there's no problems there
and there's no corruption there's no
abuses is either being tremendously
naive or usually ideological or lying
but at the same time you need to
recognize that the strategic context of
what a US intervention is the
is a US government and even under Obama
was already backing a coup in Honduras
that removed an a moderate Manuel Zelaya
that culminated in the assassination of
Berta keratinous in 2015 by
paramilitaries in a Honduran a far-right
government backed by us this is a
government that participated and backed
the law fair that made Lula a
conciliatory social democrat who managed
to deliver huge things for the Brazilian
people while trying to strike deals with
the oligarchs in his country and Western
capital but but importantly I do think
refused to denationalized vital oil
reserves and I think that is where the
relationship broke down so be real let
alone when you're talking about Trump
who again as all resistance people
constantly rightly say is a racist
monster who has no human concern for
anybody so the notion that all of a
sudden it's like Trump just it's like
yeah I mean I don't care but when it
comes to Venezuela there's a lot of tens
there I really care about their
well-being if he cared about their
well-being incidentally why is he
deporting so many Venezuelans back to
this hellhole I mean you think
Venezuela's not part of this white
supremists war on people of color from
Donald Trump's ice regime I mean god
it's like in another context I'll quote
a hood Olmert like are you being naive
well I think this is the year when
people have to say the quiet parts
outloud and they have to say what they
really mean and what they really believe
about things and this is another one of
those instances where you can't be a
fence sitter there are two choices
there's a cueto a representative of
neoliberalism and the ruling class
that's gonna impose further suffering
much worse than the Venezuelan people
have seen so far and there's Maduro
which is the other choice which every
leftist that I've spoken to from
Venezuela has some form of critical
support for Maduro because he's better
than the alternative well and also again
even
I agree with that and lift sanctions I
mean that's the other thing too is if
you wanted an organic process where you
could allow for a possibility of a left
opposition to emerge without being
suppressed as it has been inside the
Bolivarian movement by bandura
you would list sanctions which is the
primary cause I mean there's no doubt
that there's a huge amount of corruption
and mismanagement the Venezuelan
government but the sanctions are
overwhelming you could actually
contribute to an open society in
Venezuela and the emergence of movements
that are still democratic and autonomous
inside this left formation power to the
communes which could win right and that
could actually be an alternative power
source but of course it's literally the
last thing that the United States
government or even you know of course
obviously you know again not good faith
people in Venezuela who are I know you
know like it's not no people who's like
no they don't support the opposition but
they don't support Maduro because it's
things are not good right fine but they
don't support US intervention and they
don't support quite Oh a period uh but
you know it goes without saying that
there's the oligarchs and u.s. foreign
policy do not want a democratic
opposition to restore the Bolivarian
movement they want a right-wing pliant
client state where all of the problems
will get even worse I mean you you think
that a right-wing Venezuelan us-backed
government is gonna be the oh so oh yeah
we should really we should clean up the
cartel stuff yeah you know u.s. foreign
policy in Latin America is known for
cracking down on military abuses and
drug trafficking that's something you'll
learn if you study US history in
Venezuela so I think yeah the best case
is to have a critical engagement and
understand the boulevard movement and
drill into Venezuela and think
critically about it but honestly you
could just if you want to you could just
save yourself some time and say I oppose
a coup and an invasion period there's
actually nothing more in a functional
little level that you have to do yep
because that's the bottom line right
this is another area where Bernie
Sanders is far and away the best
candidate for president because hole C
gap we've done the right noises on this
too
sure in this case I gotta get he
understands this stuff he stands against
meddling in Latin American countries he
knows the history and you know a lot of
the other candidates don't really have a
foreign policy and if you don't have a
foreign policy guess what your foreign
policy in office is gonna be it's gonna
be the bipartisan neocon consensus that
has already done so much damage to the
world precisely it's gonna be all those
like liberal foreign policy people who
were surprised at the negative reaction
Elliott Abrams got yeah it's just like I
know Ellie Ames we have coffee together
nice he's a nice man oh he covered up a
massacre where they literally drank
children's blood it was the Cold War it
was remarkable seeing the people who
have built followings of like liberal
left people but they're part of the blob
completely caught off guard that people
might have issues with Elliott Abrams
like that that's a terra delue shinee
i've saw it like this there is such a
thing as cognitive capture it isn't all
material there's also genuinely sam
harris it's a who's bad believes you're
calling had really bad and really bad
incestuous social networks you're
calling from a four seven eight area
code who are you where you're calling
from
well somebody Thomas Edwards class
warfare like a magical fairy I'm here
Stefan Georgia Michael Jeff from Georgia
what's going on brother what's on your
minds hey man not much I know it's a
late today so I'll just try to be sort
sweet iced will try to make a quick
employee that car ties together what's
happening with a bar in Israel and every
with Burgess Sanders you know just
different these people the audience
should know that her detractors think
they don't actually care about either
Israel as nation the same as explained
me times the path they're on they don't
care about American Jewry yep and
people who come at Bernie Sanders with
criticisms of related to his identity as
a white man yes I saw that
Jewish man I recognize that but you know
they pay him as an old white man
they are similarly unconcerned with the
welfare of masters America of women
people of color they actually don't care
about that kind of thing and people need
to get used to that because they're not
gonna stop 20 20 10 it's gonna go off
for two more years
I guarantee it there they're never gonna
stop recognizing identity whether it's
Jewish identity or identity as a black
person or identity as a woman in order
to defy leftist we have a
once-in-a-lifetime chance I think to
really turn this country around I just
want people to be aware and not shy away
from the fight I have to have it now and
now the time - had it happened before is
your primary thanks take Michael okay
KITT sorry can we get uh can we get a
breaking news yes
where is the breaking news I'm sorry
hold on one second this is really weird
and you sir
sherrod Brown is not running for
president good the out get the
out of here no it's actually there was a
there was a good piece in the New
Republic about like how just like the
narcissism of Everett like like okay
John Hickenlooper obviously like just
totally sucks and couldn't be more
whatever and just totally unnecessary
but like he pulls the best against Cory
Gardner to pick up a Colorado Senate
seat and you know look a conservative
Democratic technocratic whatever is not
my first choice but I'm you know it's
like I want that Senate seat flipped and
if he's the best person to do that then
I want him to run and wanted to win beta
O'Rourke I maintain I like he is my
favorite neoliberal him and Obama are
like my neoliberal guys and he's polling
well against John Cornyn who looted
truly tweeted a Mussolini quote
and just like watching you know Jeff
Merkley and now sherrod Brown be like
you know what like there are other jobs
here and there isn't like look let's
just be blunt other candidates there's
compelling demographic and generational
cases as to why they're running and then
in Bernie's case there's like a
compelling we need to actually save the
world Casey's running like not everybody
needs to run for president could turn
this Senate seat blue that's been read
for a long time or I could lose the
presidential campaign to trump
I mean honestly like not in South
Carolina I mean the thing with with like
that is the other really crazy thing
about like good Hickenlooper is it's
like I at least I understand why bado
like cuz he's got a million people sang
to him like dude do this
and he'll raise a ton of money and he'll
and I don't think it's gonna happen but
it there is some like organic
constituent part Hickenlooper it's like
you can help the country and serve
honorably in the US Senate or you can
get like 0.5% of the vote and drop out
after Iowa and give some like dumb
interviews like he did about Mitch
McConnell where you
show that you have no understanding of
how modern it's just more serious he
just wants to make some more money he
knows that this is a good marketing
opportunity for him mix and improve his
brand which is what this has become
ultimately for a lot of these people I
think that's actually right we need to
punish people like hey Cooper should not
improve his brand and someone like
sherrod Brown has been in you know been
in the Senate for whoever however long
knows that if I leave this seat it's
absolutely going to go red I might as
well hold on to it as long as a good
senator from Ohio he's a good labor
senator we handled I won a $50 bet
because he's not running how did you bet
against them I bet against a friend oh
nice
Sam still Sanders Sam's totally
ducking there oh yeah what the hell yeah
it seems like yeah I don't think
Bernie's gonna grind and I said I think
Bernie's gonna run and he was like cuz I
think he's watching see Warren and ying
ying ying ying ying ying and I was like
he's gonna run he wouldn't now he's a
now he's not even he wasn't blowing past
murked by his own fans had he refused to
run no I think that's what we would have
what did I am burr frost say uh shove
your hand up his ass and use them like a
ventriloquist dummy sure yeah alright I
just I'll read this I am because it just
caught it and this guy is trying to take
us the task and it'll be the final item
of the day and then maybe should we do
one more clip or do we have enough clips
okay after Donald Trump is the death of
accuracy there's a huge difference
between Europe Canada and Australia in
one hand the USSR MAOIs China North
Korea and the other yes I don't think
anybody would debate that I'm assuming
everybody in the room is on the same
page so far there is a huge difference
between Australia in North Korea okay
the distinction matters a lot George
Orwell and Hitchens were actual Democrat
I don't know why you want to use
Hitchens George hor well and this is
Chomsky by the way which I'm not sure
this should be here I am them George
Orwell and Hitchens were actual
democratic socialists the democratic
socialists want to nationalize the auto
industry would want Bernie is just your
standard New Deal Democrat who wants to
tax the wrists reduced the army wants
living wage and Medicare for all we need
all Republican invented new pay dirt
independent
in a general election that's why it
matters that's can you address this well
actually I'm sorry this part is
irrelevant I already did address that
they're gonna level that charge against
anybody and so that is what it is also
this was the part that I wanted to give
an airing and I don't know this is very
annoying formulation can you guys be
socialist without be useful idiots for
the murderous Maduro regime you can
criticize the government while at the
same time sporting Bernie's too okay so
you're about to get something
dangerously substantively wrong here I'm
about to read but your first couple
sentences are wrong substantively and
factually I have said on moult I not
only have said I said at the heart of
the drumbeat for a coup and invasion I
top line this report the New York Times
about Maduro using paramilitaries for
extrajudicial killings you can go look
that up a couple weeks ago in the
majority report and my Arc of my
coverage if you go back to conversations
that Ava College or like a year ago
definitely included very serious
critiques other than as well government
you don't Center that when you're on the
verge of a coup or envy because that's
politics and that's why we aren't just
like nerd BOTS here there's some
strategic analysis about focus but in
every single conversation look I'm gonna
defend Chavez I'm gonna defend the
Bolivarian movement in many ways and
I've never shied away from criticizing
Maduro and the current government and
even Nathan Robinson again he wouldn't
Center it now but he wrote a piece about
a year ago where he's like of anything
you could argue Venezuela on the right I
wouldn't I would say it's a left
populist project anyway so you're wrong
but now you're getting substantively
wrong you can criticize you at the
government US government while at the
same time supporting Bernie's tweets
telling Maduro to let aide into the
people would you have super okay
dude this is where you're okay though so
that's just so naive this is what I'm
talking about before can you not be a
useful idiot for capitalist imperialism
you know what I can't I part of me wants
to elaborate how stupid that perspective
is but I mean honestly Jamie just nailed
it like the convoy that has actually
turned into an Internet
embarrassment that literally everybody
outside of the Venezuelan opposition of
white oh I don't want to use opposition
that way because there's opposition that
is not quite oh but outside of this
Guido clique and US foreign policy even
the Brazilians were a little bit
concerned about it because they're like
whoa we're not actually gonna get into a
ground invasion no feni's Wella guys and
the Colombians are you know a very
far-right government they were enlisted
by it so what that actually was would be
a precursor to greater u.s. interference
also a massive undermining of legitimate
food aid projects you might recall and
I'm sorry to say from here I am as I'm
assuming you don't
there was a major operation that was
part of what got bin Laden and I'll I'll
give you one that some people don't like
but maybe you would like I don't have a
problem with what we did to this on bin
Laden I don't sorry I don't
whatever what I do have a major major
problem with was that the CIA set up a
fake vaccination program as part of a
effort to basically collect DNA to
properly identify who was in the
compound the blowback and upshot of that
lie is a physical danger to health
workers particularly in South Asia and
in Pakistan and a total undermining in
places as far away as Nigeria of
legitimate and actual efforts to
vaccinate people so this scam convoy was
not only a obvious and transparent and
everybody except for like apparently you
because I'm telling you like Chris
Murphy tweeted about this thing dude
okay and I like Chris Murphy but I
wouldn't put Chris Murphy on the cutting
edge of a radical critique okay
everybody understood that and more
broadly what happens when there is a
legitimate aid effort of a legitimate
aid worker undertaken by the State
Department now any autocrat in the world
can say oh well look at what they were
doing invent
well so actually the blowback of it
undermines global relief efforts writ
large
so dum-dum-dum-dum take it's not
controversial that US aid is just a
front for the CIA
they have been condemned by those
propagandistic and biased bodies known
as the UN in the Red Cross it's being
politically compromised they are but I'm
telling you even even projects USAID
that are better and more legit because
these are complex organizations like any
other though the nakedness of that
effort undermines even where they're
doing legitimate work and boys and
people with really jobs right absolutely
what I'm saying including USAID itself
so and then two other questions would
you have supported the Stalin during the
holiday more in Ukraine or Mao Geron
three years camp famine and I'm going to
say in both cases unknown would you have
supported the u.s. south during Jim Crow
yeah like can you read the beginning of
that email off can you guys you guys can
be socialist about being useful idiots
for murderous Maduro regime where's the
stuff about the Maoist China and that
stuff because like to characterize
China's Maoist China Anton would you
supported Stalin during the hall d'amour
on Ukraine or Mao during the three years
of Great Famine when they turned away
international aid and millions died of
hunger oh I'm an anarchic communist what
do you think my position is on Stalin he
only killed like a million of us yeah
III guess I just think it's ridiculous
it's also just frankly too like okay
again let's have a slightly reality
based conversation here
so I'll even I'll even bill it on
right-wing terms
I am a critic of Lee Kuan Yew and the
Singaporean system and they definitely
are repressive and abusive of people's
rights and there has never been any
reporting and any legitimate claim that
they did anything on the scale of what
Pinochet did in Chile so even to draw
like that kind of direct like to say
Maduro who absolutely violates human
rights and abuses absolutely to exist
and there are I'm sure some shortages
though that's been exaggerated clearly
independence show and
reporting does show that for sure but
you're gonna compare that to millions of
people dying and they chai in in any
Great Leap Forward or any number of
Stalin's crimes that is emotional
blackmail emotional blackmail and
historically delusional to the point of
being offensive you got a deal with the
options on the table right because there
was a legitimate left resistance to
Stalin at various points in time so of
course I would side with them in that
instance if the choice is on the table
here were authoritarian sort of Social
Democrat Maduro on the one hand and left
resistance from the communes on the
other I would side with the communes but
those aren't the options here
all right final I am of the day I
apologize cannot get any more calls but
I caught that I am and it it annoyed me
it was a good segment and it was a good
segment I just don't you know I actually
really hope people can read ben
Burgesses book and watch his videos and
watch our conversation with him because
he really does actually like he even
taught us what was it like the the false
analogy fallacy like you just see this
stuff all the time and it's like first
of all yes it's emotional blackmail and
it's also just like it's profoundly
sloppy thinking profoundly annoying to
and profound it's like the Ahmadinejad
Hitler Hitler comparisons like Iran's
not Nazi Germany it is not and it also
robs from the ability to say you know
like one minute Ahmed D Nejad was so
comically over vilified in the
fundamental nature of the Iranian
government was so distorted that today
the overcorrection of irony people like
me is like this guy still actively
suppress the green movement you know the
MU cives are still in jail right like
those are actually serious abuses not to
mention the treatment of gay and lesbian
people in the behind
when you go to such extravagant nonsense
you take back from an ability to have a
clear-headed critique based in reality
then as well or anywhere else all right
final I am of the day cz hello mr crew
regarding in caller yesterday who asked
why we can't be more tolerant of
homophobia and religion I just want to
say that as a married gay woman there is
a big difference between your religion
not allowing a different branch of
Judaism at your wedding and refusing to
attend the same-sex wedding because your
religion teaches that gay people are
inherently despicable in less than human
tolerance of intolerance is ridiculous
amended when renders the whole
definition of Tolerance meaningless that
is the final item of the day we are back
tomorrow
[Music]
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just
where the choice was made
[Music]
