so Alex let's start with a B 290 because
I gotta say this I'm glad this piece of
legislation frankly well I'm glad it
exists I don't want to say that I'm glad
it's in jeopardy but I'm glad it exists
because your piece in The American
Prospect on the dialysis duopoly is
fascinating I didn't know any of this
stuff let's start with with with a be
290 but maybe even before we do that
give us a sense of how many people in
this country are on dialysis and I
assume that many people know what it is
but it basically deals with kidney
failure yeah that's correct it's um yeah
it's a medical treatment that uh that
people undergo and their kidneys are
unable to to filter blood appropriately
or effectively and there's something
like five hundred thousand people in the
United States who undergo some form of
dialysis treatment every year and we
should say that what that involves is
once a week maybe maybe twice a week
going to a dialysis clinic of some sorts
and it takes a couple hours at least I
think and you basically wash your blood
yeah that's correct it's it's time and
labor intensive it's very expensive and
it's um it's very exhausting for the
people who go through it too so it's um
often times people who are going through
these treatments multiple times a week
it you know that they can't maintain the
sort of steady job or you know the kind
of exhaustive labor that you know other
people do so it's a serious procedure
and and it's one that's ongoing my
understanding is that once you are
basically or need of dialysis because
you've had some type of kidney failure
sometimes people lose a kidney too
you only need one but if that one fails
then you need to go to dialysis you're
right there are two companies that
dominate the American outpatient kidney
dialysis
market tell us about those two companies
yeah so there's two big players one is
called DeVito which is a company based
out of Denver the other one is called 4c
Gnaeus and that's a German owned company
and between the two of them they control
some 70% of the dialysis outpatient
dialysis market so they're they're the
two kind of heavy hitters and they've
cornered this market in a pretty
astonishing way how long have they been
in operation I mean how long is this
dynamic been in place with your just two
major players you got monster exactly
it's it's like so anything is there
something that has gotten more acute
over recent years I don't know the exact
numbers on top of my head but it's
something that kind of has emerged in in
recent years I think that they've gotten
more entrenched in this position and so
now yeah you got these two companies
that pretty much ruled the roost and
there are some other smaller players but
yeah they're definitely a few top dogs
give us a sense of how much money they
make annually on you know I guess if
it's 75 percent I'm trying to do the
math five hundred thousand people you
know they're servicing I don't know 350
400 thousand of of people annually how
much money are they making from these
dayal or like what what are their what
are their revenues yeah the two
companies combined taking about four
billion dollars in annual profits so
it's a pretty it's a pretty healthy
business for them they they make a
pretty good chunk of change
that way does that profits or just
revenue that's brought it yeah Wow
okay so they do quite well for
themselves and so now they have spent
two and a half million dollars you right
into a lobbying operation to oppose a
single bill in the California State
House what is that bill
yeah sure so the bill of a be 290 it's
currently sitting in the in this in this
California State Senate and it's a bill
that would effectively cap some of their
on their their billing processes it
would basically cap the the rate at
which kidney dialysis is is billed to
and peg it to the rate at which Medicare
is billed so right now the the bulk of
of kidney dialysis recipients are on
Medicare and Medicare because of that
broad user base can negotiate a lower
rate and so they these two companies
make a very limited amount or you know
some of them sometimes they claim to
lose money off of a Medicare patient but
if a patient comes in on private
insurance they can actually bill at
something like four times as much for
the same procedure for the the same
treatment so the bulk of their money is
coming from in fact more than one
estimation that they put forward and at
the JPMorgan health care conference in
2018 said there's something like 110
percent of their profits are coming from
people with private insurance who come
through for treatment and they get that
treatment billed at a rate that's four
times what Medicare bills at and this
bill could have been short would would
cap some of their so that more egregious
sort of billing processes and peg it to
the Medicare rate okay
so let's back up a little bit here what
does that mean huh identify sign of what
what is this yeah a hundred percent 100%
of their profits according to this this
presentation that they they put forward
they claim that ninety percent of I
think 90 percent of their patients are
coming through on Medicare and on those
they are losing money but on the 10
percent that come through on on private
insurance they're making 115 percent of
their profits so they're both overcoming
those losses and racking up that you
know that combined four billion dollars
a year that they that they take home
what happens Wow okay and now the
question is to whether they are
losing money on Medicare is in dispute
supposedly you report that the president
of at least one of those companies said
yeah we make money on Medicare patients
but before we get there that that all
these patients are on Medicare or could
be
how did that happen are all these people
over the age of 65 it's an interesting
arrangement yeah so the kidney is a
single part of the of the body that is
that is covered by single-payer in this
country and it's a very particular
arrangement but because kidney dialysis
is so expensive it's yet both time and
money intensive the federal government
passed a provision in 1972 that said
that every person in this country who
goes through kidney dialysis will be
covered under Medicare so it's kind of a
it's it's it's the seed of a
single-payer system here it's just is
only for one body part and that is
applied no matter what your age is or
what your income is or any of that
that's fascinating what is the I mean I
imagine I don't know if you had time to
go back and look at like the legislative
history but what why why why how did it
get to be just dialysis as opposed to I
don't know
heart arrhythmia or something yeah I
think it's just a byproduct of how
expensive that that that procedure is or
how that how expensive that treatment is
and I think you know if in the days
before the Affordable Care Act you know
those 500,000 people would have been
ineligible for private insurance because
that's a massive pre-existing condition
right and so so it became one of those
things where you know for almost
everyone that would be cost prohibitive
and they would be unable to pay for it
themselves and rather than having a
massive you know public health crisis
where people with kidney failure were
unable to to to acquire the care they
need I think the federal government
basically provision for this just kind
of sheer necessity if it's on cost alone
that's fascinating and we should say
obviously that was during a Republican
presidency a different era perhaps all
right well let's take a break here so
where we're at at this point is
you have told us that the dialysis
industry in this country is dominated by
two players they own 70% essentially of
the the business in this country that
that Medicare has been covering dialysis
patients regardless of age for 50 years
but and here's the twist
there is a mechanism in which to drive
people to private insurance that this
legislation being considered now in
California a B to 90 would essentially
blow up when we come back folks are not
going to believe how people are being
driven into private insurance by these
two companies which basically owned the
dialysis business in this country
I'm Sam cedar we'll be right back ring
of fire radio
