[Music]
in the spirit of I guess let's just
conclude with one more just sort of
sophistry and historical atrocity with
this bench bureau clip it's always bears
repeating that this guy who suggested
that homeowners who are losing their
houses in a flood because of climate
change can just flip it was called the
cool kids philosopher by the new york
times here he is with his deep insights
on race and racism that is a perfectly
reasonable thing to say but because he
says that he's apparently a racist and
that's what this entire debacle is
designed to do the entire debacle is
simply designed to suggest that anyone
who seriously asks questions that are
very serious about how exactly you would
do something like this
those people are inherently racist pause
it and then if you suggest no it's not I
just said at the outset and everybody
who's serious about this on the policy
level and I'm sure you could read Dority
which I have very high likely the bench
Bureau is not how you actually do is who
would be in the program how it would
work are precisely the serious questions
that we would need to go over if if this
was gonna become policy but because
Mitch McConnell was being disingenuous
historically inaccurate and immoral
that's what people were talking about
then exactly you would do something like
this that those people are inherently
racist and that if you suggest that the
disparities between black and white
wealth in America are not wholly due to
the legacy of slavery which they are not
and they are not there in part due to
the legacy of Jim Crow they're in part
due to the legacy of slavery Jim Crow
more than slavery simply as a time
factor because Jim Crow is a lot more
recent people who are still alive
experienced Jim Crow many of them but
even that pales in comparison a lot of
people don't know that a lot of people
don't know that by the way if you had
watched the 1 minute and 30 second
clippable of tana he see Coates he
reviewed everything and if you wanted to
read economics or political economy you
can include some other factors in there
as well
Benni but that's brilliant that this is
a really deep point he's he's doing a
subtextual corrective on a point that
literally nobody has made go ahead been
experienced Jim Crow many of them but
even that pales in comparison to the
fact that intergenerational poverty is
largely a function at this point in
American life of individual choice
seventeen eighteen-year-old people who
are making poor decisions to impregnate
women and then leawo or commit crimes
how that is a legacy of Jim Crow or
slavery as opposed to today people born
in the year 2000 and beyond people
committing crimes how that is supposed
to be recompense
by a Jewish immigrant who arrived in
1910 how that's how you even work this
is how do you justify something like
that how do you blame somebody who is
not involved in a crime for a crime that
was done to somebody else's
great-great-great great-great
grandparents how do you make that happen
it's nearly impossible well you make it
happen by a efficient smart federal
program that will redistribute wealth in
a targeted way and there's a variety of
ways you could do this once again if you
read the Doherty piece which Ben has not
through banks through cash transfers
through Investment targeted in specific
communities I will say I like the idea
that crime has nothing to do with the
legacies of things like oppression
because even in these like other
examples that these guys love to use of
the like oppressed off-the-boat
immigrants a lot of those communities
actually did engage in certain organized
criminal activities to generate wealth
but anyways we have to run ben shapiro i
am definitely not saying that everybody
who questions the policy implications of
reparations is a racist i would include
myself in that in some ways i would say
you are a racist
along with mitch mcconnell so let me
just in my opinion ben shapiro
is a overrated racist and yes at home at
home at home
