so Ferran when we broke we were talking
about the the Trump gambit at this point
and we're gonna probably circle back
around to this in the last hour
when we start talking a little bit about
the campaign and what's happening with
the economy and what that could mean for
Trump's re-election times but we're
talking about obviously the and this is
you know Stephen Miller has been
pursuing this for since day one of this
administration which is to continually
squeeze not just the requirements to be
to seek asylum in this country which
they have done not just squeeze the
amount of people who are coming in via
Asylum laws not just squeeze people out
who we here under a a long term
temporary assistance program because the
tsp because they they had a civil war in
their country they had some type of
massive natural disaster a lot of those
people have been deported he also has
been wanting to attack legal immigration
and they are there they are there now we
have legal immigrants who are in this
country they're on you know temporary
visas they're on extended visas they
want permanent residency they want
citizenship and now these this new
interpretation of an existing statute
that's been around for I don't know 160
some odd years and we should say it's
also reflective of of you know some
harsh realities about America right but
this new interpretation of this statute
is meant to separate families is meant
to deny legal residents full immigration
rights in this country and the question
we we landed on at the end is is this
gonna help and I think you're right I
mean I I think that it's quite possible
I mean we're certainly seeing the
polling that is rejecting this type of
assault on immigrants but you know there
was a there's a book out there called
identity crisis which talks about how
the existence of Barack Obama a black
president began to polarize a huge
swaths of the voting population along
the questions of race
and with the election of Donald Trump a
similar thing happened on the left and
center left and that is that people's
opinions about immigration became
polarized along these same lines so
where Barack Obama could get away with
not nearly as harsh and vindictive and
cruel frankly policies regarding
immigration still to some extent were
harsh and mmin cruel at the very least
and we're in some instances
record-breaking when we're talking about
deportation and so the odd thing is a
lot of those people now see immigration
in a vastly different light and your
point I think is well taken I don't
think that this is going to be
necessarily successful they're clearly
not running a strategy to win the whole
liquor it they're trying to you know
they're trying to they're getting very
narrowly tailored but I think largely a
lot of people reject this type of harsh
anti-immigration policies well we've
seen reports over the last year and a
half or so you know a lot of anecdotal
evidence of a small business owner here
or a small one there but they all kind
of say the same thing and they say
listen this administration is cracking
down
not just on illegal immigration on on
the temporary work visas and my my lawn
business depends on this you know my
restaurant on the beach it depends on
this and when they see this crackdown
and and many of these people say why had
voted for Trump but now I can't get my
workers I'm closing my doors and they
also at the same time see we'll wait a
minute Mara Lago just got seventy-two
temporary visas and hired I think last
season was what one or two right
Americans and the rest were all the
temporary we know they the con is being
exposed and has been exposed and and I
don't know that this is going to have
the same effect in 2020 as it did in
2016 especially when you consider the
fact that at the time and again things
are getting worse for people and they're
probably gonna get much worse in the
near future but
they know now who is to blame right
Trump can't go there and hoodwink them
and say listen you lost your job because
this man came across the border and took
it and I'm gonna give you your job back
now it's gonna be we lost our jobs
because you've gone into some kind of
weird trade war that you don't know what
you're doing and you did that on your
own mr. president
you can't blame that on the guy from
across the border you can't say it's
because an immigrant came over here and
had to get on food stamps that that's
not true we know this because we lived
it firsthand so he's gonna have a lot
harder time selling that to the public
this time around some will buy it
obviously they always do but not enough
this time I don't think and I think
that's a good point and we also we also
have to imagine right that there was a
certain percentage of people who either
underestimated the harshness and the
cruelty involved in his plans in regards
to immigrants and immigration regardless
of whether it's undocumented or with
documents but there also have to be a
certain percentage of those people who
said like you know Paul Ryan will we'll
take it well you know we'll temper him
or Mitch McConnell will temper him and I
think I think we've seen that that's
actually not the case but there's a lot
of people out there who I think you know
may have come to that conclusion now
we're gonna wait and see I
I am always cautiously optimistic and in
the meantime we're we're creating all
sorts of just completely unnecessary and
unjustifiable suffering on the part of
people and creating anxiety and it it is
really a continues I guess a rolling sad
week for the country but Ferren we've
got to take a quick break we'll be if
you'll join me in the next hour that
would be great
meantime we'll be right back with more
ring a fire radio
