[Music]
with fast pita the destiny of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any of Asia they
are unanimous we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex dama chard a
report with sam cedar it is Thursday
October 18th 2018 my name is Sam cedar
this the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today director of the revolving
door project at the C e PR it's the
Center for Economic Policy and research
if I'm not mistaken
Jeff Hauser on what we should demand and
expect of a democratically controlled
house also on the program today
Republicans threaten Social Security and
Medicare after doubling the deficit with
tax cuts for millionaires meanwhile
Trump panics about his failure on
immigration meanwhile Trump panics about
his business partners revealed to have
murdered a Washington Post columnist
Chuck Schumer blew it on judges and then
Chuck Schumer blew it on judges again
another study shows Obama to trump
voters motivated by race and immigration
[Music]
key State Senate seats across the
country get a big boost and Facebook and
this is so hard to believe
lied about video hits to drive their ad
rates and destroyed a bunch of print
media
publications along the way
the Republican ACA lawsuit could destroy
pre-existing condition pre-existing
protect condition protections even for
employee coverage and racist
right-wingers you can relax we're going
to assure you you are safe from the
Honduran Caravan and lastly robert
muller prepping for post midterm
crapstorm all this and more on today's
program yes ladies and gentlemen it is
Thursday Michael is is out he's going
west where's Ian
Iowa Idaho Idaho Iowa he's doing a norm
Peterson is it the guy from cheers yeah
it's a norm Peterson convention yeah
it's weird I can't believe that show is
still pulling in people for that
convention Jordan Peterson doing a
conference on the in the international
dark web what do they call themselves
the intellectual dark wonder
intellectual or not it's very much not
international don't work web I like it
there you go
and that it's that kind of talk at Jamie
that keeps Dave Rubin from debating us
because he doesn't doesn't improve that
it's very rude all right Dave thank you
Jamie thank you for apologizing and
folks tomorrow Brendan and I will be
also headed west to politican where is
where on Sunday at 4:30 now I don't
think it's live but I do believe there
will be video of this ultimately I will
be debating charlie Kirk from
turning-points USA and the topic will be
is Donald Trump good for the middle
class big league yeah we're gonna gonna
have a nice little debate and I will
I'll be moderating a panel on should we
be socialists and
found out sometime last week there are
no socialists on the panel but I guess
that that makes the question more
relevant because we already we're
socialists then why would we even ask
you'd be biased right there you go
but we will endeavor to persevere and
I'm also sitting on a panel talking
about Mike Pence I know having I I gotta
admit I haven't dug into that one too
much the only thing I'm gonna do and
someone maybe can do this during the
show if they want I interviewed a an
attorney at that Las Vegas tort
conference and I believe it was before
the election it could have been in
October 2016 actually or or maybe in the
spring of 2016 maybe the fall of 2015 a
woman I can't remember her name who had
represented foster parents of kids with
disabilities in Indiana Mike Pence
wanted to cut the program to provide
them essentially an allowance to do that
to pay for tax cuts eventually I think
they were sued and the publicity he he
backed down from that because it doesn't
that people just sort of think that's a
little bit mean but someone wants to dig
that up because I could use a refresher
class and and how horrible Mike Pence
was oh yeah outside of the context of
being horrible as he is now I mean he
was incredibly unpopular governor in
Indiana and was looking at the loss of
his re-election campaign
remind me to send you the story on how
his delayed response to an HIV outbreak
had horrible consequences yes do I call
that I should bone up on that story he's
a horrible person and you know what one
of the things about you know in the past
I've talked about being reluctant to
participate in political in any way and
but there's just too much reminders
daily for me that in the world in which
I work right within like the sort of the
YouTube world and more and more this
show is the viewership in YouTube is
expanding our our audio podcast is still
very good doesn't grow nearly at the
rate that the YouTube is and that's a
function of just like I think we're
younger people are getting their news
and I'm glad we're getting younger
people to watch the show but I become
increasingly aware of what's going on in
that world and the left broadly speaking
is losing in that YouTube universe now
part of it is because there's enormous
amounts of money being poured into this
there was a story the other day I'm a
little bit off-track here but there was
a story the other day about this guy
mark Stein we've talked about him in the
past he's this Canadian guy who writes I
think for the National Review he
sometimes fills in for Rush Limbaugh he
had a deal with CR TV which is some
conservative uh you know sort of like
network of video stuff that Mark Levin
ostensibly runs but gets its funding
from somewhere and apparently he came
down he lives in I think northern
Vermont or somewhere like that and sorry
to do is show in a fell apart right he
was difficult to work with or maybe they
didn't like the direction who knows you
don't know what these stories that's
that's sort of irrelevant what was
relevant is what their payout was for
this guy's show this is reported by the
New York Post Mark Steyn got a payout of
four million dollars now it's
conceivable to me someone like this
signs a five-year deal for an Internet
station I highly improbable but it's
conceivable like you know you hear about
these things in radio and maybe it's
possible and this and that there is no
possible way that mark Stein was ever
going to provide four million dollars of
revenue
nevermind the cost of production of the
show I'm talking in terms of like
there's just no way mark Stein was going
to provide four million dollars worth of
revenue over a seven-year horizon never
mind a five-year horizon if they're
paying this guy out four million dollars
someone is pumping in an enormous money
enormous amount of money into these
right-wing show's Gavin McGinnis on the
same network the CR TV there's no way
this guy is driving the revenue that
he's paid there's no way he's a loss
leader right like he's the one who's
gonna bring them some publicity like
that high price show maybe on HBO that
doesn't necessarily bring back revenue
but for an internet show like this that
depends not on advertising as much as it
does direct membership those loss leader
things are a little bit less relevant so
someone is pouring in and subsidizing
this thing to the hilt and nothing like
that exists on the left nothing there's
nothing even remotely close nothing and
the the closest is TYT getting money
from the entertainment industry and you
see what they're doing with that money
they're not getting you know they're not
expanding their socialist programs right
it's not like they're expanding
ideologically they're they're they're
broadening their array of programs but
as one would in an entertainment play
there is no ideological money pouring in
or even trickling in or dabbling in and
so you know that is one of the things
that's preoccupied me and so going and
in any way attempting to and maybe I'll
fail I mean charlie Kirk is a goes on
television far more than I do I mean
this guy is is constantly out there he
has a staff like I got emails and there
it's like two team
kirk and i'm like wait a second he's got
a team but he's captain kirk but i'm
going to try and go out there and to
refute his ideas and perhaps make his
appeal somewhat diminished that's what
i'm going to try and do so i'm not sure
how i got off on that tangent but that's
that's what my weekend's gonna be hey
folks a won at today's sponsors is news
voice dot-com / majority as you know a
lot of these guys we were just talking
about this and we have people who are in
in epistemological bubbles there are
enormous amounts of resource of being
poured into narrow people's access to
different news sources there's new media
company out there that has come up with
one of their own responses to these
problems it's called news voice it's an
app for ios and android which you can
access for free if you go to news voice
comm / majority it gives you a
personalized news feed by aggregating a
mix of mainstream media sources
international sources and independent
media sources multiple sources are
provided for each news sorry both left
and right the entire app is fueled by
crowdsourcing you can upvote stories you
think are important so more people will
see them you can add stories to the app
you can add a source that's missing
first story it's meant to be a
completely open and democratized news
aggregator that lets you get to every
side of every story i also have a video
interview series featuring guests from
like chris hedges - AOC
go download the app for free at news
voice dot-com / majority i put the link
onto this video if you're watching it on
youtube we'll put it in the podcast
description as we always do with any of
the advertisers let's uh we'll get to
the these videos afterwards because we
got to take a quick break and when we
come back we're going to be talking to
Jeff Hauser
not going to be a long deep involved
thing but I wanted to get a nose
and give people a notion of of a what is
possible with just Democrats in
controlling one house and what we should
we should be building our expectations
now one as a way of making sure that
people go out and vote and to to hold
the democrats to account you know
depending on what the the the landscape
is in terms of what party is in and out
of power and what levers they have
access to we have to change in terms of
how we pressure there's I mean on in
some respects the the pressure that we
apply is a lot more efficient in the
context of having people who are
susceptible to that pressure and
Democrats are far more susceptible to
pressure from the base from from a
myriad of types of activism then our
Republicans simply because the
Republicans drink from a different well
we gotta take a quick break we'll be
right back with the director of the
revolving door project Jeff Hauser
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the director
of the revolving door project at the
Center for Policy and Center for
Economic Policy and research a Jeff
Hauser on his piece Dems can use
subpoena power to reclaim the mantle of
populism but there are other topics I
want to talk to you about Jeff welcome
to the program great to be here all
right let's start with would this piece
that you you wrote the other day this is
in let's just for a moment and you know
knock on wood the Democrats take the
house this is obviously not a guarantee
you can you can enter into an election
where there's a 95% chance that your
preferred candidate might win and
apparently it's possible that you know
five out of a hundred times
maybe the non preferred candidate wins
so hypothetically hypothetically of
course
and so this let's not take this for
granted but it's also important I think
to start to formulate notions of what we
should expect from a Democratic Congress
so that we are in a position to give
them the message that these are our
expectations so how does this work I
mean what walk us through this so
Congress has the ability to conduct
oversight on any issue on which they
might legislate or in which comes with
directly within their purview
so obviously that includes the executive
branch because Congress is the entity
that funds the executive branch and
passes the laws that govern how the
Secretary of State operates Secretary of
the Treasury Department of Defense you
name it all down the line so there's
significant oversight capabilities there
but Congress can also conduct oversight
of businesses that conduct interstate
commerce so that includes Google that
includes Big Pharma that includes the
Koch brothers that includes the oil
industry that includes payday lenders
Congress can
subpoena and which is to say request
under power of law that these
corporations provide their CEOs to
testify and any documents that Congress
wants Congress has enormous ability to
check into what is going on in the world
and bring attention to important issues
and that is something that House
Democrats can do if they take gavels
even if they can't pass new laws because
Trump would veto them oh and of course
you know we may not the Democrats may
not have control the Senate and etc etc
so all right well so let me ask you this
when how does the the demmer I mean do
you have a sense of are there like how
coordinated are the Democrats how
strategic are they in this are they or
is it simply each committee chair is
saying okay I have X or Y in my sights
these are the folks that I'm going to
investigate these are the issues that I
want to explore etc etc how how broadly
strategic is this so I think as of now
there are not a lot of strategic plans
in place for oversight for one reason
obviously a majority has not been
secured and so that's somewhat
understandable for another congressional
staff resources which are to stand
across Capitol Hill in the overall or
especially seeing on the side of the
minority so most committees only have
one or two professional oversight
staffers who are Democrats and so the
they are under siege right now while the
you know trying to monitor what's going
on with in the government and with the
Republican majority so their ability to
plan far ahead for what they would do if
and when they had the majority is
minimal which is why I and others on the
outside are going to look to provide
some ideas as to what oversight could be
but the oversight tends to be largely
conducted at the committee or
subcommittee level not by leadership but
leadership of course checks in
frequently and on some of the more
potentially high-profile matters like
going after Donald Trump's taxes or
issues in which there might be a fight
over a subpoena
I suspect congressional leadership will
be in close contact with committee
chairs so to use less DC language that
means Pelosi or whomever else might be
the speaker and a hypothetical
Democratic majority would be talking
with people like chairwoman Maxine
Waters who is slated to run the House
Financial Services Committee but
theoretically I mean this is fascinating
and I think this is this is you know
there's a there's a little bit of I mean
this is a little bit weedy maybe or a
little bit inside baseball II but on
some levels this is like this is the
part of governance that I don't think
that people really have an acute
awareness of so when when when when
Pelosi whoever will be the the the
majority leader
again this is we're not counting our
chickens yet but we're we're hoping for
chickens let's put it this way and she
goes to Maxine Waters
Maxine Waters and it could be any other
chairperson of any other committee what
they tell Pelosi in terms of their
agenda in in who they're going to pursue
in what areas are they going to pursue
is largely a function of people like you
and so here's my question one relative
to the right okay when the right when
the conservatives are out of power like
their my sense is there's a lot more of
right-wing use than there are you hey I
want you to address that and be people
should also understand that like the the
resources that you have if you are let's
say trey Gowdy and you are not pursuing
any of these major corporations or any
legitimate scandals but yet you have all
these resources is exactly why Benghazi
could exist for years I mean just
address both those things
sure and yet the progressive ecosystem
is does not have robust
or for progressive think tanks and the
types of entities such as the revolving
door project house at steeper dotnet for
people who are interested in our work
with the support for institutions I
would promote the idea of subpoenas of
corporations that would suggest that
people like goo the CEOs of Google and
Facebook shouldn't get to choose whether
or not they testified before Congress
but they should be made to do so under
threat of subpoena if necessary there's
just much less support for that whereas
on the right there's concentrated
funding to come up with the best ideas
for congressional hearings that could
say undermine labor unions or go after
public employees for instance at the
Internal Revenue Service so going back
to the 1990s there were enormous number
of hearings that made life really hard
for people at the IRS and basically
deterred IRS employees from going after
a high net worth individuals who are of
waiting or of eating their tax
responsibilities and that continued into
 Congress with the really just
totally fabricated Lois Lerner scandal
where they basically said that somebody
was politicizing the enforcement of
nonprofit tax law which was just not
true but as a result essentially
far-right groups have now impunity to
operate politically in violation of tax
law because the IRS has been cowed by
congressional Republicans so what I
would propose to congressional Democrats
is that instead of deterring public
employees from doing their job they
should deter corporate leaders from
breaking the law and then no no continue
and this is a systemic issue in terms of
the ability of Congress is under Newt
Gingrich or John Boehner to develop the
agendas that were carried forth by
george w bush in 2001 and donald trump
in 2017 those agendas were built up in
opposition and in congress and what i
would urge Democrats to do is
to establish a governing agenda for 2021
and 2022 by establishing priorities and
building out the evidence and case for
action in 2019 and 2020 by holding
high-profile committee hearings and
engaging the public in the work of
oversight all right so let's talk about
those and so that people can understand
here in in in simplistic levels the by
by doing these investigations now what
you are doing is you are basically
plowing the fields and preparing them to
grow policy in the event that they're in
the position to to for six years out to
start to implement these policies and
you're developing a set of priorities so
from your perspective like give us a
sense of what if if you were able to if
you have the resources and you were able
to meet with you know a dozen or
half-a-dozen or I don't know three or
four the top of the the leaders of top
committees and say look this is this
this is what your priority should be and
it should ultimately lead to some type
of reform program like X what would
those things be well I mean House
Financial Services can step in and do a
lot of the work at the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau is not doing
by obtaining the records from the sort
of financial services companies that are
cheating consumers the CFPB was created
you know under the leadership of was the
best warned and others to protect people
House Financial Services can expose how
Wells Fargo and Experian and payday
lenders and student loan servicers are
abusing ordinary Americans the House
Ways and Means Committee can go after
tax avoidance and tax evasion starting
with the Trump family and Jared
Kushner's businesses but moving on down
the line to Robert Mercer and just the
entire growth of industry of tax
avoidance in this country private equity
as well and they can look at Big Pharma
and they can subpoena the records of X
Pharma and determine how much they are
making in profit
and how much they're spending in
marketing compared to their research
that they are doing to actually cure a
real medical needs of the country and if
you want to for instance have an agenda
to reform pharmaceutical prices in this
country which is long overdue
you establish the need for that by a
series of high-profile hearings in which
you subpoena people in which you have
contentious back and forth between
greedy executives and the
representatives of the people and a
consensus can form for action so in
other words if in 2019 we see a
committee hearings where pharmaceutical
executives have to concede that in fact
we don't need to jack up these prices
because of development because we spend
80 cents on every dollar on marketing
then by 2021 the when there is an
attempt to let's say allow the
government to negotiate prices or even
to have price controls on on medication
or to limit the number of years let's
say that there are patent protections
for these medications when the pharma
executives say but we won't be able to
develop new product you can say well
look at this clip from a year and a half
ago when we when we when we when you
testified that most of your money spent
on marketing anyways I mean that's the
idea there right right and it's not just
relying on what they will say
voluntarily it's also subpoenaing the
document so that you can have a forensic
accountant go through the numbers and
determine that their top-line level that
they concede is how much they spend on
marketing versus research the real
number is X because there are real books
that these companies have and then there
are the books that we know of publicly
and there often is a pretty considerable
difference between what is known
publicly and what is known privately and
that subpoena power is so critical in
bringing to light information that the
rich and powerful would like to keep
hidden away there's - there's two other
issues you mentioned that I have a
particular interest in one we were
talking about Sears on this program just
the other day
I've talked about toys-r-us anchor glass
and others who major companies that were
basically just sucked dry by by private
equity and you know indicative of sort
of the the cottage industry that are
being run out of major companies across
the country where the where CEOs and
maybe Board of Directors and a handful
of equity owners are are just basically
running these these these cottage
industries sucking you know it's almost
like legal embezzlement as far as I can
tell but what-what would let's say they
brought in the the CEO of Sears at
Lampert and and said like you know walk
us through exactly what happened here
how did you take control of a company
drive it into bankruptcy destroy the
pensions of thousands of workers lose
the jobs of thousands of workers and
walk away with hundreds of millions of
dollars more money what where what kind
of legislation could that lead to so I
think it can we both to legislation but
also to potential enforcement priorities
for an executive branch that were
focused on enforcing the law because the
big picture strategy of companies of
private equity raiders is to strip
assets and secure favorable tax
advantages that the previous owner of a
company was unable to realize so
basically structuring the acquisition in
such a way that something is more
valuable to them than it was before
not due to superior management but due
to manipulation of the tax code the
willingness to break contracts with
unions or other or workers or other
stakeholders you know City
that you know given past subsidies and
return for promises to keep businesses
there that sort of thing
just a willingness to break a lot of
rules and break a lot of agreements some
of which we're legal some of which were
not so they're both are elements of the
tax code that you would want to be you'd
want to figure out what were they
abusing and what can we fix to actually
conduct tax reform tax reform that would
actually deter destructive behavior and
encourage real investment but there
would also give a roadmap to a Treasury
Department and in an IRS that were
wanted to work on behalf of society I
said like how these companies do the
tricks that they do and what should you
look for as enforcement agencies that
roadmap can would be very useful if you
bring it in public and you have a lot of
angry accountants or some time on their
hands explaining stuff and then the IRS
doesn't have to be out manned as they so
often are in battles with these
companies because you have a lot of
people doing open-source investigations
into activities that are brought to
light by congressional committees but
you also then create an impetus to hire
enough IRS agents and forensic
accountants and the like so that the IRS
is no longer always out people I mean
like the IRS is just declining in size
as corporations get bigger and more
sophisticated at tax avoidance
all right you also mentioned Blackstone
and the effect it's having on the
housing market Blackstone for people who
don't know is I think the largest
private equity company in the world was
that
or you know how would you characterize
them yeah there and there they are at
the cutting edge of figuring out ways to
make money that other people might have
too many threads of morality to not go
into so I mean Blackstone worked in
conjunction with Jared Kushner to put
together Trump's first overseas trip
which he a customer
the first overseas trip of an American
president is to our loyal neighbors to
the north to Canada
Trump's involved a trip to Saudi Arabia
more famous for hands on a glowing orb
that Trump had with a bunch of leaders
in Saudi Arabia but obviously now will
be more infamous for the beginnings of
the bromance between Jared Kushner and
NBS and all the other horrors of Saudi
Arabia but Blackstone was actually the
secret like sauce behind that because
Blackstone was seeking to get more
business out of Saudi Arabia and they
use their control over the jump
administration to make this trip happen
Blackstone basically goes where anyone
with decency would not go and they have
become sort of vulture investors in real
estate in this country they're becoming
a massive landlord and they are about as
bad a landlord as you can be and they're
just abusing a variety of housing and
mortgage related laws to make this very
profitable for them
they're gonna do that even more with the
new tax code okay all right so just I
mean walk us through that cuz I'm sort
of fascinated by this and we should also
say that Blackstone was I think founded
at least one of the founders was Pete
Peterson who seemed to spend his golden
years trying to ruin the those years of
literally like three-quarters of
Americans by by trying to cut Social
Security with the relentlessness and
dedication that is would be admirable if
it wasn't so horrific in terms of its
implications for people but all right so
give it just give us a sense of like of
that dynamic Blackstone goes in there's
a lot of foreclosed properties around
the country they buy them up sight
unseen they manage them from afar they
buy up enough of the housing product
that they're able to control almost
pricing on some level within specific
markets or what how what what what is
the mechanism in which they're there
they're using and what's problematic
about it well I mean part of it is that
they have the sophistication to
structure their investment and structure
the debt that they rely upon to make
these purchases in such a way that
normal investors can't compete and so
properties are more valuable to
Blackstone than they are on the market
and that mean that they they can go in
big they can do out market power which
means that as the market recovers they
can raise prices precipitously for just
you know general reasons that monopolies
are bad they can gain market power
that's not quite monopoly but gives them
some ability to increase prices their
distance from these communities means
that they suffer no personal
reputational harms if and when they act
like slumlords the you know if someone
is a someone that be a bad landlord who
owns like a few properties in a city but
he or she can be shamed locally and
there's some ability of the local
authorities to rein in that conduct and
that is just not true when you have
these essentially oligarchs based in New
York running housing and like Fresno
California
there's just no reach practically
speaking of the authorities in Fresno to
rein in the sort of mismanagement but
the big thing is that the tax bill
written you know at the behest of Donald
Trump who was at least formally a real
estate magnate and also with Jared
Kushner also a real estate magnate is
incredibly beneficial to housing and to
ownership and all sorts of debt and tax
related tricks that can be conducted and
so if you are able to avail yourself of
all the real estate tax benefits in the
tax laws currently written you can make
an enormous amount of money in real
estate and Blackstone is incredibly well
positioned to do that and they're
shifting their business model to
really heavily focus on real estate as a
result that's amazing I mean we have a
massive the biggest private equity
company in the world and they are
literally shifting their their
reorienting their entire business
because of a change in the tax code I
think is as good of an illustration of
the implications of this stuff as any
yeah and I think with with the great
thing about oversight on corruption of
this sort is that you can readily tie
what seems to be unique in terms of
Trump and Kushner and his
administration's sort of individual
peccadilloes about corruption to the
substantive harm of real human beings
the people who are living in communities
that are being devastated by
Blackstone's mismanagement and I guess
one thing if politicians are a little
shading a little corrupt and obviously I
think we should push back against that
but people can also become somewhat and
iord to that they unfortunately
expectations in our country for
politicians are pretty low right now so
to the extent to which corruption seems
to just be about immorality in our
leadership I don't know how much it
excites people but you can build a
political movement if you start pushing
hard against the corruption that is
tangibly undermining the lives of
ordinary Americans and I think that
congressional communities can start to
make that connection for people by
contentious hearings by actually
fighting against corporations that will
fight back and raising up these sort of
controversies because people really
should understand that politics are
about whether or not housing tight how
the housing market is in your city
that's what the stakes are it's not just
some sort of fight between of symbols on
television it's real life and and and it
is incumbent upon the the Democrats and
the people who are running these
hearings to the extent that this happens
to be able to sort of tie these smaller
stories of you know let's say what Jared
Kushner is doing into the broader
systemic problem
that are that are created by government
policy or are fixed by government policy
yeah absolutely
so corruption is not just an issue of
morality it's an issue of tangible
economic reality who wins and who loses
in our economy is very frequently
determined by government but in ways I
think civil society and government is
not good done a good enough job of
explaining this to people and so I think
understanding how people in hidden jobs
in the executive branch why we took very
little understood jobs like at the
Securities and Exchange Commission or
FDIC and all sorts of acronym
organizations that people don't know
much about at all but the people what
the decisions people make have enormous
consequences for who has what in our
society and whether we become more or
less fair economically I I want to maybe
touch on that in a moment to get your
take there was this this story this week
is that you know just shifting gears
slightly because I know this is stuff
that you also have you know at the very
least pay some attention to the chuck
Grassley announced that despite the deal
that I mean maybe maybe this wasn't part
of the deal but over the past 45 days
maybe it is or 60 days Chuck Schumer has
made two separate deals that
fast-tracked the the nomination
proceedings of now 30 federal judges who
will sit on the federal judiciary for
the rest of their lives these are Trump
picks I should remind people this is not
like some type of like bipartisan crew
of people I don't know how many of them
came from the Federalist Society but I
would bet that it would be close to 30
and yet Chuck Grassley this week says Oh
incidentally we're gonna have hearings I
think they had hearings yesterday and
only four senators showed up all these
people are going to get confirmed or
very least they'll they'll they'll go
through their confirmation hearings
without any scrutiny well what's your
take on this I mean
am i let it this way am i completely out
of my mind that Chuck Schumer doesn't
seem to be following politics Chuck
Schumer has entirely mishandled this
situation basically McConnell the
Mahmood McConnell made was to say that
the Senate would be in session more
often than expected in September and
October because they're more Democratic
incumbents up for re-election in
November than Republicans are really
only two Republican incumbents in the
Senate who have tough re-election races
teller and Cruz from Nevada and Texas
and so the idea was that now I will take
hostage the Democrats and say that if
you want your incumbents to be like Joe
Donnelly or Heidi Heitkamp be able to
and campaigning back in their home state
you will have to like give me a bunch of
judges and this was a false choice
because there's absolutely no reason why
the Democratic incumbents are up for
reelection has to be in Washington DC
for each and every vote I mean voters
understand that there's an election
upcoming and Senators are spending more
time in their state talking to the
people in the state rather than casting
votes that are not going to be decisive
on traditional nominations it's just not
that big a deal right these are these
are let's be clear these are losing
votes right like even if they were to
vote in the right way you know relative
to their base I mean in some I could
make an argument that perhaps not being
there did not vote on these people it's
probably better for them politically
right Republican to keep claiming that
Democrats going against against Kavanagh
were some risk
there are unit that they had to be in DC
to vote against these other nominees
made no sense and be basically the
parliamentary trick is that all you
needed is some center or local to DC
every 30 hours or so so Chris Van Hollen
or Ben Cardin from Maryland or the
Virginia senators or the Delaware
senators could just show up and
not unanimous consent and then it would
take 30 hours for each of these it takes
30 hours of Republicans being on the
floor in order to keep pushing these
judicial votes and the rest of the
Democratic senators could have done
whatever they wanted which you know
presumably would have meant campaign for
real action the but there was among the
groups that are most sympathetic to
Chuck Schumer but work on judicial
nominations
there was a consternation at this deal
by Chuck Schumer but there was a belief
that at least at a minimum surely he got
Grassley to agree to not hold committee
hearings during the period in which the
Senate was in recess and it turns out
that that rather important detail was
actually not part of Schumer's deal with
McConnell that did not involve either
Feinstein or Grassley she would just
made a deal with McConnell and like
Rohtak like a newbie who has never done
politics before but I'm not even clear
what the deal is like isn't that don't
you need two components to a deal like a
give and a get like I get what the give
was I just don't know what the get was
like I mean they would say that
essentially that they not only got their
senators back to campaign but they also
want missing breath and as you and I
discussed the ability will avoid missing
a few votes on judges seems like a very
minimal consideration III would say that
you could criss cross the land for
decades and not meet a single voter who
is going to make a decision on their
vote based upon their senators missing a
vote to confirm a circuit or district
judge right like I would sound like the
number of people who vote in that way
probably rivals the number of people who
vote under false names like who take the
names of the dead and go like I that I
mean so do you like first off do you
have any sense as to and I don't know
your relationship with staffers on the
do you have any sense as to what the the
Democratic Senate caucus feels about
these things a and B like what Chuck
Schumer is thinking like is it possible
that Chuck had like a bunch of like I
don't know
weddings to attend and so he really
needed to go or meet is there any like I
even that explanation I'd be like ah
it's not the decision I would make but
or like I mean what pot like is it just
like an unimaginable amount of sheer
incompetence that's involved here I just
don't understand it I think that the why
for about six to nine months in 2017
after the women's March Senate Democrats
under a Schumer acted like they were not
just in the minority but were a part of
the resistance and that they recognized
that this is a fraught period in
American history and they needed to
fight everything and that fighting
spirit has abandoned the caucus in the
main according to report senator Warren
was the only one to express any
opposition to this decision I think
people just wanted to get out of DC they
didn't think about the details and
they're also just not used to the idea
that you might want to fight on every
judicial nomination you would think the
fact that the Republicans fought so
tooth and nail to block all of Obama's
judicial nominations going back to 2009
even Senate Democrats had you know
between 58 and 60 senators you would
think that the Senate Democrats would
have a little bit more fighting skirt on
the issue of judges but I think what
we've learned is that Senate Democrats
as a whole do not care about the
nitty-gritty political issues that are
not obvious and government matters
judiciary matters and conceding these
battles without a fight is really
depressing is that is that a function of
their being on the right people who are
heavily invested in the outcomes of what
let's say the DC Circuit Court
other Court of Appeals around the
country well how they rule on issues of
like of of corporate responsibility and
regulation and and access to courts etc
etc so like when the Koch brothers say
to Mitch McConnell hey look we want
these judges judges are important to us
and if you want us to open up our purse
strings for the you know upcoming
election like there's nobody like that
on the Left right Tom Steyer is not with
all due respect it's not coming up to
Chuck Schumer or someone from the
financial industry it's not coming up
and saying like we really want judges
who are going to uphold the right the
ability of the government to regulate
the financial services or we really want
judges who are gonna who are gonna you
know promote the idea that the
government has the ability to regulate
on environmental grounds or access to
the court rooms for for tort laws like
there's just there's just no pressure on
it seems to me on any of these
Democratic senators not nor the
leadership from a donors and and B which
is donors the electorate like the left
just doesn't understand the relevance of
this stuff yeah basically inside
baseball in Washington has enormous
consequences for how people with their
lives and the stresses and dangers that
they encounter in their everyday lives
and corporate America realizes this and
they have an enormous amount of paid
lobbyists and just Washington monitors
who provide intelligence to corporations
and rich people about what's happening
and what really matters for their bottom
line and the last wax the equivalent I
mean that's why I founded the revolving
door project was to kind of look into
the issues that are a little bit under
the radar in order to try to provide a
modicum of a counterbalance to the
advantage that corporate America has on
that and the hope going forward is that
doing that sort of watchdog work on the
Left can link up with the Netroots
to provide a counterbalance because
you've seen such an explosion of
interest in politics and the emergence
of groups like indivisible and the hope
is that working with this news
sort of found passionate at grassroots
in American politics in providing them
some understanding of the key issues
that are happening under the radar that
those groups can then provide pressure
on leaders like Chuck Schumer to do
better because right now the status quo
is not working well the the conversion
of this energy electoral energy into
activists energy that deals with these
issues I think is going to be the like
the the four most important thing to
happen after this election
Jeff Hauser executive director the
revolving door project at the Center for
Economic Policy and research thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it it was a great
conversation thanks for having me buddy
all right folks
I just drives me freaking nuts that well
I mean look see this is what's super
frustrating Chuck Schumer drives me up a
fricking wall right like I I would spend
three days a week protesting out in
front of his house just I would just
bring Saul and we would just sit there
in protest but I would look around I
realize like there's nobody else here
this is not gonna be effective and the
the broad swath of people that I get
annoyed with when I hear like when when
like you know I have conversations like
this where it becomes so clear that we
are that the the the broad laughed the
broad left seems to completely forfeit
3/4 of the game right like it's like we
just
want the superhero to come in and fix it
all and that's what I'm always saying
right and it's it's it is what are you
being facetious I of course there yeah
I'm not saying you I'm part of the left
well I know but I'm saying the bra yes I
am too and I don't say that but I think
broadly speaking you know the the left
wants to have a superhero that comes in
and and and and solves this all there is
if you you know there is just not a lot
of organizing or agitation around
broadly speaking obviously some people
who even care to engage in the in the
sort of like small-bore stuff that is
where large changes in society happen
over the course of five or ten years
right like you know we have moments
where there was you know there was
movements certainly during the Obama
years where we had you know very active
coalition's of activists who were
centered around housing and going and
protesting in front of Blackstone I mean
there was but he we don't see these
things sustained we don't see these
things funded by the donor class for
obvious reasons by even like you know
and and and the conversion of this
energy that has gone into these
elections and understandably so to these
issues but it but it but it takes like
education and and largely none of this
stuff is you know I I get annoyed at the
and I'm not gonna say who I'm thinking
of but they're not in this room of just
sort of like this sort of these broad
strokes about like you know Jill Stein
is gonna come in and fix all this right
like give me an effing break right like
you know pay attention to the smaller
things well it's like watching baseball
like
just when the playoffs started being
like why don't they hit a home run right
now right exactly exactly and it it is
the you know like as frustrating as an
with Chuck Schumer Chuck Schumer is just
an empty vessel and he's getting pushed
in certain directions and there's no one
pushing in the right directions on this
guy well I think you would enjoy
spending some time on the
anti-capitalist left if you don't like
hero-worship cuz we're pretty much
antihero yeah I mean I don't think
everybody I mean I yeah I mean I think
that's the case I mean I think there's I
don't it would be nice if on the
capitalist left or you know at least the
somewhat like suck you know there was it
because you know unfortunately for the
sake of our politics the vast majority
of the people on the left are still you
know at least capital is friendly on
some level and you know that number is
shrinking every day indeed it is but not
at the rates that are really I think
going to you know well relative to
socialism but not to the exclusion of
capitalism well look I think I mean
ultimately we have a theoretically a
mixed economy now right it's just that
the mixture is not quite as is is is
largely out of last but fascist yeah and
but these structural things I mean it
would be nice if they were to come in
and have like a large structural
makeover but in the meantime there needs
to be some addressing of the the smaller
elements of this structure right because
theoretically this is structure you
could have cheaper housing if these
things weren't happening you could have
more protections for consumers and
financial products you could have much
less expensive pharmaceuticals which
drives a lot of the cost of health care
you could do the same thing with metal
medical devices I mean there could
be material benefits delivered to every
single American within the context of
our structures as is if there was a
broader understanding on the left a
deeper understanding of the left and
payed more attention to this stuff
rather than the stuff that is a little
bit more shiny I totally agree with you
I would assume everyone does I always do
I always do I'm actually preparing some
sort of presentation for the next DSA
meeting on how because a lot of people
joined after the Cavanaugh confirmation
hearing because they were like very
angry and they want to do something they
want to get involved so I'm preparing a
presentation on how our different
working groups can oppose bad Supreme
Court decisions on a very practical
level as well as the system that led to
Brett Kavanaugh in the first place but
the thing that I like the most about DSA
as an organization is a that they
broadly speaking I think are the most
savvy about politics both in terms of
like and you know a lot of this came out
of occupy frankly I mean at least this
impetus of like setting up committees
that were actually like very very astute
in terms of policy the the occupy
committee on financial reform was
developed probably one of the most
sophisticated documents that came out of
the entire push for financial reform and
on top of that though more so much more
so than occupy largely because of the
structure of the thing their DSA is a
lot more sophisticated about politics in
terms of power and so it's not just you
know sophisticated when it comes to sort
of like Policy Analysis but also in
terms of like how do we strategically
deploy what power we have in such a way
that brings us closest to our goals and
there's not you know and they do that
without these
like cross-purpose incentives that may
come from an activist organization that
is in DC and relies on their funding as
if access to donors or to certain
legislators I mean so yeah it's
interesting to me how DSA keeps getting
these bumps when there is such a massive
failure of especially the main party and
I think that speaks really well to how
they've positioned themselves right and
there's nothing listen there's nothing
about Kavanagh per se that is you know a
function of how can i phrase this
there's no it's not let's put it this
way it is not obvious that the response
to Kavanagh is democratic socialism
right like like you could be opposed to
Kavanagh many many many people are and
democratic socialism you could consider
be a cold warrior you could you could be
like Pro Merrick garland and be opposed
to Cavanaugh it's just that I think that
the idea is that there is not there are
not there's no entities that provide
what I've just sort of described I think
on the left that kind of outlet well
it's our job to make those connections
for people and to fils facilitate them
making them on their own indeed but I
guess my point is we can't do it on our
own we need other entities to do it and
entities that are out there saying like
that the solution has nothing to do with
like you know that it's completely
irrelevant these judges or that you know
Chuck Schumer operates in a complete
vacuum like you you know you can blame
Chuck Schumer and it is I think it's
political malpractice but it's also you
know Mitch McConnell's not sitting there
going like we need to do Kavanagh
because Mitch McConnell is doing it
because his incentive structure is such
that you know like the little rat that
he is you know he knows where the cheese
is well we can understand
the limitations of focusing on
individuals when we you know criticize
someone like jordan peterson but when it
comes like to somebody like chuck
schumer we all of a sudden you know get
a bit more reductive about it oh yeah we
can hate the player and the game like i
always say like i don't want to let any
of these people off the hook but at the
end of the day you could put someone
else in the same system and get the same
result III think that's true but I'm not
just saying I'm not saying don't hate
the player and I'm not saying don't hate
the the game I'm saying understand
there's more than just one player here
like like there's other players that are
also not doing their job and this is you
know an indictment of us as much as it
is an indictment of Chuck Schumer you
know I I would imagine there's no one
listening to the sound of my voice who
has well I'm not gonna say no one
particularly in terms of this audience
but that we don't have a sizable a group
of people in this audience who have
written Chuck Schumer's office about you
know Circuit Judges or district court
judges or you know or about these type
of small-bore things and unfortunately
Tom Styer is not going to do it so if we
don't have a hundred million dollars to
dump into these races as an individual
we need a mass of people who are doing
that to create pressure and I'm not just
saying you know phone call whatever
whatever the form of which pressure
takes but you know we need an inside
outside strategy in great you need to
build a massive militant labor movement
it's capable of shutting the country
down and you know maybe you write some
letters to Chuck Schumer on the weekend
indeed and you mend then everybody will
do it we'll go to the go to the Union
Hall write the letters etc etc alright
hey just a reminder this program relies
on your support you can become a member
of the majority report by going to join
the majority report com when you do you
will become a member for just pennies a
day
dimes a day I don't know what is it 50
cents a day was this show not like this
free show was that not worth 50 cents
well if it wasn't then we're gonna give
you more if you become a member today if
you become a member right now you will
have access to the fun half which is
happening today
and in fact you'll have access to the
fun half that happened yesterday and the
day before in fact you can go back over
the course of now seven plus years wait
a second we're super close to the it
could be today when did this show start
was it seven years to the day I don't
know I think we did our soft launch
around then holy crap anyways you can go
back and you get seven years of
searchable on our app at majority app
comm you can search for you know go back
see who our first guest is I can't
believe it still talking about the same
damn stuff I think it was the guy who
wrote the book winner-take-all
nevertheless the point is for just
pennies a day you can become a member
the majority port go to join the
majority of port calm
also don't forget just coffee co-op fair
trade coffee tea or chocolate use the
coupon code majority get 10% off they
have been winner with us since almost
day one
in fact they predate this show terms
support for these causes and they were
the ones who gave free coffee to people
during the Madison protests this week on
the anti fada
Jamie oh yeah so this week on the anti
Fattah we took questions from you the
listeners or maybe not you didn't a
question for me from the listeners okay
anyone who's listening right now who
also listens to the edgy Fattah I'm
talking to you we we got some great
questions so good job everyone we talk
about my political tendency which
apparently people were still a little
unclear about how often we question our
own beliefs we talked about identity
politics and give a little take on
Angela Nagel cuz people still seem to be
talking about her and we talked about
comrade Gritty who is we haven't quite
decided yet if he's actually mocking the
working-class Philadelphia sports fans
or if he is you know like a real man at
the comrade of the people but we tell
people who comrade didya ingredients cuz
this is like a meme that's getting
people I think are not yeah so gritty is
the new mascot for the Philadelphia
Flyers which is a hockey team in Philly
he has quickly been I don't even want to
say appropriated because it's hard to
appropriate something that's already
yours but he's been appearing in many
memes going around that are like
anti-fascist and anti-capitalist in
nature so pretty cool and Matt yeah
literary hangover the Corey Robin
reactionary mind episode is now
available on YouTube for people who want
to listen to that check it out literary
hangover on YouTube there you go folks
alright patreon.com slash the anti
Fattah youtube.com slash the ante for
get to do that six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the number
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty if you want to be a part of this
program don't forget to check out
Michael Brooks show you can find that on
all of your favorite podcast servers or
on patreon and on YouTube we're gonna
take a quick break come right back weird
the fun
[Music]
you
of the fun half and the majority
majority report yeah it's the majority
report I just wanted to double-check on
that it is the majority report and as
such we will go to the phones let's go
to come from a to10 area code who might
this be
who might this be
I'm sorry I'm saying say your name again
Brendan from San Antonio hello John
what's on your right yeah a good
interview with Jeff Hauser
a question I have is will the Trump
White House submit to congressional
oversight at all or will they force
Democrats to jail people who refused to
testify in public you know because last
year many cabinet officials such as DNI
Dan Coates refused to answer questions
to perform and they didn't invoke
executive privilege they just refused to
answer the question because the White
House told him not to answer and they
made up some story about you know
anything they talked about in the White
House is off limits
so that's a big question in my mind also
on Chris Hayes show on Tuesday night you
said that Kirk himself or politican
wanted to change the topic did she were
able to as far as the topics I think a
good topic would be the did you could
bring up it would be to show how
Republicans are embracing and Thorat
Arianism and bring up Bob Alta Meyers
research and I think there's a good idea
because right now you're kind of playing
on his domain when you're just
addressing how Trump is uh helping the
middle class so what do you think of
that well I mean it's a it's I listen I
don't know I don't think I'm playing on
his domain I don't believe that Trump is
helping the middle class and I have a
you know I think I have a strong
argument
make about that John and so I don't want
to my sense was is that what when I
think I mentioned this the other day
that they wanted to bring this more into
a culture war right so the topic of
which is more popular the no excuse me
which is more radical the popular left
or the popular right first off I
literally don't know what that that
question means like I don't know what
they mean by the popular right I don't
know what they mean by the popular left
and I don't know what they mean by
radical like in this country is it
radical that white people should feel
supremacy over non white people is it
radical is misogyny radical is I mean
are you know is is oligarchy radical in
the context of the United States like
hmm maybe not you're not like maybe it's
more radical to sort of say that broadly
we should have you know more our
government should function on behalf of
all the people maybe that is maybe that
is a more radical proposition I just
don't know what the relevance of it is
and it clearly was a question designed
to to go to the well of like the
left-wing mob and all this and and I
don't want to get into that that type of
stuff it seems a little silly I think
there is a a very good case to be made
that that Don Trump is not good for the
middle class and frankly not good for
just about everybody in this country
except for a a small select few and I
don't know to say that uh Charlie Kirk
or his followers or Trump's followers or
authoritarian like I don't know where
you go from there in the context of that
debate and so you know that's I feel
pretty confident about this topic maybe
I'll do a good job maybe I won't do a
good job
like I say Charlie Kirk is you know
appears to me to be a very astute guy
and
I'm in Italy dress as well he certainly
dresses well and that's why I gets paid
the big bucks also like radical radical
is subjective but it's also like morally
neutral right like just because
something's radical doesn't mean that
it's good or bad I'm saying and it's
also you can interpret it in a multitude
of ways and it's a silly it's a silly
type of question and it's just like it
is a you know radical is a coded word
that is that that you know means
something different you know two people
who like have a genuine sense of
language and people who watch Fox and so
that is not a helpful you know debate to
have what else you got John anything
else yeah I just want to focus on Bakari
sellers who's gonna be on the the
socialist panel you know he's somebody
who's very much a conservative Democrat
he's 34 year old representatives from
home state representative of South
Carolina and you know after her his
prime
after a Ozzy's primary he pinned the a
op-ed in CNN saying Ocasio Cortes is a
Democratic Socialist but our victory
does not signal a move among Democrats
toward that ideology it does however
send a clear message that there's a
generational demographic and tonal shift
underway among Democrat the Democratic
electorate and if congressional
Democrats want to remain relevant they
need to reckon with this change they
need to a succession plan without a
succession plan Democrats are likely see
more contested primaries putting old
versus young candidates and the people
of color versus white candidates there's
also be more inner party squabbles
between older establishment members and
younger progressives who's had enough of
politics as usual so I mean so his
answer essentially is he named six more
younger congressional members of the
Democratic Party then he mentions
Randall Woodson a Chuckie Lumumba Stacy
Adams you know in
that's good that he's mentioning and
Justin Fairfax also that he's mentioning
you know these these uh southern black
progressives but at the same time you
know after ALC one you know you had
victories by Jana Presley Rasheeda Talib
ill Hal Mar and you know there she wins
to win their elections and so you know I
I just think it's him saying that these
people are winning because they're young
and because you know they're minorities
is just completely off-base it's utterly
absurd but but John what I don't think
these things are mutually exclusive
propositions like I think I think
frankly their youth their their I
identity as as people of color I think
is very helpful to them I mean I I I
think that like you know if you talk to
Sean McElwee who has been as accurate as
anybody in predicting victories now
would add gender to is also you know at
least in this in this era those are all
net positives I mean that's just that's
just the reality of it and I think their
policies obviously are also hugely
important like I don't think that you
could run as a woman of color like if a
Oh sees politics were more akin to Mark
Warner's let's say I don't think she
would have done nearly as well you know
so I they're not mutually exclusive
propositions I get to read that piece I
can tell you Chokwe Lumumba is not a
conservative Democrat he he ran as the
literally the most radical mayor in
America right that's my point my point
is
is that did you know there he's
embracing these people and Markos
malicious is doing the same thing he's
actually going going further like on a
an August 5th thing on meet depressed
he's embracing socialism but but neither
one of these people will acknowledge
that it's it's Sanders and his ideology
that it's moving people towards the left
and so that's that's where kind of
that's what bothers me a little bit is
it it's the contradiction they know this
is happening and so they embrace that if
it's on like a you know I mean let's be
honest it's not just Sanders and I can
track this before Sanders right I mean
and and you know even the Senate like in
2015 right was voting to expand Social
Security that was a that was that was so
monumental when for a decade we were
arguing to the US Senate the Democrats
in the Senate do not cut Social Security
and that change predates Sanders so
there is a move to the left did Bernie
Sanders increase the popularity and make
it possible for people like Al see in my
mind without a doubt but I mean I will I
will as moderator John try and make sure
that they give some credit to Bernie
Sanders I'm not sure that that is the
most important thing to Bernie Sanders
you know like we can't get caught up
there it is a real mistake
now I understand if you're if you're
making this complaint from the or you
know this point from you know from a
20/20 perspective and you know and you
can be honest with me and I can be
honest with you John like him if that's
what it's about I want to put a stake
you know you want to put a flag in the
ground and say you know Bernie needs his
credit from from you know because we
want to help them in terms of the 2020
primary but in terms of like you know
political discourse and sort of like
what is effective you know who cares
like you know like who I mean it's it's
part of sociology and the fact that that
Medicare for all the fact that it's so
popular is is almost entirely on Bernie
shoulders I mean he's the one that can
win people even in July nobody signed on
to it by September you know you had a
lot of people signing onto it I have
this locket the the reason why well
there's a lot of reasons why but the
primary reason why medicare-for-all is
so popular it's because of the nature of
the program did Bernie Sanders provide a
was Bernie Sanders the platform to
introduce and to promote this without a
doubt absolutely but if we have a whole
party I don't care what you call them
but a whole party that embraces and is
willing to pass Medicare for all and
insists on doing it without Bernie
Sanders as their leader of their party I
would think the first person who would
be okay with that would be Bernie
Sanders right like I think I I you know
like Bernie Sanders entered the race in
2016 to do exactly what he's done and
he's probably had so much more success
than he could have imagined in 2015 in
fact he did which is why he you know
wasn't prepared to really win that
primary and because he had more success
I think than he imagined he could have
and I think if he had realized that
beforehand and I don't know how one
would have he would have been better
situated to win so I just don't think
that you know I just think it's a
mistake even if you want Bernie Sanders
to be the nominee in 2020 to make it all
about getting him credit cuz I don't
even think that's what he wants I don't
even think that's what's helpful I mean
I think it's the idea is that he you
know people know that this proposal is
you know largely associated with him
it's not obviously unique to him and it
wasn't you know he wasn't the first
person to come up with it but you know
so don't forget the past events in
determining these things as well
right because Bernie among many other
people has been pushing these ideas for
decades and why was there suddenly a
mass movement that elevated him to a
viable candidate for president it was a
response to worsening conditions within
our society where people are being
squeezed to the point where they have no
future and they can't afford to see a
doctor and the costs are only going up
and so Bernie comes out of that movement
and he expresses it in the electoral
sphere and and I would say I mean I
would also argument if we're gonna get
that having a center-left
centrist president as a foil
you know just it's basic physics it
gives you more leverage to spring to the
left and so you know there's there's a
lot of things that have contributed to
this not the least of which you know the
financial crisis in o8 but I will I'll
bring this up John don't worry
apparently the panel's gonna be on
c-span the socialist panel oh yeah
that's right here okay I will agree with
you John the socialists not socialists
panel I will agree with you and that
Bernie as of now is the only mainstream
politician or one of the only ones
definitely the only one who could run
for president who is going to express
these ideas these class politics in any
real kind of way appreciate the call
John come from a 7/8 one area code who's
this where you come from
all right Mike from Massachusetts can
you hear me yes Mike from Massachusetts
what's on your mind um a couple things
the first thing I wanted to bring up
because I can't be the only one
frustrated about this it's it's kind of
frustrating disappointing to see that
like there isn't much mobilization from
Democrats to how people like Jay
Gonzalez and Ben Jealous who are
running against blue state Republican
governors the wondering if you have any
thoughts on like why there seems to be
no energy towards unseating those
Republicans or if you're also similarly
frustrated ah I I am frustrated you know
III think it's just my guess is I mean I
would love to see Ben Jealous as uh as
governor Mellon I think the problem is
that Hogan is just too popular there and
I think at this late stage right like
you know if if in August the polling is
Ben Jealous is within seven points right
six points I think you would see a lot
more enthusiasm I think that's just the
reality of it like why I don't you know
I don't know enough about living in
Maryland but I don't know enough about
Hogan's policies for instance to to say
like oh this is where he should be
dinged on or that's where you should be
dinged on or this is what people in
Maryland are upset about so you know
that's what it is it's frustrating but
resources got to go into races that are
are are more winnable or competitive
yeah yeah I mean that's just I mean I'll
just say in North Dakota it's a very red
state but for the longest time it had
two Democrat senators that Democratic
through Democratic sorry the Republican
luncheon no the Republicans couldn't
touch them and they didn't really try
until those guys retired appreciate the
call Mike share your frustration let's
take one more call before we go to some
sound you come from before 7/8 area code
who might this be
uh this is the anti-hero the left you
can fix me as a southern Wolverine
Tapper perhaps well weight shift or to
say
I love it
Jeff from Georgia was the Wolverine
thing a that wasn't a reference to Red
Dawn no no I'd think yellow spandex and
adamantium claws I know that kind of
thing but what I had in mind
hey man I'm calling you from a colony
from the heart of Georgia of course
normally I don't spend a lot of time
talking about lectures but you know
Stacey Abrams got tight tight race here
do pull out today or solid it's
basically dead heaps 47 46 Kip's of my
one good news vote turnout
voting started this week is well I saw a
huge amount of lying and pictures of a
huge amount of lines people waiting
three or four hours to early vote to
early vote yeah which people should take
it this is a sort of double edged sword
right like on one hand it is extremely
sad they've been waiting in line to do
something is the easiest boat to take
that long should be easy and quick but
on the other hand that means the
electorate Krebs and motivated to vote
according to polls tube issues they're
most motivated to vote about is health
care number one and number two is
immigration obviously that second one
cuts probably both ways right I think a
lot of Republicans here also very
motivated think embraces their quotas
pops yeah they got about four years ago
maybe it was I know that Georgia
implemented a fairly draconian law about
punishing or about either housing or
employment for undocumented immigrants
and you had a year where a lot of
peaches hit the ground is my
understanding how much that is better
absolutely correct yeah how much how
much is that resonated like how much how
much do people have the the memory of
that or was that just sort of like
narrowly
felt I mean I think it has it does
resonate some work with
some Republican voters because that is
absolutely true that they did implement
draconian immigration procedures and we
really could not get the labor necessary
to harvest crops that year you know I
live in a caddy a lot of farmland and I
I live just stole throw away from her
children too
and yeah I know for a fact that they
suffered in the legislature had to
reverse themselves almost immediately
it's just as fast as I could on their
part time and schedule S doesn't matter
but but I think what you know what
what's curious about it to me is that I
think a lot of Democrats are also
motivated by gracious that's why they're
tell people tell pollsters that sort of
reward issue and in terms of health care
that you know a doubly excited about
broadcast health care plan he got a
health care player his health care plan
is do less which is not really resonated
with the with people in a way that you
expect obviously problems you know she's
not a liberal sheet she calls himself
that associated or socialist about that
but uh you see she really could be a
fire governor thing if they give her
what had at least two wheel para with if
she gets there there the owner is not
telling about elections so there's this
time of years because honestly I could
visit this last thing I'm saying what
you're saying the Republican Party has
become a death cult they are willing to
defend a way of life that will quite
possibly probably lead to massive
degredation in civilization for the
entire planet just so they can have
their better cured laws and their cheap
gas and there's seven dollar minimum
wage at whatever this will kill us
all
and I you know it's possible the
Democratic Party is if sufficient
vehicle for change we're all funds right
right but but it's also possible that
they're not is that they might be a
vehicle for change and it ties with
fascism is really creeping up on us is
more important ever dot said dole GG w
are going to see people not just your
nemesis whose name
Loonette speak but there are others
there are lots of others out there whose
vote is about a brand whose vote is
about identity it's a foolish exercise
of narcissism don't listen those people
don't care how eloquent they were are
you suggesting you boast a shavers leave
us arrested from yard Jeff from Georgia
all right let's go into uh-oh okay so
since we've heard from Jeff from Georgia
you are all familiar with the enormous
amount of voter suppression that is
taking place in Georgia this go through
Kemp who is the Secretary of State the
guy who's in charge of voting also
happens to be running for governor and
has a unique power to shape the
electorate in a way that is highly
inappropriate and he's already
disenfranchised tens of thousands of
voters a huge percentage of whom are
african-american it must be a total
coincidence but the Secretary of State
to be fair has released a video to show
you what happens if you are somehow in
snared by their draconian policies and
can't vote on the day of the election
and what's a very cute about this
there's two things one that's cute about
it is it's it's all done with kids all
the kids kids are playing the roles of
the various voters and voting officials
and then the other really cute thing
about it is apparently since camp knows
that the vast majority of people he has
disenfranchised them from their votes
are african-american the girl playing
the person who can't vote is
african-american
voting location the process is exactly
the same as voting in person on election
day my kid he comes in you will complete
and sign a voter certificate provide an
acceptable form of photo identification
and then vote on an electronic vote on
electronic voting machine he gets the
sticker I voted P a positive one second
now we should tell you these electronic
voting machines you'll recall after the
last election 2016 they scrubbed some of
the servers right before they were
supposed to be investigated I'm sure
that was a coincidence - so it's
electronic voting machine folks there
you go
technology is well in New York
we use punch cards and they work
amazingly yes but in New York there's
far less people than enjoy oh okay let's
watch the rest of this video he's got a
sticker oh here can only have an
acceptable for Oh photo identification
when you're at the polls any ID
both on Election Day and during advance
boat at working you can vote a
provisional ballot if you vote a
provisional ballot you have three days
after election day to return to your
county elections office to show your
photo ID oh that's convenient for your
ballot to be except you get to make
another special trip to vote after
you've waited for hours in line to vote
three days now voting is on Tuesday
three days Wednesday Thursday Friday you
don't even get a weekend you got to take
two days off from work to vote folks
because if you are black you just you
need to prove that you want to vote just
a little bit more you need to show just
a little bit more effort to vote in
Kemps Georgia that's just the way it
goes
I like how they don't even try to hide
it in that video it's stunning
representation and film is important
though Sam yes at least African
Americans will get an opportunity to
model themselves after that person who's
been disenfranchised and that's the way
they can respond to their
disenfranchisement with a smile and this
is no problem really just stunning so if
you are in Georgia
I was there more as people are mad at me
for saying punch cards
I met paper-and-pencil regardless we
vote analog style yeah more analogue the
better if you don't return your ballot
will be rejected and it will not count
oh please note that all election related
forms and materials including ballots
are available in English only for more
information oh that's nice our website
at SOS GA gov slash elections at four oh
four six five six to eight seventy one
if you have any questions yeah what's
wrong with you basically needed how
about that now question unbelievable so
you know this is what also you know
again Nancy Pelosi has a tenure and
there needs to be a new leadership in in
the house for the life of me I don't
know who that person would be though if
we wanted a leader who's going to push
that to the left people have suggested
Barbra Lee in the past and she has not
signaled any interest in that position
but maybe if there's enough of an outcry
I don't I don't know but one of the
things that the Democrats should have on
the list for those hearings is voter
suppression to set up an opportunity
when Democrats control the Senate and
control the presidency to make the right
to vote a federally legislated canonised
right because this is why this end they
need to fix the Voting Rights Act to
override essentially the Supreme Court
veto of the previously reauthorized
Voting Rights Act which had think it was
fourteen states that were subject to
preclearance by the Department of
Justice so that if you make any changes
to your voting the Department of Justice
needs to okay it because
you have a record of disenfranchising
minority voters what do you think the
over-under is on Democrats ever doing
something like that if they take if I
would say the reestablishment of the
Voting Rights Act I would bet I would
bet a lot they would do that I would bet
a lot that they would do that I would
love to be wrong about this I'm much
more cynical about the Democratic Party
I think I just want to put this idea out
here I don't know if it's necessarily a
hundred percent true but the Democrats
relationship with the Republicans is
kind of like oh no it's kind of like
Cuomo's relationship with the IDC right
because as long as they have Republicans
to block the progressive things they're
trying to do then they don't actually
have to do that much and go against the
wishes of their donors except for the 50
years in which they did pass the Voting
Rights Act and reauthorized it time and
time again it was a
republican-controlled Supreme Court that
that gutted it they have the votes to
the Democrats all have the votes to
reinstate that section 5 of the Voting
Rights Act but the Republicans stop it
so it's also a different kind of party
than it used to be right it's back it's
more sensitive I think right now in
terms of that without a doubt I mean I
think like there may be some issues when
you start getting into things like banks
and Wall Street but in voting rights I
think you're on very thin ice in terms
of trying to suggest that Democrats
don't want to pass in new york in new
york with andrew Cuomo and the
corruption that is in New York State
politics I think there is an attempt to
disenfranchise certain segments of the
population certainly there's a district
in Queens and I think one in the Bronx
which were subject to that preclearance
by the DOJ because
had local candidates but in terms of
like the the House and the Congress I'd
be willing to bet you all of it well I
hope that you're right every single
dollar but I don't your bike I'll bite
you bet you your bike it's not actually
mine it belongs to my friend I'll bet
you friend's bike she's gonna be so mad
she's gonna only not because I'm gonna
win sad all right so here is Eric trump
on Fox and Friends and look Eric trump
is not that bright and he's also to be
fair to be fair he is been raised by a
pathological liar
who's a bad person but nevertheless Eric
could do what I can't even remember what
Tiffany did right and she wasn't a
Tiffany what was her name what about her
the saw the songwriter
Tiffany no well who's the Trump that we
don't that's because she was birthed by
it right I'm saying but Tiffany has been
able to shuttle off to the sidelines we
never talk about her anymore
this dude could do the same thing but
instead he goes on Fox and Friends and
makes a total ass of himself look when
you're on Fox & Friends and you're you
you're sitting there with Steve Doocy
and Ainsley Adams and Brian Kilmeade and
you're the dumb one you've got a real
problem about why he's asking cabinet to
enforce all of the departments to cut
their budgets 5% listen to this I'm
gonna ask each of you to come back with
a five percent budget cut from yo
various departments whether it's a
secretary and administrator whatever why
is Donald Trump asking his department
heads to cut their departments by 5%
first off this is
drop in the bucket it's not going to
impact the the deficit in any real way
plus it's also for show they're not
gonna actually do this they have made
significant cuts to across the board
from different departments since coming
into office significant cuts in services
housing services services for people
living in poverty environmental
protection services why is there why is
the deficit growing so much let's keep
listening in administrator whatever I'm
gonna ask everybody to come back with a
five percent cut for our next meeting I
think you'll all be able to do it and
that's a response to the deficit being
seven hundred plus billion dollars it's
the highest since 2012 you know that is
that's a business guy right I want five
percent and you know what next year I
want another 3 percent in there's a lot
of fat there's a lot of fat you see that
right when he when he renegotiated the
f-35 program he saved billions of
dollars when he renegotiated posit it's
funny he says the f-35 program because
they raised the defense spending by
about seventy billion dollars per good
Air Force one he saved billions of
dollars I mean that's the real estate
developer that's the guy who got elected
where you will call up every contractor
hey I do in my own business in our
business and Trump organization called
every contractor and you get the best
possible price you beat down the price
and that's why you have something that I
mean how many other politicians would
have done that we haven't done none and
by the way and that's why you have a a
twenty trillion dollar deficit I mean
the deficit okay pause it for one second
this is the business guys son the
deficit is not twenty trillion dollars
the deficit for 2018 is 779 billion
dollars now he may be he may be close to
right in saying trillion because by 2019
the deficit now understand this is the
annual budget not being able to reach
revenues not matching expenditures is
projected to be about one trillion
dollars I am looking right here at a
where is this piece I had it right here
it was a story back in 2013 I think it
was where the heck is this thing I can't
find it but they were projecting the
deficit to not hit a trillion dollars
it's gonna hit a trillion dollars 20
until 2023 2023 we're gonna talk about
why this deficit is increasing now I
don't care that much about the deficit I
got to be honest with you I'm more
concerned about why and where we're
spending the money but these guys think
the deficit is super important and they
don't know how to predict what's going
to happen they don't seem to know how to
do math so it's not a 22 trillion dollar
deficit now we have debt right our debt
is nearly 20 trillion dollars but people
understand what the difference between
debt and deficit is deficit is the
yearly operating differential you're
spending on an annual basis more than
you're taking in debt is the
accumulation of that deficit over time
but let's listen to the businessman talk
away and that's why you have a a 20
trillion dollar deficit I mean the
deficit over doubled under Obama once
you understand that he truly into 20
trillion was it now first off I can't
even begin to start to express this when
when Obama came into office the deficit
in 20 2009 was 14 was about 1.4 trillion
dollars because there had been a
financial crisis that's in 2009 okay so
if we're going to attribute that huge
jump in the deficit from 2008 when it
was about five hundred billion and it
almost tripled over the course of a year
and that is because revenues plunged
because we had a financial crisis
millions of people lose their jobs
they're not paying taxes the deficit
basically hovered around there it went
down a little bit to 12 trillion in the
next year I mean excuse me 12 billion
again 12 1.2 trillion 1.2 trillion and
then down to about 1.1 trillion and then
by 2013 it was at 600 billion a 2014
it's at about 400 billion 400 billion in
2015 2016 it jumps up a little bit to
500 billion again but if we're going to
go by the business man's numbers even
though they're wrong in terms of when
crediting the deficit to Barack Obama
the deficit went in the final year of
Barack Obama's at 2015 was at 439
billion dollars and it's gonna be it
four short years later it's gonna be
more than double so he's lying and he's
dumb so that is the son of a businessman
is there any more to that that's it
right it's funny how he started trying
to talk about his own business and then
he had to admit that it's it's the Trump
Organization the Trump Organization look
we screw over contractors all the time
and listen incidentally when you say to
the Secretary of Housing cut your budget
by 5% there's no other bids you can take
incidentally to deliver the same product
right like that's the thing it's like
they're not going to deliver the same
product they're going to cut subsidies
for people in housing less people are
going to have housing and it's going to
create problems in our society like
homelessness they're gonna build the
public housing and I'm gonna say you
didn't do a good job I'm only giving you
half take you to leave it right I
thought all the revenue
they're gonna raise from business and
you know lowering the corporate tax rate
was supposed to take care of this whole
deficit that's a good question Brendon
we were told under the Laffer principle
that when you cut taxes for corporations
and individuals and really is there a
difference at the end of the day no you
cut taxes for corporations what you're
doing they told us was to create new
jobs and create new research and
development but all these corporations
all did and they told the administration
they were gonna do it well Gary cone
looked out at the audience and said who
how many of the CEOs here are going to
invest their their tax savings in
research and development and no one
raised their hands they knew oh you're
just gonna take it in stock dividends
because you guys as the CEOs are one of
the major stockholders and that's how
you get your compensation but the magic
of tax cuts according to Arthur Laffer
at all that was supposedly gonna save
Kansas and instead destroyed Kansas was
that as you cut taxes you are creating
so much new growth so much new growth
that it will generate so much more
economic activity that revenues will
actually go up so you cut taxes but the
amount of people who will be paying
taxes and on so many different
transactions and whatnot it's actually
gonna increase revenue in fact here's
Larry Kudlow the chief economic advisor
of the Trump administration telling us
that when did he tell us that end of
June this year end of June this year
what's what happened he done
they say it's being done it's probably
coming on faster and it's throwing off
enormous amount of new tax revenues as
the economy gears up more people working
better jobs and careers those revenues
come rolling in and the deficit which is
one of the other criticism is coming
down
and it's coming down rapidly growth a
lot of problems you've heard me say the
course hmm he said it since the bush
excuse me the Reagan administration the
growth in revenue was the this year was
the eighth lowest in the past 50 years
and I'll remind you we are 10 years out
from a financial crisis so a lot of
those eight years happened very close to
the financial crisis that we went
through good
Republicans can't even do capitalism
right well their brand of capitalism
does exactly what it's supposed to do
and so he was wrong by the deficit by a
factor of I don't even know how to do
the math on that if you say it's going
down and it doubles how do you do the
math on that I think we know nobody of a
none of us is qualified right do that so
we have the lowest growth in tax
revenues in 50 years in 50 years and the
full brunt of the tax cuts hasn't even
hit yet it hasn't even hit yet and the
deficit has doubled by their own metrics
not metrics that I necessarily even care
about they don't know what they're
talking about
as recently as two months ago and we
should say there's no reason to believe
that the acceleration or the D
acceleration in the growth of tax
revenues and the acceleration in the
rate of the deficit is going to be
anywhere where they predicted because
they were show off on where we would be
this short of time out that their
ability to predict where will be even in
a year it's completely suspect it's
stunning how bad they are even at their
own crappy stuff and here's the bottom
line they are using the deficit now so
we started off with Donald
earlier saying cut 5% from all of your
discretionary spending and Mitch
McConnell is already preparing to lose
the house by saying we need to cut
Social Security and Medicare this is the
game that they play we knew this they
juice the deficit then they make it like
the deficit is a national crisis then
they say the only way to solve this is
on the backs of people who depend on
Social Security and Medicare to not live
in complete destitution in their old age
which is about 2/3 of Americans that's
the way this game is played rinse repeat
rinse and repeat oh here we go this is
also a funny story and it's you know
this ties in what we were talking about
with Jeff Hauser today about the
investigations that need to take place
if Democrats take the house
we know that the Saudis provided
billions of dollars billions of dollars
to real-estate ventures to the Trump
Organization Saudi Arabia announced last
week a 20 billion dollar investment in
an infrastructure fund managed by
Blackstone Group which of course whose
head has a very close relationship with
the Trump Organization and has lent 400
million dollars to the cushion their
business as well and has deep ties to
Kushner and but here is that same
dim-witted Eric Trump on Fox and Friends
and I only say he's dim-witted because
he's them with it because it's so
obvious that it would reflect poorly on
me if I didn't point it out before we
play this fit
here's Trump saying now this is he
thinks he's being clever and maybe for
the Fox and Friends audience he is but I
you know
investment in Russia investment in Saudi
Arabia is not the same as getting money
from those places and them investing in
you right in fact if I invest in those
countries I have some leverage right
because they need my investment that's
why if I was to take 20 million dollars
from George Soros or the Koch brothers
you as an audience member should say hey
wait a second they've got a little bit
of control over it versus if I was
lending George Soros 20 million dollars
George Soros may have to answer to me
the day but Eric tries to pull some
jujitsu here by saying we have not
invested in them listen every time
there's an international incident they
say wow the president's - nice -
Vladimir Putin that's because he has so
many investments in Russia they says
he's too open to letting this
investigation play out that's busy as
investments in Saudi Arabia you're
running the Trump Organization what's
the reality there's zero investments in
Russia there's zero investments in Saudi
we have absolutely nothing to do with
those countries and by the way my
father's been tougher on Russia than
probably any human being in the world
that's what happens when you give
offensive weapons to Ukraine right Obama
never did that so what happens when you
promote you know American energy you
take away their largest financial you
know stream which is oil I mean that's
what built oil and gasses wouldn't built
Russia and all of a sudden we're saying
hey you know once you buy American oil
we've got a lot of great oil workers
we've got a lot of great energy in the
u.s. how about this will supply you all
the energy you could ever possibly need
don't buy it from Russia yeah impressive
for Putin oh yeah good oil workers
yeah I would love to hear him answer the
question how much are you in hock to
them not how much are they in hock to
you how much are you in hock to them but
I'm really surprised the Fox friends
guys didn't hit him on
it looked like Ducey might have done
that he had a moment there but sometimes
that's just like that could you never
know would like do see it could be just
to the producer whispering in his ear
there's cookies in the greenroom what
yeah that had the the sort of feel that
he was prepared for that because he
really hit the ground running no no we
don't have any man kill me it's question
was like two-pronged which is rare as
well yeah he doesn't do that
extemporaneously oh so this weekend I am
debating Charlie Kirk from talk turning
points USA turning points USA as you
know is an organization that is funded
by some right-wing billionaires and what
Charlie Kirk does for I think which
should be a substantial amount of money
well maybe that makes it better than
doing it for not a substantial amount of
money is he goes around and spreads fake
memes about people and apparently and
look I'm not responsible for what Matt
tweets out I'm not responsible for Jamy
tweets out I'm not responsible for what
Brendon tweets out but if any of you
guys tweet out racist stuff I'm putting
you on notice and I find out about it
I'm not gonna check it every day but if
someone emails me and says these guys
are putting out racist stuff I'm gonna
let you go that's what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna make that commitment right then
I'm gonna get read pilled and so Charlie
Kirk has this problem where there are
members of his organization people that
ostensibly receive funding right I mean
they must receive funding from the
National Organization it turning-points
Florida were caught somebody leaked
their internal I don't know it was a
slack or chat thing or something what's
up I believe their whatsapp channel
where they were sharing
all sorts of racist RIA memes using
white supremacist symbolism etc etc
saying stuff like you know talking about
groping Latinas and all sorts of gist
and they also say just avoid you know
when you're on this just remember just
avoid saying the n-word don't reference
Richard Spencer too much some is okay
yeah and don't Jew hate just cuz all the
time
good so you have the option of Jew
hating for a reason all the time or Jew
hating just cuz some of the time so you
got a lot of attitude there for your Jew
hate that's nice
they are liberally livers yeah they
don't want to be too police see about
speech just a little bit and so
apparently a student in Florida is this
at the Florida University international
you know this is Andy Andy from the
young D si Andy from who is the chair of
the Florida International University
he's on campus and he sees that the
talking points are turning points I
should say USA president is sitting at a
table
I guess handing out literature and Andy
goes and says hey what's the deal with
this and of course look the important
thing is dialogue and these guys aren't
afraid of it if you have they have
nothing to hide I'm sure this guy will
express regret and explain what happened
here it is
[Music]
why not why don't you have anything to
say
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
oh dude dude the guy gets up and runs
away and I look it is I I just want to
say you know high school is a little
more awkward of time but there's also
some awkwardness in college and if I was
the president of an organization where
people were being outwardly racist I'm
sure I would feel uncomfortable talking
about it too but it's important at times
like why what is contra like what is
this guy afraid that he's gonna say
that's gonna get him in trouble at this
point right like that's my question it's
like oh I don't want to go too far out
there apologize too much because if I do
then what I make it voted out of office
said the the attorney I mean why can't
he just say you know what those people
have been removed from our organization
oh maybe they haven't or why can't he
just say like yeah we don't condone this
because maybe they do why no comment
honestly like this was national news did
they not know they were gonna have to
address this or they just think like
whatever man we were just we said not
just cause all the time we put
restrictions on the Jew hate what do you
think about that do you even care to be
fair they have been helping people with
their student government elections
reportedly so that's right maybe he
needs to hold on to that power yup
that's true he's got big funding behind
him he's got donors I ran for student
government I never had that pressure the
donors pressure I did all my signs by
myself wrote big block letters cedar and
I had the advantage
it was during Passover so I got more
attention for those signs people thought
maybe there was a seder right I just
want to point out to Andy's tactics
there cuz he goes up there and says I
want you to address this and when they
say we don't have any comment he's like
well I'm not going anywhere I don't have
to leave this and the kid says well I'll
call security
like like
you know white people have learned to do
and then he just walks off just really
well played if you are on a college
campus
with turning points USA and you want to
do this tweet me the video because I'd
be interested in that there you go nice
it is also remarkable the degree to
which all of these turning-point USA
people just look like giant babies one
notice the other thing is I feel bad for
the kid who was left at the booth
because you you couldn't really hear it
very well but he says I can you leave me
on this I don't know what you're talking
about and the kid says you didn't hear
about this yeah that that guy maybe also
like I'm supposed to stay with the
pamphlets but maybe I'm gonna go play
for at night right did you see the HR
email are you getting to that the HR
email like they offered to service to
give a free social media check to anyone
who's concerned that they might have
tweeted something racist yeah who's this
that HR at grassroots organization
Turning Point see yeah they do a free
human resources at turning points is
doing like we can check and say if
you've done racist stuff on your social
control fund and well we should probably
offer something like that too I'm pretty
pretty confident oh I know that HR I'm
gonna need that HR letter for this
weekend maybe after the siRNA vich thing
I must admit I went back through all my
old tweets and I've been at Twitter for
like 10 years and there's there's really
nothing there spoiler alert
I was really emo when I was in my
mid-20s I cared a lot about vegan food
music boys and cats so that is
embarrassing but it's not like a
fireable offense as long as we're doing
confessions I think I probably got a
little bit too excited about the Red Sox
at times and maybe the
I mean some of the Patriot stuff I'm a
little bit because of the elections that
is fraud folks I don't want to spend too
much time on charlie Kirk but there
seems to be a trend amongst
conservatives a brain worm it is weird
now I think people are probably aware
that Kanye who is a singer right would
you call him like a hip-hop artist right
rapper and Kanye of course apparently
according to him was diagnosed as having
some emotional difficulties and decided
to stop taking his medication and then
somehow he ended up in the Oval Office
and talking about some stuff that's not
terribly coherent I find but here is a
Republican guy what's at Benny Johnson
Benny Johnson of The Daily Caller he
said the Daily Caller and he is
defending Kanye because look when you're
a conservative it's very rare that
anyone who's in a creative endeavor is
in any way supportive of your stuff I
mean it happens there's James Woods and
Chuck Woolery I know you're thinking
like wait a second where's the
creativity but he had a certain flourish
when he would do some of the the hosting
of that game show and here's Benny
Johnson talking about Kanye a black man
born impoverished and into a broken home
works his way into a multi-millionaire
global pop star fashion guru and a
cultural icon he dares to think
differently
politically meets the president lives
he's mentally ill token negro can't read
traitor attack his dead mother and it's
weird because if you are well it's he's
not the only one who did that now Betty
Johnson did that what like three
days ago a week ago a week ago he got a
little backlash but I'm not gonna tell
you what that backlash was here is
Charlie Kirk with like strikingly
similar similar tweet yesterday from
yesterday
think about it : a black man born in
poverty I'm thinking about it in a
broken home
worked himself to be a billionaire and
to world fame a fashion guru pop icon
Grammy winner spends hours with the
president dares to think differently in
his then attacked for being an unstable
token negro now I'll tell you what's
fascinating about this to me what is the
similarity in these tweets like there's
a lot of language that's very similar
it's almost as if they get the same
talking points what's also fascinating
is that you would think one of two
things one if you were disseminating
talking points you would do the
slightest bit of research about Kanye or
two that you would you wouldn't apply
dries but it turns out that Kanye West
grew up in a middle-class suburban home
and his mom is like what a doctor is I
was a professor a professor has a PhD
let's put it that way
all right she's dead now and she's
passed away but there's this weird
assumption there's it either let's put
it this way they are either share
talking points and don't update them
even a week later or they just have this
weird assumption about black people that
they grow up impoverished so there it is
well I guess we gotta wait another week
and to see which other conservative star
would start a pool on that you know
there's been document a lot of document
that played your weird plagiarism like
Milania just ripping off sort of formal
speeches by Michelle Obama yeah it's a
really weird practice that the right
does I mean plagiarism is obviously not
just a right wing thing but I feel
there's something I don't know that
makes me think a little bit like
sociopaths the same thing is when they
brazenly lie and everybody knows that
right
I don't care yes I think that they're I
think that's exactly it there's no
accountability on the right for that
stuff efficacy is really the only thing
that matters plagiarism is irrelevant
there is no there you know that is just
a that you're imposing you're sort of
like normal brain upon and that's not
the case one of the things that has
gotten the Republicans very concerned is
that Democrats are running on providing
some type of material benefit to voters
that being Medicare for all now they are
desperate to try and figure out a way to
make Medicare for all seem like a bad
thing and it's very difficult it's very
difficult for them because one quarter
of Americans give or take maybe a little
bit more are already on Medicare and
they like it they like it a lot and the
idea of in Bernie's Medicare for all
planned for instance you know others it
varies a little bit paying nothing for
health insurance and at the very least
not having to deal with all the forms
and haggle every time you go to the
doctor and have it being basically like
an accounting course is highly
preferable to the system that we have
now and so they're trying to figure out
how they can sell that Medicare for all
is bad and the only way they can do it
is to say that Medicare for all is in
fact not Medicare for all
as it Entropy's been committed to making
health care more affordable and bring
more choice more transparent keep the
patient in the driver's seat people who
are
we're promising medicare-for-all that's
one of the big ideas now people keep
talking about Medicare for all is
Medicare for none you know these are the
same people who brought you Obamacare
but this time they're not even making
the promise that you can keep your
health plan ah didn't keep Medicare
first of all Obamacare is at its height
of popularity and which is not to say
that I think a broad base of people
don't realize that it needs to be
improved but understand what Medicare
whatwhat what Obamacare is there are
less than ten percent of the public who
buys insurance through the Obamacare
exchange far less than ten percent of
the public the number of people who are
getting health insurance through
expanded Medicaid is probably around the
same in terms of sheer numbers of people
the only thing that impacts people
broadly from Obamacare are the patient
protections remember it was the ACA PPI
bill the patient protections like you
can't be denied because of pre-existing
conditions you can't be subject to
rescission you get a certain number of
basic amenities to qualify insurance as
actually being insurance you're allowed
to stay on your parents plan until
you're age 26 these patient protections
are under threat by a Republican lawsuit
20 states have joined the state of Texas
from 19 states have joined the state of
Texas and Trump's own DOJ is not
defending this case so it's a little bit
difficult to win they will have those
all taken away from you so Obamacare is
at its height of popularity yet
Democrats know that it's not enough and
are going out and offering Medicare for
all so who brought it to you is a
irrelevant but it's being brought by a
slightly different group of people some
of whom have signed on
you know others but continue your doctor
because they know that's not the case
the hundred and seventy eight million of
us who've got employer insurance that
would go away under some of these
proposals your doctor you wouldn't get
to keep your doctor because your doctor
would flee these Medicare lower rates
and we'd have a two-tier system of
health care posit I want you to
contemplate this now a hundred and
seventy eight people move on to Medicare
one hundred seventy eight million plus
the what is it forty million that are on
Medicare now maybe forty five so the
vast majority of the country is on
Medicare these doctors are going to flee
providing service to the ninety percent
of people in this country who will be on
Medicare right ten percent maybe they'll
be eligible for Medicare they'll get
Medicare but they're also gonna get
private supplementary insurance maybe
ten percent right the super wealthy
maybe it's up five percent so I don't
know where like all these doctors are
gonna move to one neighborhood Chevy
Chase Maryland and they're all going to
certain like every one of these wealthy
people are going to have their own
personal doctor the doctor is only gonna
work for them bringing back house calls
it's a house okay you're just going to
live in the in the driveway and service
each individual person that is the only
way your doctor will not be available
the only possible way it doesn't make
any sense like it's not possible what
he's saying to happen is not possible to
happen certainly there's gonna be
supplemental insurance certainly it's
gonna be private insurance that may pay
doctors a premium over their Medicare
but they're simply not gonna be enough
of those customers for doctors to say
I'm going to leave the Medicare system
that's the whole point of Medicare for
all that's why it will control costs
that's why it will be cheaper for the
country that's why you have Medicare for
all lower rates and we'd have a two-tier
system of health care where they move
into a cash system outside of this
Medicare so America's seniors would lose
their doctors they could lose their
hospitals you
why wouldn't merican seniors who are
getting their doctors through Medicare
now lose their doctors under a system of
Medicare when three-quarters of the
country already is in a private system
why would they lose their doctors it
doesn't make any sense is there anymore
is that it that's it he's grasped in
there oh yeah the thing people don't
like about Obamacare is the part where
they still have to pay for health
insurance
exactly I mean that goes without saying
the patient protection part actually
delivered it was the Affordable Care
part that didn't the most popular medet
health care program in the country right
now is probably Medicare and Medicaid I
believe the VA is probably the most
popular and then Medicare and it's 75%
of Americans approve of Medicaid
Medicaid expansion so they see the
writing on the wall so and they're going
to their base which is going to be
they're going back to senior citizens on
Medicare who are saying hey the death
boards are good this is this is this has
been you know relatively successful for
them in the past so I'm not surprised
they're doing and he talks about choice
in insurance plans like that's a good
thing like do you know anyone who enjoys
trying to choose from the many confusing
options absolutely I want to choose the
one that I don't have to pay anything
for that's right all right we'll turn on
AIIMS just for a second because I don't
have much time here let's go to the
phones a lot of people been waiting for
a long time call from a-15 for area code
who's this where you come from 154 who's
this where you come for one yeah you're
on okay Derek calling from Eugene Oregon
because there you go wrong bed no I'm
sorry five four one five four one
apologize there we go there we go
represent Derek endo that's right
I actually had a question that your
guest today sort of went into which was
really cool you know this for a little
while wondering what sort of
prescriptions you guys have thought
about as far as like long-term
inoculation as far as preventing the
type of like institutional destruction
that we see coming from the light like
this insatiable appetite sort of break
down and destroy there's sort of like a
motivation gap right and assuming like
if we stipulate the left gets power it
sort of implements the types of things
that we want for social mobility and
social care how do we keep those things
from being destroyed long term well I
think you I mean I think that that we
have examples of that right I mean what
are they most durable programs that we
have had in this country
Social Security is is basically it and
then Medicare and and and Medicaid to
some extent so the idea is universal you
make programs Universal if you are
worried about people you know wealthy
people being able to get Social Security
there is a solution for that
you don't means test you simply tax them
either on the front end or the back end
more if you are worried about Donald
Trump's kids having access to the free
option in every state for higher
education a yeah I think you're
misguided it would be extremely healthy
for society to have the wealthiest
people going to school with you know
people from lower incomes that would be
a very healthy thing for society but who
cares tax them more if you're concerned
about them getting a free ride at the
university you can tax them you do it
that way making programs Universal is
the most proven methodology for their
durability in terms of providing social
services in terms of regulatory
structures the key is to pass statutory
to use an axe instead of a scalpel
so when
we mentioned the Occupy working group in
terms of financial reform at the at one
point during the show they they wanted
to pass a 21st century glass-steagall
Act and I think Warren brought you know
carried the torch on this and and and
Bernie to some extent as well by doing a
large statutory fix for the financial
markets basically sequestering
commercial and investment banks you
don't have to worry about creating a
regulatory structure that involves you
know thresholds and involves minutiae
that can then get overturned in small
votes like we saw dodd-frank attacked or
in court cases and narrow court cases or
threats of court cases by industry you
do a broad sort of you take an axe as
opposed to a scalpel I'm not saying you
lop off things I'm saying that you do
big structural changes statutorily
rather than look at you know sort of
smaller regulatory things and I think
you also when you get into office you do
reforms that are going to enhance the
power of your base so card check should
have been done eight years ago ten years
ago whenever it was when they had
control of everything
voting needs to be made a federal right
these are things that are going to
enhance your power so that's it I have
some longer-term ideas and then and and
and and Jamie would say of course get
rid of capitalism and snuff out all the
capitalists and would you federal
government you would also get rid of -
yes I mean we need a short medium and
long term strategy right look I agree
with everything you're saying in the
short term but there really is no way to
ensure that capital doesn't come back
and we've seen we saw this throughout
the 20th century you know like it's not
a coincidence that the greatest
concessions that labor got from cab
happened after the building of a
militant labor movement full of
Communists and anarchists in the 20s and
30s and we got the New Deal which lasted
a nice long time it was great for a lot
of people it wasn't enough economic
conditions are always going to change
especially now as capitalism develops in
wildly unstable ways there was a crisis
in the 70s capital took advantage of
that
they've been consolidating power ever
since so if we get to a point where we
have the class power to make those
reforms that Sam is talking about I
think it would be a mistake not to take
it all the way and just execute the
system so that it can't get up again I
would say I don't think that we ever
reach a point where private
accumulations of power
don't threaten the system and whether
that's Hank I would agree throughout
through whether that's your capital or
whatever I just don't think this drug
this sort of struggle is ever ever going
to reach an end I was just Derek I was
just giving the short term life of Sam
cedar one but I will also say that mine
is my horizon is I think significantly
less than everyone in this office so
there's that but yes I agree with Matt I
think there's always going to be
countervailing forces I don't know that
you can get rid of it and I don't know
that they will call themselves
capitalists or what they will but there
will always be these countervailing
forces you don't think we could get rid
of capitalism I mean I you know
something will fill the vacuum that is
driven by some portion of humanity's
will to power and greed that's the way I
feel yeah well that's why we have to set
up a democratic system that is both
decentralized enough to avoid being
taken over by a tyrant in the center yet
strong enough to avoid being taken over
by tyrants are not easy no I don't think
it's easy to balance Shan News is too
bad I can't come up with one single
funny thing to say about it today
visa can I get a chauffeur for my two
friends in the New York and the YouTube
chat ten-foot man and
he crushed you know what I think that we
got a problem with our machine Oh No
[Music]
positive energy overall great people I'm
grateful to chat with them daily mr is
like family to me and I'm blessed to
have all of you in my life also either
we need mr the musical and sam cedar
cider con thoughts loudly a shout out to
JSA he is always great insight thanks
Sam left is best Marxist Marotta based
on how ana kasparian has defined
democratic socialism in the past the
funding is just being a social democracy
don't be surprised if your should we be
socialist panel ends up being more of a
should we be Social Democrats panel
contagious chameleon well I mean that's
the problem with not having a socialist
on their contagious chameleon Sam what
are Republicans hoping to gain from the
big money spent online is there a
majority the shrinking demographic of
white millennial and generation Z men
that are susceptible to voting for
fascists I think things have changed but
Republicans think they can get away the
same results they got from putting in
money in television I don't think they
will get those results their target
demographic is smaller target now what
do you think is the left winning the
ideological debate for the long term I I
don't know winning some of them and
losing others right I don't know how to
assess that need new sheets I want to
order some Brooklyn and your sponsor
page is completely empty what's going on
I need new sheets Google majority dot F
M Brooklyn and it will take you to an
episode where there is a code but we got
to get that shale down men in the
stretch in the trench when Chuck Schumer
visits a prostitute he gives them moral
pays them and leaves
I didn't that's a thinker wooden
computer shook hey y'all that's not a
cop joke in a sense it is no it's not
there's no it doesn't have any ownership
over a woman that's being challenged
that's me that's many other thing about
kuck right I think you guys are thinking
too hard about this I also don't think
that that's like it's also it's a
misfire okay I think it's some guys do
pay to give prostitutes oral yeah of
course
nothing wrong with that nothing wrong
with that wooden computers hey y'all
keep a lookout for email from Kelly
Jones Alex Jones wife I sent her a clip
of the ex Infowars producer that called
in the other day she wanted to know his
info and I gave her maggiore reports
email we probably won't give out that
information
jayjay cool do you think Bernie should
run his campaign to build a wall on the
Canadian border to keep Peterson and
Gavin's out what is it Gavin Gavin
McGinnis McGinnis magillicuddy retcon
how do we grapple with automation if we
want to use our labor as leverage do you
guys think we only have a small window
of time for that to be possible
technological advancement could give us
society where we can benefit and thrive
or live in a society where we have no
power or privacy or anything really
first of all I don't think we're gonna
be completely replaced by robots I think
that's a I think that's a mistake
there'll be a bad move by the
capitalists because then what would they
have for any attacks well don't have
these don't understand their own
economic system like if you believe in
Marx's concept like I do I think a lot
of folks do on the left labor surplus
value is only generated by human labor
and resource extraction it's not
generated by stuff that you buy
equipment that you buy that starts
depreciating as soon as you buy it so
that's not gonna go well but like I will
say automation is a real threat I think
people underestimate it sometimes the
threat that it poses to our ability to
organize around labor and it's gonna
pose challenges in the future but it's
by no means impossible and I think we've
seen some this is how I would organized
if I wanted to organize labor in an era
of machines machine technicians because
a smaller amount of people can make a
lot more things go wrong in that
instance so I mean there are unintended
consequences and and things that we
haven't necessarily contemplated where
power will come from I am far less
concerned about the ability of labor
to figure out how to exercise power then
I am abilities
I mean Labour's willingness to exercise
that power I mean you don't need many
technicians to shut down a factory if
it's all if it's a haul machinery right
like you don't need many you don't need
many to sabotage it I mean that's the
thing is that the power is going to come
from other areas and the leverage is
going to shift in in different ways I
think the idea is the big challenge is
is less about how will how will labor be
able to exercise power and the challenge
still remains the willingness to
exercise power but just to go a little
further down that road there are ways
there are historical precedents for
unemployed people organizing like the
national welfare rights organization was
the movement in the 60s and 70s where
mostly women mostly women of color who
were on welfare actually organized very
effectively so the march on Washington
there you had you had people camping out
in in DC for weeks
Gabe from Chicago
comrade gritty loves you comrade gritty
loves you Carl Sagan 2020 what will
Republicans do during the lame-duck
session
oh it's going to be a crap show folks it
is going to be a crap show as a
moderator of socialism panel that
doesn't include a natural socialist well
it's not a socialism panel it is should
we be socialists so maybe they'll decide
that they all should be at the end of it
it's possible it's experiment and we're
gonna have to go now who do we talk to
now that we've decided we should be
socialist well how do we tell you right
yeah well then you just go to the next
either the next farther one over I don't
have the ability as moderator to insert
anybody on the panel then you move to
the should we be Maoist panel you find
the one that you don't want to be and
then you just stop that do you see John
from San Antonio is right about Bernie
you seem to be forgetting the power of
his stadium filling campaign rallies no
I'm not many of those people couldn't
even vote for Bernie in the primaries
but they're now registered involved in
getting Bernie's platform and
you underestimate Bernie's campaign if
you forget how powerful those campaign
rallies were you're doing this into
service Bernie's platform brought in
millions of people I think it's a
disservice to put that all on Bernie
Sanders and not the conditions that led
to him and the issues they people were
organizing around Medicare for all
before Bernie Sanders announced to run
yes exactly
people people want the tail to wag the
dog in these scenarios whether you're
making an acceleration estar Gyu Minh
terrible or a Bernie argument which is
less terrible like it is the conditions
it's not Trump himself but the
conditions that gave rise to Trump that
is inspiring so much activism on the
Left right now yeah I think that's true
I think also though I mean I have you
know the I you know we've had this
argument before the economic insecurity
I mean there's another report out today
that shows you can control for these
things to the extent that one can do any
studies I mean I'm open to studies that
say something the opposite I just
haven't seen any and I'm not sure why
well one of the conditions that gave
rise to Trump is racism right well
that's right I'm not only talking about
economics although it is a part right
but the racism has been there for a long
time I mean the this is a study from
three political scientists UCLA u.s. UC
Riverside and Princeton and they looked
specifically at Obama to trump switchers
and white voters with racially
conservative or anti-immigrant attitudes
switch votes to Trump at a higher rate
than those white voters with more
liberal views on these issues
conservative anti-immigrant we find
little evidence that economic
dislocation and marginality were
significantly related to vote switching
in 2016 it goes through how what their
methodology but they found attitudes on
race and immigration we're
crucial in distinguishing the
characteristics of both Trump and
Clinton switchers the more racially
conservative and Obama or third-party
voter was the more likely they were to
switch to Trump
similarly the more racially liberal a
Romney or third-party voter was the more
likely they were to switch to Clinton
class was largely irrelevant in
switching to Trump keeping racial
attitudes constant white working-class
voters were not more likely to switch to
trump the white working-class voters who
did switch tended to score about as
highly on measures of racial
conservatism and anti-immigrant
attitudes as wealthier switchers third
the correlations between measures of
economic stress and vote switching were
either weak or nonexistence there's
little evidence supporting the economic
anxiety or economic populism
explanations for the Trump surge I don't
even know what that means in terms of
surge I mean there were Obama sweaters
who switch to trump but still only
talking about 70,000 votes in three
states that made the difference how are
they defining class there how they
defining I don't you don't have to be
poor to have economic anxiety right well
no there they they measured a they did
economic measures of stress involved a
person's family income was lower or
higher than the median income in with
the county that they lived and against
where they had been so you don't have to
be poor to have economic anxiety but
economic anxiety must have some
definition and if it's not relative to
where you were in the past and if it's
not relative to where other people are I
don't know what it would be you look the
fear of loss so it's that's more like
the status thing right like a status
loss which is tied to economics as
opposed to like a economic privation
that's leading you to like entertain
Trump yeah I mean you you know I guess
you could say that wealthier people were
more
nervous about losing their money and
that's economic stress but the
Socialists represent that same economic
stress right there like like you know
there's a clear sense that they're gonna
lose their money
from a socialist than they would Trump
and that's not that's not they're gonna
lose it from socialists more than
they're gonna lose it from immigration
right right and so it could be about the
economy as a whole as well like his
message of economic nationalism wasn't
just about oh this is going to help my
bottom line it was some more nebulous
idea about how America is doing it it
could also be then just a coincidence
that these people also happen to have
more proclivities towards not liking
minorities and immigrants I mean that's
what you have to find but you see here's
the thing that's sort of frustrating is
I understand
the desire to have the narrative about
those Obama to trump voters be about the
economic policies I happen to subscribe
to all the remedies of those policies
broadly speaking but I don't think
there's any data to support that and you
can keep you know every time we have
another one of these studies we can keep
saying you know dancing around the
economic stress but but the but the
reality is and like there's if there's
no way to measure economic stress
there's no way to make that argument
well there's something comforting about
that argument because it then gives it
puts the bond our court right then we
can do something about and the economy
was measurably better in 2016 than it
was in 2012 and so for those Trump Obama
voters so you know like there's just no
data and I am open to it to make that
narrative the the it is quite possible
that you could appeal to those people if
you're providing them something that is
more important to them than their racism
okay
that's possible
that I theoretically at least and like
the Georgia health care versus
immigration thing Jeff yeah and and look
the the idea of people saying like well
that black guy is a little bit different
than the normal black guys that I deal
with or that are around here is I mean I
certainly am I certainly have run into
racists like that in my life without a
doubt so it's not that strange and I
would add the phenomena of hey man we
just had one non normal president for
eight years I'm not gonna go with two
right where's the white guy it's not
always that literal either though like
it's you're right it's it's really hard
to measure what I'm talking about
because part of what I'm talking about
is false consciousness people don't
always know why they do the things they
do or why they believe the things they
believe right and social science is
trying to fine that by asking a series
of questions that are not directly like
did you vote for this guy because you're
racist they measure a whole quantum of
of attributes and responses and then
compile the data show me the study that
says something different than that and I
am open to it but like we can't win if
we are telling ourselves stories that
are not true yeah and I don't mean to
downplay the importance of racism in all
of this but I think it was only one
factor like did people magically get
more racist from 2012 to 2016
I wasn't immediated I other things
that's what I'm saying is that I think a
yes they probably did in these instances
I think it's quite possible for that to
happen or they can act upon racism more
I mean certainly we've seen an increase
in hate groups right we've seen an
incident we haven't seen an indisputable
increase in hate crimes and so
people are acting on their racism more
so if we have people going out and Gabe
ashing we have people going out and
beating up you know you know or
spray-painting swastikas did racism
increase did anti-semitism increase or
do people feel there's an opportunity
for them to express it and it's a season
right I mean so that explanation is not
so strange that there could have been an
increase in racism after a black
president and a racially polarized time
with black lives matter demographics and
I mean that's very conceivable very
conceivable I just I never wanted
downplay the impact of economic crises
and we're seeing it all over the world -
we're seeing it in Europe in crisis mock
receipt yes their crisis he's lasted a
lot longer because it was austerity more
austerity there than there was here
we've been on a an improving trajectory
that doesn't mean that the baselines not
problematic but the there has been an
improving trajectory that's just the
reality let's go to this clip of david
bratt oh man yeah I was gonna say all
right we're gonna have to save this
stuff for tomorrow folks I'm sorry we
don't have time for another phone call
we do I don't know what happened to the
time today
we were getting close to it zero-sum
territory zero-sum territory all right
we got five more IMS train boy there are
exactly seven people in the country
enjoy the selection process of getting
health insurance on the exchanges in all
of them work for voxcom I think they've
all written a story about it Sam's
tinder profile hey girl swipe right why
don't you come over and sit on my chest
and read me Social Security reports
during the ninth inning of all red sox
playoff games
it'll stop me from having a heart attack
we may have to may have to pay for a
writer for that one Nick from Manitoba
the way the right talks about health
care is like a horse and buggy salesman
warning people these new automobiles
have no horse poop traps
that's a good one I'm gonna use that
black smart and black Marxist I may use
that in the debate this weekend I hope
that comes up I wish you could debate
ben shapiro on his sunday special in LA
though a dunce he is by far the smartest
conservative yeah apparently they
weren't interested in debate for him i
don't know what he golfs Pyrrhic
spiritual dan turkey worship and the
number one reason i am eagerly
anticipating the midterm elections is DJ
Dan are Keys inevitable drops in the
Blue Wave Jordan Peterson's tapeworm
while I can speak to nutritional value
of my host all me diet I can tell you
that from a constipation and impacted
Cohen are really helping my comrades and
I to form a proper beachhead in his gut
whoops gotta go here comes some Canadian
bacon bad idea society goodness turn on
the IMS the problem with the left is
that many writing eulogy think pieces
about Elizabeth Warren for taking a DNA
test and overly interrogating her
connection to Native American ancestry
while at the same time calling your show
insisting that you be nicer to Jimmy
Dore practice some level of political
strategy people a penny for your
thoughts one positive form of ACA
regulations rarely mentions how easy it
is for providers to deal with insurance
companies I'm a behavioral health
provider and the companies have more
employees serving providers and easier
and quicker payment systems oh that's
good huh that from I didn't realize that
was a function of ACA regulations and
the final I am of the day I think it's
been a long time to encourage for me
says Garth Leigh I love seeing the
amazing behind-the-scenes video from
last year's live event and I appreciated
the shout out from you in it it was
really very well done it makes me proud
to be a member of such a classy group of
people with such refined intelligence
and sense of humor I don't know where
this is going when will you guys do
another one and will there be a
documentary on a tool of yours truly
says Garza lay huh that was very nice
see you tomorrow early mad
to get to where I want
[Music]
I just got
yeah
[Music]
I could see where the choices made so
the option where you tell me
No
there
brakes
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
with the men
stay
Feifei
[Music]
