[Music]
Donald Trump was in at the g20 summit
and one point he jumped over in North
Korea here he is
though giving his Monday Morning
Quarterback take on the on the debates
he was asked by what's this guy's name
Karl Jon Karl in Osaka at the Imperial
Hotel Osaka Japan of legal 20 it's okay
Trump day it's all right here we go I'm
sure you saw the exchange between Joe
Biden and Carla Harris on the issue of
federal busing the federally mandated
busing Biden thought that was a bad
policy he tried to stop it Kamala Harris
said it was an important part of
desegregation including in her own
experience where do you stand on that
issue of federally mandated busing uh
well first of all before I get into that
I thought that she was given too much
credit he didn't do well certainly and
maybe the facts weren't necessarily on
his side I think she was given too much
credit for what she did it wasn't that
outstanding and I think probably he was
hit harder than he should have been hit
I thought he was hit actually harder and
as far as that I will I will tell you in
about four weeks because we're coming
out with certain policy that's going to
be very interesting and very surprising
I think to a lot of people Jennifer do
you have a question what do you think
Carmel Harris would be a tough opponent
for you given what you saw in that
debate you never know who's gonna be
tough they never know he seems tired but
oh but the good mary louise and
gentlemen we're only four weeks away
from a policy that is going to in some
way inspire the idea of busing i was
gonna say do you think like do you think
that in his mind first of all it
indicates to me that he feels like he
doesn't know anything about busing of
course not now to the extent that he
thinks he knows something about buzz and
so there's there's a couple of scenarios
one is you know it's nothing about
busing and it was just a classic trump
lie he he altered it a little bit cuz
usually you'd say two weeks instead of
four weeks but so there's a major policy
coming out before weeks now he could
think he knows what busing is about and
the policy could be literally about
buses like with new safety features on
buses yeah I'm gonna go with he thinks
busing is about merely getting kids to
school or it could be like we're good no
one's allowed to take a bus no more
buses Metro cars or workout or maybe he
has a national plan to integrate schools
lifted maybe we have a national rollback
brown v board plan or it could be
they're coming out with some type of
voucher plan I'm gonna actually guess
that in hits a twofer in his head it's a
new monster truck program which the kids
will like and will look good in 2020 and
his advisors are devising a really
horrible voucher I don't think right now
why yeah and I don't even think he's
referring to that I think it's just
lying I think well here's a here's a
follow up question on that thank you I
have a question about the border but I
just wanted to follow up quickly on the
question about busing do you see it as a
viable way of integrating schools does
that relate to the policy that has been
something that they've done for a long
period of time I mean you know
there aren't that many ways you're going
to get people to schools so this is
something that's been done and in some
cases it's been done with a camera
instead of a velvet love and you know
that's part of it but this has been
certainly a thing that's been used over
there I think if if Vice President Biden
had answered the question somewhat
differently it would have been a lot it
would have been a different result
because they really did hit him hard on
that one so but it is certainly a a
primary method of getting people to
schools does it relate to the policy
that you're going to unveil wait a
second what is now who is this it's
what's-her-face I can't I can't yeah
yeah the idea like does she not realize
in that moment that he doesn't know what
busing is like that she didn't go like
no I'm sorry sir like it I guess maybe
you can't ask like hey also just
incident you remind everybody what
busing refers to yeah joe biden thought
the kids she gets to school some other
way that guy's so stupid look notice how
it hits the school most kids want to
have their folks drive them or go in a
town car so you got a like velvet glove
it when they come into the bus you gotta
say like maybe make the bus and nicer
bus he doesn't know what it is but
Kristen Welker right but but I wonder
like does she not know that he doesn't
know what it is let's go back President
Biden had answered the question somewhat
differently it would have been a lot it
would have been a different result
because they really did hit him hard on
that one so but it is certainly a a
primary method of getting people to
school and is it does it relate to the
policy that you're going to unveil that
you just floated it relates to
everything we're doing and you'll be
hearing about it and over the next
couple of months okay
I just I just doubled it I doubled it I
doubled the time line
it was four weeks but it's really a
couple of months look here's the thing
we run wrote we're in veiling a walking
initiative
everybody's gonna walk all white kids go
to school in Lincoln continents Lincoln
that is gonna ban buses come on it's
time for a bus be so cowed like how do
you not like how does one of you just
not say well I know how they don't I
mean maybe I'm wrong but it felt like
that question she's like is this gonna
pertain to the policy you just floated
was her trying to protect his blushes
from being like obviously just not
knowing what bussing even means in
America people need to ask the hard
questions which is you have no idea what
this thing is do you what is this you
want me to be harsh why just really
could you explain what that is sir we
need to start a program where reporters
get their YouTube clicks monetized so
that they're incentivized to ask a
question like um you know what I'm this
is where I cash in do you know what
you're talking about and then that you
know we've got to figure out a way maybe
like we we do a some type of like hybrid
GoFundMe because someone like any of
these reporters are thinking like well
I'm not gonna get a bump from ABC or
MSNBC or
NBC yeah I'm just gonna get my
credentials bumped and then I'm just
gonna end up having a cover
you know either like I don't know some
horrible subcommittee hearing or get
fired it raises money for a weekly award
or sit they actually had a system like
that at Gawker and it does pit
journalists against each other in a
really nasty way but in this instance
yes it might be helpful real real shame
