welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Joseph serene Sione he is the president
of the Ploughshares fund Joseph thanks
so much for doing this it's my pleasure
Michael
so Joseph before we get to the some of
the specifics of what President Trump
has indicated he might do with regards
to intermediate missile treaty can you
sort of reset everything for us what is
the global infrastructure of arms
control agreements both maybe you could
give us just a sort of overview
including bilateral agreements between
the United States and Russia and also
international agreements that many
countries are still signed on to what
what is this sort of basis upon which
we've built a world where you know
miraculously these things have not been
used since the atrocities in Japan sure
I'm happy to do that you know I teach a
course at Georgetown University Graduate
School so I have an hour-and-a-half
lecture on exactly this topic how much
time do we have take an hour actually oh
that's great I'll sit back I'll go grab
coffee and listen on my headphone let's
we can do this real quick I mean you
know the the basic themes have are
pretty simple you know ever since the
the first atomic bomb on Hiroshima
there's been two impulses in the world
and one is we got to get rid of these
things and the other is we got to get
some of these things and those two
trends have really weaved in and out
globally and nationally and sometimes
one trend dominates and sometimes the
other and the efforts to control the
bomb started even before the bomb was
exploded some of the scientists who were
involved in the building of the bomb
realized we need a system of controls or
this is this could destroy humanity and
and and various presidents took took
various steps on this I think the most
significant step that most people think
is
John at Kennedy we negotiated with the
Soviets in the early 60s to have a
limited test ban treaty in response to
massive worldwide pressure to stop the
atmospheric testing of nuclear bombs
which were spreading radioactivity
around the world and was showing up in
mother's milk it was showing up in cow's
milk who's showing up in baby's teeth
you know so so so that stopped the
atmospheric testing mostly though the
underground testing continued and then
it was really Richard Nixon with Henry
Kissinger who forged the first limits on
nuclear weapons back in 1972 the
strategic arms limitation talks they
were called salt and then Ronald Reagan
comes along and he has with this treaty
the one we're talking about the
intermediate nuclear forces treaty
referring to missiles that fly in
between very short ranges that you would
use on a battlefield and the ocean
spanning ranges of our intercontinental
ballistic missiles these are medium and
intermediate-range missiles and he
reached a deal with Mikhail Gorbachev in
1987 and to eliminate those that the
United States and Soviet Union would
would take the some 3,000 weapons they
had built perfectly beautiful modern
working
missiles and would destroy them and over
the next few years they they destroyed
all 3,000 of them and pledged not to
build any in their Arsenal's to avoid
this risk of a regional conflict
becoming quickly a nuclear conflict
which would then spread to a global war
soon and that was the first time we
actually reduced the weapons rather than
just limited them well with that I to
more I want to give you two more
historical questions one on the negative
horrifying and one positive so I think
people are familiar with the Cuban
Missile Crisis could you give us a
couple of examples of you know probably
include the Cuban Missile Crisis because
that's always worth retelling of how
close we've gotten to either an
intentional use or accidental use of
these weapons and then actually well
let's just start with that one first
sure well I'll tell you what George
Shultz former Reagan Secretary of State
and bill Perry
the former Clinton Secretary of Defense
say that we we got out of the nuclear
the high point of nuclear risk in the
Cold War by sheer luck that we came real
close to doing this the Cuban Missile
Crisis Robert F Kennedy famously wrote
in one of his memoirs that that that in
one of his essays I should say that he
was on the lawn of the White House
during that crisis and thought this is
the last time I'm going to see the Sun
Rise and we really thought it was going
to happen but and so that's the one
people remember the most were a decision
away from nuclear war but there's been
about a dozen serious close calls as a
result of a computer glitch at one time
a training tape was inadvertently put
into the computers at NORAD our defense
system and we thought we were under
attack and they almost launched it
because they did the big board lit up
and they thought were under attack this
kind of incident was recently portrayed
in Madam Secretary they're the CBS show
their last episode of season four in May
concluded with just such an accidental
event so and then and so it's been we
really dodged it but the truth remains
what what Kennedy said at the UN in 1961
we were living under a nuclear sword of
Damocles hanging by a slender thread and
we could we could have a nuclear
holocaust by accident miscalculation or
madness so he said we have to eliminate
these weapons before they eliminate us
and that still the struggle were faced
we've come way down since Reagan started
the reduction process the INF treaty led
to the next
Reagan treaty that George HW Bush got to
finalizing sign the strategic arms
reduction talks or start which cut the
US and Soviet arsenals in half since
then we've climbed down by 85% we'd be
done reduce the number of nuclear
weapons in the world most of them are
held by the United States and Russia by
85% so we're down to about just over
14,000 nuclear weapons the trouble is
that reduction process has stopped
it isn't your
Oh talks going on there were no further
reductions going on and they're their
leaders in in almost all the countries
who want to increase the Arsenal's
including here John Bolton our national
security adviser is a big advocate of
ramping up nuclear weapons and he's been
against any reductions or control
mechanisms for his entire career yeah
okay so hope it will get back to the the
the sort of catastrophe of Bolton in a
minute on the positive side and I guess
you already outlined some of it but
maybe could you also touch on on
Reykjavik and yeah and and and also in a
post-cold war world I mean I know Barack
Obama certainly at least in speeches
outlined his vision of ridding the world
of these weapons what about the closest
time you know the closest we've gotten
whether it's been through actual policy
or even just national articulation of
Reagan Gorbachev Obama of people saying
we need to get rid of these things as a
global project okay so the closest we
came is reka vic and that's where you
know i was working on the House Armed
Services Committee at the time and I
thought Ronald Reagan was the devil I
was working for the Democrats and he was
he had a big armies buildup in his first
administration in his second
administration he had come face-to-face
with the nuclear threat and he said we
had to eliminate these things I thought
it was a joke I thought it was a ruse
but no he really wanted to do it and
when he got a chance to sit down we call
Gorbachev in Reykjavik in 1986 they came
inches away from a deal to eliminate all
nuclear weapons all of them George
Shultz was right there with him he still
tells the story and it got hung up over
a dispute over the Star Wars program Lee
so the anti-missile program that Reagan
had started both sides made a mistake
they should have agreed to some
restrictions on the program graden
didn't want to give it up Mikhail
Gorbachev thought he couldn't make a
deal if he came back to his generals
with an unrestricted anti-missile
program so the deal fell apart but
Reagan and Gorbachev kept up their
partnership and that's what led to the
INF treaty in 87 and that's what led to
the
New START treaty so they didn't get all
the way but they they started the
reduction process the second closest
we've come is Barack Obama who really
came in and I helped work on his
campaign and helped work on the nuclear
policy platforms he really came in with
the goal to institutionalize what Reagan
had envisioned and start thought he
could do it and make a big start of it
and he did his first couple of years
were good he had a news treaty for the
reductions he started a number of very
positive initiatives but he was met with
the 3 R's the Russians refused to
cooperate the Republicans attacked him
ruthlessly he made a big fight over
simple treaties like the one he had and
on the New START treaty and then finally
he faced the resistance of the nuclear
bureaucracy and to them it's all about
contracts and jobs and keeping these
programs alive and he his program
petered out
but now this is the exciting part here's
the good news we're going to have
another shot at this with the elections
that have just happened you're bringing
into power Democrats like representative
Adam Smith who will be most likely the
new chair of the House Armed Services
Committee who think was spending too
much on nuclear weapons who want to kill
some of the more dangerous new programs
that Trump is starting like
programs that would build new more
usable nuclear weapons for battlefield
use who thinks we have to change the
policy of the United States this is Adam
Smith so the president can't just push
the button and launch a war solely on
his own decision he wants to declare
change the policy so that we have a
what's called a no first use the US will
not use nuclear weapons first and with
that you get now getting this a couple
of years where you can have these
debates in the Congress maybe in Axum
legislation but really be the testing
ground for the next set of nuclear
policies that hopefully you can debate
in the 2020 campaign and perhaps have a
new president commit in 2021 with a
better plan than Obama had that accounts
for the resistance you're likely to face
that can get us back to reductions and
move us back on the path to
elimination and with that it's the final
thing I'll say I'll shut up
there is an international movement that
has arisen against nuclear weapons not
as big as what we saw in the 80s when
you had millions of people in the
streets but very significant in fact I
was in Oslo Norway last December to see
the nobel peace prize awarded to this
group international campaign against
nuclear weapons I can who won the prize
for their global campaign to get a new
treaty that the UN has passed on banning
nuclear weapons first time in the
nuclear age that we have a treaty
banning them saying they should be
illegal and this is picking up steam
they're hoping to have this treaty enter
into force with they need 50 nations to
ratify it they hope that in 2019 no
later than 2020 the treaty will actually
enter into force none of the states with
nuclear weapons have signed it but
that's the struggle seed who can
pressure them into taking meaningful
steps to reduce and ultimately ban these
weapons
