[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of Annie Elaine
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday January 22nd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
government still shut down Trump over
the weekend offers warmed-over jared
pablum really to be fair I guess Steven
Miller pablum meanwhile PPP polling
suggests martin O'Malley could win in
2020 and as the Supreme Court begins its
assault on gun control study shows you
suicide rates correlate with States
rates of gun ownership and at the
Supreme Court 5-4 majority revives the
ban on transgender people serving in the
military meanwhile on the west coast LA
teachers strike in day 5 is Denver
Colorado next over the weekend Kamala
Harris Kristin Gillibrand entered the
race 26 people owned the same amount of
wealth as 3.8 billion people on this
planet
I will repeat 26 people
own the same amount of wealth as 3.8
billion people best of all possible
worlds we all want to be successful
exactly for volunteers convicted for
leaving water for migrants or immigrants
in the desert the existence of local
papers is on the line as vulture
capitalists circle and Trump tried to
withhold disaster relief from Puerto
Rico because he's not racist and
speaking of which if you think the
border wall is some sort of totem for
racists the numbers said you are correct
all this and more on today's majority
report welcome back I hope folks had a a
good MLK day I imagine many did of
course from in terms of a national story
it was dominated by some jag-offs being
jag-offs 15 or old Jagan's being
jag-offs we will get to that briefly you
know I should say in a moment but also
some things happened on Friday before we
we or I should say after we ended the
show and we'll get to that as well the
digby and I had talked about the story
that had dropped from BuzzFeed about
what Donald Trump had told his lawyer
Michael Cohen and in terms of what kind
of testimony to give to Congress there
was a statement by Muller well we'll
talk about that in a moment we'll get to
all that and more folks but welcome to
the program thanks for joining us as you
know we are a listener-supported program
you can engage in that
in that activity of supporting this
program by going to join the majority
report calm we also have ads we'll get
to that in a moment
but before we do this was super curious
I mean there's a there there's so many
different cross currents going on
wrecking down the news that it's almost
I mean it honestly like the past we we
took one day off and it feels like the
last time we were on was six months ago
I felt like saying happy new year when I
came back honestly the amount of you
know we had to at least two Democratic
candidates announced over the weekend we
had all sorts of activity on the Muller
investigation we have this continuing
narrative of AOC and the the the
messaging that she's basically doing on
a whole host of issues that seemed
impenetrable well certainly three years
ago
Bernie broke down some of those walls in
terms of a discussion but but really I
mean impenetrable up until like I don't
know six weeks ago I don't know I've
been walking around with a card in my
wallet and longtime listeners will know
this of the of the the tax rates through
the 50s and 60s to tell people as a
party trick just to freak people out and
I have never heard anyone on television
explicitly say what the tax rates were
in the 50s and 60s like you know
explicitly and now it seems to be
repeating constantly basically because
of ALC and it's not gonna take long
before it becomes you know just sort of
like a another fact that is known like
we have Medicare so it's incredible and
what's amazing too is to watch what
the right try and react to this stuff
because it's not just that they they
have a classic crappy retort to this
it's that they are it's making them
Bumble and Bumble so here is here is
tucker carlson who is you know as we've
talked about over the past couple of
weeks a a I guess a an enlightened
critic of market capitalism and or is is
is is trying to play one on television
and he invites on an FBI guy to talk
about the mauler investigation but he
can't help himself to just take a pause
before we get there and it's fascinating
to see what follows both the FBI the
former FBI and his the former what it
was he the the former he was high placed
this is not just an agent right yeah
okay he's tell you was a former director
assistant director that's not you know
this is this is not like I was he had
the third guy in the Duluth office for
six months and so he has him on to that
because you know Tucker's trying to sort
of like thread this needle with his
market capitalism critique but also
trying to sidestep I guess like they
sort of the burgeoning movement on the
left that is founded on a capitalist
market critique and both he and the FBI
guy step in it big time in the meantime
Terry Church he was deputy assistant
director of the counterterrorism
division of the FBI and he joins us
tonight Tara we originally asked you to
come on tonight to talk about border
security but before we do I want to ask
you your response to this back and forth
between BuzzFeed in the special
counsel's office what's your take sure
Tucker well I'm uh I'm the skeptic
because of being in law enforcement but
I think it's
pretty simple when you take the election
and you take the house and you now
convert all the committees that you have
to investigating various aspects posit
for one second just I'm not sure exactly
he says he's a skeptic
he's a skeptical of I'm not sure exactly
what here but law enforcement guys
usually when they were accept achill
would just tend to believe like lawn for
like the existence of an investigation
was almost enough I was waiting for a
critique of co itself or a lovin and
then you take the house and you now
convert all the committee's that you
have to investigating various aspects of
the president United States then your
lifeblood has to be to react to stories
so you're going to see more stories
planted so that all these committees can
have a lot of work to do and I think
this is just more of the same and I
think we can expect more of this because
quite honestly the electorate in some
places is putting more and more
progressives and self-described
socialist in positions and ironically
years ago when I first got into the FBI
one of the missions of the FBI in its
counterintelligence efforts was to try
and keep these people out of government
why because we would end up with massive
dysfunction and massive disinformation
and massive misinformation posited and
now that's not supposedly what the
mission of the FBI is I'm not I hope I'm
not breaking any news here that that is
that was that was when they ran amok and
they got out of their Lane we were told
but the idea that the former Deputy
Assistant Director of the FBI is now
publicly admitting that one of their
agendas was to keep progressive you'll
see some Social Democrats out of office
I mean this guy I don't know how old he
was when he you know how many years ago
we're talking about but this isn't like
1952 right like this is he's talking
about the 70s or the 80s or the 90s
where he the FBI is supposed to be
keeping progressives and socials out now
first off to say that the reason why you
would do that is because there's too
much incompetence while you are
defending the Trump
administration that is actually ironic
the idea that the FBI tried to keep
people out of that that's just a
coincidence or it's a failure of their
abilities to do so so here's this guy
both claiming that somehow AOC has
control over all of the Democrats in the
party to who are forcing these
investigations and it's called oversight
which apparently there needed to be more
of the FBI during that time and he's
also saying that they bring about
incompetence in government which is a
hoot but here is where the civil
libertarian Tucker Carlson this is where
he really pounces one of the missions of
the FBI in its counterintelligence
efforts was to try and keep these people
out of government why because we would
end up with massive dysfunction and
massive disinformation and massive
misinformation and it seems to me that's
where we're at today I'm glad I don't
live in DC's or I don't know how you
start to separate this and make heads or
tails from it but it's a mess I mean
look if you believe in socialism if
you've got some program you want to
impose in the country tell us what it is
explain us how you think it works make
the case for it but these people are so
stupid and so emotional so overwrought
that they think that the key to run the
country is an endless series of gotcha
stories criminalizing political
disagreement I mean it's it's it's the
least straightforward way to run a
government I would I would say okay so I
guess it turns out that his civil
libertarian radar was not triggered
there but the it's quite clear that the
so-called socialists in the our
government to the extent that there are
any are explicitly laying out an agenda
of what should be done in fact that's
almost all that they get criticism for
on the other parts of your channel
Tucker and the idea that in some fashion
holding oversight hearings on a
president who's whose entire campaign
apparatus is rife with already with
convictions and guilty pleas seems you
know at best but the the you know
spurious so both these guys messed up
just in talking about the as soon as
they start to to bring it to this notion
of actual politics I mean and and I
think in one instance one guy has to
reveal that the FBI was incredibly
corrupt in his momentum those days and
and Tucker has to create a straw man
that somehow this is about SJW burger
and snowflakes exactly yeah remember the
other day when he sounded like Elizabeth
Warren with his critique of free market
capitalism there were moments in that
speech where he sounded like Elizabeth
Warren and then there were other moments
where he sounded like just like every
other makes you wonder what his real
differences are with these folks he
needed to but I I'm Wiggly after there
was an actual like even by Fox standards
you're not supposed to go on and show
the script like that so he needed to
just pivot I I'm amazed though that
there isn't been more talked about the
fact that the former assistant director
of the FBI has publicly stated that it
was their job as part of
counterintelligence is it one of those
things I mean that's just I know those
things that you have gone from like this
is super like how dare you the FBI's so
blah blah blah and now everybody's all
like yeah I saw the janitor of a movie
we all know this this is old news I
think it's partly that because also
partly like they don't want to they
don't want to criticize the FBI at this
point well that's the that's the danger
residual hashtag woke intelligence
apparatus
maybe this reminder came at a good time
well I don't know that anybody heard it
but
do our part it would be nice like they
killed Fred Hampton like it's insane
that people aren't talking about that
more Rasta don't work for the CIA folks
inevitably we skimp on that full night
of sleep we skip a workout or brush our
teeth with a tired old toothbrush not
anymore but we can't that's right quip
is a better electric toothbrush that can
help while some electric toothbrushes
are too abrasive qyp because you've got
to take care of your gums people don't
understand anything about dental hygiene
and everything I learned I learned about
fifteen years too late I don't know if
they want me to talk about that but
quimp has sensitive sonic vibrations for
an effective clean that's gentle on your
sensitive gums plus it has a two-minute
timer that pulses every 30 seconds to
remind you when to switch sides it's got
a multi-use cover that works as a stand
mounts to mirrors and slides over your
bristles to pack and protect your clip
on the go no wonder quip is one of the
first is the is one of the first
electric toothbrushes accepted by the
American Dental Association with
thousands of verified five-star reviews
literally everyone I know that I come in
contact with I don't feel good I don't
go into a bathroom now it doesn't have a
quip now I don't go into many bathrooms
but I'm just saying I'm doing
anthropological mocking exactly but I
have said over and over again electric
toothbrushes are the way to go but the
biggest problem is people don't use them
they buy them then they don't use them
you're the quip you will use because it
is basically the same size as a normal
toothbrush and they will send you every
three months a new bristle head so you
don't forget that you got to change it
every three months because otherwise
you're just brushing with you know you
might as well be brushing with a stick
and that's no good folks trust me you
think it won't happen to you but
periodontal disease is not a joke
I'm there believe me it is a it is
wretched so brush your teeth well the
quip helps you do it and that's why I
love quip with over 1 million happy
healthy Mouse due to quip starts at just
25 bucks and if you go to get quip comm
slash majority right now you get your
first refill pack toothpaste
you know just gossip hence refill pack
I'm so excited
even a battery you get that for free
that's your first refill pack free at
get quip comm slash majority GE t qu IP
dot-com / majority check it out folks
what if 2019 was all about slowing down
and being mindful oh yes no kidding
right looks like it's gonna be that way
imagine how many goals you could
accomplish that's why we're excited to
partner with comm the number one app to
help you meditate sleep and relax
kaalia practice like meditation and
prioritizing sleep can leave you feeling
more rested so you have the energy to go
out and achieve your goals if you go to
calm calm / majority you get 25% off a
comprar Miam subscription which includes
hundreds of hours of programs like
guided meditations on issues like
anxiety stress and focus including a
brand new meditation each day called the
daily column sleep stories this is my
favorite which are bedtime stories for
adults designed to help you relax before
you doze off head to the lavender fields
I'm allergic to lavender but you can't
tell the one here it's friends with
Stephen Fry or explore New Zealand with
Jerome Flynn from Game of Thrones
you know uses calm in addition to MU
you'll never guess my daughter a 13 year
old daughter is using excellent
meditation at school we'll see
she just started actually two weeks ago
for a limited time majority report
listeners get 25% off a calm premium
subscription at calm calm / majority
that's calm CA LM dot-com / majority get
on
access to all of calms content today at
calm dot-com slash majority give
yourself the gift of calm and start 2019
off right
lastly I'm sorry can we just take a
slight detour and I can close your eyes
breathe deeply you're in a soothing
lavender field
[Music]
yeah I sneeze I sneeze if I don't smell
it it's fine and the thing is is that I
could go into a lavender field and
probably I mean I wouldn't I don't get a
reaction when I see lavender because
it's never in that form it's a real
problem because people have lavender
soap and they don't warn you if I wash
my hands with it I have to like
literally wash it with I had this happen
to me this weekend yep what do you love
most about shaving with Harry's for me
precision well I like the the smaller
blade head because I can deal with the
asymmetry and my mind my nasal passages
but I just I get a good shave from it I
like the fact frankly that it is
inexpensive and it's shipped to my home
and I also I gotta say I also like the
handle it makes me feel like I'm a
grown-up
Harry's founders were tired of paying
for razors that were overpriced and over
designed so they combined a simple clean
design with quality durable blades at a
fair price as a result their replacement
cartridges are just 2 bucks each
thanks to Harry's 100% quality guarantee
if you don't love your shave they give
you a full refund no wonder they have
received over 20,000 5 star reviews on
Trustpilot and Google and they have
supported this show for years now for
years they're the oh geez there's some
of the oh jeez and they make me look
good when I go on to the few occasions
where I have to shave Harry's wants you
to start off the the New Year right so
they created a trial offer for our
listeners you go to Harry
dot-com / majority report you'll get a
$13 value trial set that comes with
everything you need for a close
comfortable shave including a weighted
organ amak handle a five blade razor
with lubricating strip and trimmer blade
a rich lathering shave gel and a travel
blade cover again our listeners can
redeem their trial set at harrys.com
slash majority report make sure you go
to harrys.com slash majority report to
redeem your offer and let them know I
sent you to help support the show all
right
let's check this out here to the the a
big story obviously over the weekend
came from footage of there was a big
right to life anti-abortion anti choice
rally this weekend in Washington DC and
apparently one of the things that the
the folks who want to tell women what to
do with their bodies do and look you
know that's what this comes down to
there is no there is no middle ground
here and I understand that for some
people the idea of abortion is icky
frankly the idea of any medical
procedure
I find icky okay well I just the idea of
anything that involves almost the human
body I think I find difficult but aside
from that but the reality is this you
are either placing the creating rights
for a fetus that necessarily infringe
upon the freedom of and the rights of
women or you're not that's it there's no
other equation and you have to make that
choice
so one of the things that these
anti-abortionists do is they send down
and I don't wanna play this one I don't
wanna play this one first what they do
is they send bus loads of kids from
Catholic schools to juice their numbers
and I'm sure that the majority of them
you know are are happy to restrict a
woman's right to have sovereignty over
her own body that's what they are told
in their parochial schools do I have a
problem with religious schools not not
necessarily although I think look when
we talk about all the problems of
religion a lot of it is because they are
it comes from fundamentalists of all
stripes who are who are educated in know
I want to see the other one first the
educated in these schools whether it's
you know madrasahs or yeshivas or these
Catholic parochial schools these are
where the fundamentals of versions of
religion are taught and a lot of secular
ideas are excluded now so apparently and
I've watched the entire two-hour video I
skip through I went every 15 seconds to
get to the parts where there was
confrontations but basically what
happened is this on the at the Lincoln
Memorial there's these guys called the
black Israelites and they basically get
on a soapbox and I imagine they do this
every Sunday they do this all over I
mean well they do it right here right
here at Fulton they do it I remember 25
years ago seeing them in Central Square
and in Cambridge they have been doing
this for a long time and they dress in
sort of a combination of like there's
there's a little bit of Halle Selassie
involved and there's they consider
themselves the real Jews and our Hebrews
or
light Israelites coming to Seder they
they often like carry a big staff
goddamn right by that I mean a stick and
they suit looking brothers I don't know
if they still do it this way but it used
to be one guy would read scripture and
then the other guy would repeat the
scripture and then give commentary and
it is the gist of what they have to say
is that they are the true Israelites
white people are bad and but they are
largely harmless now I imagine if you
have never seen them before you might be
somewhat intimidated there were four of
these guys I would also imagine though
if you're with a hundred other guys even
if they're younger the intimidation is
less so so what happened is these these
black Israelites were doing their thing
for like an hour because the video I saw
was actually shot by one of them they
always used to shoot the videotape of
themselves and then these kids started
to amass and they started to trade barbs
and at one point also at the Lincoln
Memorial were these indigenous Americans
who were who were basically doing a
ceremony and they tried to intercede by
walking in between this was about 20
feet 30 feet the kids were on the on the
steps and the the black Israelites and
they would try to intercede by just
simply going through and continuing to
play their drums and prior to this the
kids had already started to do like some
of their I would imagine were their
sports cheers at their sports games
which are all about them being hulk ish
one guy took his shirt off and led to
all of them i mean it's it's a little
bit scary to see you know a hundred
because I think there's about a hundred
students there right at least all guys
cheering in unison as if there's some
type of paramilitary we sure yeah no
kidding but and so the the native elders
came through started playing the drums
and the kids who apparently were not so
brave and boisterous that they would get
up in the face of the black Israelites
had no problem doing this
with an elderly Vietnam War of that
native and here is here's clips now the
one that everybody's seen is the one
with the with the guy who's got the
smirk on its face staring at the but
this is this is a little bit more
telling about what went on there based
upon my going through those two hours of
video
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
so basically yeah like literally a
hundred kids standing right in front of
these guys
admonishing each other not to touch them
mocking them and look 15 year old boys
in any context can be huge a-holes and
what they're doing is despicable they're
I don't believe I've even heard an
interpretation that they were somehow
trying to join in and thought that they
were involved in this you know in what
the elders were doing it's despicable
but what's really despicable is that
theoretically they have chaperones that
around there who are allowing this to
happen
they have come from a culture where even
their teachers at this school have no
problem with them sitting there mocking
this guy no problem with it whatsoever
and that's that's the issue here I've
seen 15 year-old boys do all sorts of
effed up things but when you've got a
hundred of them there who are on a
school trip and this behavior
incidentally was not confined to this
moment here is apparently this is before
somebody on Twitter the Covington
Catholic boys harassed my friends and I
before the incident with Nathan felts
even happened I'm tired of reading
things thing they were provoked by
anyone else other than their own egos
and incident there's just about 20
seconds of video it is three girls
walking by and like a dozen of these
guys yelling at them yeah they're
yelling Mogga
and build the wall at the right-to-life
think now look I would imagine if you're
gonna bring your students down that is
to a protest based
your religious principles that maybe
maybe if this was sort of a legit
exercise in anyway you'd say gotta be
respectful guys incidentally don't leer
in her ass women walking by and don't
mock natives elderly people who are
engaging in a a drum session I mean the
idea that these guys were either allowed
to just wander around without chaperones
which I doubt is the case or that the
chaperones just sat back and watch this
and you and anybody wants to make an
argument that they don't come from a a
sick culture it's one thing for kids to
do this but this is what happens when
kids do this they get punished or there
they're reprimanded by their teachers or
by their parents and that's how they
learn not to do this
rights where were the fathers well I
mean listen honestly let's just imagine
that this was a Catholic priest an
elderly Catholic priest who was there
you know saying you know Jesus says to
dah dah dah dah dah and a hundred black
kids or Latino kids from a local school
were sitting there go dancing around I
mean I'm gonna go crazy but I mean can
you imagine first of all the cops would
be there in about 30 seconds 30 seconds
and right now every news media outlet in
the country would be interviewing the
parents of all those kids how could you
let this happen and I can assure you
that none of those parents would have
the funds to get a high price PR firm to
justify what their kids were doing so I
think it's wrong to go out and single
out these kids because the ire should
not be on the kids it should be on the
context the parents and the school
that encourages this behavior by never
reprimanding them for it and by not
putting again the the idea that you
allow these fifteen-year-old kids to go
out and do this suggests that this is
nothing new in terms of like the
hands-off nature of the chaperones well
they're wearing literal symbols of
misogyny and white supremacy I mean from
their perspective it's not but so I mean
I don't willing to I understand but from
their perspective it's not but from
their perspective there's no way they
can justify that behavior like they can
justify we have a right to wear make
America great hats and they do but
there's no way they can justify the
behavior their actions and it's I would
suggest it's not a coincidence that they
were wearing those things and it
certainly makes the argument and it
strengthens the argument that those
things stand for racism and stand for
misogyny but from their perspective they
have no defense they have no defense it
also implicates you know the type of
person maybe who right-to-lifers to
definitely yeah when you shall build a
wall at a Native American it really lays
bare the real meaning of that phrase I
don't know that they they yelled that to
the I didn't mean I haven't seen
evidence of that
I saw evidence of them yelling it at
those girls those young women who were
walking by and I don't know if that
means maybe they showed more restraint I
listen I'm just saying in terms of the
evidence of what I've seen I've watched
two hours of tape and but what they were
clearly doing is mocking these guys
they're doing tomahawk jump yeah exactly
this is one where you don't need to add
the extra like we've got it right hey
chop is sufficient I mean it's just
simply uh you know it's appalling in
this day and age that you don't have
teachers out there like there's no video
of the teachers going guys get back over
there back on the bus get back on the
bus walk over there walk away there's
none of that how could that possibly be
how could that possibly be and then you
have to backfill that answer here is a
clip of Phillips Nathan Phillips
speaking about his experience there it's
conceivable I guess no it's not
conceivable after you hear the guys
speak or you see the guy but the idea
that he and two other guys his age were
attacking and challenging these they
were there to raise awareness for
missing and murdered indigenous women I
think it's what the protest is
specifically about so they weren't there
to like even really protest there
they're just I guess raised it were days
aware issue but the idea that that their
intent was in some way challenging look
the boys to the extent that they were
challenged by anybody whereby those
blockades or lights and they're bullying
nature comes out when it's clear that
they don't start getting aggressive and
in anybody's face until the the elderly
man comes up I had put myself in a
really dangerous situation you know
there's like here's a group of people
who were angry at somebody else and I
put myself in front of that and all of a
sudden I'm the one who's all that anger
and all that wanting to have the freedom
to just rip me apart you know that was
scary now and and I I'm a Vietnam Times
veteran and and I know that mentality of
there's enough of us we can do this then
Phillips describes the tense moments now
being replayed over and over again
online when a young man got right in his
face watch when I started going forward
and that mass of groups of people
started separating in and
and separating and moving aside to allow
me to move out of the way or proceed
this young feller put himself in front
of me and wouldn't move and so I could
if I took another step I would be
putting my my person into his presence
into his space and I would have touched
him and that would have been the thing
that the group of people would have
needed to spring on me I mean you know
the the idea that there is even you know
that it's what's what's weird is that
you don't even hear any of these
people's like teachers or parents or
without saying like our kids acted
poorly and we're going to punish them
and explain to them exactly what they
did right like that's all it would have
taken that's all it would have taken but
yeah this is this is this those
Wisconsin school kids who who were given
the Z Kyle and I don't know people are
digging up stuff on these other kids
about the practices at the school you
don't need to there's no way these kids
show up in that situation act that way
and all you need to do is see their
parents reaction all you need to do is
know the fact that there was no teachers
or chaperones there who told them not to
do this you don't need to see anything
else because that they don't they don't
pop out of the womb like that they get
grown they get raised like that and
again if these 15 year old kids were
black or brown the entire country right
now would be having a moment at like
what's wrong with the culture of black
and brown people that their parents
don't care about the way these kids act
I mean that's what we would be hearing
no I see a hundred little Brett
Cavanaugh's when I look at them and it's
horrifying
that's the that was one of the things
when Brett cabinet I was just like I'm
allowed to get away with that at that
age
that's how you raise rapists seriously
someone just sent me another video clip
I don't know if you want to play it yeah
I mean I haven't seen any but see what
it is I mean IIIi don't know I am dit to
you Angie do we know what's in it it
says newest I mean this is a tweet we
can watch the video but it says newest
video to surface of the Covington kids
shows one of them yelling to a group of
girls it's not rape if you enjoy it
oh yeah no that was they weren't named
it they weren't yelling that to the
girls they were yelling that to the
black Israelites and I think it was in
the context of I I'm not sure exactly
what was the context of but we can play
it if you want but I mean look it's
clear that the we don't need I mean
we've seen it this is when they were
confronting the this is when they were
confronting the black Israelites there's
more to that there's something we're
being like flippin fat in that yeah I
think I I suspect they were talking
about you know historical or whatnot it
is I think that that's taken out of
context but nevertheless there's enough
context there that still it's damning
stuff now they're wrong about how they
read scripture but to write about the
devil exactly
alright let's just briefly the Steven
Miller and Jared Kushner and Donald
Trump got together and put together a a
plan to I guess a new proposal they
called it to to get the government to
open up the idea was a three-year
extension of daca for dreamers and now
this is a hollow promise in in many
respects first off right now essentially
till the 15th of February and we may
hear something different there's a good
chance this ghost
take up the case so doc is already in
effect for at least a year nevertheless
still a horrible situation for them but
two or three years does not solve the
problem at all there's also a TPS fix no
I'm sorry the bill would not extend TPS
status for 300,000 areas they didn't
even put there nope it also limits
asylum for Central American miners they
will in it be ineligible for asylum if
they don't apply at a processing center
to be established in Central America now
what is problematic about this why do
you seek asylum you seek asylum if
you're a child because your parents are
afraid that you're going to get killed
or recruited into a drug gang in this
part of the country or or raped can
anyone see the problem with sticking
around and filing your application
they're like who's gonna be standing out
in front of the door watching who's
trying to get away like that's gonna be
someone's paid job you're the guy who
stands in front of the door and finds
out who we're intimidating was trying to
get away and then we kill that person
this is not a situation where people
like oh I'm going to spend the next
three months and I'm going to plan my
trip to the United States and then I'm
gonna go it's oh I got threatened today
I'm leaving tomorrow
that's why asylum is all about getting
to the country and then applying because
theoretically these people need to get
away from their situation and only fifty
thousand Central American miners would
be allowed to apply for asylum each year
only 15,000 asylum applications can be
granted well this is just absurd
right it's just absurd so the bill was
dead on arrival they knew it it was a
the same type of publicity stunt that
Jared was pushing the week before and
the whole thing is geared towards
getting people to say look this is the
fault of both sides this is the fault of
both sides I remind you that we are
still that three weeks ago the
Republicans were control of everything
and that a year ago the Democrats had
offered five times the amount of funding
for a deal and that in between those two
times Pence tried to make a deal and
Trump reneged there had been a deal made
and Trump reneged
no one can negotiate with anybody so
what kind of stooge would go on and say
this is both sides well Jake Tapper but
who's he interviewing so long as both
sides are not willing to come together
and have a real conversation and hash
out the differences and come up with
something that works best for the
American people
that's interesting though because it's
that you sound like you're not just
blaming President Trump on this you're
also blaming Democratic leaders in
Congress it's art both sides have
completely hardened their positions and
are unwilling to come together and work
out the differences and that's the
problem here it's a problem that we see
with a lot of issues that come before us
in Washington is an unwillingness to
just say hey here's my position here's
your's let's figure out how we can work
out the differences that we can mm-hmm
putting forward the best solution for
the American people our federal
employees and contractors and their
families have gone on for far too long
suffering as a result of this
intransigence where people are putting
politics before the well-being of the
American people and our country now even
in my most generous moments I would say
oh yeah the Paul
tics are when Pelosi says you can't come
to give the State of the Union address
that is you know politics she's trying
to highlight the fact that the
government is shut down and when Trump
endangered the lives of Congress people
by saying oh go you're going on
commercial flight you have Afghanistan
that's politics but there is a real
difference of opinion here I don't know
what Tulsi gabbard's what hurt what
she's offering what she thinks the
solution should be but I would be
curious to know what that is maybe it's
a non sellout solution like slats
yeah I mean she's a reasonable
bipartisan okay if the Republicans want
to lock all the kids in cages and the
Democrats want to lock none of the kids
in cages the moderate respectable
reasonable solution is to lock some kids
in cages I want to see what um I want to
see what exactly what hurt what she's
putting on the table like what's her
solution to this what's the solution
that's gonna bring everybody together
without politics
I think what's I think what's
particularly funny about this is I I
mean we've already talked about all of
the really serious policy areas where
she's got you know where there's major
problems with her but like her record on
this is not particularly even her
previous record on this is not rhetoric
is not particularly bad at all
so in this is also just like if usually
press your political malpractice like
this is somebody like if you're
interested in her and you want her to
cut a lien for herself in this primary
this is like opposite of proof of
concept like this isn't speaking to
anybody in this Democratic primary from
the most conservative to the most left
there is no constituency there for this
kind of comment I mean it's it's
actually quite bizarre I don't know what
like all of the people who have records
like this and I've talked like this in
the past I've been like been like cut
it's almost like you know those old like
those like cartoons like the roadrunner
like they're they have like
like smoke traces to get away from this
kind of rhetoric people like Cory Booker
and and she's just like stepping right
into it as if we're like in 2008 well
maybe she's so confident she's are
looking ahead to the general or or
exactly now it'll be interesting
straight to the general John Kasich
Tulsi Gabbard on third-party bid John
Kasich and I'll sink a trick I'll tell
you what Tulsi Tulsi uh she she serves
and I see a lot of people out here and
in Ohio that are upset hey Tulsi do you
know how surfboards work I'm in her
campaign event see why I mean the
taquitos I don't know what that would be
the ticket but not only do I think that
both side ISM is hollow gratuitous BS
right if you think that's the case then
you should lay out where you think the
two sides can meet if you're so
convinced that it's just politics there
could be an association but narendra
modi it is also super super bad
political instincts unless you're
already running to get a you know a vp
ticket that is not on the labels we're
all relaunch or i don't know i don't
know i don't know i don't know it's it's
bizarre it's bizarre totally bizarre
huh what it's worth even in that sort of
like lane you're talking about like the
kind of no labels garbage that that
rhetorics built for like her record is
not in some ways in some very good ways
it's not in alignment with that and in
somewhat like those buchanan i mean i
don't know that it would be packed be
canopy but who knows well that's a whole
who knows all right let's talk a little
bit about the the boise oppose
war this is sort of a fascinating
breakdown and then we're going to head
into the fun half this is important i
think in terms of knowing the the wall
the
his research done took polling data from
the Public Religion Research Institute's
annual American value survey and the the
research through cross referenced
support for the wall wall supporters
expressed vastly more hostile views than
wall opponents about the impact of not
only undocumented but also legal
immigration that's fairly obvious right
I mean if you're a supporter of the wall
you got a problem with on document
undocumented immigration and frankly all
the data suggests there's not a huge
quotient of people out there who are ok
with undocumented immigrants but have an
issue with documented immigrants so
obviously if you have a problem with
undocumented immigrants the the chances
are it's from your pool that has a
problem with immigrants period and
there's quite a bit of correlation there
I know a lot of people like to suggest
that somehow this is only about
undocumented immigration although for
some reason the Trump administration
won't extend TPS protections to people
which is legal document at legal
immigration but putting that aside for a
moment what this poll does show is that
there's also correlation oddly enough
between the wall and some perspectives
on folks is perspective on their fellow
Americans this is gonna be very very
surprising to people how's my sarcasm
voice it's pretty good three fourths of
wall supporters said the recent police
killings of African Americans were
isolated incidents rather than part of a
broader pattern of how police treat
blacks in this country the opposite of
wall opponents saw a broader pattern
3/4 of wall supporters rejected the idea
that 75% of wall supporters rejected the
idea that generations of slavery and
discrimination have created conditions
that make it difficult for blacks to
work their way out of the lower-class
nearly two-thirds of wall opponents
agreed with that statement
see a difference here folks
just odd this correlation wonder what
that would be almost two-thirds of wall
supporters said discrimination against
whites is now as big a problem as
discrimination against minorities it's
up there first oh my god big that is
really surprising super pic
three-fourths of wall opponents rejected
that view and in a nod to my theory that
racists and misogynist do not see their
racism and misogyny as distinct but
rather just like hey what they're not
like me nearly two-thirds of wall
opponents say the feminist movement
accurately reflects the views of most
women nearly two-thirds of all
supporters say it doesn't one-in-three
wall supporters say the movement the me2
movement has led to the unfair treatment
of men only 1 in 11 wall opponents agree
25% of wall opponents believe
discrimination against men is now a
bigger problem as discrimination against
women so that's one out of four wall
opponents think that men are
discriminated equally as women but 54%
of wall supporters say men do face as
much discrimination as women that's
pretty stunning like how do you go
through your life and experience that
how do 54% I don't over half of any
cohort go through life thinking
that that men are as discriminated as
women like in what context like there's
women's night at the bowling alley three
nights a week so we only get to like
what like honestly like where it's crazy
I mean but it's not crazy the Donald
Trump has known exactly what he's doing
and he appeals to racist probably
because he's racists I'm defenseless
against that kind of female insanity
yeah there you go that's part of the
problem there you go alright we're going
to take a quick break and the fun half
one more one more study this is worth
talking about youth suicide rates are
higher in states with high gun ownership
rates this is according to a team at a
Boston University School of Public
Health
household gun ownership was the single
biggest predictor of youth suicide rate
in a state the single biggest predictor
and I think the response that I mean I'm
just trying to imagine the response that
people on the right are giving to
something like this well that's just
because guns are more effective well it
might be a good idea to get rid of the
guns it's weird because people kill
people guns don't kill people
yet this correlates it is well known
that people with access to a gun are far
more likely to complete a suicide some
data had suggested that gun ownership in
general was associated with higher
suicide rates the research looked at
some questions isn't it possible that
gun households are systemically
different from non gun households right
so that it's just a total coincidence
that there's something about the desire
to have guns that leads everybody in the
house to be depressed and that the guns
don't cause the increase in suicide rate
it just happens that people who are
suicidal tend to have more guns which is
also not subsonic rates that that's not
enough but and and the the researchers
looked at the question is it possible
they're just higher rates of depression
and suicidal ideation in a gun household
even if that was the case that would be
a pretty compelling argument to limit
gun ownership that make you think of
killing yourself well know that there
are a certain percentage of people out
there who want to commit suicide the
maybe we should just prevent them from
having guns so they're not so successful
that to me seems like it but I want to
see how they vote first they they didn't
that turned out to be not to the case
for each ten percentage point increase
in household gun ownership the youth
suicide rate increased by 27% this was
in the American Journal of Preventive
Medicine the only other factors that
were associated with the overall youth
suicide rates were suicide attempt rate
and the percentage of youth who are
Native American so for example in Alaska
the soot youth suicide rate is fifteen
or so suicides per hundred thousand
people this is under age of 19 and just
about sixty percent of households have
guns in South Dakota the suicide rate is
fourteen point nine per 100,000 again
just under 60 percent have homes of
homes had guns in 2004 in New York and
New Jersey suicide rate is two point six
or so per 100,000 and you have rates of
20% have households have guns and in New
Jersey eleven point four percent I mean
I suppose you could look at this and say
all right well let me look at what
upstate New York is
because that's maybe more like it is in
in a place like South Dakota on some
level right maybe she's depressing to be
in a place where it's so rural and but
that's that's the fact the availability
of firearms is are contributing to an
increase in the actual number of
suicides not just leading youth to
substitute other means of suicide for
guns so there you have it
meanwhile the Supreme Court is reviewing
a case and we'll talk more about this on
the Second Amendment the case itself is
is narrow in its scope in terms of New
York City in a particular handgun
regulation but the principles that may
come out of it may essentially wipe out
the ability for any gun control possible
period end of story
so I'm not happy note let's go to the
fun half tonight at 7 o'clock see you
then
that'll be fun what Oh tonight's Tuesday
all right you say Michael Brooks show
Daniel Buster and Corey pine get your
tickets too there's only a couple dozen
left did a live show Friday February 1st
we had like a three-hour brainstorm
yesterday it's gonna be really fun you
play it out yeah we decided to take a
little bit of a different track on this
one yeah
patreon accomplished EMBs get the whole
thing this Sunday our second candidate
guide we're talking about Tulsi
gabbard's candidacy but it's really
going to also serve as kind of an
informal or illicit history of the RSS
the Indian paramilitary organization
that backs the BJP government as soon as
you said that I was immediately like oh
I know who that guy is
RSS yeah the guy who made the Real
Simple Syndication software okay yeah
yeah future show Jaime
Prada so this week on the anti Fattah
you can still listen to our episode from
last week where we talked about the
insane
Russian Netflix series about the life at
times of Leon Trotsky we also have a
bonus wherein I explained a stupid
inside joke that I got H John Benjamin
to say for my idiot friends the other
day at the live show and also tomorrow
we are dropping a brand new history as a
weapon it's been a long time coming I
think the last one was about six months
ago and Sean wants me to tease who the
guest is and not say it so in respect of
his wishes I will just say he's a very
intelligent chap who likes to get angry
about stuff and they're gonna be talking
about why the US never had a real Labor
Party or a socialist party Matt uh yeah
brand new literary hangover drop this
weekend the House of the Seven Gables by
Nathaniel Hawthorne and it's a really
good episode folks so check that uh-oh
we dunk on Ben Shapiro in it we bring up
the his old just sell your houses if you
live in the path of you know climate
change so right to the dumbest people in
a way what you do is you flip the house
pretty obvious of course it's a story
about property and that's an inheritance
so your house goes underwater what you
do is you would sell it
the level of stupidity of that comment
is so stunning like and and you can you
can it's it's stunning just from a
common sense perspective like somehow
the markets not going to be aware of
what's going to happen to that house but
you are right like somehow like other
buyers are just gonna be completely
clueless that's how he get his calculus
also from a like a morality perspective
like if you can find a sucker who will
buy your lemon but you sell it to him
but then there's also a fundamental
misunderstanding of policy houses who
are on the coasts are able to sell for
one reason because the government
subsidizes insurance coastal flood
insurance period end of story
insurance companies will not insure
these things maybe you want to live in a
giant indoor swimming pool the market
right there of it unless the government
decides not to subsidize the only reason
why people can afford to buy those
houses you cannot get insurance for they
think beds more interested maybe is did
more about ideas well secretary good
ideas you incidently right he is the
leading intellectual on the right is
that right yeah so if you follow him and
he tries to challenge a oc2 debate which
he does basically weekly just get in his
replies and say he should debate sam
cedar there we go he's great also with
that AOC stuff they're like nobody cares
she's so lame I'm gonna go tweet her
again now yes exactly I mean she's a
complete afterthought let me just say
that for the sixth time today to her
like I the it's all I'd like to do is to
challenge the people debate we're never
going to debate well maybe you should
dress a little sexier and he'll pay more
attention to I don't know if I can
actually them who pull it off but I
thought I had today folks
your support makes us
possible become a member at join the
majority report calm also don't forget
just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea
or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off for whatever reason
I was recounting the the story of the
Mike Serna thing and the one of
the key moments and all that development
was the the folks at just coffee
sending me an email tipping me off that
Serna was attempting to intimidate
our advertisers they are in addition to
being purveyors of fine coffees fair
trade coffees and being a co-op and
being the folks who gave free coffee to
the folks in Madison back in 2011 during
the the protests against Walker they're
also just like genuinely strong movement
partners and and great people so just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate using coupon code majority get
10% off see you in the fun half six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are back
just want to gray the white man almost
has one
I am a total can we bring back the
EGD anarchy song yeah are a couple you
put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break
[Music]
Markinson and the alpha males Oh psych
what
a lot of bang
back
[Music]
all lives matter have you tried doing an
impression on a college campus I think
that there's no reason why it reasonable
people across the divide can't all agree
with this psych
blocked
the male's
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have a
thought experiment for you the alpha
males of
[Music]
someone needs to pay the price request
me around here like I am a total
all right we are back it is the fun half
ladies and gentlemen you can IM us via
the app at majority app.com if you don't
have it we're still working on that web
based version of that gotta get on that
put that on the list of things to do
look I want to just start by saying you
all know my good friend Wow the person I
debated I should say say Charlie Kirk I
mean I don't I don't know if he's a bad
person or not I just think that he does
bad things in public and not not
horrific things I just think he espouses
ideas that are mean and cruel and and
what I mean by that is he puts out
tweets that say stuff like health care
is not a right I mean here's one time
where he he did that let's take a look
at this he said it to Bernie Sanders but
I believe he believes it just
universally health care is not a right
and never should be rights come from God
not government and relationship to a CNN
debate no he may have changed his mind
because this was almost 12 months ago
but I suspect he hasn't maybe he has
well but when something is a right that
means that you have the ability to
access it and and not just the ability
to access it but literally can receive
it that there the government has an
obligation it is a right insofar as that
the government must provide for like
look we have determined that the public
schooling is a right for kids in this
country and the government is obliged to
provide for it in a specific way
in fact
you can't just throw up a building and
say it's a school there have to be
certain standards and that doesn't mean
that we have people who are forced into
teaching at gunpoint
that doesn't mean that teachers who
decide like ah I've gotten my teaching
degree but I'm just I'm gonna do
something else
they can't be you can't barge into their
homes and say sorry that job as a real
estate broker you want to get no uni
must go back to teaching that doesn't
happen now I don't know if we had a
system that recognized health care as a
right if well we should say this let's
start with this
unfortunately for charlie kirk the other
day apparently he was i think he might
have been working out i'm not sure
exactly what but his buddy
kyle Keshava who I guess is also at the
turning points USA a tweeted last night
I'm with buddy charlie Kirk in Los
Angeles who was rushed to the hospital
for a potential bug blood clot
throughout his back can't stand and the
hospital said there is no beds available
and suggested he lay on a bench outside
cedars-sinai hospital disgrace now look
I don't know if and first of all this
should not happen to anybody this should
not happen to anybody
I don't know if we had a system in this
country that perceived health care as a
right if we would have a situation where
a hospital either a is so overwhelmed
because people can't get proper care
from their primary care doctors that
they rely on the emergency room and it
it takes up all the beds or be if
emergency rooms would be you'd have to
equip them in such a way
despite your profits had room for
everybody who needs it but I suspect it
would certainly go in that direction and
the question is is like why is this a
disgrace why is it a disgrace it's a
disgrace because people who are ill
deserve to have health care immediately
they don't deserve to be rejected for
any reason now this is just a pure
physics reason right we have ten beds
there are 11 people your back is hurting
find a bench and that's wrong it's a
disgrace but can you imagine if it was
we have 10 beds we have 9 people but you
can't come in because you don't have
insurance or you can come in but this is
going to bankrupt you and your family
you're gonna lose your house because of
this that's also a disgrace I wonder and
I hope that as Charlie is recovering and
I do hope he recovers I wish him a
speedy recovery if he thinks about the
idea that he should have just relied on
God to fix his back that the market
forces don't always address all of our
problems that maybe we need an advocate
for people who are far less advantaged
than he is and out Charlie knows I've
seen the tax filings and we had talked
about he did get a raise it's my
understanding so he's a lot more
fortunate than a lot of other people
sure I live like a capitalist every
single day ah like God like god I hope
Charlie that as you're sitting in bed
that you take time to to you know maybe
this changes your perspective just a
little bit I mean his paycheck relies on
you know his not having his perspective
change but on the other hand I mean
is the right-wing path if he's have a
guy he's personable he's well yeah I
don't think he's a bad guy he could find
well I don't know that he's not a bad
guy I'm just saying he's pretty I don't
know I don't know him well but I know
that he's personable he certainly has a
skill set that I think he could find
other words you mean that's marketable
skills he's not for evil exactly I
assume it exactly super I think I think
as Charlie my sense is that Charlie does
a little more reading and at one point
he will into stuff that isn't so that
isn't just literally delivered to him as
talking points that I think he may he
may yet find that his politics change
right well not to be a Pettit then
because that's kind of what I meant by
and then in order for him to do that he
would have to on some level not be a bad
guy you know I mean like the interest of
actually going out and reading some
books and using this experience to
expand his intellectual and empathetic
rise right now right now but they would
have to on some level not be a bad guy
well I can I time will tell also like I
have a pretty tight deaf like I don't I
think that there's only a few people out
there that are really like bad guys you
know sama bin Laden Adam Bertram Ben
Shapiro right bad hombre at the risk of
getting serious I just want to say
please know hey buddy I know we got some
differences but you're strong and you're
gonna pull through this and you're going
to accomplish what you were put here on
earth to do and I am of course speaking
to the blood clot well that's not nice
better hope he gets better I saw that
one coming it was a setup
this guy's was sort of oh well let's
yeah let's talk about Mike Pence let's
talk about it Mike Pence went on faced a
nation to celebrate of course the this
was on Sunday right and right before a
Martin Luther King and I'm sure he was
calculating a way in which how can I
seem like I'm honoring Martin Luther
King
but really really smear his legacy in
some fashion and he turns to one of his
his reactionary staffers and he says
that's the challenge gentlemen of course
they're all men and they come back and
pitch him let's see what one this week
on Face the Nation I think what the
American people saw the president do
yesterday was say I you know I want to
set the table for us resolving this
issue in a way that achieves his
objectives to secure the border in the
humanitarian security crisis and the
government shutdown but also to bring
together bring together the Democrats
priorities to accomplish that that's
what the American people expect us to do
and honestly you know you know the
hearts and minds of the American people
today are thinking a lot about it being
the weekend where we remember the life
and work of the Reverend dr. Martin
Luther King jr. but one of my favorite
quotes from dr. King was now is the time
to make real the promises of democracy
you think of how he changed America he
inspired us to change through the
legislative process to become a more
perfect union that's exactly what
President Trump is calling on the
Congress to do come to the table in a
spirit of good faith will secure our
border will reopen the government and
will move our nation forward as the
president said yesterday to even a
broader discussion about immigration
reform in them build that wall you got
to build that wall lock her up we owe
that well now look at outsides want
border security Mexico will pay Mexico
hey by the new negotiated NAFTA
agreement meanwhile let's have the boys
from the n-c-double-a and give him some
Berk as that is oh my god we got Papa
John's I know how do you how do you say
that like how are you capable well you
know you talk about a bad guy how do you
how are you capable of articulating that
and not feeling like oh my god
so despicable that it's hard for me to
not at least smile like how do you not
even break how you cracked it I offer
daca but the Democrats are taking this
like a joke he that's a pollution Nancy
Pelosi more like Nancy ms-13 members
yeah my right folks collusions
Andalusian well I don't know how that's
how right-wing Mandela was born more or
less like when Rick Santorum Santorum
compared the fight against Obamacare to
the struggle against apartheid and that
was one of the first times it was like
the only proper answer to this is
exactly the same thing well
remember when Ricky Rubio kept saying
about Jeb Bush he knows exactly what
he's doing right I think like pants when
he said Trump offered Pelosi candy right
like that to me is he knows exactly what
worked how we're gonna take that too as
like he knows where he's insulting our
intelligence well but he's trying to
make it like that's we saw that Bush was
doing that with he said Obama knows
exactly no no Rubio I think oh I think
you know it always a little bit Obama oh
yeah but but George W Bush he keeps
giving candy to Michelle Obama in public
as some way of showing like we can
bridge the partisan divide and that's
why pence did it everybody told us about
Iraq but no one wants to talk about
skittles yeah you were right it was
doing he knows exactly what he's doing
those exact trigger the libs by using a
symbol of civil rights as well as
socialism against everything that he
stood for but it's not just like I think
there are a whole host of people out
there who are like the the Beltway
establishment centrist press that
actually use this stuff as like it
builds the scaffolding for the the you
know for arguments like Tulsi gabbard's
like you know it's both sides type of
thing Jake Tapper's you know these uh
these Catholic boys you know
Jake is that we aren't sitting down in a
room and hashing it out with candy with
candy
yeah I'm saying I think these more I
think he way what's up candy it's man
Carlson's wife alpha boo right there
Phillips yeah all right
speaking of like a chilled Randolph said
we need a ride aboard of security the
nuclear negroid Sam last week one of
your callers maligned the delicious
traditional Indian dish known as butter
chicken by suggesting it's not authentic
as a proud enthusiast of accessible
Asian food I'm tired of being shamed for
ordering dishes like this drow sells
chicken and beef teriyaki
please don't platformer sweet meat hate
on your program thank you Wow Jonathan
Armstead can you give me some inside
dirt on being an MSNBC contributor I had
the TV on the background this week in a
certain contributor I won't name
appeared on three different shows in
four hours how does that happen do you
guys get your own offices and hang out
during the day practicing your take and
waiting to get called into the big game
like a baseball pitcher or did this
particular person just have their own
mic on them in case that happened like
dr. Joyce brothers in that one episode
of The Simpsons okay so my I am NOT paid
like a typical contributor at MSNBC I am
NOT on retainer for them I did not want
to be on retainer for them because I
don't want to have to do stuff like that
I want to be able to choose which shows
I go on and when but there are people
who are on retainer and they have to do
a certain number of appearances a week
and they get called in and particularly
in dayside the producers see they're
going to be in and around and they
booked them on subsequent shows that's
basically it - my under my understanding
is there is no commissary there that
people hang out at if that's the
question Bret Donald Trump's gone too
far yeah I'll see you in a block as well
I support the strong military tax code
agenda but he definitely should have
called that kid a see you five
tabs tomorrow a busy busy brother from
right tulsi reminds me of Rand and Ron
Paul people on both sides of the aisle
like some of their positions however
they aren't taken seriously as a
presidential material when it comes to
voting the disco Stu hate watching Fox
News last night and who do I see on
Laura Ingraham none other than Glenn
Greenwald there to run interference for
the cub calf boys weird how he keeps
ending up agreeing with most you know I
saw that clip and I don't think I don't
think that's a fair assessment of what
he did I think look there was a lot of
people who were had tanks based upon a
short clip and it's very easy to look at
like the heading on a tweet and four
seconds of video and there should not be
in my estimation a there should be
particularly if you're a media person I
mean look at social media that happens
but if you're a media person you have a
responsibility in my mind to at least
either not open your mouth or go do just
a little bit of doodoo due diligence I
had plenty of stuff to do I wanted to
comment I knew I'd have to comment on
this today and so I looked through a
two-hour video people need to do a
little bit of work on this stuff because
the situation was a little bit more
nuanced it didn't make it any less
racist it was just a little bit more
nuanced and so you need to project that
it seems to me plus I also think it's
inappropriate to go after 15 year old
boys which was his point and I yeah I
mean look I think he's trying to
critique a reaction economy online which
I agree with him on but he also goes on
to say very quickly in that piece
like what they did was horrible right
right he doesn't yeah I mean that's
that's the trouble it's like again I I
know he like keep going through the
cycle of grant Greenwald and I'm remain
being a Greenwald defender but part and
even though there are things that he
just says straight up that i 100%
disagree with but the trouble is is that
you know people summarize his
appearances in ways even the gabbard
thing which i had problems with but I
finally watched it it was like he did
actually acknowledge that she had rigged
that there were a lot of valid critiques
of her and he could talk about the Hindu
far right so I don't know I think people
are gonna need like people want Glenn
Greenwald to be Michael Tracey and he's
not like Michael Tracey kind of does
what people say Glenn Greenwald does
like we were saying all the time and we
don't defend the Michael Tracy the Swede
now I'm confused according to Glenn Beck
those Catholic kids are the MLK of our
time Nate from Casey Bernie for
president because primaries are in
negotiation we need more concessions
from centrist candidates besides the
tacit support of Medicare for all when
it doesn't matter as much coal addict
you should invite Kyle kolinsky for a
casual Friday joint show next week his
birthday is the day before III should
have Kyle on on a Friday I don't know
about for his birthday but Sean screw it
Sam a Terry Crews Laura Ingraham 2020
let's just get this idiocy over with
finally John Doe Sam did you see idiots
like Ben Shapiro are defending the
Catholic school boys that does not
surprise me
Kentucky Fried comrade hey em our crew
wants to give a shout-out and honor our
old friend John McCain's brain tumor
your memory lives on and Charlie Kirk's
blood clot solid oh yeah rationalize
errs not rational in regard to the
corporate media perpetuating the both
sides myth and seeking to find
reasonable Republican it is my belief
their job is to essentially serve the
duopoly falsely equivocation it's not
the word you want to use but in feigning
naivete is with Paul Ryan our media
pundit methods to maintain the two-party
trap given the evidence and how profit
aligns those interests it's the only
logical conclusion I don't think it's
that complicated frankly I think it's
more complicated
I don't think that there is a a vested
interest in maintaining the two-party
duopoly
I think it's just like their job is
easier if they don't have to assess the
reality of the situation and frankly
that's what I you know like I say I was
talking to somebody about it this
weekend I mean that that's what happened
with the CERN of its thing the media
outlet that I work for did not bother to
assess the reality of my comment right
like they had all of this evidence 14
years of appearances on the network
literally thousands of episodes of me
talking for hours some public writing 9
years of tweets a lot of people who
would substantiate that I did not want
my that I was not in earnest and serious
about choosing who I would want to rape
my daughter plus they also have a
multi-million dollar infrastructure to
determine the truth of things and yet
they did not want to make a
determination of the truth it is the
exact same dynamic they want to they
want to make it like their job is not to
find the truth but simply to report
what's out there and they are afraid if
the truth in any way supports one
perspective more than the other that
they will not be achieving their goal
and it is a it is a and and their goal
is probably just more of a function of
money that they're afraid their market
share is going to contract if they
commit I felt a lot of pride in
supporting george w bush and when he
responded after September 11th we were
one nation now i pre
that Donald Trump is recognized
Jerusalem as the undivided capital of
Israel however his language can at times
be divisive thanks for having me on all
right
see you tomorrow morning I'm on to Joe
JB tweet Rick Wilson can you repeat the
source of the wall supporters I think
would say what was that yes I can but
you have to bear with me oh I can't find
11:00 we'll find it yeah while you're
looking for that steven crowder put out
a new tweet about his change the mine
thing so if you want to flood the
replies on that one as well here it is
hold on we will the the report is from
CNN did a write-up of it Ron Brownstein
did the report is from the Public
Religion Research Institute uh steven
crowder build the wall change my mind
real Donald Trump is right about this
one looks like he's feeling better about
it there's a new change my mind video
coming oh that's good there's a new
changed my mind video coming about it so
I would be really willing to try and
change your mind but I see that you were
out there with a tent somewhere I don't
know where that is
he's well enough to go outside oh he's
back oh did you guys watch that Owen
Benjamin thing I sent you oh no it's
going on i watch it Oh guys now people
prayer making if you want to I thought I
had a company that's because I said to
the call oh I'm not saying that we went
through this no no I'm not saying that
you should play it no you should watch
it it is a compilation of
of apparently a live stream he did and
was drinking and he's been thrown from
the Crowder the good ship Crowder it's
unclear to me if he thinks that the moon
landing is fake but he reminds me of a
friend I used to have who you know would
joke about things and then at one point
actually he had turned out he believed
them and just because you talk about
enough I don't know
Funkmaster cook Sam there's a guy I work
with who thinks that men are more
oppressed in women and wants to debate
sidenote he loves Sam Harris and Jordan
Peterson oh I would love him to call it
great tell me his uh his area code
speaking of which calling from a nine to
nine area code who's this where you come
from
hey this is Alexander from Brooklyn
Alexander from Brooklyn what is on your
mind yeah I'm calling about the charity
stream for Chen the trans charity
mermaids UK that took place last Friday
okay it's just on the twitchy thing yeah
twit twitch and twitter on if you have
it subscribe to H bomber guy he's a
British streamer and youtuber he has a
lot of really good videos yeah I'm
actually just looking at his tweet
somebody had tweeted that to me and I
couldn't I just saw it just as I aged
bomber guy and I think also contra
points for doing something to raise
money and then a medium is that true
yeah bunch of people a OC also oh great
popped on for like 15 minutes but yeah
I'm actually calling about I really
wanted to get ahead of the backlash
against this charity stream so for
context what happened in 2018 the
British National Lottery gave and then
took back five hundred thousand dollars
of funding for this organization that
helps trans youth and like gender
non-conforming individuals like just not
kill themselves in a very
heteronormative society like the UK and
yeah there was it was all perpetrated by
like a few comedians like Graham Linehan
there was like some other guy like
Robert Webb
criticizing the organization saying it's
a throwing around the word ideology a
lot I don't think they know what that
word means and yeah they just kept
pushing on that button until that 500k
just disappeared
and so each bomber guy comes in gives a
charity stream one two praising not five
five hundred but he raises three hundred
fifty thousand dollars of just private
donations I think that the largest
donation was five five K so there was a
lot of people pitching in Wow cool yeah
I want to yet I'm sorry the the thing I
want to get out ahead of is the backlash
is start to sound and this is before
even there was any backlash a lot like
acorn where I do feel like there are
going to be a lot of right wing attacks
to try and get just that organization
put under I was looking through and they
published a Forbes who I go to for all
my transgender related articles of
course they publish an article and some
a turf pseudo-scientific hokum and the
experimentation on children's bodies
just attacking the organization putting
out a lot of misinformation about them
and I feel like this is going to swell
now that this is like British Montana's
nation right okay yes yeah it's just I
mean this whole article just reeks of
just like opinion and like this poorly
thought-out arguments I mean they
reference like some people that the
organization itself mermaid UK was tied
to that they are not responsible for
their actions I mean there was this one
court case that I read through that they
seem to be like blaming mermaids totally
on and like I mean going through
mermaids was mentioned once in the
proceedings it was about a mother who
ostensibly forced their child to live
identify as a girl I mean like it's just
these ancillary things that aren't the
fault of mermaids that they are pinning
on the organization that I feel like is
going to snowball into this another just
right wing
job and destroying another like useful
charity yeah I know I mean I don't have
a sense of like I don't have a sense of
who in in UK politics is that force do
you know what I mean who on the right
like what sort of media yes I think and
the trans stuff is more central to
British politics right and I also would
say that a business in the you yeah
press to like they have tabloids I mean
I know obviously America has a very
robust horrifying right-wing press but
they have places like the Daily Mail
that are like you know a mainstream
tabloid that are literally like
historically brown shirt publications so
I don't know if yeah a bunch of vessel
type of very structure you have to
launder it like that there you know they
can just do it more straight up there
well so from your perspective what's the
best way to be supportive of the
organization is 100% just go through
what they publish in the past about this
organization look up what I mean there's
so much nuance here that they would just
make some like normative claim saying oh
they're associated with this there's
this really actually funny thing that I
pulled up a citation and their article
about a where is it a someone who
advised a like pitch Dr Weber Lee she's
a she works with transgender youth and
at some point they state that she was
discredited for like offering like drugs
to minors and they post a link saying
that oh she's still like advertising on
their their site still like trying to
get their using their their platform and
they they their link goes to the wayback
machine it doesn't go to the actual
mermaid's UK site it goes to a cache of
the site before they actually removed
her and so it's just it's just a lot of
like really like high speed politics and
yeah I don't know there's just I just
want to like conclude with that like I
mean it's very important what H bomber
guy did and more
people should like visit his stream if
you doing any more charity drives but
also just like keep informed just know
how to punch back when the right light
comes out these organizations because it
is public perception that they live on
like what will ultimately kill them is
the public turning against them yeah I
don't know and it's a it's a good day
for us for gamers like yeah just want to
say right wing right wing Mandela and
I'm okay they were gamers and yeah we're
really coming out of really yeah I was I
came up this is some good news the LA
Teachers Union has reached a settlement
to end their six-day strike I don't we
don't know the details yet of of what
they have settled on but much of this
was about shaking money loose from the
state you have a completely blue state
owes the totally blue state at this
point whose dollar per student spending
is somewhere in the middle of the
country probably around 20 or 25 or
something like that and they should be
like at one or two I prefer New York to
be one of course but they should be at
the top in terms of dollar per student
spending and charters of course are
cutting into that that's Cory Booker
like I don't know what he's thinking
about but this is akin Cory Booker going
down and Cory Booker going down to New
Orleans and celebrating the complete
chartoff occation of the New Orleans
public school system is aside from it
being reprehensible in terms of the the
public policy involved in this
this is like akin to Hillary Clinton
insisting on doing Goldman Sachs
speeches in the wake of the financial
crisis in fact in some ways it's worse
and I'll tell you why because there was
nothing in those speeches that was
anything other than her going and
getting money from problem and pablum
and at the very least she spoke about
the the problematic aspects of Wall
Street I don't know what her reforms
would have been she didn't do so well
with the bankruptcy bill but it's a
different era and there was room to
change but here's a guy who has been in
the pocket of private equity and their
push for charter schools across the
country and continues to do so when he's
made all these like this is a guy that
was the point I was gonna say like he's
shown okay like he voted the wrong way
on drug imports he flipped on that fast
he's even sort of tried to modify
slightly his line on middle-east stuff
by supporting the Iran deal and but you
even go back 2012 I mean he undermined
Obama's reelect campaign because they
were running these incredible anti Bain
Romney ads and he said that they made
him sick do ya stomach yeah when he saw
those ads that's undermining Obama's
reelect yeah so I just think that this
shows you and I think we have to Frankie
measure this with all of the corporate
candidates who are rebranding themselves
what is their breaking point in terms of
like where they'll actually pivot and
it's clear it's like charter schools are
how he started his career and they're
not going anywhere private equity
private private equity that was the
thing that he did to run against the
city and he would never come back out
and say no never come back out and say
that it's wrong to attack the private
equity vulture capitalism of Mitt Romney
I don't think he'd be dumb enough to say
that no you won't be dumb but he's he's
not dumb and so this
that's what is so important here this
isn't just a mess up this is like I'm
determined to go all in on the Charter
thing maybe because he also recognizes
there's no way you can get out of it and
I think it's interesting like when he
got his start I looked at into this
again recently right like he ran against
I guess what you would call like a
machine in new oh one guy machine whoo
yeah incredible claims there was
corruption issues there's all sorts of
stuff but at the same time yeah but it
is interesting to me that after he comes
in there and does all this stuff with
private equity and charter schools and
demonizing teachers unions and then a
whole Facebook thing which chris
Christie was involved in you know the
mayor of Newark now is the son of amiri
baraka and a teachers union activist so
like that legacy did not work well in
Newark no I kind of want to anticipate a
lot of the arguments that are gonna come
out from like woke neo liberals or
whatever about why cory booker camel
harris is the best candidate for
president and representation blah blah
blah if you support charter schools in
new orleans in this day and age after
everything that's come out about them
you support white supremacy . i mean the
the the the reality is is that there are
a decent a number of people in the black
community who see charter schools as
their only opportunity to get a decent
education and in some instances in this
moment that may be the case but the
reality is is that down the road that is
going to be that that victory is going
to be Pyrrhic and we go back waiting
there their kids yes that's waiting for
superman scene right like well first of
all just how sick it was that it was
portrayed like these kids waiting in an
auditorium to see if they'll get into a
halfway decent school is like a dramatic
arc instead of just a grotesque
indictment of the right system which is
exactly what it was but right i mean
sometimes people's personal needs which
are totally legit
an important are you know not the same
thing as the broader policy goal we need
the point is it's nuanced in that
respect because the there's a hard way
and an easy way to make sure that
communities particularly living in in
less affluent areas and in areas that
where there's a lot of poverty will get
well-educated or will get opportunities
for good education and the problem is
that the the shortcut does not
necessarily help that many people and
it's also killing the opportunity for a
long run real education real quality
education broad-based right so it's like
it's basically like a high and it may
work in some instances but ultimately it
is very unhealthy for the entire system
and on one hand you can't you can't
fault people for saying like well I'm
worried about my kid right now
I'm not worried about kids I don't know
or kids five years from now or ten years
from now it's hard to fault
parents from saying that particularly in
communities that are so already starting
with such a disadvantage of course which
is why the answer to charters is not
just no charters the answer to charters
is and like I say I in very specific
circumstances narrow circumstances I am
supportive of charters and and I think
New Orleans a lot of them are private or
you and don't have the same excuse me
for-profit don't have the same level of
oversight that you have in a place like
Massachusetts but where they've
definitely worth better I've you
probably know more about this than I do
sieve cuz you're a parent but I've read
so many reports and studies and a lot of
them were out of New Orleans
about how charter schools are prolonging
segregation and the racial disparities
in the punishment of children is far far
worse in charter schools it's just the
list goes on without a doubt without a
doubt but the the the what you're not
seeing is sort of the desperation of
parents in that situation and the no I
see it and it's it sucks well yeah well
that's what I'm saying and that's why I
mean you know there are there are
definitely examples why it it may not be
as good in certain circumstances and
certainly overall there's no reason to
believe that charters are better
outcomes or even equally comes outcomes
across the board but in specific areas
it's understandable on some level why
why you would see I think people seeing
that that's the only opportunity because
they've they've lived through
generations hello this is Barbara Bush
of lack of notes very good for gab the
charter schools were good for them I
don't think anyone thinks they're doing
the wrong thing for their kid I'm mainly
addressing like Cory Booker and people
who should know better
exactly yes Cory Booker is again it's
like I think I think that it's it's just
a calculation that I need this is where
I'm gonna get my money it's his money
and it's his whole career it's one thing
to pivot on a few issues and go in a
better direction but his whole I mean
he's not even from Newark I mean he
literally set up shop in Newark and got
you know funded by private equity to run
a charter school campaign same dude add
some fire yeah that is gone whole
political career come from a 773 area
code who's this where he come from be
the caller formerly known as you are Li
the fuchi bang is oh gee Wally what what
are you going by now what you Wally part
two I don't know I need to come up with
a new name bigger
still lucci wallet I need a new one yeah
I know first of all I just want to
mention in passing that all the Bitcoin
enthusiasts to stop calling in the show
and my guess is just because it's down
from $18,000 to 3500 now I will tell you
I bought at 3499 that's when I bought it
oh you're at the end you're kick-ass
yeah also also mention really quickly
cory booker for most people know none of
the exchanges none of the big financial
exchanges are in them are in actually in
new york they're they're almost all well
the three big ones are in new jersey and
i think that money that that causes the
flow into new jersey preps influences
cory booker in various ways
yes um and lastly before i get to my
main point you're at 422 likes on
YouTube right now was about 4500 people
watching that this was Ben Shapiro or
Jordan Jordan Peterson that number would
be a lot higher and the content would be
a lot stupider oh well thank you I
appreciate that that's very sweet thing
to say well I mean your your audience
need to step up the game and match the
the enthusiasm they show for the channel
with the quality they're getting when
they watch we just don't belong to the
same type of network that has that much
cash flowing through or I would have you
know ads blasting on every single
channel across the board and I would
have a publicist well it's not your
viewership I mean you got 4,500 people
watching you got 10% of them all just
like that there you go folks
boom I'm gonna keep it positive okay um
talking about the job discrimination I
was just working for it back in Chicago
I was working in a applying for a
financial firm that paid like 75 dollars
an hour
and while I was applying for the job it
was you know apparent that they liked
what they saw and I was gonna get the
job but the guy that was doing the
hiring tells me says it's unfortunate
you know I didn't get a single resume
for this job from a woman you know what
woman's name on it and that's really
stuck with me over the years is that you
know this job sitting in one computer
just typing away on the keyboard not
hard labor $75 an hour it's something
that I think a lot of women that are
qualified for and sexism was so
effective that it excluded all women
from getting to that point where they
can finally you know hit the top of the
IT ladder right and then I hear these
idiots talking about the fact that
there's no male privilege and that you
know it's the real sections against men
even as a black man I got to realize is
that I'm better off being a male then
then you know that's the that's a huge
advantage even if you're black you know
I've had jobs where I've gone in and
they they're not hiring any by people I
walk through the office absolutely
everybody's white I don't get a job
offer for various BS reasons but it's
even more effective a limiter on a
woman's career the glass ceilings there
and I just don't understand the
blindness that causes people to pretend
like it's not there I mean it's as a
matter of fact it's a misnomer to call
it a glass ceiling because you can see
it it's very visible right I mean so the
idea is that they're you know sort of
the the job the applications that come
in is downstream from all the other
things that have already prevented women
from entering that profession exactly
you don't even get to the point where
you need to make your resume you know
we've seen this in other professions and
and and the fact that it is changed is
proof of that that dynamic right in the
law he used to be used to see law
schools we're not didn't even admit
women you know going back 60 some-odd
years now seventy years but now I think
you see far more women eternity
attorneys I think you may even see law
schools I'm not sure about this putting
out more female graduates than male
graduates I'm not a hundred percent sure
about that but certainly in like stem
there's you know from an ER
I think kids you know girls are in some
way driven away from from some of those
those professions I mean not so much in
my you know personal experience my kids
going to school in Brooklyn so but
broadly speaking I think okay but before
you let me go I just want to spawn to
the chat room real quick I'm not hung up
on the likes the reason only reason I
ever mention it like the last two or
three times I've called it it's just
because of the fact that it's important
to get the word out I think you're doing
good content and people click on like
it'll you know I mean people are doing
this with Jordan Peterson and ben
shapiro and sam harris and all that crap
that's one reason why it's so big on
youtube and i think it's a small thing
that the audience can do to help you get
your word out but um finally i'd like to
challenge you myself to a debate by the
way um you keep you seem to be hung up
on debating these big-name people but
you you seem don't seem to watch the
show and michaels how things you know
might not be aware i live in new york
now that i'd love to come in the studio
and debate chicago versus New York Pizza
oh really I mean yeah
what would the how would one debate New
York can you bring Lou Malnati's I I
live in I live in Hell's Kitchen now do
well I know but I'm saying no longer a
resident all right my point is is that
I'm certainly willing to do a taste test
and if you can bring me a piece of that
doughy stuff that you call pizza from
Chicago you think that's tasting better
I will eat it and see which one I like
better but I know what to you no debate
about I mean it's pretty cheap Wally's a
great guy very smart these terrible
takes often that's part of the paradox
of who he is well part of it I mean look
there's a reason why they call it second
city good day sir
good day and I say this is a guy from
Massachusetts so Jude pods mommies you
know poochie's sweet you know the
problem is in Worcester
where I grew up it was all Greek pizza
it was Greek I tried the pizza in
Chicago not is there not great and yeah
I was hungry I ate it
yeah no I wouldn't eat it if I was
hungry I didn't even have shoes
I got Lou Malnati's sausage pizza and it
is delicious I didn't even have it I
don't care
come from a 5.0 area cut who's this
where you come from ma'am it's uh Col
James cash how you livin Sam I'm living
fairly well I would say thank you thank
you yeah yeah yeah what's good Sam so I
got before I get to my point where are
you calling from I got a question for
you Sam yeah I'm calling from Silicon
Valley okay um how many pundits must get
this how many damn mics you've got to
rip until these inconsiderate
illegitimate white-winged punters quit
talking this Sam
I don't think there's a number actually
I think it's one that you can't
calculate I think it goes on exactly you
know right infinity I mean like I said
everything some sentiment a some Dave
Rubin might be an atheist but he's thank
Christ every morning he ain't got a seat
huh that's on everything well that's you
know it that's true I'm you know I the
other day I saw Dave like promoting a
show he was doing in LA a stand-up show
and he said come out and I almost I
almost retweeted it you know what I
think I will think I well then I just
say like I could I think I could cause
such an enormous amount of anxiety Hall
Show cancelled I think I honestly like
if I said like oh la I can make that one
oh great Jersey there yeah I think it
would create a certain amount of anxiety
and just the idea that he would go into
that show with just like even just a
modicum of anxiety that I could produce
I feel like would be fun how many people
in the audience have been thinking about
shooting up a Pilates
all right that's one side I mean the
thing is about it saying let me just
before I get to my point cuz we I call
about Kamala Harris okay but the point
is this about gay dave rubin man
proverbially speaking proverbially
speaking or just i'll say i make it
easier figuratively speaking you know
i'm saying if he show up on these
majority report streets man the type of
gunshots he would take verbally i mean
they don't think you're making a move he
said like oh son this to rambo
hey let me get out of here then that's
true I know what you're saying I know
what you're saying you're saying that
I'm geared up as it were for the battle
but yes there's a lot of that like close
shots of like the velcro strapped
fully strapped yes all right strapped
for Reno put on this one man you didn't
give up like when I normally call huh
you know I appreciate that like I said
you out here pushing weight boom you
will not be you in no gym but you push
your weight no I I beg I follow
oh no Sam's not okay I'm gone I'm gonna
go to a gym I'm sorry definitely I
decided I've decided I've got to start
doing some exercise I'll believe you
believe me hello happening soon all
right so come on all right so um so yes
and I'm meeting some man I see that the
Civil War has started on the left which
was supposed to turn in 2016 with
Hillary won no I starting now there's
all the neoliberals
all the establishment all the Liberals
they want to play this game work oh yeah
well you know Kamala Harris is running
and I see the Bernie people of running
interference on a woman of color nah man
we running in a full an appearance on a
cop straight up on a prosecutor dad
right up
you know I'm saying yep I don't want to
hear this no more yeah and the
reason why is I'm from the Bay Area man
now Kamala Harris is smart she's very
intelligent okay but if I want to know
what that head game do all that's Willie
Brown I don't care about none of that
man you know so I'm just saying straight
up man when it's true and see penalties
when it's oh yeah you know we're going
to lose a labor force you know what I'm
saying you know if we let nonviolent
criminals out but Steve minuchin gets to
walk while your black ass goes to jail
right I don't want to hear that
right
yeah no I think that's hearing you quit
let us stick on a pig you still a cop
straight up and I'm not falling for that
in app are you alright
well I will say this look that's what
Sam said I wrapped this morning by the
way I will say this my only issue with
writing or off simply because she was a
prosecutor is that I think it's really
important for folks on the left to
become prosecutors so that you can see
reforms like you see in Philadelphia st.
krasner though but no no no that's what
I'm saying
she should be judged on that on that
metric as opposed to the idea of being a
prosecutor is a bad place for someone on
the left to go because we need a
legitimate criminal justice reform and
that means that that folks like that
have to be willing to take those jobs
and and and they should not be in my
mind a way of precluding people from
like you know look Zephyr Teachout was
gonna was Ryan for Ag of the state and
the implications of her as AG would have
been amazing no I agree i but I think
the more simplified version that but
also that coal also outlined is kids go
to jail for truancy Steve minuchin
doesn't get charged right what else is
there to say right right and that is and
here's the all right and so just from
the perspective on the left I know
there's a lot of people out there in the
Democratic Party who are not going to
care and and in it is a relatively
recent phenomena where the country has
moved to the left where people even care
about criminal justice reform thanks to
movements like black lives matter
without a doubt absolutely and and so
you know California is basically going
to be the place that determines I think
it's probably going to determine the
fate of the Democratic primary but it's
going to be interesting if
you know what her reputation is in you
know how much people become aware of it
this story in The Times by BAE's lon
Emily basil and sister actually
Laura Laura BAE's lon I don't know if
you've seen this Kamala Harris was not a
progressive prosecutor is devastating
and I just I hope that there's enough
people who care about it to read it be
able to make their decisions do you want
somebody who is willing to hide a
prosecutor is willing to hide and sit on
exculpatory evidence that sends a an
innocent person to jail for the better
part of their life it's a win it's a win
law because of their political I think
her medical admissions and I think yeah
and I think I just want to say in
general I think that like my opinion if
I just sort of like in the horse race
aspect of this she's definitely the best
probably of the centrist candidates I
think she's very talented I think she's
smart I think people like her and I
think that there's no doubt that people
are gonna use all sorts of you know
diversions from her record and so people
should stay polite and stay clear and
acknowledge the positives where they're
obvious and focused like a laser beam
and all the ways in which she not only
has a really problematic record she also
doesn't have I think the real answers
and robustness to get us out of our
predicament the long term either
appreciate the call they're gonna try
all of it like it's it's horrifying to
think about but I really think she's
gonna be the one that the centrists
unified behind and they're gonna try all
of the disingenuous identity politics
that they did with Hillary and then some
but people I hope and I think people are
gonna remember you know everything I
said about if you support charters in
New Orleans you support white supremacy
that goes times 10 with the criminal
justice policies that she's pursued yeah
and but I just don't know it'll be
interesting to see if it if it if it
resonates with and I think there's you
know a lot of
I wouldn't call them necessarily
centrist who you know need to be
educated on that I mean there's some
things that she's done as good but the
for me the the it is this dynamic of
being in a position where your job is to
hold people to account and not holding
the powerful people to account who can
forget that moment when and Anna Navarro
was on whatever show it was some CNN
show that she's Jake Tapper and Anna
Navarro who was a Republican operative
for years who brought us the modern
Republican Party in many respects talks
about another stalwart of the Republican
Party of the conservative movement one
of the architects of the disaster that
we're living in who just happened to end
up on the wrong side of an industry
fight within within the same or a yeah
industry and that is you know the
conservatives listen to remember what
she says here I hope that Democrats
think about you know themselves falling
in love and somebody that can get their
juices flowing and their love tank
filled but can also appeal to people
like Bill Kristol and Anna Navarro now I
get very worried at the prospect of
Democrats appealing to someone
particularly like a Bill Kristol who I
think is exactly he's a war criminal
he's a war criminal cheerleader but he's
an old adviser and an architect and and
you know the conservatism we see today's
incredibly toxic and it comes from this
make no mistake Donald Trump is not
sweet generous he is a function of what
was built by these people and then I see
something like this and I don't think
this should be a disqualifying for any
candidate that they have the wrong
supporters but it makes me a little bit
concerned Anna Navarro tweeting out I've
met Kamala Harris she's relatable
comfortable in her skin smart tough and
hard to put in a niche she's serious but
laughs easily
in quality and the appreciation so far
this sounds like you know my bumble
profile well she did is about the love
thing yes oh yeah she's to my left on
some issues some DS tell me she's not
left enough she pretty much destroys
this is I find wildly offensive frankly
she pretty much destroys the quote women
are called dislikable sexism charge yeah
I mean the that's what she said she's a
wannabe she is she's saying she's the
exception that then proves the rule she
she is an exception to the women are
called dislikeable sexism charge I know
that we're all having a big socialist
love fest here but think about she's
leveraging Kamala Harris to say there's
no misogyny because people are gonna
like her even though she's a woman
so those women who are disliked are not
subject to misogyny I also think she's
wrong but I think it's also sort of I
think highly offensive you should think
about who will get our love tanks filled
not just your own and make no mistake
about it the same Republican Party and
conservative movement that Anna Navarro
and Bill Kristol was from I remember
that time with Bill Kristol
condemned John Boehner for not telling
members of his caucus don't bring up
birther legislation and I remember that
because it was all made up in a dream
that I had and a thing I was going to so
your dream life sounds pretty divisive
meantime Jacob wall who's this guy again
he's from the I've never heard of him no
some far-right guy
oh yeah he had the the conference in DC
about the most was gonna come out on
Muller right oh you Marla Harry
intelligence here it is
Kamala Harris not eligible to be
President
her father arrived from Jamaica in 1961
her mother from India in 1960 neither
parent was a legal resident for five
years prior to Harris's birth a
requirement for naturalization she was
raised in Canada that's not true is it
you don't have to be a legal resident
for five years you are what is he
talking United States you are there's a
well there is the thing that they're
talking about stripping away it's called
birthright citizenship well I understand
nothing complex about but but it's not
based upon laws in the past you can't go
retro actively changed the Constitution
here you are eligible to trying to
predator
I like how we they went from like with
Obama let's make up just like a full
like racist lie paranoid parallel
reality you know this is just like we're
gonna amendment is I'm just just wrong
just inaccurate constitutional like like
it's like if the conspiracy theory lie
about Obama was true then technically
they would be correct and now it's just
evolved to like well I mean she's just
not calling from a to15 area code who's
this where you come from hey Sam it's
Mindy how are you Mindy how are you
what's going on
I'm good sorry I couldn't make it to
your thing lastly and I gave my nickel
to ji Michelle I saw J but I did buy
them and I gave them the J Michelle
because my daughter got a new puppy and
it was a long story but we couldn't go
cuz the whole family came in but totally
understand thanks to the hug okay right
thank you for the hug okay so that was
from Michelle yeah she's cute isn't she
anyway so I tried to call you last week
because I I know that you want to get
under Dave Rubin skin well you know I
mean that's not my intention but if that
happens well so I figured since you or
you guys make fun of me with my Twitter
account
I would use my Twitter account to get
under Dave Rubin skin well I'm good
sweet you're so on right that's great
first of all we do not make fun of your
Twitter account and secondly I love you
I love you I do I really do like so
listen I think what we should do is you
should somebody should DME a tweet to
send to dave rubin and then everybody
that watches your show should retweet it
and we could annoy him because i have a
lot of followers and everybody will will
annoy the out of them
all right you like that yeah I will yeah
give me a little time we need to have
the right moment yes you need to time it
correctly but I think the concept is
very sound yeah right so get the right
moment and then somebody from you you
know from whatever account DM me and
tell me what to do and I will do it
right away and we can get them annoyed
that's awesome I can't wait can't wait
can't wait - can't wait to tell my
grandkids what I did back in the day
what did you do
Trump was destroying the country dead
well there was a guy called what what
does that mean there was a woman that
called I was watching the feed yeah and
she was from the Midwest and everybody's
going oh it's fly over Mindy it's with
Wisconsin Mindy it's because we like cuz
she's cool as well and she I think that
was just that some people said that you
had some like there was some similar
what are you worried about your hand
being diluted D from mean she was
aggressive and I liked her but she was
just my age I felt she was middle-aged
that's all that's what I thought so okay
forget her
the third thing my girlfriend the
Republicans okay
texted me yesterday morning when Camila
announced
that she was so excited that Camela was
running because now she has a somebody
she can vote for and that all of her
it's Republican rich friends
have somebody there and she's pretty
enough this was what she said she's
pretty enough and she looks white enough
that she could win I should put your
friend in touch with her campaign team
for general election ads oh my god
didn't go well I don't know why I as
we're speaking all I could imagine was
myself opening the window over there and
just sort of just thing out more like
falling out in the forest Brittany J
Game of Thrones just like step up look
out take another step it's hard because
I think she's pretty because she doesn't
look white the reason why I called you
other than the Dave Urban thing why are
these dammit Republicans like they're
trying to get into our party and they're
trying to pick our candidate and I all
 understand this like why would
you well I don't care what those two say
I don't give a what Jennifer Rubin
has okay I don't care what this is this
back to the story when I call two years
ago I told you you should explain to
people who these people are bad people
and they're the really right wing people
that just don't have a home and they're
coming to our home because they don't
what did you judge you what did you tell
your friend who is a Republican did I
hope you wrote back like I don't give a
 what you say well I've got into a
Twitter screaming match and I basically
said to her Andy her name's Andy you
know stupid you sound so stupid that I
would never even repeat half the
you're saying to any of your rich
Republican friends because you sound
like an ass but I was on a national
television and tell 50,000 people about
here this is what I've been saying all
was gonna happen and everyone looked at
me like I was crazy what these uh sort
of these neoconservative constituencies
are gonna try to find a home in the
Democratic Party well of course and we
don't want them if I mean we I say we
like I'm very much a Democrat but like
if you want to realign the party the
tent cannot expand in the right
direction
it can only expand in the left direction
aka the best direction right and there's
no I mean that the reality is there's no
need to go after these people the just
the numbers are such that it's just not
necessary and the problem is the problem
is now I don't think that there's any
candidate for the most part I'm sure
there's some and there's gonna be so
many who've you know but we're gonna
come in with the same type of baggage
that Clinton has I still again I'm
holding in my hand Public Policy Polling
you ready for this Mindy Trump is
polling only at 41 to 42 percent against
a possible Democratic foe and this is
consistent with the NPR Marist Poll I
think that we saw last week this is from
the public policy polling outfit
national poll the midway point of Donald
Trump's term as president he gets 41 or
42 percent in head-to-head matches well
head-to-head matchups against seven
likely Democratic candidates for
president he trails Joe Biden 53 to 41
Bernie Sanders 51 to 41 Kamala Harris 48
241 bata O'Rourke 47 to 41 Elizabeth
Warren 48 to 42 Cory Booker and
Christian Gillibrand each 47 to 42
what's interesting to me about this just
at first blush is that the two
candidates that people know the most in
terms of running for stuff are at the
furthest ahead right you know so I
you know again the polling of course
said that Clinton was gonna win last
time she won by 3 million votes
she made some rather strategic tactical
errors in her campaign there was a whole
mess of other things that happened that
but at the very least we know that
nobody's going to take Trump lightly
this time it's a different it's a
completely different context the polling
I suspect is going to be a little bit
more accurate and you know so I think
the the point is there's good reason to
believe that any Democrat running
against Donald Trump has the ability to
win and so people should be picking a
candidate based upon their policies and
their belief as to whether they will
follow through on those policies more
than some type of electability metric
because that's the situation we're in
but Mindy I appreciate the call Lulu
well DM you sir thank you baby well do
ya go your friend
doo-doo-doo-doo I think he's gonna
announce was in a week yes it's very
possible rational not rational in regard
to corporate media perpetuating but both
besides seeking a oh yeah we already did
that one sorry cabbie bench bureaus cook
nice very succinct Atticus
hey Sam do you have any reading
suggestions I'd like to read something
on the Obama years from a left
perspective but I'm open to anything you
know that's a good question
Polly Wars isn't bad charlie savage
power Wars is really good if you're
interested in the that's a very good one
if you're interested in sort of the
national security state in the way that
they dealt with that Neil Barofsky book
on one element of I can't the name
escapes me if you're looking at
something that has to do with finance
well the way the banks escape artists by
Noam Schreiber how the Obama's team
fumbled the recover
that's a kind of solid center-left
confidence men is another one the
confidence man is by Ron Suskind I think
Schreiber's book is a little less
sensationalist it has more like I mean
it's it's also very like narrative and
clearly as sources and it's reported but
the Susskind book had more like like you
had more drama around it the Schreiber
book is much more into like the
nitty-gritty of how the policy got wrong
there's not a lot of thematic critiques
I mean listen liberal has some of that
and at the Thomas Frank book that's a
broad broader book I don't think that's
really about I'll read something on the
Obama years I mean I don't think it's
about the I don't it's not specifically
about the Obama years no thick Mulvaney
if someone is going to give Trump a
primary challenge when do you think
that'll be announced nobody I think
there might be why would they do that
though they're gonna get crushed well
you want a job on CNN oh wait he already
got one okay sorry Kasich already got
out already how did I I was I thought I
was gonna have to run but I got the gig
beforehand a pathetic steamroller
shout-out to H bomber guy for his
amazing marathon dk64 stream raising a
third of a million dollars former mates
that's incredible
dr. chaos MD maybe Gabbard is employed
jimmy dore is their campaign adviser we
won't know insure until we find out if
her campaign slogan is Gabbard 2020
don't freak out the Supreme Court
doesn't matter anyways unless you're an
effing sellout also can you be sure to
click and upload the video the maggot
kids in DC quickly I have people that I
need to send it to you articulate the
problems of the situation quite well and
I see people touting both sides do it on
my social media secret identity politics
there was a recent video of Caitlin
Bennett down in downtown Kent Ohio
yelling build the wall at some random
black people who didn't want to talk to
her and called her an a-hole I'm not
even sure built the wall as a policy
platform anymore just shorthand for
fascism it's Caitlyn Bennett also
Victor's Caitlyn Ben she's a gun girl
from Kent State but Vic Berger did a
really good eight-minute video on the
the Mogga for life protesters and how
they harassed that guy at a minimum
there's only two men shelters in the US
domestic violence isn't gendered to the
extent where it justifies that disparity
that is the only real discrimination
against men that I know of just needs to
be said left is best there are only two
men's shelters in the u.s. there may be
only two men's shelters that are
dedicated to domestic violence one of
the problems that women who have been
abused have is that often they a escape
with their children or be they escape
alone but that homeless shelters broadly
speaking are far more dangerous places
for women than for men baba ganoush
looking for the kind of education your
little Mogga
needs come to Covington Catholic High
School education the way Betsy DeVos
likes it right about now
hey Sam I hope you've been enjoying
images of the Mr Crew I've been making
yes I'd like you to use them on the
website feel free oh they would be good
they're in majority reporters did you
see ben shapiro talk about baby Hitler
yes I don't care I made another half
song for the show's best around trolling
Ruben oh that's good bull Prague let's
see I'll send that to Tamara really is
fun I wonder like why it is right now it
just seems - interesting ideas this is
stunning to me it is stunning to me that
anybody would ask Aaron Sorkin's opinion
about anything on a you know but I mean
I guess I don't know I guess I can
understand him showing up on a Fareed
Saqqara show that makes total sense
really like Fareed Zakaria's cousin
freed Saqqara what would be sort of
stunning to me is if anybody listened to
Aaron Sorkin
but I think those who were inclined to
listen to him before are not going to
now because this is just absurd one of
the things that I had been amazing to me
about AOC is that she has garnered
support from across the board in the
Democratic Party
and not necessarily for all her policies
but I think like in some quarters
because of her sort of partisanship and
are willing to fight and not back down
some I think are you know excited about
a the youth and a woman of color
speaking up and taking a somewhat
informal leadership role in the
Democratic Party but across the board
it's it's almost impossible to find
criticism of her within the Democratic
Party some because they recognize the
power that this progressive wave might
have and don't want to end up on the
wrong side of it I'm sure that's a big
percentage of it but nobody who like is
invested in in democratic politics wants
to get on the wrong side of her unless
you can just do it from such an arm's
length that it's complete that you're
really just talking about yourself and
that is what aaron sorkin is here to
deliver i like Carla Harris a lot I like
Joe Biden a lot I I really like the the
the new crop of young people who were
just elected to Congress they now need
to stop acting like young people okay
it's time to do that you know there's
there's a I think that there's a great
opportunity here now more than ever for
Democrats to be the non stupid party to
point out the difference that you know
we are that it's not just about
transgender bathrooms that that's a
Republican talking point they're trying
to distract you with that you know we
are
that we have forgotten the economic
anxiety of the middle class but we we're
gonna be smart about this we're not
gonna be mean about it
wait wait a second so first off it's a
right wing talking point to say that
there about the transgender bathrooms
well then why you why are you using it
to criticize a new generation of
Democrats a B why are you saying the
word but after addressing people's
economic anxiety it's just absurd
I would note too that when this guy was
in his youth he was a he was out of his
mind on all sorts of different self
medications that many drugs and writes
such boring shows I mean honestly
but drugs are only as interesting as the
person doing them but I would but even
beyond this to it's just a sort of the
the incredible condescension and the
notion that in some way you couldn't run
on we're not the stupid party I don't
know if Aaron Sorkin was conscious three
years ago but what did what did Hillary
Clinton run on competence I'm pretty
dumb like I just want I want everybody
of Medicare I want everybody civil
rights like we're not as bad as them was
an ineffective campaign slogan like he's
horrible was not a good campaign slogan
we're smarter is not going to be a good
but he's in pieces that is where you
know I know the phrase is overused and
used by a lot of terrible people but
that is pure like a leap liberal trash
right there like that's a conversation
than anybody in New York or LA among
certain squads that people have heard
you know I mean we're smart you know
it'd be really nice to have a president
who reads books right you'll be really
nice well that would be nice
yeah I'll be sure there's a nice Admiral
that would address the material
implication precisely and frankly all
you know what I'm okay you know if a
president was delivering on Medicare for
all they didn't read books that'll be
totally okay yeah exactly
and you don't have to be super smart to
understand things like health care is a
right everyone should have it free and
that's one of the great things about
candidates like Bernie also I think the
way he used a middle-class economic
anxiety just now was a kind of a dog
whistle would you say because I think
it's colloquial meaning for both
Democrats like him and Republicans has
become like white people and that's not
what it actually means that that's not
what it should be
that's not what it should mean I have no
idea but the idea that he added but
after that and we need to be the party
of smart people just seems like this guy
needs it's much better I was gonna say
he's much better in a fictional setting
but I would argue also that he's not
necessarily much better in fact I think
that these people have not learned to
walk around in Hyatt hallways telling
each other their credentials yet that
concerns me really in a fast tone
talking about where they got their law
degrees I just think like the honest
answer would have been like hey man you
know what I'm a Democrat I don't really
like Trump you have any questions about
how to pitch a TV script or something
exact otally answer that or just say
that you are a centrist and you don't
have very progressive politics just say
what you mean and say what you it's the
same dodge that Tucker Carlson made
earlier to basically act like they're
just like Tigers like they're emotional
well they're also talking about you know
raising marginal tax rates so you could
talk about that you could talk about how
they're behaving
did you see a o'seas clap back on
Twitter I I am that to you Matt I can
read it well hold on let's uh oh yeah
here she goes
solid news flash Medicare for all and
equal rights aren't trends when people
who complain
about low turnout in some demos it's not
because communities are pathetic it's
because they don't see you fighting for
them if we don't show up for people why
should you feel entitled to their vote
that's yeah exactly
votes or the party that's not the stupid
party Aaron Sorkin's clap back is yeah
but what about people who dumb
like they they want people to think that
this stuff is really complicated and we
couldn't ever possibly understand all
the reasons why we just can't have
single-payer health care but it's
 yeah I don't even know I mean
yeah incredibly strange but I'm glad
that we're not going to see much of
Aaron Sorkin I don't think I watched the
episode where they come together to
privatize so Jesus look at the time
alright that's what he should have said
to Farid oh jeez let's play the ALC
stuff tomorrow let's see this Jerome
Corsi it's the watch looks like he's
having a much time with us Jerome Corsi
is on the Eric Metaxas show which is on
a scene on TBN and it is just amazing
the like I said like the ocean of
right-wingers that get just what abyss
but here he is talking Jerome Corsi now
I don't know it's conceivable that it
was like a hundred and three degrees in
the studio and that's why Jerome Corsi
is pouring sweat he could also be having
a tough time as of late he's not a very
nice person and so I couldn't wish this
type of anxiety on someone who deserves
it more probably have to thought my head
here is jerome corsi talking about the
interrogation he's going through by the
Muller investigation I'm gonna give you
another chilling moment here
Aaron szalinski is the youngest of the
prosecutors very arrogant guy the one
who had done the lead had done all the
work on me said he read all my books and
listen to all my live chats and uh he's
front something gives me a lecture he
says dr. Corsi you take a fact here and
effect there and you weave them in lies
and you're not like us you don't know
the difference between truth and false
and I'm sitting there I'm stunned you
know why I'm stunned first of all he
said that my work is all political in
the objects to it do you think some you
know a nutcase because of my political
views but I'm saying I didn't I should
have said this to him but I thought it's
in the book silent no more I said mr.
szalinski you don't have any idea what
you just reminded me of and said I doubt
if anyone will Rick when Jesus Christ is
being interrogated by Pontius Pilate
Christ says I am the truth I am the way
or follows me will follow the truth and
you know what Pontius Pilate asks him
what is truth
and there's Alinsky is telling me he's
the arbiter of truth wow that is a
really bad analogy so if we were to
understand what jerome corsi is saying
I'm like Jesus and I sort of perceive
this lead prosecutor as the Saul Alinsky
and Emperor yes I got to tell you I'm
not a Christian obviously but it would
be a profound letdown if Jesus so I
think as we understand him is pretty
great for a variety of reasons actually
it was just like this like a bush brains
confessed who like should have been
nailed on a cross by the movies right
imagine like you just say that the world
is big sweaty fat alright so I show to
the body changes you're taking we are
still convinced that Pontius Pilate was
not born in Rome Pontius Pilate or stock
for Galilee without documents let's free
de Scalia that feeling you get when you
and leave a conversation and think of
all the things you should have said or
that's what it was and that's why you
should buy my book cuz I wrote that in
my book I missed that total Doug
opportunity to compare myself to that
would actually be a great a great memoir
all the things I should have said and
that's history did Muller investigation
no joy jerome corsi
when he is indicted that's gonna be fun
to watch
alright we gotta go I'm sorry I didn't
realize what time it is we have people
who've been on the phone for over for an
hour and a half I'm sorry folks we got
22 people on the phone and a half of
whom who have been on for that long
apologies we just it's to 44
all right I'll take five more IMS come
from water boat pilot I used to love the
black Israelites back when I was in NYC
and we see them occasionally around
Union Square I think of them as
something as a precursor to afrofuturism
if that makes any sense I actually
became excited for them Coulomb came
first
when I learned they were involved in a
big national political spectacle the
black Israelites to talks Mike smacked
quite aggressively however to the great
amusement of fans like me I find it
interesting no one seems to be
condemning these guys as a holes or
whatever like sophisticated city people
take it for granted like oh that's a
black Israelites no one takes that
seriously think thoughts weird lol I was
just gonna say something about you or
your older vid on own a Benjamin I saw
the other day haven't gotten a chance
I'm biased I saw his comedy long before
finding out how shitty his he is XD and
though now and I don't care for him he
does have some good two hypotheses such
as a solution for war full bellies and
empty balls
he's Korea 11 sec Sam
the name gives it away Sam cedar Sinai
it's obvious that you told the hospital
deny poor Charlie Kirk care
Charlie Kirk's blood clot my late mentor
John McCain's brain tumor would have
wanted me to I am today and let you know
that I'm working very hard right now
Charlie won't be living okay
glass go buddy keep at the face
my favorite charlie Kirk tweet ever was
him responding to right-wing violence by
listing three examples of left-wing
violence Steve Scalise getting shot
countless assaults on Trump Sport and
Rand Paul's neighbor attacking him on
his lawnmower bobstine
meth madman I smoked Beth basically all
day and quit my equipped toothbrush has
left my teeth sparkling and intact and
the final I am of the day Alex II was
hoping you would mention H bomber guys
stream this weekend and let people know
about mermaids the transport group in UK
that helped fund 340k for playing Donkey
Kong 64 hours and 64 for 57 hours that's
all thanks okay see you tomorrow
[Music]
but I know some
I'm gonna get
[Music]
yeah
take it
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
