this also and this is sort of a
sidelight a little bit but of the Howard
Schultz thing but it is so indicative
what is wrong with our politics I mean
it's funny like you get a guy like
Howard Schultz who comes in and he's
doing this because our politics are
broken our politics are broken up people
it's like it's so polarized and it's but
to the extent that you can say our
politics are broken it is not because
people disagree all right that's
perfectly legitimate and healthy I mean
that's why you have politics right is to
resolve these disagreements in a way
that doesn't end up with people beating
each other up or shooting each other but
to the extent that our politics are
broken Howard Schultz it's almost as if
he's doing just like it's it's a
performance art like I'm not going to
tell you that our politics are broken
I'm going to show you in one of the ways
is I'm going to the idea that a I can be
on 60 minutes the view every cable
channel NPR every possible outlet that
exists and why am I on these things
talking about that I'm actually
contemplating I mean I've I've had a
thought that I'm thinking about being
president that's one reason why our
politics are broken because someone can
buy themselves into relevance that way
for for nothing for having a decent pun
on his book from the ground up what's
gonna save really calling that a decent
phone these days huh well all puns are
bad but
but yourself yeah where was the Law &
Order gavel for that APA be forget it
well Belzer bed
but bill burton former um obama official
he was in like a communications guy
right i think this is he's basically
coming on there to explain why our
politics are broken now he's not gonna
say that this is the subtext of
everything he's saying because a
billionaire came to him or a billionaire
was looking like dad like i I think I'm
gonna run for president who can I talk
to who should I talk to and he talks to
some friends and they're like oh well we
have a consultant for you Bill Burton he
worked for President Obama in bill
Barton's job when he shows up at that
door for the time that they sat down and
had a drink right whatever it was
whatever it was a Plaza Club or some for
some clever yeah coffee they coffee
wherever it was you know at the top of
the the Seattle a needle or you know
like floating above you know with a
forty feet on the the sound of wherever
wherever it was that they met right for
that first meeting in a spaceship right
in a spaceship
nobody knows like I'm gonna fly you to
the you know to some Caribbean island or
to have a meeting for you know a lunch
meeting wherever they met bill Burton's
number one job when he walked through
that door was convince this guy that he
can do it so that I can get paid is it's
like the animated like Looney Tunes
literally the to change a change
hitching right shank like the cash rate
he's just like how am I going to
separate this guy from his money and
then one of the and after the disastrous
rollout that Bill Burton probably had a
hand in ice cream it yeah what another
guy taking advantage of this poor idiot
Howard show so not only do we get Howard
Schultz is on every television show some
dude working for him what's my job I am
an assistant to the guy thinking about
running for
president he gets on Meet the Press
daily and basically is doing an
advertisement for his own continued
paycheck that's what this is
President Barack Obama and now an
adviser to Howard Schultz mr. Burdon
welcome back to the show sir thanks
Chuck good to talk to you well let me
start with what probably every one of
your former colleagues is asking number
one are you still a Democrat and number
two why are you doing this I am a
Democrat and a Democrat my whole life
and I'm going to continue to be one I'm
doing it because I think Howard's a
great guy and I think that he he loves
his family he loves his country he wants
to make him a better boy okay the guy is
running for president supposedly are
thinking about it
and everyone knows this will throw the
election perhaps to to trump maybe and
why is he doing it
because he's a great guy he loves his
family oh and then somewhere around the
line he's doing it for America too I
forget about that he wants to make
America a better place and I think that
being with him on this journey as he
figures out whether or not he ought to
run for president it's pretty exciting
and I will tell you that one of the
things that's so great about it and I've
been in politics for a long time as you
can tell from the gray hair on my head
the thing that's so cool about it is
that it's Democrats it's Republicans
there's people who are formerly in the
military former journalists it's a
diversity of people that I've never
experienced in politics and for us to
come together and work on this together
it's been a really amazing experience
obviously you know the way Twitter works
and social media there's a certain op-ed
you wrote in 2016 for the Sacramento Bee
that's been making the rounds let me put
up a piece of it if Steinar libertarian
candidate Gary Johnson eat into
Clinton's support even a little that
could matter in a close election and in
the same way I would bet that Ralph
Nader or at least many of his supporters
wishes that he didn't help to make
George W Bush our 43rd
commander-in-chief I suppose Stein
supporters would not want to be in the
position of explaining to their kids how
they help to make Trump president why
should you not eat those words today a
couple of things number one Howard
Schultz is not Jill Stein Jill Stein was
in that race because she thought that
the two parties were too close together
the two candidates were too close
together
what Howard Schultz thinks is that the
to the the polar opposites of the
parties are so far apart but the
American people are close together and
maybe what we need is a choice for the
American people to choose something
different a different path that is so
beautiful
I hope he's making so much money I gotta
say though a little a little message
from Obama like more people than the
upper men in politics compared to the
2008 presidential campaign I ran a
yeah III just I think that when that guy
came up with that formulation but he was
so proud of himself honestly and like I
will be too like I would be that's a
good spin transparent this I mean how
how much does this send
somebody close from Co swivel it sounds
like but it's actually pretty
Paul that was the spin equivalent of the
guy of like OJ's lawyers did create
reasonable doubt right like if you look
at that case it's like he obviously did
it but they were able to create some
measure of reasonable doubt like but
this out was that was a visible
like the stuff that it's like this is
why how it's pain well I think it's it's
it's true I think in a certain limited
sense that I think Joe sign was wrong
and saying the parties were the same I
think it's true that the people are
closer generally then the parties are
but the part the reason the parties are
so polarized is because of oligarchy
right well the other thing is that's not
the question the premise that he set up
in his op-ed had nothing to do with what
their perspective were on the parties
obviously you know Gary Johnson and Jill
Stein they are not draw a drawing from
the same well necessarily the whole
point was you're siphoning off votes
you're siphoning off votes from Clinton
therefore you are in and so it's the
exact same situation whatever Howard
Schultz believes about where the parties
are and where the American people are
and whatever that did that diagram he's
drawn
having a segment on but apparently some
some informants have told me that Jill
Stein will be on Fox so I mean you know
there is like also just one line of
really dumb thinking in America there's
something innately magical about any
third party effort that's a different
kind of outcome a different kind of
politics in America and secondly I just
think that the first of all hasn't made
the decision to run look but if he did I
I think we can agree that would it would
be a more serious effort than what Jill
Stein but again opaza in other words
it's gonna be even more assuredly throw
the election to trump it's gonna be like
damn there's some debate you could say
you could say Jill Stein you know
strictly in terms of numbers may have
you know had those votes but we can't
say seriously that she seriously drew
support from Hillary Clinton will be
able to say that this time he's argued
against his own ridiculous like it's fun
to watch these people spin their wheels
and make fun of them but like if Bernie
is the nominee there will be a much more
serious third party spoiler candidate
and like when that comes along we need
to remember this person does not get to
portray themselves as a centrist they do
not get to portray themselves as a
moderate whether they're doing it for
their own personal grift or what the
outcome is that Trump will be president
still and that is the outcome that the
ruling class wants oh it fair enough and
we're still don't know how much help
Jill Stein had from outside actors given
given where she's spent in December of
2015 but let me ask you this he
obviously you're using this book tour to
launch an exploratory bid as well as any
book to her launch was it wonder that
our Schultz ever been to Russia that's
what I want to know God darn it what's
going on with the board any book to her
launch for a presidential bid as I've
seen in a while so it's clear you want
this to be the front
why what's his what I'm trying to figure
out is I don't understand why he wants
to run other than he's not them and not
them what is the big idea beyond not a
Republican and not a Democrat well the
book to her yeah you wrote a book Emily
whether he was gonna think about this or
not because he has a story to tell and
he wanted to get it out there you know
he's a guy who grew up in the projects
and was self-made he he worked his way
through college he went on to to build a
great company that did the right thing
by the folks who worked for it and now
he just he wants to continue to serve in
terms of what his big idea is it's that
politics is broken and maybe we need a
solution to it
that risks the imagination of a new kind
of possibilities maybe because he does
this come right the politics are broken
I'm up here I have taken everything I
learned from the Obama administration
and I am just selling it out in such a
way to make this guy a figure who with
no agenda other than the fact that
politics are broken and I sitting here
being paid the tens if not hundreds of
thousands of dollars to make it seem
like this guy actually has a chance to
do anything other than perhaps elect
Donald Trump it is the ultimate it's
just so much cynicism it's so layered on
top of itself it is like it is it
literally is like a parfait of cynicism
just as it's slightly different
gradations of different products that we
can look at and just it's exquisite and
as you can see there's a huge amount of
skepticism and new an independent media
about your candidacy and you know Howard
if you want a little bit of consultation
on how to leverage and let me just make
it communication it's not the guy for
you yeah I'm the guy yeah well I'm the
guy for you or maybe but is there any
more of this just a little bit more
because he says he says a phrase risk
the imagination of a new possibility oh
you just he wants to continue to serve
in terms of what his big idea is it's
bad coffee
politics is broken and maybe we need a
solution
to it that risks the imagination of a
new kind of possibility maybe what is he
done
you cannot need to be a drop now here's
the thing you could hear him shuffling
papers as he was saying now maybe that's
Chuck Chuck Todd but you he takes a
pause there's no doubt my mind he's
looking down go backwards because that's
the phrase that they workshopped
and they came up with that's going to
explain his candidacy it's going to it's
it's his
this is exactly the words I can I will I
will never know so I will make this bet
there is no doubt in my mind that Burton
comes in and says you need your audacity
of hope' and here it is oh you just he
wants to continue to serve in terms of
what his big idea is it's that politics
is broken and maybe we need a solution
to it that risks the imagination of a
new kind of possibility maybe it seemed
up risks the imagination of a new kind
of possibility and this is the way that
ghosts know in fact I like I amend my
amended burden did not come up with this
because it's too wordy Shultz came up
with it because Burton said you need
your audacity of hope' and Schultz goes
I have it
we need to risk the imagine what is it
risk risk the imagination of a new type
of possibility we need to risk the
imagination of a new type of policy of a
possibility and let me do my
impersonation of Bill Burton when he
says that yeah yeah
st. say that one more time to me again
yeah I just want to make sure I've
memorized all right I don't eat the
breast cuz that really you're really
saying something there oh no definitely
no Queen that's exactly where than you
Obama that's exactly it we need to risk
the imagination of a new type of
possibility your Obama with job
experience Obama or the Obama that did
build that yeah you're know now I know
why Starbucks is so huge Wow wow that is
really got bet I don't mean that's
amazing like cuz all of these other guys
you know but actually um who's the other
really sleazy Obama guy Messina he
consulted for the Tories hmm so he's an
ultra sleazy Obama guy but but also
Obama people at least like I mean they
stuck around the sort of Orbitz you'd
expect them to stick around and but
Burton his head of uh I think it's SDK
Knickerbocker of California which is a
prominent Democratic consulting firm so
he's not even like some of these like
grips in the past I feel like are kind
of like consultants sort of like past
their prime and they're like ooh maybe I
can kind of exploit some rights not like
all the rich person but like Burton
firming first of all he want up win a
presidential race and he's still in the
game so I mean anyway shanks must be
really on Howard I'd like to talk to you
about how to approach people on patreon
I'd like to talk to you about how to use
YouTube I think that there's a lot of
people who would be amenable to a
progressive socialist case for radical
debt reduction let's talk about God do
you see what a OC
tweeted backslash about him
she said why don't people ever tell
billionaires who want to run for
president that they need to work their
way up or that maybe they should start
with city council first
