[Music]
all right not tonight this week I should
say we have a big Democratic Republican
race in North Carolina the the North
Carolina race is really one of those
things that's just going to give us a
you know it doesn't mean much in turn in
practice what it what why people are
looking to it is because it's an
indication of just how dramatic Donald
Trump's bleeding is North Carolina too
is about a week away now maybe a week
and a half away from a deadline which
was imposed upon them by a Superior
Court to redraw their districts and
Republicans are not contesting this I
would I would argue it's probably
because of these revelations that they
must have had a heads up about by the
guy who had drawn the maps for them this
is the famous guy who we talked about
him a lot in the context of the census
question this guy who feller who
apparently and now these documents are
out would give lessons to state
legislatures on how to redraw maps using
his data and and literally told them
never ever use email no one can see this
stuff and apparently he thought he was
gonna live forever and that his
estranged daughter would not comb
through his things and give up the ghost
and reveal all of this in literally
gigabytes of documents that she found so
a fascinating turn of events and we'll
see it's gonna have broader implications
it could have implications at the
Supreme Court although I imagine they're
not going to revisit these cases
remember the Supreme Court will weigh in
on gerrymanders that are racially based
but they won't
they say they can't they don't know how
to do it on a partisan basis now state
courts have shown they can do it on a
partisan basis but if it comes out that
all of the contested districts that
we've been talking about for years in
these cases were undergirded by a racial
analysis it's gonna have some broader
implications and to a certain extent
it's hard to imagine they couldn't when
you think about the states that we're
talking about and you think about the
fact that's simply a fact there's one
party in America that is all white that
is based around an identity of whiteness
that is the Republican Party that's
simply a fact they talk about identity
politics the reason why they don't have
to talk about identities they only have
one identity the Democratic Party is
made up of white people and black people
and Latino people and Asian people and
a if you're going to try and figure out
how to give a Republicans the advantage
in many of these states and you want to
maximize it chances are you're probably
using race as a factor and that's
certainly what this guy did so that's a
big deal this race in North Carolina the
debate coming up Chris data showing that
Biden or at least stories that we're
hearing that you know even in Biden
Ville people are a little worried do not
think that his lead is terribly durable
I think if you look at some of the stuff
coming out about Warren that you see
whether it moves you or not I think a
lot of that's coming from the Biden camp
at Rendell going and saying that I had
Elizabeth Warren Etta
at a fundraiser a year ago she had no
problem with the big money that we have
now she only has a problem with it now
two different ways of looking at that
one is she was doing big money a year
ago the other is she's no longer doing
big money so but nevertheless ed Rendell
is not out there fighting for anybody
but Joe Biden part of that old man white
guy Club that wants to reach those
people in the suburbs
