I want to just say about a little over a
week ago the afl-cio gave Luiz Inacio
Lula da Silva it's Human Rights Award
and they recognized him for what he was
a president that brought tens of
millions of people out of poverty left
the presidency with record approval
ratings and also was somebody that
because he was a poor illiterate
self-made until he was an adult he
learned to read union organizer who you
know lost fingers work in a factory who
helped end the military dictatorship in
the 80s through his activism and was a
very very successful social democratic
president the grand scheme of things
including especially what was possible
and the years he governed from 2000 to
2010 so everybody look part of the
reason I talk about Lula a lot is
because he is this incredibly important
figure and because it is genuinely
extraordinary and horrifying that you
can put somebody in jail and wage a
ruthless campaign against them and their
political party in the democratic
apparatus of the center-left in Brazil
with no material evidence is
mind-boggling especially from my
perspective because like look I'm a
person of the world and I have no doubt
that wall the charges against him of
taking things like a apartment after he
was president which isn't even illegal
anyways and his pales in comparison to
like the speaking fees and consultancy I
mean Tony Blair is hopping across the
globe making literally tens of millions
of dollars advising dictators and oil
funds and all the rest of it and we're
putting an incredible leader in jail for
a economy middle class apartment on the
beach that there isn't even any evidence
in terms of writing or legal documents
to connect them to it's all based off of
the testimony of somebody who pleaded
out so I think it's terrifying and of
itself and I think it's a great wrong to
a good person and a great leader but I
also think especially as Brazil comes
more alive in u.s. discourse because all
of a sudden people are sort of taken up
by the horror show of balsan ro who
is just you know I mean he's like Trump
he's one of the worst people on planet
earth and whether you're concerned about
the environment or the Amazon or
indigenous people or LGBTQ people or you
have a concern and understanding of
labor and pensions I mean this is a
relentless assault not to mention what
might the crisis that could be set off
if they continue to instigate with that
as well so it's first that there is a
context that gets bolson out of power
and you can't understand it without
understanding the totally illegitimate
removal of Dilma Rousseff from power in
2016 you can't understand it without the
jailing of lula da silva who led bolson
ro in the polls could you imagine if
Flula was at the White House with Trump
instead of bolson ro no crisis in
Venezuela no Amazon on the chopping
block
no clawed back protections for LGBTQ
people and I think that there is a
certain type of person and part of it is
because of the just atrocious and
unpardonable coverage from the Guardian
and the New York Times and Vox and
others and I'm not saying like look
they're not in the opinion business of
course it's not their job and their
reporter's job to say he's innocent free
him but it is their job to say to report
the facts of the case instead of just
repeating the pablum of the discredited
Brazilian judiciary and Brazilian elites
there's no material evidence and the
person who put him in jail without any
material evidence is the justice
minister and this fantastically
fascistic balsan ro government so in any
country wouldn't it be an interesting
story for The Times or The Guardian to
report oh the lead candidate who was the
former president who was universally
respected and regarded was put in jail
without any material evidence by an
independent prosecutor backed by the
United States who then became the
Justice Minister and a new far-right
extremist government that has its own
already within a couple of months
infinitely more serious corruption
allegations maybe that's just an
interesting thing to write about maybe
that's just worth
looking at and the last thing I'll say -
if you want to have solidarity if you go
to the Brazilian left and if you're on
social media obviously upper-class
Brazilians mostly and people speaking
English have you know they're gonna be
part of the people who have been
propagandized on this issue but if you
want actual solidarity with the left
they will tell you we need to free Lula
this is part if you want to be
solidarity with us against Bolson ro you
need to deal with this issue and not you
know bail on it because it's actually
fundamental to understanding what's
happening in Brazil and also the u.s.
role of what's happening in Brazil I
don't know I am increasingly convinced I
know that the DOJ backed lava jato I
know that US foreign policy was moved
towards reversing these pink tide
governments I think it's quite bizarre
Bowl scenario visited the CIA and I am
not convinced that the ongoing
imprisonment of Lula and taking him off
the board and D legitimization the
Workers Party was not part of that
conversation this is a report from
Michael Fox the real news network and I
want to highlight this because this is
the new social movement that's brewing
in Brazil to free Lula and these
activists will tell you themselves that
you cannot separate this broader
struggle from that imprisonment social
movements and left critical parties met
in South Paulo over the weekend to
relaunch the campaign to free former
president who we said Nestor in Lula da
Silva it's important to free Lula
because he represents each and every one
of us he represents our victories if
he's in jail each of us are in jail
it means our rights are going down the
drain nor than a thousand people
attended the event at the meeting the
organized plans for a series of actions
to coincide with the one-year
anniversary of Lula's imprisonment on
April 7th under Lula's presidency
millions were lifted out of poverty he
left office with an 87 percent approval
rating he's still one of the country's
most popular leaders
but he was jailed last year after he was
convicted of accepting a beachside
apartment from a company seeking
government contracts judges ruled
against him in a second conviction
earlier this year
involving this time a country property
in our north of South Paulo but his
supporters and many legal experts say
he's innocent and that the convictions
were means of blocking him from
returning to power they say judge
seizure Morton was politically motivated
mortal has long held connections to the
country's right wing he's now president
chair Boston Otto's Justice Minister we
in the Brazilian association of lawyers
for democracy have been following this
case for a long time from the very
beginning with lawyers from across the
country and we consider both rulings
against Lula to be complete judicial
aberrations there is no evidence against
Lula so that's it and it was great that
the letter a couple of weeks ago that
the group of Congress people sent out
registering all their concerns about Bal
scenarios assault on Brazil it's at
least included a paragraph on how the
borrowing of Lula from the presidential
elections the most popular politician in
the country undermined democratic
institutions but this needs to become
much more clear much more aggressive and
much more robust he is a political
prisoner and you cannot separate that
from a broader concern set about Brazil
