Donald Trump was on ABC News and this is
awesome because this is like this is
like the opposite wake of the moment
like this is like I feel I feel like
this is I don't know because Trump
probably never did this one way or
another but it almost seems like like a
husband who's philandering and six
months before when it was like she's
finally gonna just walk out on his bum
self he's like I will never ever do that
again
baby I love you I'm sorry and then six
months later he's like just walked in
like seven o'clock in the morning he
smells like perfume and he's just saying
 it
so here is Donald Trump on ABC News
being asked about whether or not he lies
finally I remember you remember well in
the campaign you made a promise you said
I will never lie to you so can you tell
me now honestly have you kept that
promise at all times of you always I try
I mean I do try if you try to you say
things about me that are not necessarily
correct I do try and I always want to
tell the truth when I can I tell the
truth
I mean sometimes it turns out to be
where something happens it's different
or there's a change but I always like to
be truthful what was that
King Salman consignment know something
different happen something different
happened to ask you guys have to do some
lies now that's the king but you know I
think I think actually that's another
clip that actually I have to say is
pretty uh that is part of why he's
popular yeah cuz that's totally of our
moment where people are so ly saturated
I think that they have gotten I think
that that has a certain currency yeah
like they especially poured in the
George Washington never know what never
tell a lie chopped down the cherry tree
type of thing yeah I mean there's this
clip and a grant that it's in the UK but
we run parallel in some ways and it's of
Tony Blair in the late 90s and he has on
way too much makeup
and he's uh he's basically doing an
interview I think what Paxman and it's
the first scandal since he's been Prime
Minister so he's still really popular
and but it's was the first thing that
they had to deal with I think it was a
favor that they gave to a race car a
Formula One owner where they gave him a
special exemption to advertise
cigarettes or something and they got a
massive campaign contribution it seemed
like just like basic quid pro quo and
sorry Blair looks at Jeremy Paxman he's
like I mean he's like you know look I
think people think I'm a real straight
forward kind of guy and like it worked
and I mean now the guys just universally
reviled in the UK and like maybe lire
isn't the top word because like you know
evil or corrupt but the lawyer thing
isn't his last name so you do see that a
lot yep why are they calling blyer
that's their slogan for him so I think
like there is as part of that general
fatigue I think there and also heat the
weight when he puts things like that
that are in human terms like well I
think we all try what do you guys look
at Gandhi over here I don't know about
you but I'm you that is funny that the
only time that he's not saying and he's
like the best person in the face of the
earth when is when he's just admitting
to like actual bad things like I'm the
best deal maker I'm the best businessman
and the smartest I mean I don't know we
all lie question what is even the
premise of asking that question yeah
what does that reveal what are you
hoping to get out of that question it's
like you're almost hoping to get a
rambling funny answer that will be
clipped on YouTube yeah that's a cause I
mean what else could you possibly expect
from that yeah thanks ABC News that'll
do decent yeah we're all part of the
same hypocrisy when I was working my
last job we we we're still going at the
beginning of the administration and this
was right after Sean Spicer lied about
the inauguration numbers and they had a
big press conference about like what was
going like what what is this obvious lie
and Jon Karl had the first question he
was like asked Sarah Sanders or Sean
Spicer she was like
but you could be nice to us and I was
just like what are you doing guy I don't
know that is a really weird a mutilation
I don't know definitely how you should
start with an adversarial corrupt lying
authoritarian regime out of the gates
well hey you guys gonna be polite and
 I mean isn't the case that like
previously journalists had some sort of
like foreign correspondents experience
have we like aged out of those guys yet
I think so
and so now we have just guys who were
like look I woke up I I subscribe to the
Mike Allen newsletter
yeah like vana and I watched the war
room on a VHS in college I'm just really
excited to be here like they really read
The Drudge Report a lot like 20 years
I've read the Drudge Report and I'm just
wandering and lighted at this new plan
to ah mass murder children at the border
um seems to be pulling well in El Paso
region in the 19th but uh that could
drive suburban moms out in Pennsylvania
and I'm just wondering what the
administration's plan on that is just
the idea that you could hurt Trump by
catching him in a lie or hypocrisy is
fairly disproven at this point in time I
think laughable and embarrassing
