[Music]
let's go to this let's start with what
we know about Mike Pompeo the more and
more we're starting to see here it is is
quite clear that we are headed to a a
full-blown impeachment possibly not just
against the president they are
stonewalling they are we now have Pompeo
subpoenaed for documents Giuliani
subpoenaed for documents the failure to
provide these documents now and this is
what the difference is with impeachment
as opposed to normal proceedings they
have written in the context of this
subpoena that failure to produce under
these circumstances will be regarded as
evidence of obstruction and will
constitute obstruction in the context of
impeachment
they are simply declaring it remember
this is not this is a political a
political process not a a criminal or
judicial one and Congress is simply
saying if you do not provide us this
material it will be a count of
obstruction and it will be obstruction
it they could launch impeachment
proceedings against Pompeo they could do
it against bill bar and it feels like
every day there's more and more evidence
to substantiate and impeachment
proceedings against both of them
here's Pompeo two weeks ago was it two
weeks ago now maybe this was it wasn't
this Sunday oh yeah wait it was this
Sunday wasn't it I'm sorry I'm confused
because today's Wednesday here is on
this week with Martha Raddatz on Sunday
right and this is with Martha Raddatz
and here he is he's completely
bewildered about this whole call thing
you say call I want to turn to this
whistleblower complaint mr. secretary
the complaint involving the president
and a phone call with a foreign leader
to the Director of National Intelligence
inspector general that's where the
complaint was lodged by the
whistleblower The Wall Street Journal is
reporting that President Trump pressed
the president of Ukraine eight times to
work with Rudy Giuliani to investigate
Joe Biden's son what do you know about
those conversations so you just gave me
a report about a IC whistleblower
campaign not none of which I've seen I
can tell you about this administration's
policies with Ukraine I remember the
previous administration was begged
begged by the Ukrainian people to
deliver defensive arms so that they
could protect themselves from Vladimir
Putin in Russia and they gave them
blankets this administration took
seriously the responsibilities of
Ukrainian people we've provided now on
multiple occasions resources so that the
Ukrainians can defend themselves we've
worked on that we are we're working
we'll see president Solinsky this week
we want a good relationship with you
freedom independence but let me let me
ask you this question the Ukrainian
presidential readout of the contras
conversation said they discussed quote
investigation of corruption cases which
inhibited the interaction between
Ukraine and the USA the president
tweeted Saturday it was a perfectly fine
and respectful conversation do you think
it's quote perfectly fine to ask a
foreign leader to investigate a
political opponent I think I saw
statement from the Ukrainian foreign
minister yesterday said there was no
pressure applied in the course of the
conversation I do think I do think if
Vice President Biden behaved
inappropriately if he was protecting his
son and intervened with the Ukrainian
leadership in a way that was corrupt I
do think we need to get to the bottom of
that Martha and I I hope that we well I
hope that if Vice President Biden
engaged in behavior that was
inappropriate I hope the American people
will come to learn that we've interfered
with America
cannot have our elections interfered
with and if that's what took place there
if there was that kind of activity
engaged in by Vice President Biden we
need to know there's no evidence of that
yet but if the conversation was
perfectly fine as President Trump said
why not release the transcript or a
portion to the public
I'll have that White House will have to
explain that okay there I mean I think
we've this was this was this must have
been a week a week from the last Sunday
there's two weeks ago and there's Mike
Pompeo with seemingly no awareness of
this call whatsoever he didn't even have
time to read the whistleblower complaint
he just heard a report about the
whistleblower complaint he did though
put a clue in there because it wasn't
just about Joe Biden and Hunter Biden's
corruption this phone call was not just
about that we should say and we'll we'll
discuss the the the the lack of
corruption that exists there I mean at
least in terms of Joe Biden's
perspective but they are now pursuing
another theory that is Obama gait or
Hillary gait that the Ukrainians were
the ones who actually interfered with
the election but tried to frame the
Russians this is the stuff that's going
on now in the fevered swore this is like
gateway pundit stuff and there's Mike
Pompeo trying to push that narrative on
ABC television last week this is what
they've been up to but we'll get back to
that and meantime here's Mike Pompeo
yesterday in Italy conceding that well
actually I was on that phone call as for
was I and the phone call was on the
phone call the phone call was in the
context of now I guess I've been
secretary of state for coming on a
year-and-a-half I know precisely what
the American policy is with respect to
Ukraine it's been remarkably consistent
and we will continue to try to drive
those set of outcomes it's what our team
include
including ambassador Volker or focused
on was taking down the threat that
Russia poses there in Ukraine it was
about helping the Ukrainians to get
graft out and corruption outside of
their government and to help now this
new government in the Ukraine build a
successful thriving economy it's what
the State Department officials that I
know basically that was his way of I
mean he listened easy he's a smart guy
went to Harvard knows how to
filibustered knows how to bury the lead
I was on the phone call but that because
and then here's a bunch of filler
essentially that's basically the the
story they're going with now I imagine
most people by now know that the hunter
Biden situation the Joe Biden was over
there telling the Ukrainians get rid of
your prosecutor because the prosecutor
was not pursuing corruption and there
was a hideous amount of corruption there
and also I think happens to be the case
that hunter Biden is not exactly a you
know he's he's sort of the George Bush
of the family
he's a Felson can i right I just add to
this a little bit I mean so to be really
specific about what you're saying the
reason it is exculpatory I think there's
a broader critique here in two ways but
the reason it's specific that can
specific conspiracy theory does not
stand is that this energy company is a
Russian aligned oligarch who was gonna
who sort of represented the Russian
aligned order he got hunter Biden on
with the sort of clear desire to win
favor with the Obama administration and
what Biden did was basically fire a
prosecutor who was aligned with this guy
and not call for the firing right call
for the firing so basically the reason
that this specific threat of the story
is nonsense is that in that specific
action he's contradicting his son's
interest though frankly I mean it's you
know it's pretty irrelevant his son
makes a payday either way right but the
but the conspiracy theory is exactly
backwards he's going up again
what the son is hired to do however I
mean it's actually sort of an
interesting drama where the dad comes in
and the wayward son is there and he
tries to undercut the wayward sons
interest or even it doesn't matter like
hey son you got your payday we're still
gonna do this anyways you know either
way we win and I would say that serious
you know I wouldn't take I do think you
know structurally when the u.s. talks
about corruption in other countries even
when they're right that is a harbinger
of our own interests and energy
companies we want to advocate for so
there's a broader critique as well as
just even hunter getting the job to
begin with but that specific conspiracy
is contradicted by all evidence of what
like happened right the hunter thing is
more of like a generic type of
corruption that seems to exist
everywhere whether it's like you know
Chelsea Clinton getting hired by NBC or
Abby Huntsman for that matter or you
know Billy Carter going around and
trying to sell off access to Billy
Carter was kinda cool though Billy
Carter I felt bad for him because he
didn't have family sign off he's just
I'll just trying to meet with Gaddafi
man why do you always get all the credit
I don't get the sense that hunter
necessarily has family sign-off - I
think this guy you know they give family
sign-off from his brother - what's that
you don't know that story about a lot of
things I did without family sign up man
but the Trump people the Trump people
are always gonna be angrier at these
coastal elites and this like normal
corruption and this kind of nepotism
that's just accepted as the way of
things then they are at Trump's open and
craven corruption guy I mean look
because they're like well you know at
least he's not pretending that he
doesn't have mud on him right but the
bottom line is is that this type of
corruption exists in every facet of
society I'm not making apologies for it
but I mean you know you grow up and you
know we I I went to go see concerts in
high school because my girlfriend
dad was on the Civic Center Commission
you know it's like well this is oh whoa
oh I think you just showed yourself here
I might need to take the rest of the
week off Sam hi I got you whoa deep
corruption but I mean of course this is
true and of course the stakes of the
Ukrainian energy business are you know
deeper than I'd like basically hunter
gets the job promises them like oh yeah
I gotta get dad to well he shows up and
does exactly bialy to the lost I mean he
also got an MBA in a lobbying thing
right at the same time his dad was
pushing through the bankruptcy bill he
was on the board of some sort of
Amtrak's yeah BAM track which is amazing
other trade expert bro to brothers
wife's hot I just think that I'm gonna
come to an amtrak board there's there's
way wood family members everywhere and
some are you know incentivized to do
this stuff and helped out more than
others but nevertheless meanwhile as
Mike Pompeo heads to Rome
apparently Sepp Korca gets on the plane
with him because someone has to go now
understand here's the point one of the
reasons why impeachment was so necessary
in which I was saying for months was
that there you
you can't just basically run out the
clock and assume that there's just gonna
be this vacuum that remains there while
all this is going on it's quite clear
the Trump administration bill bar Mike
Pompeo have been actively involved in
trying to not only undercut the Muller
investigation remember the Muller
investigations over
they are undercutting the entire
narrative they want to be able to come
out in the spring of 2020 maybe in the
summer of 2020 with a whole narrative
that maybe in snares Joe Biden because
he could be the
the nominee that involves the Ukraine
actually doing all of the interfering in
the 2020 election I mean it excuse to me
the 2016 election that Russia was not
interfering at all with our election and
remember the mower report did say that
the Russians interfered in the election
to what extent they impacted the outcome
nobody will ever know
but they clearly did interfere in the
election and the same reasons why I
don't want us interfering in other
elections I don't want other companies
and countries interfering in our
election but the narrative they were
going to come out was there was actually
Ukraine was actually driven by Joe Biden
in Hunter Biden and they were involved
in this interference and they basically
framed Russia and you're starting to see
vestiges of this apparently when Trump
said do us a favor
that's what they were looking for they
weren't just looking for this narrative
about Biden they were looking for this
broader narrative on how there was this
deep state ploy coming out of Ukraine to
frame Russia and influence the election
and throw it presumably to Hillary
Clinton you cannot assume that they're
not doing this type of stuff that
there's just so much money and political
gain to be made from it they apparently
had a video already cut written produced
four months anticipating impeachment and
they raised like three or four five
million dollars off it the first day
after the impeachment announcement fine
they're gonna raise money but this is
this is what they're up to and perfect
explanation as to why this guy Sepp
Korca would be on the flight with Mike
Pompeo because Sepp Korca is one of
those guys whose job it is to build this
basically this
fictional narrative I work for him yes I
was a political commissioned officer
there might be the most accurate
description the guys that were used for
himself and here he is I guess
apparently in Rome so how interesting I
landed also flying is Mike Pompeo on his
Air Force jet and I find out Twitter has
exploded why is it left so worried well
I think I know because the house of
carbs that is Obama gate is collapsing
the crimes of the last administration
are being uncovered and people are
running scared in the meantime I'd like
to enjoy the Eternal City
time for my cafe I forgot Oh
my Garibaldi cigar
they post it with the latest up-to-date
info at set goal good calm manga my
friends you can't boss it before it does
the plug man it's this is a huge
business for them it's a huge business
that video got a million views more this
is a huge business for them and this is
what is this is what they're up to
there's too many people incentivized to
not have this happen which is why
impeachment was so important which is
also why you do not do like a two weeks
in out impeachment because then you're
basically ceding months for them to
dominate we're gonna spend all our time
talking about their fictional stories
