[Music]
so let's work backwards a little bit
this is kind of the state of play right
now he's been forced to resign there's
this incredible uprising and then maybe
at the end of the conversation we'll
loop back to what might come next and
how did this momentum could continue in
a positive way hopefully not a negative
one but take us back at least a little
bit to the creation of this control
board and how that relates to a really
important legal decision in 2016 that
sort of solidified what I guess I would
certainly call it seems pretty obvious
to me colonial status for Puerto Rico
and how that relates to this control
board and the sort of broader systems of
power over Puerto Rico of which maybe
these politicians are almost like
subcontractors of definitely and let me
give you a broader historical context
please
what Rico was held up by the United
States throughout the Cold War as an
example of how capitalism would thrive
in the developing world and how
capitalism could bring people up it
could bring them from poverty bring them
up from poverty and of course it was a
challenge to the Soviet Union which was
held in holding up Quba as an example of
development and in order to be able to
hold up Porto Rico as a beacon of hope
for using capitalist policies to develop
a country they had to phase in a series
of tax incentives through the US tax
code however opposition began to grow
against the within the United States
against these tax incentives within the
tax code it was known as the 936 section
of the tax code so the Clinton
administration decided in the mid-1990s
that they would phase out these tax
incentives by the mid-2000s these had
effectively been phased out and of
course a lot of manufacturing
corporations that had headquartered or
had started to develop factories in
and almost immediately left the island
some of course have stayed and it's
still an important sector in the island
but this caused a huge problem for
Puerto Ricans particularly an economic
problem a lot of Puerto Ricans were
employed in these sectors not only that
government had developed a lot of client
allistic types of social spending among
other kinds of social spending that was
really the result of important labels
labor struggles in the island of Puerto
Rico
so this ushers in a time of fiscal
crisis which of course coin sides with
the 2008 crisis the global financial
crisis so this becomes a perfect storm
for Puerto Rico in financial terms Porto
Rico by virtue of being a colony in the
United States does not have access to
bankruptcy as other places in the United
States do like for example Detroit which
had its own fiscal Control Board and had
access to bankruptcy in order to have
access to bankruptcy a bipartisan group
of legislators in the US Congress were
able to pass a bill that is known as
promesa
which translates ironically to promise
what promise did is that promesa would
form an unelected board of technocrats
whose job was to balance the books and
to pay folks who were owed money
these included folks that pension funds
that had invested in Puerto Rico bonds
it included hedge funds that bought this
pennies of it out of $1 in bulk and
we're now demanding that they get paid
the entire dollar out of that debt which
they of course bought very cheap so
promesa are shirred in and in 2016 and
onward they begin to mandate and they
have the power to do so through promise
to act a series of austerity measures
this includes slashing the higher
education budget almost by half over a
series of
years it includes reducing dramatically
government spending across a subset of
areas of spending and of course this
begins to lay bare the kind of colonial
grip that the United States had over
Puerto Rico it's important to note that
Porto Rico
prior to pom promesa it only really had
one last remaining form of autonomy and
it was fiscal autonomy Puerto Rico the
autonomy to create its own budget and
its lost that under promesa which can as
they've done already
send the budget back to legislators and
the governor and say sorry we don't
agree with this cut more and that's in
fact what they've had to do they've also
had the power to negotiate directly with
folks who are owed money and to develop
negotiations and agreements between them
without any sort of input from the
Puerto Rican population that stands to
lose all these social services so and
actually can we just take a really brief
detour here Bernie Sanders voted against
promesa is my understanding
I believe tulsi gabbard voted for it
even though it she's made a whole show
of flying out there and people that
necessarily receive her with open arms
they do remember that good good that is
good to know because that's that's
that's some hutzpah how do we know of
other how did others so Sanders voted
against do we know of how other
presidential candidates I just want to
kind of note that because that is a very
important vote this is a crushing vote
for Puerto Ricans because it really took
away the only form of autonomy that the
islands still had of course the island
was already suffering from a democratic
deficit with very little representation
in the United States but this was passed
with bipartisan support overwhelming
bipartisan support and it's important to
note that even many Puerto Ricans
that political leadership the
traditional political leadership that
Puerto Ricans are now rebelling against
went to Congress and practically begged
for this Chuck Schumer among others
Pelosi
you know congressional leadership so
this is very much a bipartisan bill and
there was very much consensus the folks
like Sanders were the exception to to
this norm of of course quote-unquote
saving Porto Rico from crisis and one
thing we hear very frequently in Puerto
Rico or about Puerto Rico is that in the
absence of Puerto Rico that say Berto
Rico were to become independent republic
the denied that the puerto rico would be
in crisis and of course folks in puerto
rico who are critical of that discourse
i've said well we're currently in crisis
very much under the united states let's
go back to can we touch on the uprising
against military testing in Vieques and
use that as a bridge to what we saw in
the last week and maybe also a sense of
puerto rican politics outside of this
decree discredited political class what
is the what is the left movement in
Puerto Rico what does grassroots
politics look like there and how does it
connect to the movement in Vegas and
maybe even more historically a very long
term anti colonial effort which even at
times at some collaboration with as an
example uh Irish revolutionaries seeking
their independence a lot of really
interesting analogies between Ireland
and Puerto Rico but what does that I
guess you know we go in any direction
you want but specifically the left and
movements outside of conventional
politics and the thread at least to
Vieques in the military for a good
amount of time the largest sector of the
Puerto Rican left was the
pro-independence sector a lot of these
folks were folks who objected to having
a relationship to the United States out
of anti-imperialist
ideals who rejected u.s. foreign policy
and who have for a long time realized
that the United States had never really
had a benevolent sort of perspective or
policy towards Puerto Rico and that it
was very much a facade that it kept up
as a way of propping up but Rico as an
example of how capitalism would thrive
in times in which they viewed
alternatives to that as a threat such as
for example Cuba in the Caribbean as
well the pro-independence sector was
very large in the island but it also was
heavily repressed and there were reasons
for why it dwindled over time among
other reasons of course there was some
internal division it was also a
predominantly relatively privileged
Porto Rican male lead movement of a leap
and folks objected to that and over time
we've seen the political left very much
diversified we've seen the growth of a
strong LGBTQ rights and justice movement
we've seen the growth of feminist groups
that have had a lot of representation
internationally in the world conferences
on women we've seen group the growth of
anti-racist efforts for the rights and
justice for after war equals after Porto
Ricans which of course is something that
is often suppressed in Puerto Rico this
notion that yes there is racial
diversity within Puerto Rico
among other sectors of the left so in
Vieques what we saw was we saw one of
the biggest mobilizations in our history
and it was of course an example for the
world because in this in this island
folks were able to coordinate they were
able to they were able to grow a strong
enough movement that kicked out the
military from the island of Vieques it's
an island municipality to the east coast
of the big island of Puerto Rico it's
important to note the Puerto Rico's an
archipelago of islands that includes two
island municipalities which by the way
are some of the most marginalized
communities in the island and in be a
case it started with fishermen it
started with folks kayaking like Tito
kayaker
like to refer to him as the James Bond
of environmental activism because he'll
climb whatever tower he has to to bring
about some awareness about whatever
issues Porto Ricans are currently facing
like he did when he climbed the Statue
of Liberty in a very powerful image that
said peace for Vieques pass para be a
case in da case we saw politicians
coming into the island and doing civil
disobedience people like luis gutierrez
and we saw our civil rights figures who
came and got arrested as well some even
serve sentences in the federal prison in
the island and Vieques was our last big
moment when Puerto Ricans exerted
pressure on a powerful target and
managed to get a huge victory and that's
why a lot of folks have been drawing
parallels between the current unrest and
Vieques and that is because what the
Ricans wanted folks to come out in
numbers in these protests against legal
Oh Jose yo and they compared this moment
to yes and they said we need to have
marches that are as big as the a case
and a lot of estimates already say that
these marches were in fact bigger than
Vic is and there have been there's
there's in born more than one March that
has had more than four to five hundred
thousand people which it's of course a
huge number considering that this is an
island that has lost a lot of people and
currently only has about 3.2 million
people so that's that's a good amount I
know we'll know after the census how
much we have now but there's a mass
migration and in these times of
precarity
in these times of struggle with under
these austerity measures for this amount
of people to come out on the streets and
demand the resignation of ricardo Rocio
it was a very powerful moment and
surprising moment and also one thing
that we need to know about these series
of mobilizations is that the kinds of
mobilization that we saw in Vieques took
years and took a lot of organizational
planning and strength and resources to
be able to bring out that amount of
people to do civil disobedience in
Vieques to do advocacy here in civil
disobedience in DC
II and to March in the kind of numbers
that we saw that same time we didn't
necessarily see that we didn't have that
much that amount of time this time
around this happened in two weeks
almost all really organically but it's
important to remember all of these
groups that I mentioned that have been
coming up and developing within the
Puerto Rican left there is a legacy of
struggle there was a major strike in
2010 against the Luis Fortuno new
Progressive Party austerity measures
that threatened public higher education
among other sectors they laid off more
than 20,000 people so people had already
been reeling from these austerity
measures and they were upset and new
groups have been formed and so these
groups were able to really inject some
energy into these mobilizations through
many means it was surprising the ways in
which they did that and very creative
folks use cultural work direct action
they use music and they called on their
celebrities in there and every
well-known puerto rican across the world
was called upon to say something and to
act and we saw a lot of workings abroad
answering that call so and that's
amazing
and so positive what as we go to what
comes next and i think it's very
important to contextualize obviously
that the structure of the problem here
is a colonial relationship with the
united states the structural which is
exemplified now in this promesa board
which is ministering these this just
ruthless plan which if you have any
sense of World Bank IMF plans across the
globe or frankly I mean it's not as
extreme but if you are upset as an
example of what Paul Ryan was trying to
do with his political career which was
to you know gut the social safety net
and savagely increased poverty and
hunger and early death in the United
States to help redistribute even more
money to wealthy people I mean this is
you know it's the Ryan plan times 24
island that doesn't even have formal
political autonomy just to really
solidify that
and now now though where do we go and I
just want to put two examples in mind
Kate Ashraf has a really good piece and
the intercept that came out either last
night or this morning saying that in
this sort of period of this instability
and uncertainty the hunt aboard which is
what some people call promesa is seeing
an opportunity particularly in a sort of
very inexperienced leader that will be
taking the governor's place and in and
and then Juan Gonzales made this point
the other day I believe on democracy now
that plenty of examples and Egypt was
the example he used of you have an
incredible movement that removes a toxic
figurehead and then the system just
replicates itself so not to put a
dampener on it but what do you see is
the more kind of strategic possibility
here to actually reorient the situation
more broadly I think this is a very
opportune moment for broad social change
as all moments of political crises are
and it's important to note that over the
past two weeks when folks were out in
the streets they were only chanting
three keys in uncia ricardo rosado
resigned in fact one of the most popular
chants were leaked even uncia EJ Vidal
ohonta Ricky say nausea and take the
board with you so there's a long list of
targets that folks are already if you
are monitoring social media or if you
have been listening to some of the
Facebook lives you have heard that folks
are already calling on the phone the
person who is expected to be the next
governor to resign they're calling on
the leader of the Senate to resign Tomas
Rivera chats they're calling on the
president of the lower chamber of the
House
Johnny Mendez to resign folks know that
this is a problem that is systemic and
that solution
have to be crafted accordingly and this
is why today there was a major March at
the puerto rico financial sector today
there wasn't yeah folks celebrated last
night but it was a short-lived
celebration and i'm sure there will be
more celebrations but nowadays Puerto
Ricans are learning that protest and
further protests can be a celebration as
they showed last night when they had a
dance party in front of the inn also had
one close to the governor's mansion and
it was it was it was billed as a as a
militant dance party and folks are happy
they knew that they would win the during
the March the major march that took
place this week a reporter interviews a
man that came from the municipality of
honk coast which is quite a ways away
from where the March took place he's an
older gentleman and she asked but what
happens if he doesn't resign and he said
very confidently we'll take him out so
we're living in a moment where folks are
pretty convinced that things need to
change we're living in a moment where
we're all surprised because this is an
island that has been traditionally
marked by a lot of divisions and all of
a sudden we were seeing massive amounts
of people which we've never seen before
out on the streets people were talking
they were having conversations in public
places things that we haven't seen in
years and I think that the agenda is
clear there is a solid political
leadership that's coming from the bottom
up of groups like equality by feminists
in construction the environmentalist
movement and environmental justice
movement specifically there's been folks
coming there's a coalition of folks that
has been formed to audit the debt
because Porto Ricans argue that this
debt was issued illegally and there by
their folks who need to pay their folks
who need to be investigated and any debt
that was issued illegally should not be
repaid one of the chance that was heard
in on the ground was that's that's not
our debt and we're not
pay it so people know that the Gallardo
CEO was just a figurehead here and that
he was just the beginning of what could
be a cascade of series of political
changes that may take place in the
island final question from the
perspective of solidarity in the in the
States if you as an example are engaging
in the Democratic primary I guess has
any candidate I mean we talked about the
Sanders exception on the permissive vote
has any candidate would you say has a
sort of a particular connection to
progressive forces on the islands and if
you were in a position where as an
example you're engaging with one of
these candidates or campaigns what would
be the most concrete thing to push for
in terms of benefiting Puerto Rico and
solidarity with left forces on the
island it's important to to take note of
the fact that one of the things that
work I was contained in the chat was
that at one point the DNC had adopted a
measure in support of Puerto Rican
statehood and the caller said your party
is a pro-slavery party and in the chant
one of the things that they they mention
is that folks were criticizing Tom Perez
for supporting statehood for Puerto Rico
and that's when ricardo rosado said we
should put we should defend tom and he
referred to Melissa mark-viverito who is
political leader and New York as someone
who they should attack and of course use
a series of foul words to refer to her
she's a former president she's a former
head of the New York City Council
Melissa mark-viverito yeah exactly who
had been critical of the DNC's adoption
of a measure to support statehood this
is the moment where what we've seen one
of them one of the most common
in the united states from liberal
sectors to the crisis that is that what
the Ricans are going through is this is
an outrage
what the freaking should have a
presidential vote and should have
statehood what those what that discourse
ignores is that a lot of Puerto Ricans
do not want statehood yes there's a
number of Puerto Ricans who want it but
this is very much an issue that is up
for debate and if you ask me what would
a wise and responsive candidate for
office for president in the United
States do to support Porto Ricans I
think it would be to support a
deliberative process such as a
constitutional assembly whereby Puerto
Ricans could sit down and decide for
themselves how they want to attack these
problems how do they want to craft
solutions and more importantly perhaps
most importantly what we go do about the
negative effects of its current
relationship with the United States what
will be the decolonizing mechanism for
Puerto Ricans and in my opinion that is
up to Porto Ricans to decide not
political leadership outside of it so
that may be a measure that political
candidate could endorse the creation of
a Constitutional Assembly and there is
in fact already a proposal for that in
the portico legislature excellent
fernando thomas aponte at the scholars
strategy network and a postdoctoral
fellow at the University of Missouri st.
Louis I really appreciate your time and
thanks so much for doing this thank you
for having me
