[Music]
we have these types of people showing
their true colors there's been a lot of
really important climate activism that
has been taking place in the United
Kingdom including some efforts that have
at least gotten as an example blue the
Irish government to acknowledge the
climate changes an emergency and
actually some significant rhetorical
bones from the British right wing Tory
government but I think at the end of the
day we know who these people are we know
who these Tories are we know who
conservatives are we know their profound
lack of concern their aggressive
opposition to these solutions as well as
their violent entitlement so there was a
climate protester who made her way into
a banquet in the United Kingdom and
Conservative member of parliament mark
field did this when he saw her at the
banquet there's no sound - there's no
sounds of this but watch this this is
incredibly aggressive gonna go up grabs
her pushes her against a pillar actually
will go and he's he's literally dragging
her out by the neck Jesus one more time
yeah gets up pushes her into a pillar
flips around grabs her neck and marches
her out all because she's saying hey can
you guys work to make life on Earth
inhabitable and that's what this thug
does let's say let's actually continue
sort of the tour here of kind of fascism
in action so
