this is always funny when fox goes in
the field they think they found you know
a grouchy white guy who's gonna cosign
and this gentleman does not bill and
adam bill you're retired live here in
columbus been a Democrat for many years
as you look at the debate last night in
the field who do you like and why Warren
because I think she makes a lot of sense
you know when she brought up that
billionaires and taxing them after about
fifty million dollars to cents of every
dollar that they've made that after that
it's nothing to them and it would help
so many people here I mean we we could
build our infrastructure the schools
colleges we could do so much money with
that most people would think two cents
of every dollar what would what is that
a drop in a bucket but it's millions
billions of dollars these three percent
of the people that we have that owned
almost half of what what we're worth in
the United States is just deplorable are
you concerned that the effective tax
rate when you add together the wealth
tax and increases in taxes for proposals
by Bernie and Elizabeth Warren can be as
high as ninety even ninety seven percent
are you concerned that wealthy people
could just get their money somewhere
else well it seems to me like if I
remember correctly back in the 60s and
70s that if you were a millionaire your
taxes were awfully high and I think it
was in that range of 50 60 70 percent
anything after that nobody bitched about
it then and we still made lots of
billionaires I don't think that that's
going to hurt anything
i-i-i think once you get past a couple
of million dollars you got all the money
you need how about giving some of that
to the people that work for a living
that can't can't make it alright we'll
see hell yeah well I mean yeah I mean
obviously we got some work to do there
but the big takeaway is and they didn't
 about it that I love how he starts
so like well I think it's reasonable to
take a little bit then he gets the dumb
 rich people and he just like
yeah they didn't about it then I
mean I do have to say some of them did
 about it then which is part of why
we're in such a predicament Kennedy yeah
yeah but you know it's it's great though
I just love that you know we talked
about during the debate the difference
between Warren and Sanders talking about
how they go after billionaires like
Bernie talks about it as we want to hurt
their power as a class Warren basically
talks about like they can afford it and
and that's a big and that's a structural
we obviously agree with the Bernie's
side of that equation but it goes to
show why she's saying that at least I'm
like the kamala thing where it's like
why is she doing anything she's doing
right it makes sense why Warren's
messaging at least that way on that
specific area although it's interesting
to me because in those environments I
like I I bet you could fit and find
plenty of other people that fit that
profile that would say like I agree with
Bernie FM I agree you know I think you
win that guy over I have a good
conversation with that guy totally well
that guy's on the right track and all
right
