[Music]
in fact I think like initially the
Democrats that we're not gonna bring up
Russia here because he's going to
yesterday went to the house or the
Senate Intelligence Committee tomorrow
he goes to the House Intelligence
Committee
these are closed-door sessions they
weren't gonna bring up any Russia stuff
but the Republicans wanted to ostensibly
to my guests to exonerate the president
the do we have okay yeah this is the
most interesting part we're gonna start
and not quite at the at the beginning
because to me in terms of the the
concept of of collusion and whatnot it
has always been you know my assessment
that to the extent that any collusion
happened that they weren't aware of it
or this and that I think there you know
over time I become a little bit more
convinced that that they maybe had a
little bit more of a sense of what was
going on of who they were dealing with
but and and one of the things that I had
said over and over again during the
campaign was my genuine belief that
Donald Trump did not want to win was not
running to win didn't think he was gonna
win and Michael Cohen basically
confirmed that with his testimony but
what also becomes interesting here is
that in some ways it makes the idea of
collusion whatever that means but the
idea that Trump was working was aware of
what the Russians were doing and was
encouraging it and there was a quid pro
quo involved here in some ways it makes
it in my mind a little bit more likely
because in some ways it reduces the
stakes instead of it being like you're
gonna help me become president and I'm
gonna be a nefarious agent for you it's
gonna be I'm gonna carry your water with
some things and I'm not gonna be
president I'm just gonna own a building
for a hundred you know several hundred
million dollars that to me is a much
more likely scenario than someone being
a Manchurian Candidate
it's just him doing another corrupt
business deal which in fact is something
that he basically had done in New York
real estate for decades decades here is
Michael Cohen saying in this clip number
three that oh yeah
Trump dis ran as a marketing exercise
Donald Trump is a man who ran for office
to make his brand great not to make our
country great he had no desire or
intention to leave this nation only to
market himself and to build his wealth
and power mr. Trump would often say this
campaign was going to be the greatest
infomercial in political history he
never expected to win the primary he
never expected to win the general
election the campaign for him was always
a marketing opportunity and so the
campaign is a marketing opportunity and
this is from his prepared opening
statement the campaign's a marketing
opportunity and later in the in the
hearing he talks about he would do
anything to win and it was a little bit
unclear in the way that he phrased it
but I think what he was saying was that
winning was not winning the election
winning was getting this multi hundred
million dollar deal for this building in
Moscow and so that's I think what they
were talking about when they were saying
winning and when you think about it in
those terms like yeah of course try I
mean remember Flynn lied because about
his dealings with I think it was Turkey
because they didn't think it'll go in
and so that this just becomes like you
know completely transactional it's over
perform so you don't lose in an
embarrassing way and then cash in it's
across the board I mean we don't we
don't even what I'm talking about
the Emirati and Saudi stuff right and he
Israeli stuff
I mean it's open shop for everyone and
this is also just a way more outsized
and stupid and overt and less legalized
form of you know basically what happens
across the board anyways right and he
didn't need to do any of this stuff to
be rich right like Trump was a rich
but he wasn't a billionaire he's never
been her 1 billion era and I do think
that there's a psychology of is also
this is the opportunity of maybe
actually getting like he knows he's
lying about his earnings so I think
there's some psychological need to
actually get there but it's not driven
by any rational material need right it's
like what you've always written
shoplifting you know rush a little bit
thrilling really but is there any is
there any amount of money over I don't
know I mean I I don't know what that
figure is but I assume it's got to be
somewhere between 10 and 50 million
dollars where like every dollar after
that is just I'm never gonna know
there's actually studies from Sweden
track on your Mensa what mental
well-being and you really only need
about a hundred K to feel good with your
life that but no no no no fakeness
alright it's actually fifty five million
dollars a quarter
here's how satisfied here's how Coen
answered opened his testimony today by
basically saying and this this this
theme of him saying that he's ashamed
has been incredibly effective in dealing
with the Republicans and I gotta say the
Republicans are not good at this they're
just simply not good at this or this
this crew no one person pointed out
actually on Twitter which might be true
I mean in addition to them also just
being unlikable and ridiculous and
stupid and and bringing up you know
we'll get into it but I think the other
problem they're having is that they have
their they have to be so careful about
how they implicate him and lying in
crimes without bringing Trump and right
cuz it's always on behalf of Trump
that's another big needle they have to
thread they have to thread a needle but
the the hardest thing they have is that
he is seemingly holding back nothing and
he is assuming all responsibility and
that gives you very little oxygen to
sort of like you to start this and so
this is indicative of where he went with
this I am ashamed that I chose to take
part
in concealing mr. Trump's illicit acts
rather than listening to my own
conscience I am ashamed because I know
what mr. Trump is he is a racist he is a
con man and he is a cheat now you know
throughout this some at one point and it
may just be that he got in trouble or
it's unclear to me exactly what the
impetus was but I do know that this is a
guy whose kids go to a private school
on the Upper West Side of New York
I know people who know people who are in
those social circles and it's quite
possible that the vast majority of
people that he's surrounded with are
just like really and at one point he
just found it easier he just like looked
at his kids and said like they're gonna
have it easier time of this I think
that's try go up and change this way
because I'm already screwed and so this
is the best I can do I mean I also think
that people and maybe this is kind of a
New York thing but like I'm not saying
it's right but I think that people
sometimes underestimate the difference
and it's showing up in the hearing
because Republicans are big oh well if
he was so sleazy and it was just about
money and you know why did you work for
him and his real estate empire and it's
like well there's a pretty big
difference in some people's minds like
like the difference between a Michael
Cohen and a complete sociopath like
Donald Trump is maybe it's like fun and
games when we're doing real estate
hustles but maybe I actually do have a
certain conscience about occupying the
Oval Office and you know he keeps
mentioning charlottesville which is
interesting no one follows up on well I
think that really apparently didn't
actually affect I mean well contrast
that with minuchin and Hoos and Cohen I
mean oh yeah I mean they you know they
they did a little back channel
pontificating right Cohen had to at the
very least felt pressure to you know to
put out there that he was troubled right
I got this actually affected this guy
yeah
[Music]
