[Music]
let's just first talk about we've got
Mike Pompeo is in Saudi Arabia now and
despite the fact that I suggested that
he was going with an empty duffel bag
looking for more cash so that for I
don't know for some investment that
Donald Trump has maybe for him to go
buried in the back of his a golf course
and Queens or wherever it is that it
definitely looks like or I should say it
looks like Donald Trump realizes because
you remember he cares about nothing
which is in this instance gonna work to
probably the world's favor he is not
interested in getting into a war in Iran
apparently the Saudis ran out of money
when it came to Donald Trump and but who
knows maybe he's looking for a better
offer by sending Pompeo there however
there was um Admiral Brett Stevens went
on to MSNBC yesterday Brett Stevens you
recall was the one who pretended being
called a bedbug was akin to what what
the Nazis did to the Jews because
despite the fact that he is probably I
don't know the top one of the top 50
probably paid columnist in the country I
mean certain probably top 20 that makes
me so mad
he doesn't bother to look at the sources
that he cites in his articles and builds
an entire opinion piece around the idea
that a professor calling him a bedbug
somehow was akin to fascists attacking
the Jews in the Warsaw Ghetto oh and
incidentally he also called that
professors boss to complain about a
tweet he sent an email to the bus which
he
see see the perfect right right - yeah
he also just wanted to say he did lichen
and granted this is what he was at the
Wall Street Journal so anything does
literally go there he likened the
Palestinians to mosquitoes right I love
the fact that what these people can't
just be actually Nikolas and
oversensitive it's actually like Oh put
up there's actually a direct analogy
here put a pin in that because part of
Billy brags you know it's a small book
it's a league of pamphlet essentially
talks about that dynamic actually by the
IDW freedom of expression for for me not
so much for thee but here's Bret Stevens
basically desperately trying to revive
any type or enhance any War tensions
basically arguing that you know there's
we can definitely strike them in the
fashion that will just be fine I mean
I'm Raven sure what the point of this
supposed to be but good make pressure
and by the way we should not rule out
targeted military responses against Iran
if they are proportionate and if it's
clear that it's in it's an effort to
change to change a rainy Iranian
behavior it's happened before in the
past in 1987 we sank the Iranian Navy
without any consequences for the for the
United States we could do it again we
can signal to the Iranians that we do
positive I want you to just contemplate
for one moment 1984 what's difference
between now and 1984 in 1984 we did not
have thousands of troops in the Shia
controlled parts of Iraq so and and this
is amazing because Admiral Stevens here
would know this because of all his War
College training that he probably had is
that close proximity of your military
assets will enhance the opportunity for
your opponent to strike you and so the
idea that this is analogous Oh
we did it in in in the 80s because and
and we got away with there was no
response well there's gonna be other
responses we have troops shia-dominated
we Rock did pull Reagan pulled all
troops out of Lebanon 83 which he should
have but tragically I mean Hezbollah
blew up an army riots there so actually
even in this timeline were being a
little generous though bedbugs known for
being very hawkish right but I think all
right so buddy it would go back so even
though that we don't have evidence we
shouldn't take off the table we
shouldn't take off the table like a
military we can just take out the Navy
it'll be whatever it won't it's not
worry about escalation and exactly like
exactly what is supposed to change here
whatwhat what is the dynamic that's
supposed to change with like we just
show them that we're willing to take out
their Navy then what but going for it's
a change to change Iranian behavior it's
happened before in the past in 1987 we
sank the Iranian Navy without any
consequences for the for the United
States we could do it again we can
signal to the Iranians that we do mean
business but we are we were tried to do
so in a proportionate way that
ultimately leads to a new and better
negotiated outcome okay
the idea being here that if we sink
their navy then we're gonna get a better
deal from them or something or they've
got a deal dum-dum oh and you know what
I got my boss's number two for you we
can put up on the way I can send him my
boss's number it's mine it's my number
how can you say that in such a calm
voice it's crazy you have to that's
actually that's literally exactly what
you have to do you have to say it to
come because I'm not crazy I'm just
suggesting that we perhaps dilly-dally
around the edges of a massive massive
extended another war I mean we're
wrapping up our our existing ones yeah
things we got to get something by the
way the consequences Iran recognizes
that they better build a weapons
capacity with their nuclear program
right it's the only thing that will
assure theirs
I also really like Sam pulling out the
you want to speak to the manager right
exactly I swear I could see you doing a
stint at Kinkos years ago just so you
could say that to an unhappy customer I
actually like acting career I worked at
a Chinese restaurant where I was the day
manager only because I was the only
person who spoke English and no one
would sighs did you call that line out
every time I'm gonna go back and check
with the day manager oh the day manager
said you can get an extra chicken wing
today did you ever do a turnaround but
did you ever like like turn to walk then
just immediately turn or like let me go
get the man when oh when when I got the
letter from those patent trolls I was
going to do a whole thing they wanted to
do a video conference call with with me
about it because I guess they wanted to
like see me I too I when they talked
about the patent troll and I do you
remember this I was talking about that
like I wanted to do like a whole thing
where it's like oh yeah hold on one
second I'm gonna go check with with our
account and financial division to see
about well you know how much we can
afford to pay you and I was just gonna
duck under the desk and put on one of
those accountant hats
