so Sharon you know I have to say that I
think the reporting on this act by the
Trump administration in terms of really
rolling back the Clean Water Act to me
it has not just been unreported insofar
as we live in an era where there's you
know so much news it's like drinking
water from a fire hose but it's also
been unreported in terms of the
implications just how severe just where
this is turning the clock back to we
often you know hear you know that in in
terms of in terms of let's say voting
the Supreme Court wants to take us back
to like 1962 or something like this in
many respects what the Trump
administration is doing is taking us
back to prior to 1972 but before we get
to that give us a background about the
Clean Water Act I don't I mean I and I
and I want to do a deep dive here
because it's something that people I
think really really need to understand
to understand just how how far back
we're going in terms of in terms of
protection for our environment and
particularly the water we we swim in and
drink right okay well so the Clean Water
Act passed in 1972 but leading up to it
were years decades of really intense
industrial pollution of our waterways
and one of the events that is sort of
known as setting off the the fury that
led to the Clean Water Act was the
burning of the Cuyahoga River in Ohio in
1969 and you know let me just let me
just let me flag that because I think
you know sometimes people hear that and
they don't understand what we're talking
about the actual fire I mean the excuse
me the actual River was on fire yeah the
river was coated with a layer of
chemicals and slime and goo but it was
also had tracks across part of it
it was there there were iron works there
it was incredibly developed there were
many factories along the river and the
Husted essentially as a dump you know so
chemical waste there's a Sherman
sherwin-williams plant when they cleaned
out the tanks from their paint they just
dumped it directly in the river chemical
plants ironworks
you know and this was everyone in the
country and so I remember hearing about
about this fire in 1969 and thinking you
know
oh my you know it must have been so
crazy there and indeed it was but this
was something that was actually
happening around the country it was not
that unusual for rivers to catch fire
and in fact the Cuyahoga has caught fire
every eight or nine times before this
particular one in 1969 that everybody
knows about so we it was very widespread
this level of pollution and we were just
beginning to get into sort of the
chemical age with would you know waves
from chemical plants dumped directly
again into the water or a ditches that
led into the water so usually so sorry
let me excuse me let me let me interrupt
you for just one second so that we get
you know a full picture of this and and
I have to say that I've spoken to people
I've gotten I've spoken to people who
lived in Cleveland at that time and they
would make there was apparently a joke
about the Sherwin Williams plant like we
could tell which a paint they were
working on that day because that was the
color of the Cuyahoga River yeah but
give us a sense of just like what was I
mean were there laws were were laws not
on a federal level they stayed you know
there may I don't know the extent of
which there were state laws regulating
pollution but I know that on the federal
level there weren't water quality
standards and that's what the Clean
Water Act brought it was one of those
things where the nation kind of awakens
one of those moments where we just kind
of reached our collective limit and
so this fire wasn't the only fire but it
seems to be sort of the you know must
draw on the camel's back or whatever
that just you know led us to say was
covered in Time magazine and they went
on about how it was like chocolate
browns to successful I think they called
it and I think people went yuck you know
this is disgusting and and it's unsafe
and it smells bad and so for the first
time we had these limits on how much you
could put in into water and not just big
waters but little waters and it was you
know if you wanted to release into water
this introduced the era of the permit
you needed a permit that would give you
permission to dump X amount of Y into
the river and in order to enforce it the
government could measure the water look
for that chemical or a substance and
then if it was over you would be fined
or held accountable so it was a new way
of looking of water and and to what
extent was there I mean at that time you
know I mean III think it's hard for us
in this day and age to imagine a
situation where people are living next
to a body of water I mean certainly some
people but broadly speaking to be living
next to a body of water that runs down
and I know obviously you know I'm in New
York we had a real problem with the with
the Hudson River and the East River and
the Gowanus Canal is very close to us
here
but even as nasty as the Gowanus Canal
is to be living next to a major river
that itself is like physically like you
can smell it see see it experience how
polluted it is just by standing near it
as opposed to the notion of like we're
having a rash of cancers coming from
this area or something like that I mean
I mean surely the implications of this
were were far greater than people
understand
it was just it it was so bad that it was
that explicit do we have a sense of like
in that era
how much illness was caused by this like
long term illness I I don't know I
haven't looked at studies that look at
that and in terms of you know long term
effects I'm sure some of the cancers
would you imagine that you know these
pimples would cause they wouldn't
necessarily happen right at the time of
contact you know but probably years
later and certainly we've seen a big
rush and cancer over that time and and
of course this was this was just
basically corporations taking the
opportunity to use these essentially
unregulated spaces has their own private
dumps yeah there was convenient yes and
a classic example of corporation
essentially privatizing their profits
and socializing the costs here because
it's not just convenient right it's it's
it's cheaper for them I guess I wonder
if there's and and I I doubt that you're
aware of it but I could imagine that
there are economists out there who could
have if they didn't assess the billions
of dollars in costs that a these
corporations were saving on one hand and
B they were costing the rest of us and
when we take a break here when we come
back I want to talk about if you are
aware of the cost that it took to sort
of clean up these messes and then going
forward we'll talk about the Clean Water
Act which theoretically and and and I
frankly I think in practice largely made
it possible for us to have more or less
clean water in this country and all that
that means we got to take a quick
I'm talking to Sharon Lerner this is a
ring of fire radio I'm Sam cedar we'll
be back in a moment
