it really does seem to be the talking
point that the Republicans are pushing
here's Kellyanne Conway remember her
boss is Donald Trump the we beat him up
it's okay to beat him up if you get sued
I will pay for your lawsuit I mean we
all remember Donald Trump right
Kellyanne Conway is really upset about
the lack of civility but it didn't win
and that was Hillary Clinton and you
know many people are saying let's be
civil let's get along let's like set
unify but Hillary Clinton she's agreeing
with the Maxine Waters of the world it
appears listen to this next soundbite
she's saying civility is not an option
you cannot be civil with a political
party that wants to destroy what you
stand for what you care about that's why
I believe if we are fortunate enough to
win back the house and/or the Senate
that's when civility can start again
well what does that mean exactly pause
it for one second I'll tell you what it
means it's a delusion it's the same
delusion that Barack Obama had once we
win they'll learn their lesson or once
they win the fever will break what did
it mean both ways there was no there was
no way the fever was gonna break but in
as far as Clinton's concerned if we win
back the house according to her then the
Republicans will be civil that's a joke
of course but let's hear how the Fox and
Friends folks and Conway interpret this
well what does that mean exactly
Kellyanne look she usually when she
opens her mouth respectfully she offends
at least one half of the country and she
did it again but I think her discourse
now is a little bit dangerous I don't
like the implications there it's one
thing to call us deplorable irredeemable
laugh at people who don't have all the
positives the other night I mean not
that I you know I'm terribly sensitive
about this but I think Donald Trump
called the Democrats evil but with love
of all laugh at people who don't have
all the privileges that
has had with her Ivy League law degree
and through her marriage to a much more
popular a man who actually was a
two-term president that she'll never be
I don't like that kind of talk and I
avoid it my boss is called for civility
he's said that he represents all
Americans we don't run around asking
people what their party affiliation is
when he's cutting their taxes and
allowing their small businesses to be
free of regulations and growth it's
we're impervious to that what but this
is the line that they're pushing out
because they're desperate there's a
little bit of desperation here one part
of that was true
much more popular though that was a
really good burn he's such a good mean
girl they are like I like the every time
she opens her mouth respectfully right
but they're moving into the aggrievement
posture now because they there's which i
think is encouraging at least in terms
of what is in what they're prepared to
run on right now like I said I think a
headline this was Tammy Baldwin
introduced the discharge petition which
basically going to force the Senate on
voting on a bill that would overturn the
Trump administrations expansion of
so-called junk insurance plans these are
plans that under the Affordable Care Act
could exist for two or three months at a
time one and you could you could sign up
for these one time if you were
transitioning between plans they they
are regulated by the states and so
therefore they don't have the federal
minimum standards for what in health
insurance can can be Trump expanded
these to where you could have them for a
year at a time and you could renew I
think up to three years so Baldwin filed
a discharge petition which basically
does an end round
it's a parliamentary procedure which
forces a vote they will take the vote it
will focus on vulnerable Republicans who
will either vote to support plans that
allow for denial of coverage under
pre-existing conditions that don't cover
all sorts of health care issues or
they'll vote against it and the force
Donald Trump to veto the bill or they'll
get rid of it this is you know this has
been I think not a coincidence that as
soon as the Cavanaugh thing passes they
are going to pivot to health care the
Democrats and in the meantime what the
Republicans will do was say that these
Democrats are super mean yeah like that
that Hillary Clinton clip just now was
kind of the epitome of the fact that no
matter what the Democrats do the
Republicans are gonna act like they're
crazy leftist pitchfork carrying mob so
like might as well give them that you
know Trump Trump's op-ed claims that the
Democratic proposal of Medicare for all
would eliminate Medicare as we know it
so in other words Medicare for all will
not move will make Medicare not for
seniors anymore isn't that it becomes
Venezuela right I mean this is this is
the type of community but it's that's
the way it works
