[Music]
hey good news folks good news there's an
opportunity for you to influence Chuck
Schumer we've spoken many times in the
past about how this guy keeps making
deals with Republicans and trading
something for nothing
he keeps ceding the high ground
strategically and tactically because I
don't know why he does that he is inept
in politics and his politics themselves
hey not so great and here is an
opportunity for you to influence Chuck
Schumer but you're just gonna need the
ability to pay for your own apartment in
the what is it the fourth most expensive
part of the country you're gonna have to
work full time for no money
ladies and gentlemen opening up this
position of the unpaid press intern the
Democratic leader Charles Schumer's
press office to a wide range of young
people who are looking to enter politics
but again you're gonna need to be loaded
with cash Democratic leader Charles
Schumer press office seeks a full-time
unpaid intern in Washington DC starting
in late December or early January
part-time interns will also be
considered but if you have to make money
I'm sorry cuz candidates with full time
availability will be given preference
the trouble is it would be better if you
could do it full-time it would be
preferable if the candidate continued to
work through the fall and into May
because you know it's one thing to take
a couple of months off from your work
business and spend down your savings but
we want someone who could do this for
nearly
a lifetime responsibilities include
compiling press clips answered a
reporter inquiries organizing press
conferences writing press releases
talking points and memos conducting
research and my guess would be
formulating a strategy in which to fight
back against Republicans because only an
unpaid intern could come up with stuff
this dumb applicants must work well
under pressure have excellent written in
oral communication schools a skills and
a desire to learn and of course a
tremendous amount of money the
sleep-deprived intern told me that we
should confirm more judges what is
everybody else big called odd I'm gonna
consult with my imaginary friends and
the Bailey say it's a go so what maybe
we get some nosh and you do a social
media updates all night what's the
matter your parents can't give you more
money previous experience in politics
and press are not required but
candidates should have a general
understanding of the government process
knowledge of the Northeast and extremely
wealthy parents if interested please
send cover letter resume and your
parents bank statements via email press
internship at gmail.com several forms of
government ID all of your parents
financials as well as a credit rating
how much a new family genealogy because
I don't want your grandparents to have
been some poor Schmucks how much do you
think how much you think it plays into
the notion of if your parents are
wealthy he's thinking like donor
double-tap what you do is you get the
free labor from the kid and then the
Varens feel obligated to go to the old
guys guy it's a win wall it's like the
just coffee I was losing listen all we
need is one intern and we could get one
intern and they would do the job and
they could be wealthy because that way
we wouldn't have to pay them or we could
get five wealthy interns and not only
them work for free but make some money
offer them so I thought that the
proposal that some in the office had to
pay the intern a minimum wage so that
they could cobble together sandwiches
and work here and potentially come from
a wide range of backgrounds is very
sweet but here's the problem if we pay
them then their parents aren't wealthy
enough to donate so how much I mean it
would be very nice for a little symbolic
25 but we want at least a couple
thousand we want the legal maximum in it
now guys I can't keep debating this I
have things to do for joe manchin plus
I've got to get over to Facebook it's my
it's my shift on the call support my
daughters having a Facebook party at all
speaking of which we have to go over
there and do something happens control
from the whole George Soros thing
Cheryl whatever you need after the news
report came out yesterday a spokesperson
for Schumer came out and said Oh we'll
be offering them a stipend that was made
an error
oh nice typing like I like a little like
well no there'll be a voucher for the
metro system which will be canceled out
by the parents campaign that's right a
free Facebook portal like you seen that
it's very exciting know you snake with a
total stipend total that of course is
going to go to the Bailey kid Colin
