so dr. Elsayed let's let's first talk
about your pack southpaw what
why southpaw South pods are left-handed
boxers and and and they pack a punch
from the left and so we we wanted to
build an organization that empowered a
down ballot races across the state of
Michigan that are running on our values
without taking corporate PAC money
standing up for universal health care
and 100% renewable energy and an economy
that that promotes people over corporate
profits and so we've been doing a lot of
organizing up and down the state we've
got a big event tonight in fact
Emily syoma Miss Michigan the young
woman who used her platform to talk
about foot water she's she's headlining
tonight it works I did oh that's great
and all right so let's but let's talk
about one of the topics that you did
mention you said universal health care I
know recently you've written about
Medicare for all
and the the Trump administration's
attacks on this I mean about I guess a
couple of weeks out now we're obviously
a couple days away from the midterm
elections but over the a couple of weeks
in October we saw Donald Trump right
well Donald Trump ostensibly write an
op-ed in opposition to Medicare for all
we saw the Secretary of Health and Human
Services come out attempt to malign a
medicare-for-all Paul Ryan I think took
a turn at it what do you think scares
them so much about a medicare-for-all
because I haven't heard too many too
many times where Republicans have
singled out a specific proposal of the
Democrats that they wanted to
specifically critique look they they're
taking a page out of Karl Rove's book
and Karl Rove oh you used to say hit
them where they're strong and they know
that Medicare for all is the strongest
policy idea and rallying cry that
Democrats have to use now not all
Democrats are rallying around and that's
unfortunate but the fact of the matter
is is it
an idea whose time has come the people
love it it pulls extremely well both
among Democrats and Republicans and
people appreciate that enough is enough
people shouldn't have to worry about not
having health care and the richest most
powerful country in the world and in
fact we know that we could provide
health care that is better more
effective more efficient cheaper and for
everyone and so this idea is an
extremely powerful idea on the left and
the Trump administration sees a lot of
potential danger in it and so they've
come out swinging what's interesting is
that they've come out swinging in with a
focus on quote-unquote Medicare
Advantage plans which are these
privately administered Medicare plans
and they've actually shown their hand
about where they're going politically
they don't love Medicare but they know
that that seniors do and so they're
trying to really position Medicare for
all as being against Medicare Advantage
which is what they're going to try and
push which is really ultimately a ploy
to privatize Medicare and that's what
we're going to be seeing you're starting
to see the drums come up Mitch McConnell
talking about this deficit and all these
entitlements which is you know really a
function of the tax cut they just passed
and so we've got to protect Medicare and
we've got to fight forward on Medicare
for all let's talk a little bit about
numbers seventy percent of all Americans
support a Medicare for all policy
overwhelming support from Democrats give
me a sense of if you have an idea
because certainly health care seems to
be the primary issue for Democrats
running in the house at the least across
the country I don't know if every single
Democrat is leaving with with health
care but it certainly seems like that is
the most pressing issue to the extent
that there's any we can talk about any
issues that are not localized do you
have a sense of how many Democrats
either incumbents in the house or
running for election to to defeat a
Republican are running on Medicare for
all it's hard to put a specific number
to it but I will tell you that it is
conversation piece around which every
other conversation has had and and what
we found certainly in primaries across
across the country was that Medicare for
all was a topic brought up by at least
one of the candidates in the primary and
so it's a conversation that everybody is
having I think right now we've been
talking a lot about pre-existing
conditions which has been sort of the
least common denominator talking point
for Democrats and Republicans but if I
had asked them it I probably say about
50% of Democrats running right now in
general midterm elections are running on
a medicare-for-all platform which
probably actually underestimates the
number of Democrats that actually
believe in it I'll tell you that you
know the nature of political
conversations is that they sort of they
sort of swell and there's enough latent
energy now that under strong Democratic
leadership willing to take the mantle of
medicare-for-all as a universal health
care approach that you'd find the good
side of Democrats and Democrats
certainly in elected office who would
get behind this approach alright let's
talk about some of those talking points
we're seeing from the right but in a
moment but but give us a like a sense of
like what exactly it means to have
Medicare for all because I get I get the
sense that it is you know there's a
broad principle that is related when we
say Medicare for all but there are sort
of different variations of it give us a
sense of what what does that mean
Medicare for all yeah right now most
Americans have health care through one
of three systems
it's either Medicare if you're over 65
or you're somebody who suffers a
particular disability or disease its
Medicaid if you meet poverty
requirements or Medicaid
those are both state-run federally run
insurance programs and then you have
private insurance Medicare for all
basically says that enough is enough
with private insurance let us just
extend Medicare so it covers everybody
what's called single-payer in in the
lingo and healthcare but basically what
this does is says we're not going to
allow these big powerful insurance
corporations to dominate the health
system and collude with providers of
health care be they doctors or hospitals
we're not going to allow them to collude
to raise the price of healthcare for
everybody forcing us to pay these huge
premiums and then these co-pays at the
point of care and then it doesn't even
kick in until you've paid your full
deductible so this is a very similar
system to what they have in Canada where
they provide healthcare for everybody at
far less expensive a rate we pay 18
cents on the dollar for health care
they're paying 11 cents on the dollar
and providing better access to good
health they live on average a year and a
half to two years longer than we do and
what we're saying here is that if we're
willing to engage the government in
being able to address the brokenness of
the healthcare market that's largely put
in there because of these private health
insurance corporations that we in fact
can solve one of the biggest challenges
but all of us touch right Sam everybody
everybody touches the health care system
whether you like it or not and that's
why so many people have so much
passionate about it and so when we look
at Medicare as it stands now for folks
who are 65 and older give us a sense of
what of what that looks like because it
is it's government health insurance but
it is both in some instances and you
mentioned Medicare Advantage and one of
the things we should say about the
Affordable Care Act is that the Medicare
Advantage some of the savings from the
Affordable Care Act came from
reorienting the price structure for
Medicare Advantage it was a relatively
new program they found that they were
overpaying for services and that's one
of the it seems to me one of the
highlights of Medicare is that there is
a rational way to for price controls and
because there's such volume the the
single-payer can figure out like we're
overpaying for this
versus we're not overpaying for that
that's right and look I'll tell you
there's there's a lot of benefits now
there's a lot of worry about Medicare
right now and and it's actually to be
quite honest I think it's overblown but
if you think about an insurance program
Medicare is a government insurance
program any insurance program has to be
able to balance out the number of people
who have high costs with the number of
people who have lower costs and the
reality of the matter is if we were to
include Medicare for everyone what we
would be pulling under the Medicare
umbrella is a lot of people who are
younger therefore lower costs for
healthcare because they're healthier
which would make Medicare that much more
sustainable over the long term and you
mentioned Medicare Advantage as one way
of thinking about how we actually
deliver Medicare and it's a good system
but what we also have to worry about us
because that more and more of the
Medicare pie to be eaten up by these
private corporations who who want to eat
more and more of that pie because it
increases their bottom line and so I
believe in a Medicare for All system
that makes Medicare more sustainable and
that wrestles some of that power away
from those private corporations to
include more people under the umbrella
to improve the sustainability of the
system overall it's the way we can
negotiate that pricing that you were
talking about Sam to make sure that
we're paying for the things that
actually create better health not just
increase the profits of some corporation
all right we have to take a quick break
I'll be right back with dr. Elsayed
about talking about Medicare I'm Sam
cedar this is ring of fire radio
