Jarra Niram or with sam cedar where
everyday casual Friday that means Monday
is casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat the majority
report with sam cedar it is Friday June
7 2019 my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today it's
casual Friday folks you know what that
means
well maybe you don't David day it the
new executive editor of The American
Prospect will be here also on the
program today Andy Kindler executive
editor of the Andy Kindler Twitter feed
will be here
wait I call him the unofficial oat buds
Minh of CNN the oat buds Minh Ombudsman
oh boy that's the way you say right I'm
butts Minh I want to get to Peru I want
to get super sneaky about pronunciation
Sam no I'm also on the program today
house backs off contempt but intend to
get those answers from bar and Ross
through the courts meanwhile dr. Hyde to
mr. Jekyll Biden flips on the Hyde
Amendment
also Mexico and Trump may come to a deal
to further a MS rate the miserable
meanwhile Trump allows the Saudis to
have us high tech bomb-making secrets
and wages and jobs crawl to an
unexpected halt
meanwhile the turbo tax giveaway killed
by a ProPublica Peace Sudanese uprising
being crushed by a military government
Tucker Carlson Laura Ingraham lose a big
advertiser cue censorship cries Talib
introduces a ubi in the house and susan
collins is all in on anti-abortion Trump
judges all this and more on today's
program yes ladies and gentlemen welcome
to it thank you for for tuning in it is
a another Friday just a reminder this
program relies on your support
it's it's members that keep us going
inoculate us from any type of YouTube D
monetization sort of like on the steven
crowder model you can become a member by
going to join the majority report
dot-com join the majority report calm
very easy URL which apparently Michael
cannot remember I listened to the
program yesterday Michael and what did I
say well you did like slash become a
member - whatever it was why not join
TPS / - SK oh wait sorry it's Skillshare
my bed yeah alright umm it's well that's
why I say join the majority report down
give me points on them I'll remember it
that way oh boy
alright folks
yes you can support the program that way
and let's get right into it
Joe Biden and I think this is gonna be a
problem for Joe Biden definitely because
aside from the fact that it's gonna be
hard for people to believe that he's
actually changed his mind again the the
the one thing that has been clear about
Joe Biden's support is that he he is
supposedly the one guy who can
definitely beat Donald Trump there there
should be no weakness there and to flip
on a position that you had no look I
guess I'm glad that Joe Biden has
flipped if I was to believe it it's not
like he's in Congress now or he's gonna
be in a lawmaking position anyways but
look we know that Joe Biden was willing
to trade Social Security for a set of
taxes that we're gonna expire anyways we
know this about Joe Biden the he
basically interceded with Harry Reid's
negotiations by basically undercutting
him in the fiscal cliff negotiations
back and I guess it was in 2011 maybe in
2010 I can track you to be honest with
you I can't remember now I'm too old but
just listen to this ap headline after
two days of intense criticism Democratic
presidential candidate Joe Biden
reversed course
Thursday and declared he no longer
supports a long-standing congressional
ban on using federal health care money
to pay for abortions the Hyde Amendment
is almost 30 years old Joe Biden has
held this position for 30 years
and it took two days of criticism for
him to reverse himself play this clip
that when in fact there is this enormous
pressure even threatened to close down
the clinics that are available in the
past but we now see so many Republican
governors denying health care had
millions of the most poorest most
welcome Americans but refused even
Medicaid expansion I can't justify maybe
millions of women that access to care if
I believe health care as a right as I do
I can no longer support an amendment I
mean he attempts to make this about
what's going on in the states across the
country it's absurd the the problem has
existed the ability for women living in
poverty and having trouble to get
abortions because Medicaid would not
finance it has been a long-standing
problem and didn't you just didn't care
well as I pointed out yesterday in this
in reporting yesterday I didn't vote it
against Medicaid covering abortion in
the 70s quite a while ago but I mean he
did in his own voting record precisely
what he's using to get himself out of
that position today yeah it's pretty
stunning and but Joe Biden does that now
here's the other thing I think from a
meta perspective it really is
problematic for him because he's a guy
who's been trying to project this sense
of I don't know if I would call it
inevitability but certainly a sense of
like strength and this shows weakness I
think it's gonna undercut him when we
have David day and on in a bit we will
we will talk more about what's going on
with 20/20 cuz he was out in California
at this
big California Democratic convention I
should tell you folks we've also just as
a little bit of housecleaning you can go
to Instagram we our Instagram feed we've
been playing around with it we have
finally figured out we how to do this we
now have a a I bought that is now doing
our Instagram and it is exceptional we
we tried it out with the human being we
found that to be too cumbersome and this
AI bought really anticipates what we
want on Instagram so everybody should
head over there now instagram.com slash
majority report dot F M this is a weird
handle we got to try and change that but
here it is there's our Instagram of we
have some AI device that Kyle rigged up
that actually generates these memes and
then post them so I don't concern that
the rest of us are gonna be replaced by
bots I mean I I was talking about this
with Andy Kindler when I invited him on
today I'm hoping that's happening I my
my dream is to someday on a Friday sit
back with the Andy Kindler or the cup of
coffee and just listen to the both of us
doing the show without us actually
having to be there that is where I'm
headed so we'll see
Oh folks that's awesome my a I will be
there take care as long as we still get
paid I'm cool with that plan to Jewish
AI Jewish AI BOTS with a lot of
emotional baggage is the next step
feeling but I only do pedantic arguments
and get aggrieved
I'm the cedar bot folks time spent in
traffic is not time spent exploring
creating and having fun now you can use
boosted to get where you need to be
faster it's designed to provide a
luxurious experience boost
vehicle grade Electric skateboards and
scooters are the modern solution to your
transportation woes I am so all in on
this
they look really fun and the thing that
I appreciate about it they're showing
people wear your helmets there was some
report I just saw I can't remember what
city it was like one-sixth of all the
people in the city are driving electric
scooters now boosted has a 22 mile range
maximum speeds of 24 miles per hour it's
perfect for both running to the store
and traveling across town with five
options to pick from including their new
scooter the boosted rev there's a
personal electric vehicle that's
tailor-made for you they're just
starting at 61 bucks a month with
financing snowonder boosted was one of
Time Magazine's best inventions of 2018
and also got Brendan's we got your uh
but he's been a boosted ambassador for a
long time since like 2013 or so he's
been on the train early he was like he
got a bet on this it's good stuff when
did when did your official endorsement
because your buddy is a and about right
around then he's a very persistent
salesman and so we're talking about a
almost a six year time six-time Brendan
look folks there's no time better than
now to change the way you move right now
boosted is offering our listeners
seventy five bucks off the purchase of
an electric vehicle when you use the
code majority a check out you go to
boosted boards comm boosted B oo ste D
boa RDS boosted boards dot-com use the
code majority a check out gets 75 bucks
off your vehicle that's boosted boards
promo code majority at check out for 75
bucks off I'm I'm I'm so close to
pulling the trigger on that I definitely
want one of those do it man
I think I'm going to they look really
fun
you - it's I mean it's just a question
of efficiency and that's what I need I
need an extra like half an hour 45
minutes a day right now and if I could
get that you know just even go on a
softball rather than having to go dig
out my bike which is a pain I can just
take this out of my apartment well if
the MTA keeps going the way it has been
this may be the more efficient option
soon that's why I can't wait for a lawn
mosque to invent a tunnel where people
just ride their electric scooters
through it like half underground bike
lane that's super uncomfortable and
inefficient that covers like a half a
block proprietary Elon Musk bike as well
of course if they shut the L down that's
what they could have used we don't have
time for this
Joe Rogan video maybe we'll play it they
will play it right after David daen but
David Pakman was on Joe Rogan the other
day and Joe Rogan uh brought us both up
Michael Ross indeed what is your last
name again hey well Joe apologized so no
I don't need to make a thing of it he
called me Michael Roberts and a lot of
people pointed out apparently that that
was not then Joel like a gentleman
tweeted a sincere apology and followed
me on Twitter so basically I just go
back to my original point which is that
Joe is a breath of fresh air in the
discourse we got all right we're gonna
take a quick break
also just reminder just coffee co-op
fair trade coffee tea or chocolate when
we come back we'll be talking to David
Dahon
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program the now executive editor
of the American Prospect and I can't
encourage everyone everyone and anyone
more to go over there and get a
subscription to The American Prospect I
am so excited to see what's going to
happen going forward with this you know
and I the prospect I've read you know
for years and and David day and welcome
to the program I was just you know
talking about you that I'm gonna let you
do that well I mean I'll let you keep
doing that I've been reading the
prospect for years and it was you know
sometimes great sometimes not not so
interesting to me there are a bunch of
interesting pieces over the years
obviously and we've had guests on from
there but I am so excited to have you
this have this be your new job not only
have you you way overdue for a job like
this but frankly I'm very excited to see
where this goes I mean I I interviewed
Billa zonic on a piece that he wrote the
other day about the you know we've been
talking about on ik for years on this
program about what's happened with CEOs
and their executive pay and the way that
they get paid and the shareholder
buybacks and he tied it into the 737
stuff and it's fascinating and own down
the American Prospect yeah that was good
piece you know we're excited about the
way forward prospect obviously has been
around for 30 years
has a really rich legacy there you could
probably name any major media site in
journalism and some one if not multiple
people from the prospect and their past
have have worked there whether you're
talking about ezra klein dramatic Glacia
sir Jamelle Bouie or Adam sir
we're kind of a soirée or whoever and
we're looking to continue that legacy
and move it forward and you know we're
looking at hiring new writers we're
looking at this can be a redesign of the
website there's going to be you know I
think an increased focus on the kinds of
things that I write about regularly
which are really power dynamics whether
you're talking about politics or you're
talking about business talking about the
economy and you know I'm really excited
to build something that I think will
will make a contribution great well
let's talk about a couple of pieces that
you that you actually wrote about in the
prospect this past week and both of
which you know we talked about on the
program early this week to a certain
extent not as in depth as you covered
here and I want to also touch on on
Biden's reversal and what you make of
that as well but you were out at the
California Democratic convention and yes
and basically wrote about how almost
everyone there on some level or another
was distinguishing themselves from Joe
Biden who seems to like feel like the
strategy to win the nomination and maybe
the presidency is to run like it's 1995
I'd say more like 1900 you know William
McKinley did his famous front porch
campaign where he never left his front
porch and well-wishers came to him and
that that was the sum total of his
campaigning this and you know obviously
in 1900 might a little harder to
traverse the country but Biden
apparently doesn't know if he exists
of planes or large halls where you could
speak one-on-one to candidates there
there is very little campaigning going
on in the first couple months and it
seems like Biden wants to what get out
of his own way and and not not screw it
up and and really if you look at this
week that's probably a good bet right I
mean he comes out for the Hyde Amendment
and and then has to backtrack and and so
you know staying out of the public eye
is probably a good idea
for for Joe Biden given his history with
presidential campaign well isn't this
gonna be a problem for him I mean this
is what I've been and I want to get your
sense of this and I am and because maybe
I'm completely off-base but this is
gonna catch up with him like I mean to a
certain extent there was a little bit of
this that Clinton tried to do early on
in her campaign I think the the DNC
scheduling all the debates in 2016 on
the weekends was also a function of this
on some level right I mean and that they
wanted to sort of basically you know run
like an incumbents race on some level
but Joe Biden I mean I and and by the
way that that's it's not like it's
breaking new ground or anything this is
what most frontrunners do they try to
limit their exposure because if you're
winning the only thing that they can
happen is is to the downside so you know
why why wouldn't you uh to a certain
extent but I I don't think it's
sustainable I mean you know Biden's not
going to skip these debates right and
and that's going to be sort of the most
high-profile thing we're going to see
those and in just a matter of weeks here
and that you know there are going to be
plenty of moments that that can change
this dynamic and it's it's certainly not
sustainable for him to just sort of you
know stay out of the public eye for the
rest of this campaign on the you know
20/20 did the California Convention it
seems to me marked the in some ways the
beginning of the
the Ray I don't want to say the race as
much as but like the idea that like okay
we're running against Joe Biden here
yeah I think it's absolutely correct I
mean except for a couple like you know
Hickenlooper and Delaney trying to run
against socialism or whatever but for
the most part this was the kickoff I
feel like of the campaign now there's
another one this week there's a cattle
call in Iowa but there were 14
candidates over in San Francisco and the
ones with a real shot to win did it set
up this this arguments particularly
around not just Biden but I've been
calling it Biden ISM you know this and
and it's not limited to him but this
sort of establishment idea that what we
need is a restoration prep presidency we
need a return to normalcy as Warren
Harding ran on in 1920 we we just need
to get Trump out of there and and
everything would be all right and we all
can go back to brunch and and what the
argument that and and not limited to
just sort of the candidates on the
progressive side but versions of this
were said by Booker and footage in
addition the war on Sanders that that's
not going to be enough that the the
history of the recent history within our
country an economy that doesn't lift it
up that's a you know a climate crisis
and all of these various things that are
pushing up inequality and and giving the
middle class less opportunities to make
it are those things were existed before
Donald Trump and they're going to exist
after them and we need to structurally
make some changes in order to remedy
that because it's it's the clear
challenge facing the country
and a ghost slow you know try to make
compromise you know don't don't fight
too hard kind of approach is is not what
we need at this time I mean Warren had
that great line when she said if someone
a politician is telling you that you you
know don't make waves
you can't do everything at once it goes
slow what they're really telling you is
they're they're not going to fight for
you right when you're when the chips are
down and and and and that's really the
argument that that's the argument that
was set up and that's the argument I
think you're going to see on display in
a few weeks in these presidential
debates do you think we're gonna see
more I mean I've been sort of surprised
and I haven't seen any reactions to
Biden's flip here and you know I think
look I I don't think it's any secret
that Biden is my least favorite
candidate in this race although I you
know maybe maybe John Delaney and
there's a couple others there but I mean
I mean does he rise to the level of
being a favorite or not John Delaney or
John Hickenlooper I mean right it was so
funny to see you know nobody was paying
attention to those speeches when they
were being made until the word socialism
came up it was almost like a wake word
like like an Alexa socialism was said
and then people you know turn their
heads up the the the only thing worse
than getting food is not being paid
attention to at all and that's what was
happening prior to that and I suspect
that's what will continue to happen
after you know Delaney and Hickel it was
15 minutes of being booed do you think
that's why they did it do you think
that's yeah I mean I think I think it's
absolutely why Hickenlooper did it
he ran ads about it afterwards he he
went on a little tour of the media
afterwards that Delaney might just be
clueless I don't really know
Hickenlooper was a considered strategy
and and one that we've seen in
California in 1990 Dianne Feinstein was
running for governor actually and she
was in a primary and she came out in
favor of the death penalty very strongly
at a California Democratic Party
convention was lustily booed and then
she used that footage in an ad during
the campaign she actually ended up
losing should not become California
Governor and later on she became senator
but this this is a strategy I mean you
know he can called sister soldier or
whatever of course Clinton did that
after the nomination was locked up now
he was trying to get Democratic votes so
I I don't think it's a successful
strategy alright so getting back here's
my question about about Biden are we
gonna see some of these candidates or is
it too early for this to start to hit
Biden like on this there seems to me to
be two things right that Biden is
vulnerable to one is the idea that he
inevitably can win and the other is that
he he needs to be on some level cleaved
from from his association with Barack
Obama and that's difficult for some of
the candidates who are were critical
about some of Obama's thing and I bomb
as policies and I imagine that they
don't want to you know be too you know
the the way that they would cleave these
guys is is you know is tricky but Joe
Biden came out you know weeks ago and
said I'm going to be able to after
Donald Trump is gone I'm going to be
able to I'm gonna be able to deal with
the Republicans and listen isn't sort of
like the implication there that Barack
Obama couldn't do it but I can I mean if
I wanted to cleave Joe Biden from Barack
Obama I would say I would pose the
question why does why does Joe Biden
think that he is
able to do what Barack Obama couldn't do
and that's one way to do it I think the
other way to do it is just to say open
your eyes Joe I mean look look at what
the blockade that we've seen and and
going back even before Obama right going
to the Clinton administration or you
know since the Reagan Revolution what in
in that history is something that you
think you can find common ground off I
mean that this is this is insane
and that that's you know ultimately
going to be a dynamic that is not going
to get the the American public to a
place where they need to be I think
that's probably a better way of putting
it to a Democratic audience I mean I
think I think we get a little caught up
too much in you know Obama's role in all
of this you know clearly that you know
Biden is running on that affinity I mean
he's running on that affiliation with
with Obama
I mean it's notable that Obama aides
aren't really running with him there
there are plenty of not just fundraising
support but but actual former aides who
are looking at other candidates but what
I would say is that that you can just
sort of look at the reality of where the
Republican Party has gone over the last
40 years and and just look incredulous
Liat anyone thinking that there's
there's some someplace of common ground
that you can find what do we know about
how they're going to be picking the
who's on which stage during these
debates because that seems to me to be a
so pretty lottery as far as I know it's
a luck of the draw situation and that's
that's pretty important I mean at least
for this first one now you know later
debates are going to have less members
in it of
DNC has come out and said that they're
raising the bar for whether you can
participate in these debates in the
future and so eventually there will be a
debate with the top candidates taking
the stage Biden and Warren and Harris
and Sanders and and footages this one is
all luck of a draw
so you know Biden could get in there
with a bunch of people pulling a 2% or
less
I mean it's entirely possible that there
is no I mean maybe the DNC will put
their thumb on the scale in some way I
don't know I don't know if this is a
public process of drawing lots or
anything but it's certainly
unpredictable and if you don't have
Biden and Warren in the same debates
then there's going to be a different
dynamic if you don't have Biden and
Sanders in the same debate I think we
should be starting a call right now to
have that be a public process you know
something like you know the way they do
the lottery numbers on the you know
channel 5 or whatever it is every year
they pull it out of a like the NBA Draft
Lottery yeah that's that's done in the
back room and the Knicks end up with
Patrick Ewing why wouldn't you do that
if you were the DNC that would that
would that would be a brilliant I think
social media strategy unless of course
you really wanted to make sure that Joe
Biden didn't end up on the stage but
anybody who's going to challenge him in
a in a sort of a material form of peer
rating standpoint you'd think that they
would want to do the opposite that they
would want to get all their there their
big names in the same debate but they've
been pretty adamant that they didn't
want to do a kiddie table debate like
the Republicans did in 2016 I think
that's fair enough I mean I think that's
fair enough at least at the beginning as
you say but I mean mix you know mix it
up a little bit but let's talk a little
bit also about this question of jay
Inslee he wrote a piece about jay Inslee
and he is has basically branded his
campaign as one that is focused like a
laser beam on
and change he has certainly you know
pushed the limit as it were I don't know
the limit but within the limits of I
guess American politics in terms of
Washington state with climate tell us a
little bit about that and then we'll go
into the sort of the dynamics in the
campaign regarding that yeah yeah so I
mean we've seen this before a little bit
of people running sort of single issue
presidential campaigns designed to
elevate a particular issue that they
find existential and we haven't seen it
on climate in in a Democratic primary
before Inslee is really the first one to
try this and and you know there's been
some sort of fortuitous circumstances
around that most notably this this
attention paid to the green new deal and
that the work of the sunrise movement
and people like that that has given sort
of a path for for Inslee to make this
stand and and you know usually the
single issue kind of candidates aren't
necessarily running to be President
although I think in Inslee has certain
qualifications in that regard
they're running to make sure that issue
is a priority that it's front and center
within the context of the party that
they're trying to influence and I think
Inslee is doing a pretty good job of
that he's setting sort of a gold
standard in terms of his policies he has
successfully I believe connected climate
to all of these other challenges that we
face whether it's the declining share of
the labor movement because there's a
labor component to his climate change
policy the the state of the economy of
green manufacturing of
you know economic growth and returning
the the country to a dominant position
in certain certain industries he's
connected it to immigration with this
concept of climate migrants and how you
know our foreign policy might be better
served by helping these countries be
sustainable and successful on their own
light rather than getting millions of
their people at our border like we're
seeing particularly in Guatemala where
harvests are dying rapidly and climate
migrants are coming to the United States
because they have simply no other option
so you see it in immigration context and
also in this sort of international
relations context he's talked about
trade deals needing environmental
components at the forefront he's talked
about international cooperation on the
climate crisis so you know the ability
to sort of connect to that this this
fundamental challenge to these other
issues I think is is very important
because it really centers climate at the
core and you know I think he's been
pretty successful in getting other other
candidates within this primary race to
move in his direction much like we're
seeing in a dynamic with with Elizabeth
Warren sort of more generally where
she's put out these plans and now
everybody is scrambling to put out their
own plans in a in a climate context that
is the dynamic that Inslee is
facilitating and I think that's that's a
really good role above and beyond the
fact that he does have a pretty decent
record on a number of issues
so what he wanted to this debate
the DNC said no it seems to me like
there's a potential here and I don't
know I haven't I mean I have not been
paying attention to that sort of
discourse around there but it seems to
me like
we're to you know marginally to
candidates who are in the middle of the
pack could just basically say we're
gonna do this and the DNC would then be
in a position of basically bumping those
people from future debates because they
want to go on and talk about climate
change that seems like a fairly I think
this is an organizing opportunity and I
think I think Inslee and his campaign
sees it that way and they're not going
to stop the two candidates that sort of
jumped aboard in reiterating that there
should be a climate debate we're
Elizabeth Warren and better--or work so
two of the candidates in in the upper
tiers III would put one the top tier and
better just below that at this point but
you know if there's a coalition that can
be built a larger one of ten candidates
twelve candidates that say we're just
going to go ahead and do this that puts
a lot of pressure on the DNC that that
would make it very difficult for the DNC
that sort of continue this stance that
because their position is that if you do
an outside debate we're going to
disqualify you from any DMC debates
we're not going to invite you anymore
and I should say that that's a new rule
that there isn't some sort of iron law
that the DNC gets to manage what
candidates can say in in large formats
televised formats and in debates we saw
plenty of debates in 2008 that without
sanctioned by the DNC I remember going
to one at yearly coast which is now
right Netroots nation 2007 this was
something that debbie Wasserman Schultz
implemented in 2016 right uh the this
idea that you can't do outside debates
and it's a bit silly I mean it's it's
really a micromanagement kind of
situation where you're trying to manage
the the the access and of these
candidates in ways that I don't really
understand so you know I think there's I
think it's right for challenge I think
if you get enough you know if
tipping point of candidates to
participate in the debate of that kind
particularly to get the front-runner Joe
Biden who put out a climate policy this
week that got some generally good a
little bit mixed reviews and was
certainly closer to an Inslee type of
although it wasn't at that level it was
closer to it than the sort of middle
ground that he was looking for in in
published reports with with members of
his staff so you know if you can get a
good number of people I think you can
sort of call the bluff of the DNC on
them I feel like if if if Warren beto
Sanders Inslee in Harris all said that
we're going to do this I mean what are
they going to do not let those people on
the debate stage I mean that's yeah it
just seems it seems crazy that that
would be the outcome and you know that
would that would sort of be the the end
of that so as I said I think it's an
organizing opportunity for for Inslee
and then an opportunity for him to
continue into this this area let's talk
a little bit I want to just change
topics a little bit because the other
thing this week that you know and and
part of that is our own myopia here on
some level but there was on Twitter as
an extension of YouTube a controversy
that was a function of Carlos bacca
is that it is innate I keep maza is a
vox youtuber and he does these
explainers i've seen one or two do it
think about what you would have said it
if someone said to you 10 years ago 15
years ago he's a fox youtuber right and
then a job that you can have well that's
the weird thing about this I mean
because you know like on some level I'm
quite convinced that this is in some
fashion or another the the future I
don't know if it's going to be YouTube
and I don't know if it's gonna be Vox
but it's gonna be two other words that
we can't even imagine what they mean
from ten years from now but it's going
to be some measure this or or or not I
mean because you know part of it is that
in 2004 there was no YouTube kicked in I
think you know later that year or
something and now it is a dominant
platform the steven crowder would
address these explainers and always make
a point about the fact that maza was gay
and mexican and you know basically just
gay bash Crowder has a lot of other
things that I find ridiculous and stupid
about him but this is the I think the
one that sort of certainly runs contrary
to YouTube's Terms of Service and so
maza complained to YouTube and they
basically said to steven crowder we're
no longer monetizing your channel until
you get rid of all the gay bashing which
to me seems fairly appropriate I think
there's other problems with YouTube from
a an antitrust perspective and from the
yeah I mean I I did let me just jump in
i I think steven crowder is now seeing
the problems with a narrow distribution
channel where there's only one way to
get your communication out the problem
here seems to be that if there was an
environment where you had all sorts of
opportunities to distribute video
content then there would be the market
would sort of figure out what where
people go and and
and this this D monetization sort of I
don't know threat hanging over the heads
of every single youtuber would be
neutralized but in this case that that's
not the the landscape that we have and
YouTube has this tremendous amount of
power at their own whim to decide
whether or not to cut off the livelihood
of individuals now you know I don't
agree with steven crowder I don't even
know Steven crafter until you told me we
were going to be talking about this an
hour so in terms what I do know is that
that should an organisation like like
YouTube have the power to turn on or off
the potential livelihood of individuals
based on a amount of lobbying they get
from from the outside or based on their
own particular political or public
relations whim no and that's that I
think the major problem here you know
I'm not clued in necessarily to this
debate but what I would say is that this
this is this is a problem of a
concentrated distribution network right
and and the it seems to me I mean
obviously YouTube is not in a position
to diversify you know and to break
themselves up so you've been looking
into this for a long time
what like how would that work right like
like what would be and I know there's
there's plans out there but I think
people have a hard time sort of like
conceiving of this because I look there
are you could you could put your videos
on Vimeo there are other platforms for
video content there's other ways to
monetize YouTube stuff we had an ad
apocalypse about a year year and a half
ago
and a lot of youtubers basically said
support the show on patreon in some
position and it was perfectly effective
for them a you know but the idea here's
what I would say go ahead so it this is
this is obviously part of a larger thing
because when we're talking about YouTube
we're talking about Google Google bought
YouTube way back in 2006 or 7 or
something and Google Eric Schmidt the
former executive chairman of Google has
said in the past that Google would make
an acquisition per week of other
applications other potential rivals
things like that so the easiest way to
sort of go about this is just reverse a
lot of that and and with Google maybe
you're talking about YouTube but you're
probably definitely talking about
double-click which is the ad serving
software that they this this is what is
enabled Google to not just be an ad
destination but an advertising supplier
and facilitator so it's it's it's you
know bring forth an ad exchange an
actual market to put advertisers and
users together while also competing with
them so so this is this is sort of a
bigger problem when you're talking about
Amazon maybe you're talking about
splitting Zappos which was an emerging
site into lands on bottom or or
splitting it from Amazon Web Services
which is sort of the firmaments the this
cloud network that undergirds a giant
portion of the internet when you're
talking about Facebook it's the the
direct competitors of them they've
bought Instagram and whatsapp so just
reversing those mergers number one would
decentralize the power to a certain
extent so what soaks as far as for
YouTube just give me an example so all
right so we we'd we'd we separate
YouTube
Google we separate YouTube from Adsense
and and then what happens it becomes
just less I mean the fundamental point
here is that Google's ownership of
YouTube has been a driving force in
moving users looking for videos into
YouTube right and and and if you sever
that relationship then maybe if you're
searching you're not necessarily only
getting Google uh respect you're not
necessarily only getting YouTube
responses to your queries on Google so
so that that's one way in which this can
manifest you know the other way is that
it is the role of the competition
authorities to make sure that we can
provide some of that and and maybe
there's a role for public facing network
or you know fostering some sort of
competition within there and then the
third thing would be a regulatory impact
so I mean the the the problem with
Google and it's come up this week is
that their algorithm which requires or
prefers I should say a certain amount of
engagement has inevitably sends people
down these rabbit holes of conspiracy
and makes it easy for pedophiles to find
certain bits of contents and and that
algorithmic problem is one that in my
view could be regulated so that Google
can be or YouTube can be a network that
isn't promoting hatred or promoting the
or or at least moving people into that
direction but my general thought is that
the more competition there is you know
you fight speech with more speech and
everybody can sort of you know find
their level
and and in and we could also from a
regulatory standpoint assuming that the
industry that we're regulating wasn't so
massive and powerful as to essentially
own the regulatory agencies we could
also say something to the effect of like
hey if you're gonna be in that that
algorithms can only be relied upon so
much in the context of this type of
industry or that type of industry right
I mean they go part of the problem right
that we that that Google has with
maintaining the its own Terms of Service
is that they don't want to deploy the
number of people that is necessary to
actually look at this stuff and get it
right so you get rid of you D monetize
steven crowder but you're also d
monetizing somebody who does you know
historical analysis of speeches of
Hitler as opposed to like you know
putting a Hitler on there and praising
him you know and and how these things
are mediated makes a difference I mean
context right man I mean I I mean I
think with First Amendment being what it
is that that really you know going into
this and and and putting it on a YouTube
a private government to regulate its own
speech I think it was problematic but
what I would say is that the the in my
view the the way to really deal with all
this is you ban targeted ads and what
that would do and I think there is is a
clear path to be able to do that and I
don't think it does actually call up
First Amendment problems is you just say
that that you can't track and surveil
somebody around the web and then serve
them very specific in particular
quote-unquote relevant advertising at
every step of the way and what that
would do is that YouTube wouldn't like
not have an ad business under that form
it could it still has a big audience it
still could do research on that audience
and no generally
what that audience is and then tell
advertisers well we have a lot of people
who you know are in this age range or
who have this certain interest but then
everybody would get to do that and so
the The Wall Street Journal which has a
very high concentration of you know
decision makers and businesses could go
to their advertisers and say this is
this is what our market is rather than
now we're Google and and and Facebook
steal this market share by putting by
being able to geo target those those
individuals very specifically giving no
reason for you to build up an audience
of any kind of specialness and and and
be able to serve that ads within that
community so if you have that let me
just see if I can restate that to you so
that to make sure that I understand what
you're saying that there is an unfair
advantage that a Facebook and a Google
has in the advertising market that
basically makes it impossible for
anybody you know content creators for
you know let's use a rather vulgar term
for people you know doing journalism or
whatever it is for content creators to
compete with these outlets so that I
can't go to an advertiser and say hey I
I you know I have whatever I mean if I
was to do a survey and say okay I I have
I have people from 25 to 55 who you know
make anywhere from thirty five thousand
to a hundred thousand dollars a year and
they're interested in you know that's
that's the depth of the data that I can
get they're interested in rock climbing
I mean yeah but YouTube or I should say
Google and Facebook can go like oh we
can not only tell you we can tell you
the zip code they live in we can tell
you the magazines they buy what their
search terms are and if you want a
universe of 50,000 people who like rock
climbing we can give you those 50,000
people like you know like rock climbing
because we read their email with a one
toe yield as opposed to what Sam cedar
can do
or The Washington Post can do or anybody
else climbing magazine right so you know
it has ruined sort of the uniqueness of
these these particular universes these
demographic markets within you know
content creators person to user work and
so if you eliminated that if you just
said look for privacy reasons we're not
going to let you surveil us anymore then
everybody is on a more level playing
field and this this whole you know D
monetization thing might become less of
an issue if you can build up an audience
and say hey I have an audience that that
is is pretty good for advertisers and
advertisers might want to come in
because the monetization is wrong ads
right I mean it's that's that's what it
is it's you have an audience such that
you can you can acquire ads on YouTube
well if you if you can sort of acquire
ads on your own through your own
separate service that isn't connected to
Google and you can make it survive
because Google isn't essentially
stealing the uniqueness of your market
right well then then you have a
different ecosystem you have a different
environment and and and and one that I
think is better for individuals it's
it's fascinating dynamic and I in a
conversation I think it's one we're
gonna hear more of right I mean do you
have that sense let me ask you this then
it just as a final question there was an
announcement this week that what is it
the Cicilline from Rhode Island is is
going to start hearings on this in the
house but there was also an announcement
this week that the DOJ in the FTC had
basically resolved who was going to be
looking into this in terms of Google and
Facebook and other big tech companies
how
for reals do you think that is it's it's
it's hard to know I mean III think that
the end
vestigation from a congressional side is
is real right
we know that Lena Kahn who as risen with
some manner of prominence who wrote this
this great Law Review paper about Amazon
and antitrust now works in in Sicily
knees office and and it's going to be
very involved with this investigation
which my view is it should be more
wide-ranging tech firms III think that
if we broke up Google Facebook and
Amazon today we'd still have a terrible
concentration problem in America and and
maybe it will go in that direction but I
think I I think there's there's a
tremendous opportunity there to do
something like a Pecora Commission for
economic concentration or a temporary
National Economic Committee which was
this thing in FDR era that actually
looked at economic concentration and and
and really fomented a lot of really good
law and moves by the antitrust
authorities as for the FTC and the
Justice Department it seems like they
they worked out some jurisdictional
issues we have this weird situation in
in America where we have two agencies
that do antitrust enforcement and there
are no clear lines between who does what
it's just sort of thrown into one bucket
after another and there isn't this great
coordination around it and so the fact
that they actually said okay you take
this and we'll take that it signals that
you know they wouldn't do that if they
weren't planning to do something right
but what that's going to be I mean
honestly after seeing this group in
place at the FTC and the Justice
Department in the Trump era you're just
going to have to show me before I'm
convinced that you're interested in
rooting out anti-competitive behavior
and and and really getting something
done but I you know in the event that
there is a democratic administration
that is amenable this you know to
changing the the sort of the Chicago
School Robert Bork
Astra regime of of antitrust and return
to one that is sort of broader in its
perspective it's nice to have that
started there I guess right I and I
think that's why the Cicilline committee
is important because that role is going
to be to raise awareness to identify
these these issues within the economy to
talk about the implications to put lay
out a fact pattern of the role of in
this case these tech companies these
digital platforms in our everyday lives
and to do that in a high-profile way and
that's going to you know simply have
resonance with the next Democratic
administration for you know particularly
if it comes in in in 2020 and after 2020
election that that's why I think that is
is that that will be an enduring set of
facts about the state of the economy
today that can then be used by the
enforcement agencies and we've seen that
done before we've seen it in the context
particularly banks I'm thinking about
Carl Levin's great reports from the
permanent Subcommittee on investigations
about Goldman Sachs and about HSBC this
was you know right after the crisis and
then informed not just some of the
enforcement priorities but it also
informed the the actual policymaking in
Washington around dodd-frank so uh you
know I am hopeful more for the
committee's work and giving Congress a
role again in economic policymaking I'm
not so optimistic about Trump's FTC and
Trump's Antitrust Division of the
Justice Department but what's
David an always a pleasure
folks should head over right now to what
is it
what is the you are aspect org prospect
org sign up subscribe to the prospect
support David day ins work and the team
that he's assembling over there David
always a pleasure thanks so much thank
you thank you for having me and we'll
have a lot more to say on the prospect
in coming weeks
great all right folks David day in
ladies and gentlemen
an American treasure how many years have
I been saying that certainly at least
since I've been working with you and I'm
assuming well before that yes um another
thing didn't even have time but you'll
have to have him on again really soon
for uh this incredible piece he just did
explaining the mechanics of how Tom
Perez will and the DNC race even more
dirty and disgusting than anybody
expected where did he where do you write
the American prospects when did that
come up this morning literally just now
most of it son of a did you write
it while we were doing the interview
basically puerto rican and republican
politicians and andrew Cuomo and a
sellout on statehood is why I mean I
guess in fairness we do have the most
charismatic DNC chair ever Wow all right
well I will go check that out folks head
over there and and and check out David's
work and check out the prospect and a
very good way of spending your post
majority FM dollars all right speaking
of post maggiore FM we're going to take
a quick break and when we come back Andy
Kindler will be here we've got a lot to
talk about what Kindler I'll be right
back after this
you
ladies and gentlemen Sam cedar on the
majority report ladies and gentlemen in
many ways our next guest needs no
introduction
however I will give him one as soon as
we play this little ditty and man
Kindler dot-com I'm gonna head there
right now oh it's up oh my god and the
world's greatest picture of me um I like
I said don't had that sweater vest
Michael had told me that your oh this
morning it was down is the website back
up
yeah the website is back up and I know
it's back up because I'm in the room
where someone says and I like this part
of it Schindler on the other hand ranks
among the worst I am Oh what it's in the
chat room you're in high rank is one of
the worst says Salvatore Eppolito I but
only I am Oh in his opinion wait you
have a chat room is that right no your
chat room oh yeah dandy and Leanna does
a disastrous practice which is he
literally while he's supposed to be in
the moment with us dunk basically making
fun of Dennis Miller essentially or
making Jew jokes he insists on watching
those the the the YouTube chat which is
not no no I want to see what you look
like I can't see Michael but I can see I
can see yo Sam I the old
Jew I see Sam I see a picture of myself
there you go there you go
it is funny when people add the like in
my honest opinion
it's like really anything that you're
behind like Kimber
the Grand Baron of Siemens like screen
username we are anonymously making dumb
comments all day it's not in your honest
opinion okay yeah let me be free
perfectly blunt here as the bong rip
master not flooded by hottest appeal hey
I owe it to my Monica thousand spiders
crawling all over me that I am
completely honest with my opinion of and
II can't well I'm glad to see your
website is back up and because it was
down today and whose website yours Andy
Kindler calm said it was when I had
clicked on it this morning it was not
opening Andy oh my god your links are
there to everybody if you like a website
where nothing ever changes where
everybody knows your name with the dates
from 2005 or still featured one can't do
better than that now wait a second what
is this whole big phony studios in
association with straight-to-dvd
enterprises presents I wish I was bitter
is that is that new I never noticed that
on your site before if you think 2006 is
new alright no it's not it's not new but
it's funny and I'm gonna have another
album coming out it's called hence the
humor that I've been sitting on for
three years because I can't get anything
done and you know what I talked about
yesterday in therapy I talked about the
fact that I cry often because I wanted
Obama to be perfect and I realize he's
not perfect so me so I cry about it
maybe I am an Obama BOTS Wow when did
you come to this realization about Obama
yesterday
oh no well what I did what I'm doing I
mean not to get serious but most people
take this section this segment of the
show is serious is I have been
struggling with the fact that I grew up
in a family where everybody had to be
perfect everybody to be perfect if
everybody wasn't perfect that meant they
were eat they were terrible
so when I used to go on when I used to
go online people go above the world
criminal the bellies were I couldn't
take it but now I'm realized that I do
love Obama he wasn't perfect he wasn't a
war criminal but he wasn't perfect and
who is perfect you know Andy I I mean I
hate to play the Sam role here but if
we're being really technical and a legal
level it was no no no I have to be able
to hear this you're saying he isn't well
chromis I appreciate your take on it
hey any president by definition Andy
it's okay it's just like it's no it's
possible
c'mon suppose I'll survive you know that
I didn't mean it was actually okay I'm
helping wait a sec let's take one thing
at a time here we're burying the lede
because a war crimes of burying the lede
now sell out cedar we all know that that
Obama is a war criminal we're burying
the lead because the lead is Andy's you
know needed everything black and white
is that basically what I'm hearing
that's exactly true I know so when I
would argue with people and especially
my family when it was an argument to the
death if they could point out something
about the person that I didn't let this
wasn't just about a bomb this is about
like you realize in 1968 Andy Kindler
supported you Burt Humphrey for
president a 12 year old Andy well so
wait a second second so I mean you
supported Humphrey over Kennedy and and
I'm up you heard Kennedy was dead
well no but there was a lot of people
that supported RFK before he was
assassinated and II know I was against
the people supporting McCarthy like my
parents not against them but I thought
Hubert Humphrey was a reasonable guy and
how about vietnamisation of the war I
didn't believe that all right all right
so wait a second wait a second we need
to get back to now we're getting
confusing by bringing in more presidents
and
presidential candidates yeah yeah but
just in terms of a dynamic you
everything is black and white
you're either you're either good I mean
and this is I mean because I think to a
certain extent this is also a problem
that we have broadly in society right
thank knew on writings are a little bit
different but yeah I mean I had a very
similar problem as far as like you know
if someone is upset with me I don't know
how to deal with that that's exactly
that I have that in in spades and hearts
right so you either like you don't know
how to just sort of sit like oh that
person's upset okay I'll give them time
to get over it either has to be a
full-on fight or or nothing right and
that comes from my the way I was taught
I was just raised I was just raised that
way there was no difference in my faith
and I love my family I hope they're not
listening but there was no difference
between your behavior and who you were
as a person your behavior define if you
were acting badly you're a bad person
they didn't mean to do it but it it hurt
okay so so you so you came to the
conclusion that Obama is not the best
and no that's not but you know here's
the thing
I still love Obama so I could I still
love Obama
I think anybody's going to be President
tomorrow has to make decisions and those
decisions are going to be easy hate
those decisions but they're gonna make
it is they're going to make a decision
and they have to make a decision about
drones and all this kind of stuff so all
chuckle English Syria I thought maybe we
should have gone in on Syria something
like that so I'm so defensive if I if he
has to be perfect if he has to be
perfect for me to like them at all
then I have to make the argument that
he's perfect and that's just not
possible with anybody I see I see so
that's why you were such an Obama bot is
because you had to be because people
would because I would take the bait
online I would take the Cornel West bait
which you know like forget about the
technical discussion about whether you
think he's a war criminal but that was
the bait you know Oh bother or is it's
like
the part of it is like I I believe in
free trade free trade but I don't know
anything about free trade really so I so
it is really free trade because then
people think I'm a right wing person but
I believe in the concept of free trade
but I'm so scared to say any of my thing
is because if I'm if people then think
I'm conservative whatever this thing is
it just gets like you can't have a disc
you can't live really someone you have
that way you're thinking that way all
the time well alright so Andy you've
come out now as a hardcore conservative
no Supreme Court no money for poor
people in general hey Andy Andy were you
would you say that you left for the
party or the party left you you know
what I spoke at David Gergen last night
and normally I hate interesting points I
was at a Landmark Forum retreat with
David Gergen
and we were not allowed to use the
bathroom for 12 hours and by the end of
it I agreed we should phase out Social
Security its triangulation such a dirty
word oh my god why am i if I
disappointed you somehow I always am
worried there's another thing too from
therapy I'm worried that Sam cedar
either doesn't get me he doesn't think
I'm one of the world's greatest
reference comedian it's not true I do
know but there's nothing there's nothing
you could do that would make me feel
good about myself if I'm in the mode of
if Sam has to love me everybody else
about me I have to let it go
eh yeah but you know you don't let that
go because you can always assure
yourself that I do love you I am getting
much better anything and that I'm a very
important person I'm the only important
person when it comes to your relation is
to matter you're loved absolutely
because of our multi-year deal I never
knew that making a exclusive deal to
appear on a like a show like this would
not involve money that's the thing I'm
careful it's a five-year deal I can't go
anywhere else I can't go on the Rubin
report well we I noticed that you were
on Dave Feldman's show the other day I
mean that was why Harry going on my text
is he - right Wayne yeah Feldman is it's
just yeah oh I would say at this point
no Feldman's getting good Feldman's
Feldman's Feldman's pulling you know
Andy I gotta tell you not only in
addition to insulting Cornel West one of
our most prominent important
intellectuals and leaders in the country
and coming out as a virulent reactionary
the fact that David Feldman could
basically be your brother now and he is
moving further to the left every day
does not bode well for the next time
you're bothering Chris Cuomo my friends
oh my god Chris Cuomo oh my god Chris
Cuomo here's where Chris come on let me
poke suss you don't get it I get it so
let's get after it he just teaches he is
our teacher now Chris Cuomo our did you
get after it
let's get after it when when you go into
therapy yeah you does your does your
therapist say like Andy I feel like did
you go on Sam's show this week the damn
show I feel like some of our work has
been undone no no but when I tell her
about things that I do on Twitter she
told me that six months ago after some
when I had a war with someone named like
razor blade and Apple or loves to cereal
whatever these people are robots she
said what do you get out of it Andy what
do you get that that's it I hope I hope
you told her everything with that I hope
you told her everything well no I mean
about get it was getting into feuds or
like the worst did you know that three
weeks ago I actually made an error that
I was almost crying I thought the
Federalist Society and the Federalists
website or whatever the hell it is were
the same people for like three hours I
was one of those people on the internet
who
but they were right about something
wrong oh I think I saw that and people
really got off I went after you and you
really got defensive about it no but I
just know eventually I apologized
because I was so wrong
I have looked up I googled something hey
who owns it these two people owned by
the same if you google are these two
people on by the same people as you'll
get there that goes you bet they are
Google Google is Barack Obama war
criminal I'm seeing yes yes oh thank you
google I said am i right I always said
was am i right days again yeah that's
what's so nice about Google I'm right
that Barack Obama is not a war criminal
and Bob is right that the Jews control
the banks go to Yahoo now oh really
is it we got some oh boy oh it's old
okay yeah we got a video of Chris Cuomo
driving a car before crashing it in a
drag race
here's Morgan getting hit by I'm looking
at your calendar and it's updated I
think I think if it's I mean it just
could be a coincidence because it has a
June date and a July date and maybe it's
just from a different year but it
appeared by the way I call them when I
go on tour in June in July I spell a je
W and E a je w ly of course
but you're both in Canada are you not
allowed to perform in the States anymore
no I just can't get any bookings in the
States oh I'm allowed to sure no one
will book me Oh another one's your buddy
national if you're not allowed to make
money at a comedy club you're being
censored is that right remember when
Kathy Griffin used to say I've been I've
been banned from David Letterman no you
haven't
he just doesn't book you that's what it
is I was banned from Letterman it's like
yeah I was banned the entire time did he
was on no you weren't
I wasn't you weren't popped right yeah
yeah how would you call that I was
blacklisted because I didn't do comedy
Andy Natalie what's happening with the
been chipper I mean bench beer do we
have Dennis Miller do we have any Dennis
Miller I just started looking I started
looking recently cuz I didn't always
gonna be in the show until I realized
that I forgot to give you my number
yeah did we do do we have any Dennis
Miller is there any Brennan no I
couldn't find any right no I I'm sorry I
look this morning Michael I looked at
just conservative comics you know like
there's a conservative Comedy Tour but
they don't have any dates right now why
is that you know why they don't if you
go to that website it's pretty hilarious
it's a good saying they got new dates
coming soon who was a conservative
comics oh you guys called the deplorable
'he's a comedy show tour for
conservative thinkers chronic supporters
and good old american deplorable you get
the joke there they're taking what you
call them and they say yeah yeah we own
it we're racist it's me it's
reappropriation and we're owning it
that's I had some press
yeah come over to our house with the
racist yes yes it's true I can't argue
with nicked Apollo's in this set
with that you can't argue with nicked
Apollo's new set that's pretty good well
I like Nick T'Pol so I can't even talk
about Nepal because I know there's
problems but he's an old friend and so
what's happened is it bad because i zoom
in that is no no no it was really funny
find it funny it's probably just an
uptight sjw Andy it was really really
funny oh we got it oh you're joking with
me oh no no no I mean I felt like I was
somewhere in 1989 it was remember I did
the young comedian special with Nick
DiPaolo and he was a very funny calm oh
you know what yeah he's been a friend of
mine but I don't know anything about the
recent stuff and that's what I that's
the new Andy oh I haven't heard about
these negative things you know and
Apollo said though and as he said he
said I'll tell you this you know like
white guys get no respect anymore which
is why Barack Obama was president but in
the spirit of bipartisanship he's not a
war criminal that's so
he did say oh we got 12 minutes of him
with Bill O'Reilly apparently Miller did
a an hour with bench bureau and then
reconnected with Bill O'Reilly we could
watch a couple a little bit of that oh I
definitely want to watch Jamie reunion
Jamie's going to take years off my life
guys I know I'm sorry I already said
that this is the reunion it looks fast
you guys have an older group older
YouTube group I can talk too let's from
the old days
let's it let's watch this okay Oh Dennis
Miller's new deal is that what they're
calling it oh I see okay very good I
sent out a fleet to find him I have I
found it but first before he comes in I
gotta do all this stuff ready so Miller
has a podcast on
would want and it's called the Dennis
Miller option I guess you could opt out
with giving you see I yeah alright so
uncensored take on current events
politics pop culture anything else it's
on Noah's mind joining him on his
no-holds-barred
I guess it's a list guests from across
every spectrum along with his guy Friday
Christian black you know what I like
about this Friday I feel that it really
does feel like these guys are old
buddies somehow they buried the hatchet
and now you know and and O'Reilly giving
them some good-natured ribbing you know
what I feel uncomfortable with a little
bit and I actually like most of this so
far it is very good-natured there's a
little part of Miller that is like this
is all really fun but it's like if you
stay just this drunk will have a good
segment but if you get more drunk I'm
scared right also sounds like he's doing
this in his basement
the but could one pocket every podcast
if you want to see him live he's gonna
be in Connecticut at Foxwoods on April
26 then the next day up in Medford
Massachusetts outside of Boston on 27th
and then in Austin Texas on May 1st so
here he is live from Santa Barbara
California the podcast King Dennis
Miller so you got a guy Friday I guess
you've always wanted that Robinson
Caruso correct well three years I know
you've gone into a more funkier quasi
retired state where you're wearing Dinty
Moore lumberjack shirt I know but I
remember a day when you add that
personally you had that perfectly
knotted Windsor and we stood astride the
cable news world like a latter-day
Colossus of rock and nobody will ever
match it by the way but but I never
referred you as my guy Friday I mean you
were equal footing with me I mean I
gotta have a talk with this Christian
black guy okay now I the green New Deal
is sweeping the contraband they put the
horn in there
new deal not the green new deal I want
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez to hear the
Miller New Deal go
well first off bill I would say they're
obviously lane claimed the FDR's lineage
right and I was thinking if FDR was
alive today after he'd put 120,000 sino
Americans japanese-american sorry into
in such a internment camps Plus you mix
it in the fact that they would call him
a hack industrialists today it's so
funny to me that FDR would be considered
at this point by people like AOC and
Cory Booker and Kamala Harris to be some
sort of hack moderate and hot streak
list they the villagers in Frank I'm
trying to think of like why you would
see say aoc Kamala Harris and Cory
Booker that's a very because I really
right that's that's that was right
because on the merits like FDR if we
updated FDR to 2019 he would obviously
be to the left of Harrison Booker what
is the shared trait a picture of them
all it is just a strange like of all the
candidates that you would mention at
this point in the race
it's just weird it's just weird I like I
like history based historical it's like
Dennis Miller gets to be there by the
standards of the forties I'm I'm pretty
progressive Billy okay Chris Matthews
called a couple weeks ago call Kamala
Harris the hard left
it's hard left
yeah super hard let's super hard after
him with fortin's to well that's funny
to me that they would use classic FDR
terminology listen I would only listen
extra coda in the new Green Deal and
that would be that I would have to use
some sort of meat thermometer to catch a
little heat coming off Alexandria patios
Cortes his head off her brain before I
took anything she said seriously because
right now I think that is a flatline
electroencephalograph I think she
parrots exactly what she
young people want to hear I don't think
she makes any sense and listen the way
they do it bill it's so funny to me they
use fancy jargon but you know in some
point they are advocating if we go into
the agricultural community and moderate
some of the co2 discharges there and
then also that we at some point do away
with our travel and retrofit all
buildings now if I go back in and say do
you realize what it would cost to
retrofit every green building in a
matter every building make it green in
America if we did away with air travel
if we had a kid function as a fart caddy
to walk around behind cows and catch it
how crazy that is as soon as you say it
they say well we didn't say it quite
that way that's in essence what they're
saying and it's absolutely insane but
they don't care Miller you see in the
Miller New Deal I would expect a
responsible analysis of the world's
predicament and then if you did give me
some crazy thing I kept all you wanted I
said no you're out of your mind you
review this but the press is so enamored
with this green new deal but I'm gonna
make a prediction right on the no spin
news tonight Miller in four years
perhaps to miss Cortez will not be in
Congress you know where she's going to
be running for the White House
co-hosting the view I can almost
guarantee this is tickle them it's not I
mean it's not as fun anymore when
they're both basically in their basement
where the starters it they both do they
both sound horrible on their actual show
like they're coming from a bunker
doesn't it sound that way to you like
they haven't they haven't done any sound
deadening in there I mean I don't know
what the I may not I may have to pass on
the the Dennis Miller new deal I don't
know if it's gonna be we're actually
gonna get it but it is sort of
fascinating how these guys just
completely focus on a very narrow band
of
of what constitutes Democrats I have a
very very very very elaborate weird and
frankly confusing way of just calling
somebody stupid bill Oh
he also said he feel like he all he
accused somebody of having fancy jargon
is that his entire three years from be
saying indubitably
I do I definitely do I wanted to we're
gonna have to dig through the ben
shapiro dennis miller stuff to really
dig just to compare the speeds yeah well
i'm on the hunt for a funny right-wing
comedian i'm ready to sit I'm mad at pjo
war steven crowder see now that's why I
know I'm out of the loop I don't know
who steven crowder is and I'm feel bad
about it he's like Nick DiPaolo this is
another guy regardless so you think of
his politics on tonight funny big I
can't even do he made an Obama isn't a
war criminal observation because he's to
room temperature for that by the way
Dennis Miller he could just say
somebody's room temperature and that
works instead of like a heat off of
their brain flatline ever talking about
I thought when he said that he was gonna
connect that with global warming like I
gotta tell you one thing that is in
contributing to co2 emissions
bop-bop-bop
but instead it just trailed off where
the convection oven
choo-choo-choo I gotta come up with a
way of saying that she's stupid but I'm
too I just don't have the energy you
guys it's a flu she's down all right
well a cephalic gram over he's so angry
especially what since three months ago
that he said he's going away from the
politics yeah exactly yes he's more
angry now than ever I just I googled him
to see and he it would literally
exact same like you know tied like you
know comedian decides to wade into
conservative politics now he's saying
you know what I'm doubling down we're
doubling down on my insightful hilarious
power political humor I was gonna stop
talking about politics but then I
realized there was a lot of women who
are getting a claim in the Democratic
Party so I had to continue on it that
people who are not necessarily white so
I could no longer be happy with anybody
who I respect his still friends with him
I'm gonna have to call anybody I know
and tell cut him off is that what you're
doing not really because it's like
people like you know like people who
were friends like Dana Carvey they don't
they tried to avoid I'm sure that
everyone I'm sure there's nobody who's
actually friends with him he is such a
horrible human being inside and out now
how often do you talk to Nick DiPaolo I
know you know I haven't talked to him in
a long time and many many years in fact
I am literally doing that thing where
I'm not gonna side watch what they're
talking it is it real how give me a one
to ten scale well he is the cover of his
album was him giving the finger to a
bunch of black lives matters people and
that's and these next covers your next
cover
 you black lives matter I check and
make sure none of the dead though right
well that his first cover he was giving
the finger to one of the activists who
was shot I think by the cops and I would
say not a good choice I would say so he
apologized and he said I just found the
images online and hereif Ono shopped it
to it's now all women of color I think
but there is make a character you don't
get it he's doing a character yeah you
know what it was great about Nick is
that he would maintain character even
off-air that's true
oh he was so dedicated I'd say come on
you killing me Nick yeah you just do his
character I told this story when we will
he talked about it and when we I cast
him in beat cops back in like 20 years
ago right he had said maybe it was even
more and he he he was moving back to New
York from LA he said to me and I said
why is that and he's like because you
know they won't give any parts to white
guys out there mikta Paulo like hide you
in a bathroom or something when you were
doing like a comedy sketch comedy set
somewhere and some like Klansmen
attacked the stage is that what happened
well I admit that did did de pollo were
you in NICTA Paulo ever in a situation
where he hid you while some of his
potential brethren were out to get you
at a comedy club is horrible
well III why do I sound like I'm on
trial you're not you don't sound bad in
this example Anthea I'm just curious
let's hear it Andy give it to me again
cuz I didn't hear it completely I heard
a story recently that Feldman couldn't
do a show I forget where it was but
there was literally like enough local
Nazi activity whenever this was that the
local promoter was like no you're not
it's not safe for you not safe for the
club and so I'm wondering if if were you
and NICTA Paulo ever in a situation
maybe the comedy club together both
doing sets and a certain part of the
audience maybe was not as charmed by
your heritage and your abundant
expression of your heritage and Nick
DiPaolo told his buddies to stand down
and that's one of the reasons you're so
fond of him let's Jew he said the Jews
okay let's say because I see because I
feel like Nick DiPaolo seems like
actually a very nice guy
that way so I could totally see I only
know him I know him from back in the day
but I never was in the same is I'm now
denying any and his know I used to think
he was I mean he was funny but I don't
know what I'm sorry throw him under the
bus based off your description of a
right now I just Kirk no all right well
listen Andy
so hey no it's wait so and I like I like
what I do it I could I do a mediocre set
and I go that's it that's all the time
we have the food wasn't very good and
the portions were small there's no
better joke than that joke and the food
is so hey Sam you never ask me how I am
so how are you Andy
don't ask oh no no the bunch of
middle-aged Jewish ladies around for
lunch remember that one Andy yeah and
the way that comes up to the table and
what does he say Michael is anything
alright hey the Jewish kid goes up to
his father he goes he goes back I borrow
50 bucks in the father goes 40 bucks how
can I give you 30 bucks if I had $25 you
think I give you 15 now you won't get
$10 or I'm not giving you a dollar
[Laughter]
twenty dollars I don't have thirty you
think if I had twenty-five dollars I'll
be given if I had eighteen high dollars
Andy oh we got demonetized what's that
we got to monetize Andy the extra
monetizing us Andy so if people want to
catch you they just need to go to
Calgary Canada is that right I'm going
to be yeah I don't forget to listen to
my podcast which everybody's talking
about it's calls thoughts spiral will
mean if you like one Jew you'll like two
Jews there you go it gets a super spiral
Laurie
yeah I love you so much and thank you
for letting me bare my soul today yeah
no I was very excited to hear that I'm
glad you opened up with this Andy I'm
glad it didn't get too much we got to
save some stuff I'm glad you weren't too
real I hope yeah I'm glad you didn't get
too sincere with us Andy and always a
pleasure love you buddy I love you guys
have a great weekend
love you Andy Kindler ladies and
gentlemen Andy Kindler let's just play
this Joe Rogan think is pretty funny and
then we will go into the fun half
apparently David Pakman was on the Joe
Rogan show some time in the past couple
of days and they were talking about the
D monetizing of steven crowder and you
know we'll have more to talk about this
in the fun half because you know to me
just the idea that this is censorship is
just absurd particularly in the Steven
Crowder's case you know I mean I suppose
theoretically if there are people who
have our only relying on to you I don't
I don't even there's no I just don't
think it's as some when you do monetize
somebody suppose if you'da platform
somebody you could say that they're
being censored in some fashion but to D
monetize to me doesn't seem that way at
all but here is Joe Rogan asking if
harassing Carlos maza has an equivalency
on the left and I will say this that
like the harassment of Carlos Mazda I
think has been overstated as a reason
for YouTube's action I think it's just
the general gay bashing which has been
problematic Michael yesterday read the
Terms of Service of of YouTube and you
know there are protected classes of
people in our society their protections
are only
not as individuals but as classes of
people so you know
well let's we let's use this as
jumping-off point here is David Pakman
with Joe Rogan is that different in your
opinion than someone singing something
out for what you believe is their mental
incompetency
well that mental incompetent you mean
that they're eating more that they're
that they're mentally ill or cognitively
limited cognitively limited mocking
their ability to think locking their
intelligence mocking their decisions
mocking their the way they talk and then
encouraging other people to do the same
thing and then that person gets harassed
based on their intelligence based on
their performance on particular YouTube
videos and conversations and there's
active harasser so there's people that
do that is there a difference between
say what Sam cedar does to Dave Rubin
what is Sam do to Dave Rubin he has her
know that I seen that video dozens of
videos don't say that video he has
dozens of videos where he's just dunking
on Dave Rubin so I I mean I I have some
as well I believe that they are
substantive that's my view is that my
videos about Dave Rubin are substantive
I really I don't really watch any
left-wing stuff because I want to try to
isolate myself enough to make sure that
what I'm saying are my ID so I don't
know friends no comic and oh that's
interesting in comics do though I don't
know but if there's some specific
examples we could comment about them but
I think that there to your first
question there is a difference between
going after someone for sexual
orientation then going after them for
the fact that they say things that are
wrong or don't know stuff until you're
making fun of someone who has an actual
handicap of some kind some kind of you
know limited cognitive limitation that
would be a disability of some kind then
you are mocking someone for a disability
but the resulting effect of the
harassment the the see this is what I
was getting at before with Crowder
like what Crowder said was one thing but
one of the things that Carlos Mesa was
just discussing was what the people that
had watched Crowder what they were doing
how they were going after
all right well I mean you know raises
some serious questions about our ethical
responsibilities if Dave Rubin is indeed
a touched individual well yeah and I
don't think that Dave Rubin is you know
has any type of particular limitations
beyond what appears to be a lack of
research or reasoning or thoughtfulness
about what he does now the limitation
let me just address a couple of things
one it's true we do have dozens of
videos dunking on dave rubin but it is
not because dave rubin is anything other
than a commentator who is saying stuff
that is nonsensical i don't criticize
dave rubin for anything other than
either misrepresenting the the truth
being completely unknowledgeable but
fairly but but very confident about
putting out opinions about stuff
misrepresenting his positions and for
laundering people who have really
horrible detrimental effects on society
the idea that Dave Rubin is harassed
online I'm not worried about Kaza being
harassed online people get harassed
online all the time I'm not even like
worried about the the daxing insofar as
it relates to steven crowder because
steven crowder to my at least as far as
I know has not called for him to be
doxed I think that would be
irresponsible the problem would cut what
what Crowder has done is by and I think
you know basically I said this the other
day before Rogen I made this point when
you are attacking someone based on the
fact that they're gay or that they're of
a certain ethnicity or color or religion
what
ever whatever it is gender disability
you are poisoning society in a way that
has implications for hundreds of
thousands thousands sometimes millions
of people you are impacting the
structure of society by criticizing and
dunking on Dave Rubin because he's
because he keeps saying things that are
not bright on YouTube or are
demonstrably wrong or are demonstrably
misinformed or are demonstrable
misrepresentations does not have the
societal implications well I don't care
if people call me call me names but also
to be I just want to really underline it
to that even if if Crowder did a bunch
of videos saying I think Carlos mess is
dumb and I'm gonna refute his points and
make fun of him and do an offensive
impression that is still first of all
would be this that would not be an issue
and it is not what he was doing that got
him on the radar already to Joe Rogan's
not we are being able this towards Dave
well that's the thing I do want to say
is I think Joe is opening up especially
for those of us in the studio who are
more worried about these things a very
concerning point which I have thought of
from time to time myself which is that
if Dave has a real limitation I'd like
him to publicly say that I will
certainly change up at least my
programming but we were not I don't I
mean well okay I mean if you're saying
that he has some type of disability but
I don't think that I I mean maybe he
does I I don't know that was never
articulated in that way in terms of day
before it I I mean I don't wanna
that would put a whole different paint
job on it for me believe the phrase joe
rogan used with cognitively limited if
dave rubin is cognitively limited then I
will do slightly different impression
I'm not even I don't
maybe maybe we have I mean maybe we have
you know in passing said that he's
cognitively limited you know in
reference to to explain what he said and
and maybe that is going a little too far
we could to simply say that he's just
horribly horribly ignorant to the issues
which i think is actually in many in
many respects and I've made this clear I
think even more reprehensible because
you have a responsibility in my mind if
you're gonna go on with you know
whatever he has a million followers on
YouTube you've got to you've got to do
your homework and you have a
responsibility but that's the way I feel
about that yeah and to be clear the
issue is is the specific incitement
around the specific category not mocking
somebody not making fun of that I'm not
debunking them not being mean not being
satiric not having people tweet at them
or whatever it's the specific use and
again even according in an incredibly
strict sense and I know we'll talk about
it more later but huge miscalculation by
YouTube they had a case which is all
Carlos Massa asked for on one person who
in fact violated their own written Terms
of Service which you agree to these
stupid things and you set up a channel
that's it there's actually should be
really nothing more to it as of this
case right all right we're gonna take a
break headed to the fun half just
reminder folks the event that we get
Deepti platform door we get demonetised
for mocking certain people's cognitive
limitations hey YouTube 30 videos of
active limitations first you steal by
followers now there is no representation
for cognitively limited races it's so a
funny to know because it's like the
whole idea is supposed to be like it's
just about victimhood on the left right
anyways you can support this show by
going to join the majority report com
become
member also just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off today is
Friday which means that yesterday was
Thursday which means that the day prior
to that was Wednesday and then if you
you go a couple hours before it turns
Wednesday it is Tuesday night
what happened that Michael Thomas
Sankara we discussed his legacy as the
revolutionary leader of Burkina Faso
fascinating fascinating conversation
with Milton al-ahmadi that included a
history of the three waves of African
liberation how it relates to capitalism
and neo colonization and a bunch more
content you know I can't possibly cover
it all in the amount of time that we
have this Sunday for patrons Rob Larson
on capitalism verse freedom negative and
positive Liberty and why capitalism
actually fails to deliver on both and
socialism could possibly deliver on both
next Tuesday Bosch Carson Cara and Ben
Burgess are both in studio we're talking
about the finished model and the future
of a socialist project and our history
patreon.com slash t MBS michael brooks
show on youtube jamie this week on the
anti fada
we have several collaborations for you
guys in our main episode we speak with
grant and Lexi from swamp side chats
about the foundational 1974 communist a
Shinto the Eclipse and REE emergence of
the communist movement by shield Ave and
France Francois Martin we like to call
it the moon book I I'm still trying to
wrap my head around some of this stuff
but I find it very interesting we also
have for our patrons the second ever
edition of pro litt cult which is Andy's
side project where he talks about UFOs
space news the paranormal the pair of
political all sorts of good stuff so on
this episode Sean and I are actually on
it too and we talked with Anna Marin who
we spoke with last week about her book
Republic of Lies and specifically in the
when we talk about the chapter on UFOs
so check it out also we still have
history as a weapon addition to of
history so many numbers don't worry
about the numbers
the point is Sean and Matt Chrisman know
more about history and theory than
anyone I've ever met it's insane the
brains are totally broken by it and they
break down in really clear terms the
ways in which the neoliberal turn of the
1970s which continues to this day and is
now breaking down was over determined to
a large degree by a crisis of capitalist
accumulation that continues to this day
so check it out patreon.com slash the
anti Fattah Matt is not here with us
today and so folks should check out
literary hangover for all of your
literary hangover needs available on
YouTube and as a podcast quick break
heading good that I am sorry what was
that
also Michaels Chicago live show we got
this 24/7 for the actual shows guys well
there's a lot more I say get your
tickets to the Chicago live show like 40
times all right quick break head into
the fun half six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
alpha males
almost says what
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg dinner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation these you dance well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough with a break that's
[Music]
reminder I do dogs have more concerns
and the alpha males are like
Oh almost
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
all lives
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blocked alpha males
Oh
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 birthday to
meet you boy
I have a talking Spanish to foil the
alpha males
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report it's the fun half ladies and
gentlemen the fun half there was plenty
of fallout from this whole Crowder thing
and of course a lot of it has to do with
right-wingers you know a complaining
that they can't mainstream gay bashing
anymore
why can't I make money off of this says
steven crowder
and here is ben shapiro coming up with
his angle on how to whine about this ben
shapiro from the bench Piro show well he
referred to carlos maza
as a as a as a queer okay so the reason
that i'm saying the word is because i'm
not sure exactly what the context is for
when this is appropriate like carlos
maza calls himself queer but if steven
crowder says the word queer then it's
obviously some sort of insult according
to Carlos Mozza so I'm not sure what the
rules are because the rules change every
five seconds there you go ben shapiro
pretending that like context has no
meaning whatsoever that is the old that
is the subtext and not barely even
subtext of all of those people I mean
what unites ben shapiro sam Harris is
subtext is a thing that doesn't or
context is a thing that doesn't exist
right just the word itself Queens just
the word you just say the word word as
if the word is wrong I mean what's
amazing is you could think of even a
continuum that's like it's not only is
it not one word it's not even two things
like the difference between someone's
self identifying and then someone else
being a bigot there's people who use it
ironically there's P
who use it as a satiric context there's
people who use it an objective
description of something there's people
who use it when they're quoting somebody
else I mean even that binary doesn't
cover a word let alone just oh well the
word is queer of course I mean and
adults understand this yes adults
understand this I mean the the there's a
myriad of different ways you can work
use the word Jew and it with some
measure of context you understand I
can't use it in this way I'm not gonna
walk up to you no we're not going to go
up you know and purchase a ticket for a
you know a movie and address the the the
ticket counter you know person is you
know sweetheart or honey and the way
that I would maybe you know my you know
a girl or a wife or something or yeah I
wouldn't say this to my land I mean the
context matters the relationship between
the people matters I'm gonna go out on a
limb and say friendship hero does
understand that I suspect he does yeah I
suspect and he's just lying but you know
whole game and my the idea that somehow
yeah I mean it's the same thing like hey
you know black people use the n-word rap
songs allowed to use it or not you know
like give me a break okay give me a
break
black people were slaves and that word
has a much longer history of uh you know
queer was used to describe people that
were you know just fun interesting
different unbelievable change every five
seconds alright here is another version
of the defense of well I ate a defense
of Stephen crowd definitely a defensive
see it's not a defensive steven crowder
but it is a defense of the idea that
somehow it is unfair now look there is a
solution to this and there's only one
solution to it as far
as I can tell because you cannot you
know are we gonna have a you know stores
where you know where people are let's
say at restaurants that people can come
in and walk up the patrons and start
yelling at them because they're black or
start yelling at them period no we don't
allow that it's some type of political
protest even which I wouldn't
necessarily criticize the protest but
you can't expect that the protesters are
going to be then allowed to sit down and
eat no they're gonna get kicked out of
the restaurant
there are Terms of Service the problem
that we have with Google and with
Facebook is they are too concentrated in
their power and so they become too
important in the context of our society
no one is going to let me on to Fox News
and get paid why is that that is not
censorship that is not censorship here
is Glenn Greenwald on Tucker Carlson's
program Tucker Carlson has lost another
advertiser Baer apparently is no longer
advertising on Tucker Carlson show that
is not censorship here is Greenwald and
Tucker Carlson he joins us thank thanks
so much for coming on so you don't have
to be a fan of steven crowder or
whatever or anyone to see this as a
threat a threat to one person's speech
is a threat to all of our speech is it
not pause it now here is where this
thing goes off the rails because there
is no threat to this one person's speech
steven crowder hasn't even been deep
platformed from youtube he is just not
allowed to monetize his channel until he
gets rid of all the gay bashing that's
it
that is it so this is already a not even
a false equivalency it's simply a false
story that is all that's here now you
can extrapolate it to other people who
may not be able to make a I mean who who
have been deep lat formed from these
from YouTube they can go on to find
other platforms they're not as prominent
which is a problem with YouTube and
concentration of this power but this is
not about free speech he has his speech
he can make it continue yeah I mean I
personally find steven crowder to be
just a contemptuous as a
commentator I do think he's an infantile
bully witch and bigot which are not
words I easily invoke he didn't just
criticize Carlos Massa he mocked him for
being gay and for being Latino you used
the Lisp and things to ridicule him
sends a lot of harassment his way but
that's the point Tucker is that
censorship advocates want our brains to
only go to that most primitive first
level of do we hate this person and are
we therefore glad that they're being
censored without thinking about the
framework being endorsed or the
consequences that ensue permit I mean I
personally it resonates a lot for me
because I've dealt with harassment far
greater than what Carlos maza
is complaining of I'm a gay man in a
country Brazil that just elected a
president driven by intense anti-gay
animus my husband's a member of Congress
and the oppositional party
we've been mocked and derided with our
sexual orientation not by a random
youtubers but by the president of the
country himself on Twitter and his
family members who are elected members
of Congress and it would never occur to
me to run to social media companies to
beg for censorship because in part it's
just something that comes with the
territory being a public figure but was
it fuzzy this analogy is not apt because
steven crowder is not being censored now
i think there's an argument that balsan
ro is breaking the Terms of Service of
Twitter and
be allowed to use this that broadcast
apparatus for that but that's a
completely separate argument steven
crowder can go on and be a homophobe and
bash gay people all he wants on youtube
right now he could do that every day
every part of his show could be that he
just can't make money off it or at least
not in that context he can say become a
member of the mug club to be four
there's a lot of people do want him
kicked off completely well that's fine
but that's not what has happened and
there's no reason why people can't have
the opinion of having him kicked off
completely I mean frankly it seems to me
to be within
YouTube's rights to do that as its
structured now so if people want to go
on and make a criticism about this it is
we have a loud YouTube to get too big
because what is the alternative
where do you draw the line what can you
not do on YouTube I mean really like why
can't you talk about you know just
pedophilia we have to be really careful
with these analogies though so I don't I
I I don't enemy with the look know
YouTube isn't Fox News it would be
banning somebody it's analogous to and
one of the reasons it's so important to
break up and the public value is so
significant not just for independent
people who actually make a living on it
but also for consumers is it it would be
analogous to saying not just you can't
use a particular cell phone provider but
you can't use a phone period I mean the
reality is is that these are massive
public Commons that are in private hands
which is a structural threat to us and
as long as you have incompetent profit
driven private companies determining
these things it's a problem and a threat
regardless of what terminology you use
that is the bigger story here so well I
agree I just want is just really
important she was really precise and
smart aleck
very very well criticized you Thank You
Tube is this not hold on hold on taking
off is the same as not doing a hit on
Fox you honestly think that really well
wait a second do you want to use all of
cable news
you can't wanna know all of us streets
water phones public communication no no
no it's a public utility I'm saying I'm
saying listen if you want to say it's a
public utility then go on and make that
case that's case you're not making these
case because if they're not danger to
have the hands of so concentrated in
Silicon Valley who makes these decisions
wait agree no no all I'm hearing is
YouTube shouldn't censor I'm not hearing
from either one of these guys that what
needs to happen is the YouTube needs to
be broken up YouTube needs to be
regulated all I'm hearing is that this
is there's a censorship going on here
the word censorship is wrong it's not
accurate at all they both know it they
both know it he is on that is the
reality if he gets the platform the
answer isn't you're gonna let anybody go
on this platform to say anything because
if you're gonna allow gay bashing on
there what are you not going to allow
and why well they're taking it as a
given that YouTube has this much control
over the market and that that's not
gonna change anytime soon I think well
okay all right so take it as a given I
want to know what they will keep off
there and why what glenn greenwald and
tucker carlson would keep on yeah they
would keep it though in there in a wall
look Carlson I don't trust I think
Greenwald is like Chomsky I think he's a
free speech absolutist so I think the
only things that he would take off would
be actual depictions of actual occurring
violence and that's it and that's his
view maybe like some insane why wait why
would you why would you why would you
keep depictions of actual violence off
what do you mean you don't know how
would you do you don't I mean you
understand obviously that they were
saying speech and violence I mean first
of all I'm not gonna defend Greenwald's
that I don't have the same strength of
position he has on that but there's
obviously a difference between as an
example do you think an al locky speech
inciting
or talking about jihad is the same as a
beheading video if you think it's the
same then we're in different planets I
don't agree with that that's a crazy
analogy to me if I wait I don't have to
think that either one of those is
sufficient to be kept off of youtube
well no no no you asked where Glen would
draw the line and I said I think the
free speech device no no actual violence
would be like a video of a beheading but
I don't think he would take down the al
locky video know that it would be as
strong why would you shoot down a video
I'm not telling you what I think that
the line is and that's a pretty obvious
line for people who take those things
strong stead of you you trying to get
tell me what Glen's line is what would
be your lawyer you asked to my milah
well look I'm trying to foreground the
bigger problem here let me show that way
I'm sorry we started the show that way
right I think I think that what he's
emphasizing is important I've said
before well look here's that I've said
I'll say it again I guess I said it
yesterday one is I think under the
YouTube Terms of Service absolutely
Crowder's and violation of them so this
isn't even a question and if you're a
YouTube provider I agree with that 100%
I'm with you the problem though that I
have is that when we get into the real
world if you start D monetizing people
if you leave it in the hands of a
private corporation if you even short of
the major policy issues don't have
actual journalists overseeing this you
are going to threaten independent media
you're going to hurt people's lives in a
material sense and and people a crowd
are gonna be fine because they're gonna
get money from oligarchs regarde right
so it's not YouTube's problem it is
society's problem that's refusing to act
let's see if they'd address this
continue it comes up the territory being
a public figure but more so because I
don't want to live in a world where our
discourse is policed and determined by
benevolent overlords who run Silicon
Valley companies you know we're always
going to cater to the most powerful
faction that's what happened here
YouTube caved in not in the
the marginalized person but in defense
of the powerful one the one who despite
being gay and Latino works for a major
media conglomerate
so steven crowder is the marginalized
one and maza who's being attacked not
because he works for NBC or Vox or
whatever it is but because he's gay
he's the powerful one you know the point
he's trying to make which is no I don't
know the point in the boy okay so let me
strip so the unfortunately and this is
the problem with Greenwald going on
Tucker and going into those frames Mary
says no no because no because the frame
of the argument is what sets up that
ridiculous conclusion which is that man
is perfectly crowd urging the fair and
alone you know I'm I like and I'll
defend grunt Glenn in ways that I think
are that I agree with him on but I think
it's a major problem because I think the
bigger and more typical example that you
will start to see and already is I want
to stay with this video and what he just
said well there's okay if you look if
you just want to say look yes in
Crowder's equal to if not more powerful
than maza I agree off that horse of
course in the idea that this is about
that that Crowder's going after him
because of uh you know who owns Vox is
absurd it's absurd because that has
nothing to do with him being gay there
is nothing to do with him being Mexican
it's just absurd it's an absurd a you
know a thing to go on anywhere and say
never mind for Tucker Carlson but go
ahead caved in not in defense of the
marginalized person but in defense of
the powerful one the one who despite
being gay and Latino works for a major
media conglomerate and that's what
they're always gonna do is defend the
mob and defend the powerful at the
expense of those who are marginalized
that is such a good point they're
defending the power really quick I just
have to ask you so you don't he joins us
that is I don't blame Tucker for
laughing because that is such a
unbelievable the multi-millionaire
Stephen Crowder is the marginalized one
in this instance while he is gay bashing
and look if the argument is there is a
real problem because society is not
addressing YouTube I agree with that but
the notion that somehow the the the
powerful has been you know is being
catered to in this instance it's absurd
but we right and that let me can I take
it beyond this video now well yeah but
we agree beyond this video okay but I
just want to re-emphasize to people
though that in these instances and even
some of the other examples that Glenn
brings up on Twitter there are really
important issues at stake that are
getting wrapped up and also by the way
which is another thing in my opinion
that Glenn failed to do which is by
Crowder Crowder is polluting the water
entirely and if you're pissed about this
is an independent creator go get in his
face which is by the way what that
documentarian has done I'm forgetting
his name I think it's kiya sure was one
of the first things he said sort what
was his name Ford Fisher said this is
terrible YouTube did this by the way I
don't
ain't Carlos Moses fault Steven
Crowder's fault so but you know the more
examples where that language would fit
would be as an example what Facebook has
done to tell us or what YouTube is doing
by D monetizing all these independent
platforms and if they aren't broken up
and if we don't have a broader demand I
guess my point is demand that Google do
something beyond these way late in the
game reactions and then overreactions
demand they have an actual process that
safeguards independent media and
livelihoods because that's a material
reality - that's right you know I think
a smaller YouTube could be regulated in
such a way that you cannot make these
assessments of terms of condemning this
is very easy regulation you could do
this there's no political will to do it
but to go in and say if you're gonna
have a Terms of Service it must be
assessed by human beings precisely that
that's beautiful can we that would be so
great though if that could be part of
when people tweet at YouTube over
various outrages or whatever even just
basic we attack YouTube you you tweet
that at-at and Congress liable as
lawmakers everybody absolutely and when
you're talking to candidates about if
you care about those issues if you
really care about this issue and aren't
just preening to be part of a team
frankly then that's what you do when you
out go on television that's what I just
found so ridiculous about that hit was
just like I'm just gonna go on and make
this about somehow you know
conservatives are once again targeted
unfairly I mean look the problem here is
first of all I mean the that assessment
is just show just a bizarre and
misguided it's it's it's it's shocking
it obviously has super awesome beliefs
about I mean look look also the fact
that he doesn't do that in a Brazilian
context where he and his husband's lives
are literally threatened speaks to where
he's coming from on this agree or
disagree I think it's a very well-formed
and clear position and the same and this
is also the same guy that you know this
is the same person that is gonna do the
Snowden work and critique Obama when
that's not fashionable and so on so I
think we also have to just you know be
clear about where he's coming from what
he is dealt with with his husband in
Brazil is mind-boggling and he still
maintains that position I wouldn't
maintain that position if I was in that
context I don't think I maintain that
position now and I don't deal with any
of it I mean I think I could also argue
that the that the safest place when
you're afraid for stuff like that is to
make sure that stuff is happening on
public in some level I mean it's a
different dynamic right and I get that I
I mean I get that that notion that he's
going through and that's why I find when
he goes on to do stuff like that on on
Fox that much more disappointing because
it undercuts all the stuff that I think
that he does that is good frankly
because that's just the weather's the
way that we live in society I mean you
know I I my my I I have similar laments
about other people who take positions
that I think are just completely
indefensible and it undercuts their
their credibility in areas where I think
they're quite good that's what's you
know so upsetting about that in some
respects I mean look we already live in
a society where people's freedom of
speech is largely determined by how much
money they have and largely determined
by the pressures of the market yes a lot
of what these people are getting mad
about is not government censorship it's
the market like the market is gonna do
what its gonna do and sometimes that's
gonna be good sometimes people are gonna
say hey you got to do something about
this homophobia sometimes it's gonna be
bad because steven crowder makes a ton
of money for YouTube so like I don't
really see a way out of these issues in
the short term but in the long term I
have to believe if we brought YouTube
and these public utilities under some
form of democratic control that they
would be slightly better at insuring
like a healthy discourse for everyone
well in the way you do that to me is
through regulation and through
disempowering them in some fashion and
you know that should be if that's the
argument that's the argument but this
idea that somehow like a private company
can't enforce its own Terms of Service
that's just absurd like you wouldn't
argue that in any other context well you
know actually a socialist Jamie and I
would but yes let's get to the bigger
picture argument well I'm no I'm saying
and it shows some consistency let me
just show some because some some
consistency with that like I mean you
know the you can't get on cable
television and get paid on cable
television just because you have an
opinion and the it's I just think that
you know III to frame it as if this is a
you know picking on the little guy is
just absurd it's just absurd oh well
I've noticed a lot of these kind of
libertarian types have this view of
people who work in media as it leaves
when
I mean Fox is currently on strike
because the company refuses to give them
a contract by the way they're just
they're their workers they're literally
just workers unless you're like in the
David Brooks tier which is like 10
people you're a worker and I don't know
why they think we're some like secret
powerful cabal but I've heard it a lot
shout-out to Vox employees solidarity
let's go to the phones calling from an 8
for 7 area code who's this where he come
from
hey it's Joshua Josh from Chicago how
are you Josh how's the when's the the
how did the mauler thing go oh yeah talk
about that it was it went very well I
ran for 30 minutes does anyone want to
guess what section I got which section I
got the Comey firing oh very nice okay
of course I remembered listening to it
listening to commies testimony on the
majority report it's hard not to do
imitations but I think the thing that I
found while reading it two things I also
have a common s or it's about a possible
libertarian you can get on a show to
argue with you because I know that's
your dream your wildest dream thank you
um is the first is that as much of a
white supremacist as he is and I think
sessions is a horrible scummy scum of
the earth I do have a weird I don't want
to say even admiration or respect but I
do think he has amazing institutions in
a way that bar doesn't in the section I
got shrimp twice asked sessions to Unruh
Cuse himself and sessions refuses and I
think maybe it says a constitutionalist
or maybe it's just for his own ego and
it's probably for his own ego but I do
think there's a weird respect and I
think part of what Trump was trying to
do especially bringing on bar is just
like get rid of these institutions
we I guess some degree or another hold
sacred so that's that's one thing and I
mean no you guys have talked about that
especially with bar just being a
basically a wrecker to these things um
the second thing I also realized is the
case for impeachment has nothing to do
with Russia it has everything to do with
the obstruction and I think that's what
we need to be hitting him on are in
calling when we call our reps to
encourage impeachment there was this was
never an investigation about Trump until
he fired Comey and they and Muller and
whoever writes that makes it explicitly
clear in his report that's also what I
got on the investigation or I was as
well so what I read from the report and
so I mean in a way these people are so
so enough that's actually almost
like comically at least tragically
comically hilarious that literally trump
would have saved he probably this report
would have been a hell of a lot shorter
how'd he not found addy not fired Comey
and for me that's where the impeachment
is like justified right there would
there would there may not have even been
to a report no yes or would have been
like a hundred pages it certainly
wouldn't have been Muller no yes sir I
mean Lee yeah yeah go ahead oh yeah I
mean that was just the observations that
I made uh you want me to tell you about
this libertarian who read and who you
should get on their show
sure briefly okay so after I read
someone I think his name is Jeremy
Kraken came and read and he introduced
himself he's a playwright and he said I
mean I used to be a proud Republican and
I also and without irony said I was
proud to be the policy advisor and
policy analyst to Gary Johnson 2012 and
2016 campaign there you go
so so I think you should get this guy on
I think it would be a fun battle via
semi send an email with change of ideas
send his email send an email with his
name appreciated Josh thanks a call
here is let's play this clip here we
play by de no longer supporting the hyde
amendment this is pretty stunning and in
some respects I feel like you know I
don't know what Claire McCaskill still
does this is she now like MSNBC she an
MSNBC contributor now or something
oh god here is Claire McCaskill who
incidentally lost I don't know if she's
blaming these other people for losing in
her her race but here she is deriving
Barack Hussein Obama for dividing the
country you have to understand though
Chris there is such angst and
frustration with the dysfunction of our
government right now the middle has has
disappeared and everyone has gone to
their respective corners and when that
happens in a democracy nothing gets done
and when nothing gets done people get
cynical and when they get cynical to use
a metaphor here that may not be
appropriate they pull the pin on the
grenade and they toss it into the swamp
and that's what Donald Trump was to the
people who supported him in our state we
need change and maybe this guy because
he is so different because man I always
do st. Obama didn't get it's like who is
it who is it that is going to go and get
Mitch McConnell to give a hearing to a
to a democratic pick for the Supreme
Court this is just absurd
I was the same go ahead I'm sorry I just
I mean I just you're absolutely right
there I mean I I've always thought of
her as a right-wing corporatist I never
thought of her as like all right I mean
honestly what the hell is that
that is basically what I mean this just
she's just positioning this is you know
the way that she don't know it I mean
it's it's unbelievable
there it knows she's amazing though
because she actually who cares what she
has to say well number one why the hell
does she have a job and and what an
insult to thee by the speaking of
platforming and making the living an
insult to the literally millions of
people who would do a better job as a
commentator on MSNBC than her
representing a relevant perspective but
like she's so she is another like no
it's not as extreme but I think you will
see more people like this you know rahm
emanuel not with obama obviously because
he's close to Obama but Rahm Emmanuel's
like this of like the reactionary
backlash inside the Democratic Party
elite you not and and you know what's
amazing to me about Claire McCaskill is
that she endorsed Obama in 2007 she was
an early Obama endorsed her and instead
of like looking at what's happened in
the last several years it's almost like
she's just like oh man I went out of my
way for that black guy and he's why I
ended up losing my seat that's how I
read everything she's been saying this
is one of the things that I meant when I
said that the Democrats at least some of
the centrist Democrats we're gonna learn
all the wrong lessons from 2016 one of
the lessons being oh we need to get a
lot more racist yeah I mean they're not
there's no you know again like I say
this all the time there's no teaching
people lessons like I don't know like
where do people you know people don't
understand the incentive structure of
different people I mean that's just the
bottom line
well no they extrapolated lessons and
they were bad ones in my opinion well no
I get well know what Sam is saying is
like Claire McCaskill has zero instruct
incentive structure to say my model of
politics has failed and in fact on a
personal level her incentive structures
to say it has worked and in fact for her
it has been worse that's why she's on
MSNBC getting nonsense and make yes
amount of money exactly yeah I mean I
don't think that the lessons
are not true to their own internal logic
right it's working out pretty well for
her but I still don't like that line of
thinking so I'm trying to say well I
know and I agree but I mean there's no
there's no lessons
this whole lessons thing is just like
there's no lessons alright that's a
chapter in the book what would you like
it better if I called them takeaways
well but they don't there's no they
don't they have a different set of
things that they're like they're their
whole structure is different so their
takeaways we presume that there's some
broad takeaways being taken away by
people with different incentive
structures and there isn't there's only
incentive they're the only people who
have takeaways are the people who are
actually talking about the takeaways
like you only have the ability to to
assess for yourself as to like what's
the lesson I should learn from this you
know this idea that like you know with
teaching lessons or other people having
lessons it just doesn't work that way
are you saying that they're learning of
the lessons is not a sincere takeaway
but more like they're gonna twist what
happened however they need to pretend
that they learn to live he's just saying
there are no lessons no what I'm saying
is what happened is not like our
assessment of what happened is different
from their assessment of what happened
because the only thing claire mccaskill
cares about is what happened to her and
she doesn't there's no like this
presumption that like you know we want
Democrats to win it's it's probably up
there for her somewhere if she's in like
the Democratic Party and she's in the
Senate because if the Democrats hold the
Senate then she gets you know it may
enhance her her life in some fashion but
that's not her top priority her top
priority is her being in the Senate and
and her opportunities like it's the
assessments were make are good for
people who are similarly situated and
have similar goals but the assessments
are just not the same
like you know people are like how does
Dick Cheney think that Iraq is not a
failure because for Dick Cheney it went
exactly I was a smashing success there
were huge contracts they broke the UN
and humiliated the UN system he had a
lot of incentives that was no privatized
the entire infrastructure of the country
and people made a killing on it big
success yeah like there was no kind of
yeah right it made it so it's not like
it made any difference for him one way
or another
he didn't get not reelected in 2000 he
had not gotten re-elected in 2004 he
would have been like well we obviously
sold the the war slightly wrong like it
you know right but it was still a good
thing to do I mean you know I don't know
I just this where did she start that
phrase I when don't we start hearing
that about lessons yeah I don't know
people who I mean who just I don't I
don't know I mean I never heard I
haven't heard that before until the last
couple years some people came away with
some positive conclusions and
assessments though like our friend
petered out from his lesson was that
Hillary Clinton didn't mention him in
the yeah I like I don't I I I'm not sure
well no no actually an assertion is well
no I guess well look we're getting
really in the weeds I mean I think he
does a he has a desire to see Democrats
win in a certain way so he has an
incentive to learn a certain whatever
we've already done this yeah I don't
know what is you know what I don't know
why I'm defending anybody I should be
more cynical than you if anything
exactly exactly
what am i doing speaking of cynicism
here is Donald Trump on with Laura
Ingraham talking about the massive
invasion that we are underneath this is
where we all take to the hills and yell
for Wolverines I don't want this I want
people to come in Legally we want the
people that we want and I want a
merit-based system but
we shouldn't have anybody they shouldn't
be able to walk through Mexico and now
I've told Mexico if you don't stop this
onslaught this invasion people get angry
and I use the word an invasion people
like Nancy Pelosi that honestly they
don't know what the hell they're talking
about I watch her she was saying we have
to protect Mexico we have to take care
of Mexico look I'm dealing with Mexico
right now they send in five hundred
billion dollars worth of drugs they kill
a hundred thousand people they ruin a
million families every year if you look
at that that's really an invasion
without the gun are you so now it's not
just that they're letting immigrants in
now it's that they're actually sending
drugs in Fast and Furious it's
unbelievable I mean but this is the
strategy I mean it's totally believable
it's the strategy I mean we played a
clip yesterday of him in northern
ireland's and it was you know funny
because he knows nothing about how
brexit could destroy the Good Friday
deals and he's sitting there with the
Irish Prime Minister going like you've a
problem with the wall too and you need
to have a wall and of course the guys
thing they're like it's literally the
exact opposite you massive prick if a
wall happens this whole delicate piece
we've had for a couple decades will be
falls apart you immediately in a
horribly violent manner but you know
this sells that the idea that Mexico is
you know they're sending I mean you know
it's amazing Donald Trump still three
years later four years later same same
essential calculus right Mexico sending
over rapists and killers and I'm sure
there's some good ones gonna need to be
even more so because the economic part
of it which he did use I think to some
effect even some of the pretend anti-war
noises all that other stuff is gone all
you got is racism it's gonna be even
worse this is a good moment for aoc as
you know over the past I mean this
happened during the Obama administration
there was reports on
Stremme extremists in this country
right-wing extremists and it was because
of the conservative outcry censure
attacks unfair attacks on on
conservatives it's also just amazing to
me like that somehow conservatism is
defended when it is in the simply in the
form of gay bashing but whatever and she
wants the ideas she wants to know why
this ideology which has created all
sorts of violence is not considered
domestic terrorism of the Michael
McGarity who is the assistant director
for counterterrorism with the FBI is
white supremacy not a global issue
[Music]
we've seen white supremacist attacks
that were clearly domestic terrorism
experts in fact the acting AG Jeff
sessions even called some of these
instance dress domestic terrorism is an
incidents the Emanuel AME Church
shooting of black Americans in
Charleston and the Tree of Life
synagogue shooting in Pittsburgh of
Jewish people that those were only
designated and charged as hate crimes
not domestic terrorist incidents you're
not gonna find an actual charge of
domestic terrorism out there if you look
at Title 18 right you're looking for
well it says here that but at the San
Bernardino shooting or the Alando pulse
nightclub shooting they were designated
and charged as domestic terrorist
incidents they were they were charged
I'd have to go back and look they were
charged likely with if there was a
connection to a foreign terrorist
organization would likely fall under 18
USC 23 a or B so because because the
perpetrator was Muslim they are doesn't
it seem that because the perpetrator is
Muslim Brooke doesn't know that the
designation would say it's a foreign
organization not correct if you that is
not correct
okay can you explain yeah why homegrown
Vaughn extreme is who we are most of the
people we arrest in the United States
homegrown violent extremist self
radicalized born in the u.s. it doesn't
matter what religion but the orlando
pulse club shooter meets those
qualifications and he is your doesn't
international terrorist because he was
following under the definite but he was
homegrown and self radicalized in this
cases now we work homegrown by extremist
cases I do the global jihad we worked in
under international terrorism that is
correct is white supremacy not a global
issue it is a global issue so why are
they not charged with foreign because
the tax needs Congress doesn't have a
statute for us for domestic terrorism
like we do on a foreign terrorist
organization like Isis al Qaeda Al
Shabaab could you see how this could
create
shoes and discrepancies with how violent
extremism by Muslim perpetrators could
potentially even if it's unintentional
but that there are there are holes and
there are gaps here not through your
fault or any one specific person's fault
it could be our fault as Congress but
could you see how one could see how the
way that we are pursuing and charging
white supremacy particularly if they
tend to be charged with hate crimes and
and where that same type of violence
committed by a Muslim extremist could be
charged with domestic terrorism hate
crimes and domestic terrorism are
treated and charged they're different
crimes and they could be pursued
differently with different resource
allocations can you see how people would
say that these are being treated
differently there you go we just simply
have legislation that yeah we can do I
mean this is why we are not really
addressing white supremacy and the
violence that comes with this type of
extremism and largely it is because
every time there is any type of
administrative bureaucratic or
legislative attempt to deal with it
there's these out cries that somehow
your your censoring or you're picking on
on conservatives it's absurd it's
absolutely absurd let's go to the phones
we don't have too much time here gosh
it's Galardi late call from a 603 area
code who's this where you come from
hello this is um haitai calling from New
Hampshire
haitai what's on your mind um been
listening the show for a couple years as
someone say thanks for all the content
on majority or for it CMBS well first of
all thanks second of all um Sam I just
want to give you props you correctly
predicted that the Red Sox are gonna win
the World Series last year thank you
and you also predicted that the Pats are
going to win the Superbowl
I did and I haven't heard you speak on
the Bruins they're in the cup right now
oh I just got a question are they gonna
win this year they're gonna bring the
cup home it's a little bit tough right
now too
I mean if you had asked me a week ago I
would have said very likely now it's a
little bit no I called in a week ago no
that's right you they got robbed last
night I don't know if he's all that I
didn't see the last I didn't see that
was it the first goal the second goal
that they got robbed this is the second
goal the blue is God there was a
tripping penalty they just completely
missed the guy got a concussion on her
and everybody thought it was a penalty
even the guy who committed it yeah
Boston definitely needs another so that
ship anyway it would be nice it would be
nice to go for the the trifecta it's
been a good hunt he has given a hundred
days since they got it but um thanks for
content managers want to see that
preaching the cutoff get anything again
can you say Li gonna win it because I'm
a little superstitious sure they're
gonna win it alright thanks man
appreciate it uh there you go I'm gonna
get demonetized
cuz I gave out poor sporting advice comm
from a 562 area code who's this where we
come from
hey Sam this is Nick from scout Nick
what's on your mind
alright just on the david pakman Joe
Rogan thing so david hackman's and
overall good comes here i don't those
most I mostly agree with though there
were some pretty terrible takes on hell
on Omar that I had trouble getting over
and you know regardless with joke oh go
ahead I haven't watched the whole thing
I probably I don't know I may try to no
it wasn't it wasn't on the Joe Rogan
thing that was just just in the past
okay but anyways regardless with Joe
Rogan he made a confession that the left
is to absolute specifically on the topic
of Medicare for all I want to hear what
you guys think of this take seems like
he's open to the type of plan Liz Warren
has also been flirting with as she all
steps away from Medicare all on note you
guys think of that characterized that
plan because I mean I didn't what would
what did Backman say I think he's open
he's open to the public option things
like that he says that the left is too
saluté about wanting just
medicare-for-all he thinks that there's
other plans that we can go with in
regards solving the Medicare issue I
mean III I don't feel terribly strongly
about ending private health insurance
but I think everyone should be in a
medicare-for-all program if people want
supplemental insurance that's fine but
you know the I mean the issue is is that
you know I don't know how you you I
don't know how you get the efficiencies
that you want and how you drive down the
the price of care unless you have a
single-payer you know an overwhelmingly
single-payer you know like I mean I
suppose you could achieve that with
eighty percent and I don't know how you
get to even eighty percent unless you do
it for everybody
I have to I have to run so I'll just say
you could put my face on a meme of the
absolute position of the left that there
needs to be Medicare for all period I
mean in yeah whatever maybe there's
somebody who does like some type of like
side you know like aqua therapy or
something outside of the system that's
fine I don't care but it's it's an
absolute moral necessity a policy
necessity and actually a strategic
necessity like it's yet another example
I mean the ball has been moved forward
but like you know why don't we learn a
lesson sorry Sam from the problem of pre
negotiating away and I mean go in with a
strong you know I'm of the belief that
even if you did settle on that seventy
percent which would that still be
terrible you'd still need to go for the
rest of the thirty you're only gonna get
there if you push a aggressive expansive
bill like Jay Paul and Sanders have put
forward and and let me just add to that
too there is nothing that you know the
idea don't let me put this way there is
nothing that anybody else is offering
that is going to be any easier to
implement in terms of of getting the
real the real interests that would
inhibit any change from signing on and
of
words like you know I know people say
like well there's uh there's whatever
150 million Americans who are getting it
through employer based coverage and it's
going to make it very difficult to
implement if you kick everybody off it
that's not the biggest problem the
biggest problem are the insurance
companies who are going to lobby against
it and they're gonna lobby against it
whether it is a anything that's going to
be effective is going to undermine their
business model never implement I mean
it's gonna be just as hard to get
anything passed well that's why I mean
yes bypass and yeah exactly exactly
but if you run on a medicare-for-all
platform and you really push for it and
you start gaining popular support for it
the way it has been over the past few
years eventually these health care
companies maybe not like United and
Aetna but these nonprofits that run
across states are gonna start lining up
and saying like we will run this program
for you if you add and that's how it
works in the business and that's how
they're they're going to move if you
keep a strong position but if you give
an inch they're gonna go in can I
recommend you the work of Tim Foust he's
got a book coming out here this summer
called health justice now a single-payer
and what comes next he's written a lot
for splinter news he's been a Chapo Trap
House he understands this policy better
than pretty much anyone and he makes a
very convincing case for why this is the
only way to get everybody coverage he's
gonna be on the show after that is
released in August great all right thank
you I'll check that thanks Jamie thanks
Jennifer all right we have time for one
more caller folks I'm sorry we got a lot
of people holding on the line calling
from a 5/1 to area code who's this where
you come from hey Sam this is Susan in
Austin it's Noah the interns mom hey
Susan how are you how's Noah he's great
and I'm calling actually to get a shofar
from him he's not home right now but he
graduated from Reid he's been home kind
of kicking around for a while but he has
been accepted and he's coming your way
he is going to be starting his master's
work at NYU this fall
in public policy oh my god that's
exciting
I'm super excited for him I'm so excited
I think he's gonna be great all right
let's see if I get you a shofar cuz we
got some technical difficulties right
now with let's see congratulations
Michael says congratulations as well
yeah well I'm sure he'll listen to the
show a little bit later here we go
Edison this is for you know let's here
we go oh gosh darn it why do I have to
do another time but that's great for
Noah really happy folks who remember our
ass the intern segments and it was great
all right well tell Susan thanks so much
for calling congratulations
all right bye-bye
all right folks that's it for this week
on Monday on this program we will have
Ryan grim listen go and sign up for our
Instagram you know will follow us on
Instagram it's grandma dot-com slash
majority report dot F M I guess it is
we're going to come it will clean that
up if we can but see you on Monday in
that
to get to where I want
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feel any better
No
[Music]
