some people actually have gotten pissed
and offended because of my criticism of
POD save America and I just want to say
first of all everybody in general needs
to be a lot less tachi touchy about
their favorite talk shows it's really
okay nobody competition it's competition
you know competition would start kicking
in and I don't even think of my
criticism of POD save America's have
even been particularly harsh I basically
just said like done a very basic look
you know we worked for Barack Obama like
one of the things that happened was like
she's a lot about like respecting the
process also give us your email so we
can make sure you're voting yeah give us
your email so make sure you're voting oh
my god like sometimes just wonder if
like Sarah Huckabee Sanders ever even
watched The West Wing and I mean look
I'm sorry that's what the show sounds
like and secondly I mean I don't know
all right look I would go on pod save
America I'm sure we just have
fundamentally different ideology than
they do and this is a very practical way
in which this fundamental difference in
ideology shows up if you listen to pod
save America which I haven't in like a
year I just listened enough to get the
impression going you will know that they
are a very big fans of occasionally look
to their credit they will say Mitch
McConnell scum bag evil got to be
defeated they will say FoxNews pure
propaganda okay so they're not
completely delusional but they are very
much of the ilk of people who find it
necessary to find people who have
absolutely abhorrent and disgusting
politics to co-sign on the fact that
Donald Trump is a monster I don't need
this in order to know that Donald Trump
is a monster and I also think it's quite
evident through 2016 to 2018 that this
sort of type of pundit does very little
to move real dials now maybe look if you
wanted to do a study on some of these
like women's Saburo
been voters that seems to be moving
firmly more firmly in a democratic
column and somehow you proved to me that
it's Steve Schmidt hits on MSNBC that is
making this happen I will revise my
opinion but in lieu of that evidence we
mostly have a bunch of people who have
disgusting careers people who have been
propagandist for war who helped elect
George Bush and Dick Cheney who presided
over global torture regime people who
are you know mediocre hacks who have
pushed for actually over 90% of the
policies that Donald Trump is putting in
place and they go out and they say oh
you know Donald Trump's a bad guy they
did this with the CIA guy who ran as an
independent I guess against Trump Evan
McMullen Evan McMullen as Matt always
points out they asked McMullen at the
end of his hit on their show what can we
do to fight against this this was in the
December keeping at 1600 episode before
they transitioned and Evan McMullen
basically said we should dissolve the
federal government and give States power
and cut regulations if I recall
correctly so which is of course entirely
in line with the far-right agenda that
Donald Trump is presiding over and they
just got a little bit of heat now
because apparently this guy Tim Miller
who's their resident Trump is bad
Republican a former spokesperson for
 Jeb Bush who is a great
guy a massive but a great
guy he was involved in the sleaziest
aspects of the Facebook Oppo research he
was at definer strategies definer
strategies was according to New York
Times report involved in the campaigns
to utilize anti-semitic tropes to target
George Soros to undermine citizen backed
groups criticizing Facebook for its
violations of its users for its lack of
respect for privacy for its being a
conduit for fake
News and the Cambridge analytic a data
breach basically and I'm quoting now
from Ashley Fineman who wrote a good
wrote a great write-up on this she said
she and the name of the piece is called
what did pod save America expect don't
put professional Republicans mere men on
your liberal podcast when the New York
Times published a blockbuster report
that among others unseemly details
revealed that Facebook had hired an
opposition research firm to push back
against anti Facebook groups the
campaign exploited anti-semitism on the
right encouraging reporters to explore
the financial connection between George
Soros his family or philanthropies and
groups that were members of freedom from
Facebook the Republican operative was
none other than Miller this created an
awkward situation for the boys of
crooked media when the story first
dropped Favreau disgustedly tweeted out
the paragraph about the smears seemingly
without realizing it was his buddy who
had propagated them several hours of
silence later the official crooked media
account announced that Miller would not
be contributing to crooked while Favreau
Levitt and Vitor got quote-unquote got
to the bottom of Tim's involvement in
this work dude is this true dude look
it's almost like as if Tim lied to us
about watching The West Wing dad is so
not cool listen Cheryl's cool but like
dude you got a chill like you should
like lean into like stuff but you should
lean out of like anti-semitic propaganda
but like let's be real here and Ana
Kasparian made this point earlier there
is not you are almost never gonna find
an operative in Republican or democratic
politics who is not either supported a
foreign autocrat who has been involved
in astroturf campaigns for predatory
corporations this is normal and I'm not
saying that the guys knew he was doing
this because this obviously does
conflict with the hashtag resistance
nature what's funny is I think it was
maybe Favreau or maybe one of the other
guys but before he got to the part where
it named who was doing and he's like
this is disgusting no yeah yeah yeah
whose gross we read then we read the New
York Times story about Facebook's
lobbying PR campaigns prevent the
disclosure of Russia's interference in
our election and downplayed the way the
platform has been used spread propaganda
and hate speech we found Facebook's
behavior infuriating and reprehensible
and said as much on Twitter we learned
from crooked media's director media we
learned that crooked media contributor
Tim Miller's company definer public
effect definers public affairs did
opposition research on groups that were
critical of Facebook and we've asked him
for more clarity on what that work was
we disagree with Tim on most policy
issues that's no secret he worked to
defeat Barack Obama in two elections and
we asked him to contribute to crooked
media because he has interesting things
to say about the Republican Party in the
Trump era that said we need to get too
involved in the bottom of Tim's involved
in this work and he will be contributing
more to cricket in the meantime guys
this is the whole problem with that show
and the ideology behind it you should
have at the very least done due
diligence on this guy's client list and
I'm telling you that it is the norm for
most media consultants to do sleazy
ethically questionable work for sleazy
ethically questionable companies because
that's just how you make a living
there's nothing there's no particularly
moral component to this that's what all
of them do from both parties and
secondly when you're focused on the
optics and you're focused on finding
some Republican who isn't overtly racist
who you can sit back and have a drink
with you're missing the fact that this
is part of a broader ideological and
commercial infrastructure and you know
look I have a very good friend he's a
Republican strategist I've had him on
this show okay
he's a smart guy and he has worthwhile
things to say about the process but the
frame is not you know the frame is
actually we really disagree about
everything and you might have some
useful information and it's great to
argue and have a rocket or whatever but
the frame for Tim Miller was that he was
like a more
beacon in a party that has no moral
beacon and if pod save America doesn't
get a deeper more cynical more strategic
understanding of politics they are out
of it no matter how much more
experienced and institutional
credibility they have and there's no
doubt look if you want to listen to a
show that has a better understanding
about how like what White House workflow
works
pottsy of America is better than any
other show on the market but if you want
one that is cognizant of what the
Republican Party is beyond just having
fits about how disgusting Trump is well
you should probably listen to shows that
don't credulous ly hire sleazy
Republican Oppo strategists because
they're civilized enough to think that
you shouldn't say you can grab them and
buy the it's embarrassing
one other part that's not quite related
to tim miller but on the facebook thing
i want to read this
mr. Caplin this is from the the main
artists this is the guy this is the
Republican the meaning behind Cavanaugh
rat the hearing and this is the guy that
they hired to be the Republican in
charge of their public affairs in DC mr.
Caplin argued that mr. Trump was an
important public figure and that
shutting down his account or removing
this statement could be seen as
obstructing free speech said three
employees who knew of the discussion he
said it could also stoke a conservative
backlash don't poke the bear mr. Caplin
warned I don't give a about
conservative backlash
yeah it's long it's very clear that they
like having that excuse right it's not
it's never will to worry about left-wing
backlash they only care about backlash
so much is it it it it helps their power
grabs right here it and and it's very
convenient for it to have this is how
this is how corporations and tech and
capitalists in general use the right
wing to get what they want precisely and
you know look and and mark and you know
and Zuckerberg honestly like if you want
anybody with an even remotely
sympathetic read in this book it's him
in this article and the truth is it just
reinforces that you know what
thirty-four year old with no civic
political or historical awareness should
not be an environment that's so
deregulated that he runs these decisions
cuz he doesn't know anything like in the
way they're in the way the article is
written Sandburg comes off as someone
who really understands Washington she
understands the process and she's
totally cynical and totally
self-interested and has no ethical
concerns and if that makes you know that
should be obvious to anybody following
any of this and Zuckerberg comes off as
you know indulging in some fantasy about
going on a listening tour and to the
extent he checks in you know he's super
bummed because he's like Pro immigration
reform but thinks that there's gonna be
some silly tech fixes to this and of
course like Sam Bergen like all the rest
of them doesn't want any accountability
or oversight period so I mean if there
was one modern message it would be
hashtag a Bala hashtag nationalize
Amazon hashtag abolish Facebook and you
know and while we're at it to another
another snippet that came out of that
story and I know less about this then
you know Jamie is an example but I've
not read a single person who works on
these issues and cares about the rights
of sex workers and is concerned about
that area of human rights that didn't
say that sess than FASTA were incredibly
detrimental and while there might be a
moral panic in Congress and it's always
easy to vote you know for a legislation
that takes aim at human trafficking that
in fact that bill would make it far more
dangerous for sex workers most tech
companies oppose sista and I'm sure of
course they didn't pose it because they
had any moral concerns they posed it
because it would be onerous but the one
play that Facebook made early on to try
to curry favor with Democrats was coming
out in favor of sista just sort of
massive cynicism on all levels just
disgusting
