so Matt at the end of the last segment
you told me that you have been watching
Fox News for 12 years professionally and
my heart goes out to you but you made
the you made the point that what gets
set on there really permeates a
significant portion of society and I
think you know we're talking obviously
about the the rhetoric in placing the
folks coming to the southern border
looking for a better way of life that
places them as a central threat an
existential threat to the country we
never hear this about the 10 million
people who are here with undocumented
who are here because they overstayed
their visa we never hear them referred
to as an invasion we never hear them as
an infestation something to be
eradicated something to be violently
repelled and in to a large extent the
dynamic it seems to me is if you you
know you're walking across the street
and I yell look out Matt there's a car
coming right at you and you jump out of
the way I can't sit there and go like I
didn't tell Matt to jump I don't know
why he jumped I just said that there was
a car coming and and that's what seems
to be the game that's being played here
the predicate is being set up and it's
being sent out and as the country as a
certain percentage of the country has
moved further to the right what becomes
acceptable and possible has bled into
the margins what used to be the margins
and that's why we see more and more
people acting upon this type of stuff we
have an all-time record high of of
right-wing extremism violence in this
country as measured by acts at least I
should say in modern times obviously and
this is terroristic right I mean the
attack was meant to change
political policy and to scare the the
public when we talk about this like who
on fox carries this message the most so
I reported back in January of 2017 what
I thought was a kind of odd almost
humorous story which was that white
nationalists and neo-nazis really loved
Tucker Carlson's show and at the time I
thought this is baffling because you
know I have this impression of him I
think a lot of us do of you know being
the bow-tied that crossfire hosts on CNN
getting like wailed upon by Jon Stewart
in that clip that basically ended that
show forever and you know she hasn't had
sort of a nerdy aesthetic and you just
you wouldn't think of him as someone
that like white nationalists really
loved but I've been you know as I dug
into it and if he put up more and more
shows it became clear why this is and
it's because they think that he is
mainstreaming their ideas they think
that he is saying basically what they
want said to a much larger audience
and so you know you have these instances
of him saying things on that show that
are not terribly different what we see
in this manifesto you know he says you
know it's not a conspiracy theory it's
happening in public
Democrats political success doesn't
depend on good policies but on
demographic replacement and they'll do
anything to make sure it happens that's
the replacement the great replacement
theory that we've been talking about
right that's where your anymore white
supremacist a and that's when those
white supremacist when those white
supremacists were marching in
Charlottesville they were chanting you
know that we will not be replaced among
other things frankly but and the other
thing I noticed about the screed by this
guy is that there was there was a strain
of anti corporate
in there and there was a frustration
that the politicians aren't doing
anything and that too is been a hallmark
of this sort of like reconstructed
Tucker Carlson right yeah I mean cool
just to some extent it's always kind of
tricky to figure out what he's doing
with that stuff but he does get a decent
amount of attention for sort of
criticism of corporations as a way of
criticizing the elites which he tends to
think of not as like billionaires with
immense economic control or people like
him alright but as like college
professors and journalists that that
that's who he's talking about when he's
talking about the elite and so we see
some of that she's been but you know
mainly could be the overarching premise
of his show is that immigration as he
says is absolutely destroying America
that it's going to change this country
completely and forever that this is an
invasion this could trigger a national
collapse that we are as he said a few
weeks ago importing people from places
whose values aren't simply antithetical
to ours which puts the nation's ability
to survive at risk that's that's what
he's saying some night in and night out
making an argument about the dangers to
the country of increased diversity of
increased immigration and basically
saying that it's an existential threat
to have no people coming in it's
stunning who else at Fox would you say
carries this same tune or is there
anybody who doesn't there are some who
don't Laura Ingraham as the other person
who spends a lot of time both on the
placement theory on dangers of
immigration which she's been doing that
for quite a while it's really been sort
of at the core of her political focus
for years now she got a lot of attention
back in 2014 for using her radio show to
to take down Eric Cantor in his primary
campaign supporting Dave brat in
Virginia and you know that's really been
something that she focuses very much on
on and you know more recently right
before the 2018 midterms she was telling
her audience your views on immigration
will have zero impact and zero influence
on a house dominated by Democrats who
want to replace you the American voters
with newly amnestied citizens and an
increasing number of chained migrants so
it's the same sort of same sort of thing
this idea of people of color coming in
replacing white people like you more or
less and and that's sort of the thrust
but there are others at Fox who talk
about the two you know yeah Brian kill
me this morning was defending the term
invasion saying that sure it's just a
fact that's just what it is and you see
that a lot on Fox and Friends as well
sometimes on Sean Hannity but less so
he's mainly focused on the Moller probe
and has been for the last couple of
years you basically talk about much else
but yes I mean these are people with
audiences of millions of people who are
making these arguments on a nightly
basis arguments that were previously
really relegated to the sort of fever
swamps of the internet well Megan now
everywhere Matt Kurtz we're out of time
but I would encourage people to also
frankly you can hear it the the loud
parts said loudly on Fox and obviously
from the president I think you sometimes
can also hear the loud parts said softly
in the pages of some of the New York
Times opinion writers frankly and in
others who are supposedly just recant
recounting the sentiments of other
so-called real Americans
