so Chauncey there's been a narrative
that started probably sometime on
November 19th that 2016 that of what
drove the very narrow win by Donald
Trump and just to remind everyone not
only did Donald Trump lose the popular
vote but he won by less than 70 thousand
votes spread out across three different
states
I think everyone across the spectrum
agrees that there were multiple but
fours if you will as to what brought
about the loss by Hillary Clinton they
range across the board you know things
that she had no control over things that
were you know maybe nefarious other
things that were more banal in terms of
you know deficits in campaigning and
deficits in policy the nature of her as
a candidate etc etc we don't need to
relitigate those things per se but
people want to know because people want
to defeat Donald Trump and people also
want to know you know what led to this
real Joker in many respects becoming the
president United States and I've spoken
to people who basically have described
that election as two people racing to
lose the election and it just so
happened that Clinton got there first
and that may have changed that there was
more time but one of the narratives that
came out of this was that there was
something particularly and part of that
was because Trump won in Wisconsin by
you know maybe a dozen do you know a
thousand 10,000 or so votes in Michigan
a similar number between seven and
15,000 and then in Pennsylvania 40,000
states that are known as you know
purplish states with a white working
class that supposedly defected from
Obama to trump and the idea was that
people were focusing on the
working-class part of that white
working-class as opposed to the white
part of that white working-class this is
a a narrative that has been you know
repeated and I think it's you know
there's a certain amount of motivated
reasoning to it but there's a new study
out that again shows that frankly not
the case it's more the white stuff
that's more operative oh yes I mean
there's so much excellent research at
this point and as you pointed out so
sharply the mainstream corporate media
especially but many Democrats and I'll
throw Bernie in there as well our
beholdin to this lazy narrative about
the Kunkel white working-class it was
working-class anxiety it was
globalization it was the
industrialization certainly those are
factors which have devastated not just
Kong call Rust Belt America but
inner-city black and brown America but
we have a recent article called the
anger games who voted for Donald Trump
in the 2016 election and why which
disappeared in the journal critical
sociology which is just another nail in
the coffin which shows it wasn't
working-class anxiety because in America
you can't talk about class without
talking about race it was racism it was
racial resentment and it was a concept
we know is hostile sexism this belief
that men in particular white men should
always be dominant in this anxiety and a
hostility towards women who were
perceived as breaking rules of tradition
ie being too independent like Hillary
Clinton and I think the narrative
persists because you have so many of the
chattering class and many liberals and
progressives who are not the chattering
class who are not part of the mainstream
corporate media who don't write about
these topics for a living who are
beholding to this belief in human
decency and so basically
the fact that Trump selection was about
racism in white backlash and you had a
overt at this point racist and Donald
Trump and everybody around him basically
telling angry white folks that we're
gonna put you back on top and that black
guy who was president uh uh we're gonna
have a corrective make America great
again really mean to make a miracle
white again and that's why Trump won yes
so I mean so the the the I guess the the
glib response to that has been how do
you explain people who vote for a black
president and then turn around and vote
for for Donald Trump you know out of
racism well I like what is what is the
the response to that type of critique of
the narrative that Donald Trump or one
because he activated some type of racism
and folks well they're very few Obama to
Trump voters we know that empirically
from exit polls and the simple response
would be that a lot of use racially
resentful white and not just men women
female voters and voted for Trump
rather they voted for Obama despite the
fact he was black right so we can
actually go back and look at the polling
data Obama's race the color of his skin
actually cost him about four to five
percentage points Obama certainly was
extremely competent when I would suggest
best presidents in recent memory
but he look at the economy if you look
at the disaster that was the Bush
presidency you had white working-class
voters quote-unquote in these areas
basically saying you know what I'm not
too fond of black and brown folk and I'm
going to vote for Obama despite the fact
that he's black so then you have Trump
come along who doesn't use dog whistles
uses racial air raid sirens to basically
speak to those voters and say I will
protect you I will save you we have
black and brown folks coming from Latin
and South America who are rapists and
murderers I'm going to put white men
like you never mind the fact he's a
billionaire supposedly I'm gonna put you
on top and here's something else to
think about we just had some new data
about these Trump voters who supported
Bernie Sanders so you had a lot of these
Trump voters in these areas who voted
for Bernie in the primaries and guess
who they voted for when they had a
choice between Hillary and Trump they
voted for Trump so even their support
for hip-hop
or rather even their support for Bernie
was a protest vote of sorts so the
evidence again suggests that it was race
in racial resentment in that quote
working-class anxiety but that story is
so compelling and it's so easy and it's
low-hanging fruit well now now we should
say in fairness that the defectors from
Sanders at least in the context of the
Democratic Party to Donald Trump was at
least you know based on on studies by
you know Washington Post a lower than
we've seen let's say in the 2000 race
from folks who went to voted for Clinton
and voted for Obama
nevertheless the the I think that one of
the things that we also know from
research and I don't know if you know
how much folks are familiar with this
book by John sides and Michael tesslar
and Lynn Vavra about the the what Barack
Obama did to the electorate in terms of
making them aware of where the relative
parties were on race I mean one of the
things that came out of that book that I
found stunning was data that showed that
it wasn't until Barack Obama's election
that white working folk without a
college education 50% of them thought
that the Republican Party was to the
left of the Democrats when it came to
race and it took a an african-american
president to be elected for these folks
to realize like wait a second the
Democrats seemed to be more supportive
of people of color in this country and
that turns out to be problematic I mean
so what Barack Obama did in many
respects was just by the fact of being a
black president was to racialize a lot
of things that hadn't been racialized at
that point and you can see that
laughs you know go through Mitt Romney
who of course was no champion of the
working class right I mean that's one of
the things that people don't consider
that Mitt Romney that the vast majority
of people who voted for Donald Trump I
mean we're talking in the 90s also voted
for Mitt Romney not exactly
the working man's a hero all right we're
gonna take a quick break when we come
back Chauncey let's dig more into this
and what it says about who should we be
we should be looking at if we're we're
interested in who has a a better chance
of winning in a general election once we
have the knowledge that there's a
significant portion of the American
electorate who is a somewhat racist and
somewhat misogynist we're gonna take a
quick break we'll be right back Sam
cedar ring a fire radio
