so Heather last segment where obviously
we're talking about the Michael Cohen
testimony let's listen to someone say
you know just in the opening statement
in and of itself
we heard some stuff that is you know we
sort of knew these stories but to hear
Michael Cohen to sort of lay them out
this is one where he just sums us up but
there was two clips about this this I
thought was hilarious a copy of an
article with mr. Trump's handwriting on
it that reported on the auction of a
portrait of himself that he arranged for
the bidder ahead of time and then
reimbursed the bidder
from the account of his nonprofit
charitable foundation with the picture
now hanging in one of his country clubs
and copies of letters I wrote at mr.
Trump's direction that threatened his
high school colleges and the college
board not to release his grades or SAT
scores okay so that is Michael Cohen
talking about the receipts he's got the
documents he's not just he's not just
alleging this he's bringing in documents
that prove that Donald Trump paid a guy
to go to an auction and bid up the price
of a portrait of him so that it made it
look like people really wanted his
picture and then he sent letters to his
high school for God's sakes and the SATs
threatening them with God knows what if
they were to in some way release the
story like what a small little man
that's not yes completely nuts I mean
that the portrait thing is truly
unbelievable I mean this is you know a
dead heat there was nothing he wouldn't
stoop to doing to hype himself and then
it continues to this day
but the SAT thing I've got to tell you
nothing has made me more want to see the
hospice College High School records
because remember look this guy portrays
himself as a business genius we know
that's not true and we know that but
yeah a lot of people believed it they
understand that he had basically you
know inherited a huge fortune and then
squandered it over and over again and
just sort of managed to keep afloat by
dancing as fast as he could and becoming
a celebrity basically and being able to
brand his name that he's not a business
genius at all he's kind of a
self-promoting genius in a certain way
but but that's about it and so yeah I do
think there's some you know that there's
interest in it but the fact that he did
this after dogging Barack Obama over his
college transcripts even he even offered
him a million dollars to his favorite
charity if he'd release them over and
over again you know he's implying that
he was had a low IQ which is when he
says about every African American that
that you know he has a conflict with
their stupid right so he said this about
Barack Obama for crying out loud it was
a head of the Law Review no but he said
this and now you know you realize once
again we all have this in you know many
of us have been you know sort of hyping
this idea that Trump is projects all of
his own insecurities and failures onto
other people but this is a truly perfect
example of that this is a guy who you
know basically it obviously has
something to hide I mean if he got
straight A's in college he would have no
objection to that being released
obviously so the fact that he didn't
want anybody to release those says that
you know clearly I mean he may it may
not be bad maybe he was just a B student
or something but for him because he's
touted himself as his genius it's a real
problem and so he has his his you know
fixer Wright threatening letters to
these colleges and Fordham actually
admitted that they had it and that they
had been you know threatened with legal
action if they released the thing they
came out with a statement so I don't
know about about Penn which is where he
you know he went for the second two
years of his college career or his high
school the Military Academy that he went
to but you know maybe they've given
statements too but I mean imagine that
somebody going to that lengths to hide
something and this is true of Trump and
you know it's this is one small example
that illustrates all the rest right
right it's hiding things over and over
and over again and and I don't know
obviously look that's not
illegal and I don't think his audience
is gonna care about it but here is
something that I do think may make a
slight difference if Democrats were to
play this up and you know we're we're a
couple years out but if this ends up in
a in a election ad I wouldn't be
surprised
here's Michael Cohen talking about a guy
who about his deferment from Vietnam and
Cohen wanting to get the information out
there about his medical problems mr.
Trump claimed it was because of a bone
spur but when I asked for medical
records
he gave me none and said that there was
no surgery he told me not to answer the
specific questions by reporters but
rather offers simply the fact that he
received a medical deferment
he finished the conversation to
following comment you think I'm stupid
I'm not going to Vietnam I think that
that comment you think I'm stupid I'm
not going to Vietnam is one that
actually might have some traction and I
of course I'm talking about with a very
very narrow slice of even his electorate
but I think there are some who might be
really turned off by that even more so
than the John McCain thing because it's
one thing to say that John McCain this
elite you know son of an admiral was was
not all he was cracked up to be
it's another to say if you're a Vietnam
vet you got Europe Europe you're stupid
you went I didn't and that's basically
the message that he's sending there and
it's just a question of whether that is
something that the Democrats end up
exploiting but listen Heather we've got
to take a break what I want to do when
we return is is look a little bit more
at two elements of what Cohen talked
about and that is obviously Donald
Trump's racism which led to an exchange
between one of the new members of
Congress the Democratic women and an old
white Republican guy and then let's talk
about collusion we got to take a quick
break
Sam cedar this is bring a fire radio
we'll be right back with more Ring of
Fire
