you
[Music]
you
Charlie rapport with Sam Sita the
destiny of America is
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of Annie Elise
they are unanimous in that hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday March 19th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
journalist best-selling author Johann
Hari will be joining us to discuss lost
connections uncovering the real causes
of depression and the unexpected
solutions also on the program today
the United States is detaining immigrant
children now at clandestine shelters New
York Times reports Deutsche Bank found
Donald Trump lied about being a
billionaire Facebook meanwhile boom owns
the lack of local news for it to exploit
after having destroyed it helped with
the connectivity meanwhile Nebraska
sustaining massive flooding dozens of
counties underwater have declared
emergency across the state meanwhile
high school students in New York City or
I should say high schools in New York
City have an elite public school
integration problem and Deneb Devin
Nunez is suing Twitter for 250 million
dollars because he gets no retweets
Joe Biden pretending to weigh an early
running mate pick Missouri Republican
counties reject Roy Blunt for voting
against Donald Trump's emergency wall
measures and lastly Scott Walker still
lives now professionally pushing for a
constitutional convention for a balanced
budget amendment bankrolled of course by
the Koch brothers all this and more on
today's program yes ladies and gentlemen
it is it is Tuesday particularly
sensitive the story about the high
school students who got into the in New
York City it really is a bit of a
nightmare for kids getting into high
school and I speak from direct
experience one which ended yesterday
right after the show but there are a
half a dozen elite schools in the city
that are citywide you can get into many
cities many schools are citywide but
these are specifically you need to test
into and the testing is is pretty
rigorous and many many kids take get
tutored or to test specifically you know
for these tests of course that costs
money I am aware of this my child was
one of those children who did so she did
not get into those schools but in in New
York City there was something like a
thousand kids who were admitted into
some of these top schools and it only
seven for african-american and there's
been a an attempt in and we're talking
there's actually like it's like another
level
of elite schools beyond that other level
and it's a it's highly problematic and
they're still trying to figure out what
exactly to do about it
because you need some measure I guess
but let's play this alc clip that's what
I want to do this I will say though that
well here's here's a Oh see at a meeting
expressing the the issue here now many
high school students it's rare to have a
high school student who goes to a school
that is you know just a five minute walk
away from them in in New York City more
often than not the commutes anywhere
from 10 to 15 to 20 minutes to can be an
hour and a half
how are twenty minutes depending on
where they wanted to go and my daughter
applied to 12 schools plus the taking
the specialized tests and some that you
have to audition for so there's a
there's a wide range of schools but
there's also a wide divergence in the
quality of schools far wider divergence
than there should be
and this of course is dictated in many
respects by geography by the wealth of
the people who live in any given
neighborhood in New York City and people
who have lived in New York City for any
period of time can see this development
or who are sensitive to it because they
have kids or they know people with kids
as neighborhoods gentrify the schools
end up lagging in terms of achievement
10 12 15 years or so and in part it's
simply because more people move into the
neighborhood who have money because of
that money they have the ability to
either give money to the school
literally give it to the school and the
divergence I've seen between
parent-teacher advisory board
parent-teacher
associations budgets range anywhere from
$25,000 annually some $15,000 annually
to a million dollars a year that's a big
difference you have the ability to
almost like add 25% or 20% to your
school's budget annually that makes a
big difference in the quality of
education the kids are going to get
because suddenly they're gonna have
second teachers in the classrooms
assistant teachers they're gonna have
after-school programs that are
enrichment they're gonna have programs
during the school art other programs not
to mention all the research we know
about kids showing up at school with far
better remedial skills from wealthier
families just because they get more
direct time with adults they get more
experiences as a child to develop their
vocabulary and their you know just do
brains are rather elastic at that age so
all of this is a function of some of the
issues of the schooling here ALC met
with a group of parents and it's
interesting the the crosscurrents of
fights in New York City about schools is
the the the the currents go in about 15
different directions but at one point
she towards the end of this talk sort of
provides a much starker sense of where
the the line should be drawn in these
sort of debates it's important that we
have this discussion
my father was an exception to this rule
in exception to these statistics so my
dad got my dad was born in the South
Bronx
while the Bronx was burning he was
raised five people in a one-bedroom
apartment and he did what he had to do
and my tag on his Brooklyn Tech so my
dad grew up and growing up my dad always
told me about this experience going to
Brooklyn Tech he told me about what his
life was like where as a teenager as a
teenager he got a and left his apartment
at five o'clock in the morning every day
to get onto the 6:00 train or to get
onto the four train and ride a very
dangerous subway during the 70s at 15
years old to go to Brooklyn Tech because
it was seen as his only opportunity to
have a dignified life and he loved his
experience at Brooklyn Tech because he
went to a good school my question is why
are why are there only five or a handful
[Applause]
[Applause]
to what I was hearing and I respect the
concern because we need to put our
children first and so I understand the
concern but my concern but my concern
I'd be happy I'd be happy to engage with
these folks my concern is that this
right here when we're fighting each
other is exactly what happens under a
scarcity mindset
[Applause]
so so she's I mean and some of this is
visual but she's making the argument
that the problem here is you have such
intense fighting over these resources
because the resources are limited
because you don't have great schools all
across the city or open to every student
now the reality is when it comes to
education the inputs are of far outweigh
anything else that can happen in the
school in terms of what the outcomes are
so in other words schools cannot fix
societal ills they reflect them and
despite that New York has figured out
how to at least make a some schools top
performing schools not like Brooklyn
Tech I mean has been in a traditionally
you know a wealthy neighborhood I mean
now everywhere in Brooklyn is getting is
getting money to in some way but Fort
Greene was not exactly a posh
neighborhood you know certainly not in
the 70s but the idea of being able to
like put resources in there and get the
top performing students around the city
and put them all in one place there is
at the very least some type of roadmap
to improve the quality of schools and a
lot of that has to do with financing and
so there is a huge opportunity there
that a road map in the future we weren't
going to start with this I'm sensitive
to it because obviously my daughter just
found out what school she's going to
tomorrow yesterday and she's deciding
between two schools so we'll see
mazelTov yes LaGuardia or Morrow she's
got him for the volkl programs and both
yes I think longtime listeners are aware
of her her pipes as it were but and I
will take from any type of admissions
folk if you're involved in any way in
education
in New York City or colleges that are
aware of these schools I will take your
advice send me an email tell me because
we have no idea she may have to commute
like an hour to go to LaGuardia a little
bit less for tomorrow all right we
should take a quick break when we come
back we're going to be talking to Johann
Hari about lost connections uncovering
the real causes of depression and the
unexpected solutions
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program journalists best New York
Times bestselling author of his last
book chasing the scream now for his
latest which is out in paperback I think
in just a couple months lost connections
uncovering the real causes of depression
and the unexpected solutions Johan re
welcome back to the show oh hey Sam I'm
so happy to be about with you so all
right let's this is well let's just
start with it with that as a follow-up
to chasing the scream which you wrote in
terms of addiction basically the
argument and I want to paint with too
broad a brush but the argument in
chasing The Scream was that connection
is more or less the opposite of
addiction what brought you to lost
connections yeah it's a good question
that were there were these two mysteries
that were really hanging over me and if
I'm honest I was quite afraid to look
into them and they were very connected
in some ways I use that word not
ironically with with with some of the
things that I've been writing about in
chasing the screen so the first mystery
is I'm 40 years old and every year that
I've been alive depression and anxiety
have increased here in the United States
and across the Western world and I
wanted to understand why why so many
people finding it so much harder to get
through the day and why is it going up
year after year to the point where now
last week the CDC the Center for Disease
Control
you know announced we now have the
highest level of suicide in American
history and that doesn't include
opioid-related overdoses which are also
epidemic levels so what's going on here
one of the reasons I was frightened to
look into this is because of the second
mystery which is when I was a teenager I
remember going to my doctor and
explaining that had this feeling like
pain was leaking out of me
I couldn't control it I couldn't
regulate it I didn't understand what was
going on
I felt quite ashamed of it and my doctor
told me a story that I now realized
wasn't totally wrong but was really
oversimplified my doctor said we know
why people get depressed like this it's
because there's a problem in their brain
some people have a natural chemical
imbalance some people are just lacking a
chemical called serotonin that makes
people feel good all we need to do is
give you this drug you're going to be
fine
so I started taking an antidepressant
called paxil and I did get a really
significant boost from it a few months
later this feeling of pain came back so
I went back to my doctor he said clearly
give you a high enough dose I was given
a higher dose again I felt a boost again
this feeling of pain came back and I was
in this cycle of jacking up the dose
more and more until for thirteen years I
was taking the maximum possible dose at
the end of which I was still depressed
and I seem to be surrounded by more and
more people who were becoming depressed
and I kind of part of me thought if it
was just a problem in our brains why
would why would it be rising so much but
at the same time you know when you've
got a story about your pain even if it's
not working very well for you and that
story was not working very well for me
at least you feel like you know where
you are I was really reluctant there was
this moment when I felt like if I
explore these different ways of thinking
it's almost like letting the pain off
the leash right if the pain is like a
wild animal if you let it off the leash
you don't know where you are you don't
know how it will attack you but I kind
of steeled myself to go on this journey
so I ended up going on a really big
journey I wanted to use my training in
the social sciences to to go and meet
the leading scientists in the world
who've written about depression and
anxiety and how to solve them and I
wanted to sit with people who have
really really different perspectives as
well from an Amish village in Indiana
because the Amish have very low levels
of depression to a city in Brazil that
banned advertising to see if that would
make people feel better to a lab in
Baltimore where they were giving people
psychedelics to see if that would help
and and I learned a huge number of
things a lot of which I think connect
with the themes that you report on in
the majority pour a huge amount of the
time I learned that there's scientific
evidence for nine causes of depression
and anxiety
two of them are indeed in our biology
your genes can make you more sensitive
to this and there are real brain changes
that happen when you become depressed
can make it harder to get out but most
of those nine factors that are causing
depression and anxiety that I write
about in lost connections are not in our
biology there are factors in the way we
live there things that you cover all the
time Sam and once you understand those
factors it opens up a new set of
solutions that should be offered as part
of an expanded menu alongside the option
of chemical antidepressants hey you know
it I mean there's total coincidence but
just a couple of days ago maybe it was
it I can't remember if it was last week
I don't know I have no recollection of
time we had Rutger Bregman on who my
friend yeah well you know his book
utopia for realist there's there's some
prescriptions that you talked about in
your book that that he talks about in in
utopia for realists and the the notion
of a a concept of general happiness and
and and there are there are overlaps
here and and and and I have a feeling
we'll bump into those but just as you
know as you mentioned like you know the
things that you talk about on this
program we literally were touching on
sort of the I guess a more sort of like
policy oriented but in many respects
many of the things that you're talking
about are arguably a a function of our
the capitalist system and the failures
in some instances of the capitalist
system to you know maybe not necessarily
inherent in capitalism or I should say
necessary to have along with capitalism
but maybe come but let's but before you
get mean let's let's get to to some of
those and and I don't know the perhaps
like the the I don't want to go through
each one of the the causes but let's
start since we were talking about that
that disconnection from meaningful work
I mean Bregman cited grey Birds work on
 jobs and but let's talk about
what what you found in terms of this
this this idea and this is all promised
on the idea that we we
may have within us a predisposition to
depression but that theoretically should
not have changed over time in terms of
the amount of people but there could be
environmental factors that that that I
guess promote this innate potential to
sadly to to flourish in this instance
some people find it easier to put on
weight and some people find it harder to
put on weight
everyone across American society has put
on more weight over the last 40 years
right
a similar thing is happening with
depression some people will have will
find it easier to become depressed than
others but because of changes in the
society it's massively exploded so work
is a great example I noticed that lots
of the people I know who were depressed
and anxious their depression and anxiety
focuses around their work so I started
to think you know well what's the
evidence for this maybe the people I
know are unusual and I looked at the the
best research and so Gallup the opinion
poll company did a massive study of how
do people feel about their work it
turned out thirteen percent of us one
three percent like our work most of the
time 63 percent of what they called
sleep working you don't like it you
don't hate it you just kind of get
through the day and twenty four percent
of people hate and fear their jobs I was
quite struck by that that means most of
us in fact eighty seven percent of us
don't like the thing we're doing most of
the time and this thing that we don't
like doing is spreading over more and
more of the day the average person now
answers their first work email at 7:43
a.m. and leaves work at 7:15 p.m. I
started to ask could this be having some
effect on our mental health I learned
that there was an amazing man who I then
went to interview a lost Raelians social
scientist called professor Michael
Marmot who made a really important
breakthrough on this in the 1970s
professor Marmot discovered the key
factor it's not the only one but the key
factor that causes depression at work if
you go to work tomorrow and you have low
or no control over your work you are
much more likely to become depressed and
anxious I think this is related
something that goes
deeper than work or there's a key part
of this everyone listening to majority
report knows that they have natural
physical needs obviously any food you
need water you need shelter you need
clean air over time you need sex if I
took those things away from you you'd be
in real trouble real fast but there's
equally strong evidence that all human
beings have natural psychological needs
you need to feel you belong you need to
feel your life has meaning and purpose
you need to feel that people see you and
value you you need to feel we've got a
future that makes sense and this culture
we built is good at lots of things I had
to go to the dentist the other day I'm
glad to be alive in 2019 but we have
been getting less and less good at
meeting these deep underlying
psychological needs so think about being
controlled at work if if you are
controlled all the time if you're like a
robot on a line you can't construct
meaning out of your work but as human
beings we need to feel that what we're
doing with our hours and our days are
meaningful that we're not just drones
that we're not just controlled by
somebody else
so at first I actually misunderstood
what professor mom what was saying right
so I thought I thought the implication
of all this evidence was oK you've got
this elite 13% of the top who get to
have nice jobs they control and then
everyone else has condemned to this
misery and I thought about my family
right my grandmother's job was to clean
toilets my dad was a bus driver my
brother is an uber driver I thought what
are we just saying all these people are
condemned to this misery and professor
mama explained to me it's not the work
that makes you depressed
it's been controlled at work and there's
a solution for that so I went to
Baltimore to meet a woman called
Meredith Keough and Meredith used to go
to bed every Sunday night just sick with
anxiety she worked in an office as
Meredith would tell you it wasn't the
worst office job in the world she wasn't
being bullied or harassed or anything
but it was really monotonous and
Meredith couldn't bear the thought this
was gonna be the next 40 years of her
life until she retired so one day with
her husband Josh she did this quite bold
thing when people hear this they're
gonna think I'm saying you should do
this too they're gonna think I can't do
this and they're right this is an
argument
I'll change so Josh had worked in bike
stores in Baltimore since he was a
teenager and you know that's insecure
controlled work you have no rights or
very few rights one day Josh was sitting
there in the bike store with his friends
they're fixing their bikes and one of
them just said what does our boss
actually do they didn't hate their boss
he wasn't a particularly bad boss but
they were like we seem to fix all the
bikes and this other dude seems to make
all the money as such a good deal for us
Josh and his friends decided they were
going to sit and Meredith decided they
were going to set up a bike store of
their own that worked on a different
principle so the previous place they
worked was a corporation this is a very
recent human invention right everyone
listening knows how a corporation works
you've got the boss at the top who's the
dictator you eat and sometimes they're a
nice dictator and sometimes they're Kim
jong-un but you got no over say over
that sometimes they listen sometimes
they don't but if you don't obey the
dictator ultimately you're out of the
organization right they decided they
were going to set up a bike store that
worked on an older American idea the
store they set up Baltimore bicycle
works is a democratic cooperative right
it's not a corporation they don't have a
boss they take the decisions about the
business together by voting once every
couple of weeks they share out the
profit they share out the good tasks and
the shitty tasks so no one gets stuck
with the shitty tasks if anyone wants to
change the business they can try and
persuade their colleagues to do it so no
one is like a drone
you've got agency and one of things that
was so striking to me spending time in
Baltimore bicycle works was how many
people there talked about how they had
been depressed and anxious before but
were not depressed and anxious now which
is totally in line with Professor
marmots findings right it's not like
they quit their jobs fixing bikes and
went off to become like Beyonce's
backing singers right they fix bikes
before they fix bikes now what's the
difference now they have control over
their work how many people do you know
who are you know who were depressed and
anxious at the moment who would feel
really differently if they had worked
that they controlled with their
colleagues where they had a say where no
one got stuck with the shitty tasks all
the time that's a very different way of
spending our time now that's a big
structural change there are lots of
smaller things I talked about in lost
connections things we do
depression but I would argue that move
from a society dominated by corporations
to every business being a democratic
cooperative and by the ways even more
economically efficient a study at
Cornell University found that Democratic
businesses grow on average four times
faster that move that shift giving
people back control over their work that
is an antidepressant anything that
reduces depression should be regarded as
an antidepressant but some people that
will include chemicals but precisely
because the causes of depression are
much deeper so control and humiliation
at work or a big factor and it's one of
the nine causes that I talked about and
you can see because the problem is
deeper than our biology the solutions
have to be wider than just looking at
our biology yeah in in and that's so let
me just ask you in terms of like that
notion of we are less good at meeting
our psychological needs right that yeah
yeah is that a function that we are less
good at it now or is it that the the
distance between our psychological needs
and how society is structured the Gulf
has widened Society has changed I'll
give you a specific example because it
can sound a bit weird to people in the
abstract this is the loneliest society
in human history there's a study that
asks Americans how many close friends do
you have who you could turn to in a
crisis and when they started doing it
years ago the most common answer was
five today the most common answer not
the average but the most common answer
is none there are more Americans who
have nobody to turn to when things go
wrong than any other option half of all
Americans asked how many people know you
well say nobody and I spent a lot of
time interviewing an amazing man
professor John Cacioppo in Chicago who's
the leading expert in the world on
loneliness and he said to me why are we
alive why do we exist right everyone
listening to this show why are you alive
one of the key reasons is that our
ancestors on the savannahs of Africa
were really good at one thing they
weren't faster than the animals they
took down they were bigger than the
animals they took down but they were
much better at banding together into
groups and cooperating
just like bees evolved to live in a hive
humans evolved to live in a tribe and we
are the first humans ever to disband our
tribes I would argue that's partly
because not entirely there's lots of
things going on but because of this
neoliberal ultra capitalist story we've
been told that you are a selfish
economic Maximizer that is what human
beings are that's how you should treat
yourself that's how you should treat
other people we have structured the
entire economy and society on that
principle and it's like putting a foot
into a shoe that doesn't fit that's not
our nature that's not who we are right
and so one of things I wanted to think
about is again that can seem like such a
big overpowering thing what is the
solution and one of the heroes of my
book loss of connections is an amazing
doctor who found one of the solutions to
this so his name is Sam evring t'en he's
from a poor part of East London where
I'm from as you can tell from my weird
Downton Abbey accent and as Sam was
really uncomfortable because he had
loads of patients coming to him with
terrible depression and anxiety and like
me he's not opposed to chemical
antidepressants he thinks they have some
role to play but he could see two things
firstly they were depressed and anxious
for perfectly understandable reasons
their pain made sense like they were
really lonely and secondly most of the
people he gave chemical antidepressants
to him got some relief but ultimately
became depressed again so one day Sam
had an idea a woman came to see him
called Lisa Cunningham who I got to know
later Lisa had been shut away in her
home with crippling depression and
anxiety for seven years and Sam said to
Lisa don't worry I'll carry on giving
you these drugs but I'm also going to
prescribe something else there was an
area behind the suite of doctors offices
that was known as alley it was
just like scrubland basically Sam said
to Lisa what I'd like you to do is come
and turn out a couple of times a week a
doc sure Ali I'm going to come to
because I've been quite anxious we're
going to meet with a group of other
depressed and anxious people and we're
going to find something to do together
at the first time the group met Lisa was
literally physically sick with anxiety
but the group starts talking they're
like what can we do together they
decided these
City East London people like me they
didn't know anything about gardening
they're like okay we'll teach ourselves
gardening they start to watch YouTube
clips they start read books they start
to get their fingers in the soil they
start to learn the rhythms of the
seasons there's a lot of evidence that
exposure to the natural world is a
really powerful antidepressant but even
more importantly they start to form a
try
they start to form a group they start to
care about each other they start to do
what human beings do when we care about
each other they start to solve each
other's problems the way Lisa put it to
me as the garden began to bloom we began
to bloom there was a study in Norway of
a very similar program that found it was
more than twice as effective as chemical
antidepressants I think for an obvious
reason this is something I saw all over
the world from a Sydney to sau Paulo to
San Francisco the most effective
strategies for dealing with depression
and anxiety are the ones that deal with
the underlying reasons why we feel this
way in the first place do you think that
the I mean it's interesting is that you
know the the the the alienating parts of
our society I mean two things occur to
me one is one of the the statistics I've
seen is that we also are turning out you
know something to the effect of like in
1950 people were asked the question you
know do you feel special and only about
10% of the people said that they felt
special and now I think younger people
today 80% of them think that they're
special
but that specialness is also in some
respects you know pushing the the idea
of the individual above that of the
collective on some level I mean how much
of that like where is that line right
where this idea of like you're not quite
as that the society that teaches you
that you're particularly unique also is
pretty teaching you simultaneously that
you're particularly isolated in some way
I think this relates to one of the
hardest causes of depression there were
two causes of depression and anxiety
that were really hard for me to learn
about one was childhood trauma we could
talk about that later if you want but
because I could that I'd played out a
lot in my life but the other was was
this one and you know everyone listening
to your show knows junk food has taken
over our diets and made us physically
sick right
as someone who basically lived on KFC
and my twenties I don't say that with
any sense of superiority but what's
fascinating is a kind of something very
similar has happened with our minds a
kind of junk values have taken over our
minds and made us mentally sick so this
is very related to the kind of
neoliberal capitalism that you were
talking about so the thousands of years
philosophers have said if you think life
is about money and status and showing
off you're gonna feel like right
that's not an exact quote from Confucius
but that is the gist of what he said
right but nobody had scientifically
investigated this until an incredible
man I got to know called Professor Tim
Kassar at Knox College in Illinois who's
been investigating this the last 25
years and he showed a few really
important things one is the more you
think life is driven the more you might
expect slightly differently imagine
imagine you play the piano right if you
play the piano in the morning because
you love it and it gives you joy that's
what's called an intrinsic reason for
playing the piano you're not doing it to
get anything out of it you're doing it
because that is the experience you love
okay now imagine you play the piano not
because you love it but because your
parents are massively pressuring you to
be a piano maestro because that's their
dream for you or you play the piano in a
dive bar that you hate to make the rent
or you play it or to post eclipse on
Instagram to impress a woman right those
would be extrinsic reasons to play the
piano you're not doing it to get you're
not doing it because that gives you a
sense of joy you're doing it to get
something out of it further down the
line now we're all a mixture of these
two kinds of motive right you have to be
to survive but professor Kassar showed
some really interesting things firstly
the more you are driven by these
extrinsic values what I came to think of
as the equivalent junk food kind of junk
values
the more you're driven by money and
status and how you look to other people
the more likely you are to become
depressed and anxious by really quite a
significant amount I think it relates to
this question about needs that is not a
way of living that meets your deeper
needs he also showed as a society as a
culture we have become much more driven
by these junk values and and in some
ways at first when I learned this I'm
like yeah but this is almost like banal
right everywhere listening to your show
knows they're not going to lie on their
deathbed and think about all the likes
they got on Instagram and all the shoes
they bought they're going to think about
moments of love and meaning and
connection but as Professor kasih put it
to me we live in a machine that is
designed to get us to neglect what is
important about life more
eighteen-month-old children in the
United States know what the McDonald's M
means then know their own last name from
the moment you're born you are immersed
in a machinery and that tells you you
know what is life about if you don't
feel good go shopping by display it or
to other people so they'll go shopping
and they'll feel better we create an
entire story about happiness that
doesn't work it is a very deliberately
created story about happiness you read
the advertising literature they
literally call them manufactured once
and the reason I say this was hard for
me to learn is because you know when I
used to get depressed when I would feel
these painful feelings become very often
my recourse was a kind of junk value
solution right
I would earn more I would buy I
didn't need I would show off I would
have some kind of achievement or I would
do someone else down and I realized now
when I think about that I picture I
can't find this clip but years ago I
remember seeing a clip of a silent movie
start I think it was Buster Keaton where
he's sinking in quicksand his legs are
sinking in quicksand so to get out he
reaches in with his arms to pull out his
legs which of course means he sinks
faster so then he reaches in with his
head to pull out his arms and then he's
completely gone and I realized that's
kind of what I would do right I was
seeking happiness in the wrong places in
the way that our society tells us to
made me feel awful it's not the only
thing that was going on but it was one
of the things that made me feel awful
and instead of trying to break with that
logic I would double down on that logic
and I was sunk right I mean that is the
right that is the the the sort of the
classic neoliberal I guess function is
you you rely on the marketplace it
creates a problem and then you rely on
the marketplace to solve the the problem
that was created by the market in the
first place and absolutely that's such a
good way of putting it when you talked
about tribalism - I wonder if the the
breakdown that you talked about or the
sort of that that sense that you know I
don't have five people I could go to
like we did in a time before I have no
one to turn to and we have a
physiological need I guess you could say
it to be part of a tribe I mean I can't
help but think that you know where we're
living in a very strange era where
tribalism plays out around sort of some
signifiers that they don't necessarily
have any direct meaning I mean I think
one of the things that's been
fascinating about this this period of
our politics anyways in terms of of what
I've seen on the right end left to a
certain extent but more so on the right
but maybe that's just where I'm situated
to be able to see it is that some of
these signifiers completely irrelevant
well you know the most closely held
belief sixteen months later can be
completely jettisoned but the idea is
you've got to maintain the tribe and I
wonder if like the loss of that tribe in
a sort of smaller more impactful on our
actual lives way has led to a compulsion
for you know sort of joining other
groups in other ways I think you're
totally right I think all the time about
this woman that I met in Cleveland in
the run-up to the 2016 election I was
with the LA LGBT Center wonderful person
called Dave Fleischer
and we were trying to get out
and there was the street we were on a
third of the houses were abandoned a
third were demolished and a third still
have people living in them and we knock
on this door and there's a woman who
answered I would have guessed from
looking at her was sixty I discovered
from talking to her she was the same age
as me I was 37 at the time and we're
chatting and she was quite articulate
she was extremely angry
she won't gonna vote for Hillary and she
made this verbal mistake that's really
stayed with me she was talking about
what the area used to be like for her
parents from grandparents and she taught
about how they left school when they
were 16 they got good jobs and she she
meant to say when I was young what she
actually said is when I was alive and it
really knocked me back right and it's
like that that's how a lot of people
have been made to feel in this culture
it's one of the reasons why you've got
the rise of people like this woman just
saying we'll just burn the house down
right now don't get me wrong I'm it was
desperately trying to stop people vote
if you don't ramp it and that woman's
problems will be made significantly
worse by by the rise of by President
Trump in his policies but I do think we
have to understand where this is coming
from you know I think there's one person
who really helped me to think
differently about this if two people
actually so I went to interview the
South African psychiatrist called
Derrick Summerfield
who happened to be in Cambodia in 2001
when they first introduced chemical
antidepressants in that country and the
local doctors the Cambodians had never
heard of these drugs right and so they
were like what are they and he explained
and the Cambodians said to him we don't
need them we've already got
antidepressants and he said what do you
mean he thought they were going to talk
about some kind of herbal remedy like
some John's war or Genco biloba or
something instead they told him a story
there was a farmer in their community
who one day stood on the what he worked
in the rice fields and one day he stood
on a landmine leftover from the American
invasion of Southeast Asia and he got
his leg blown off so they gave him an
artificial leg and he goes back to work
in the rice fields a few months later
but the guy apparently it's incredibly
painful to work underwater when you got
an artificial leg I'm guessing it was
pretty traumatic for obvious reasons
he's in the field where he got blown up
he starts to cry all day after a while
he refuses to get out of bed he's
developed classic depression the
Cambodian doctor said well that's when
we gave him an antidepressant and doctor
Sommerfeld said well they explained that
they went and sat with him they listened
to him they realized that his pain made
sense they figured if they bought him at
Khao he could become a dairy farmer he
wouldn't be in this position that was
screwing him up so much so they bought
him a cow within a couple of weeks his
crying stopped within a month his
depression was gone they said two
doctors on the field so you see doctor
that cow that was an antidepressant
that's what you mean right now if you've
been raised to think about depression
the way we have that it's entirely
biological or overwhelmingly biological
that sounds like a bad joke
I went to my doctor for a cow she gave
me an aunt I went to my doctor for an
antidepressant and she gave me a cow but
what those Cambodian doctors knew
intuitively is what the leading medical
body in the world the World Health
Organization has been trying to tell us
for years if you're depressed if you're
anxious you're not weak you're not crazy
you're not a machine with broken parts
you're a human being with unmet needs
and what you need is practical help to
get those needs met the leading doctor
of the United Nations on mental health
said that we need to talk less about
chemical imbalances and more about power
imbalances I mean think about it half of
all Americans through no fault of their
own because of this insane
transformation at the economy have less
than $500 in savings for when an
emergency comes along well of course
they're going to be depressed in that
situation and then they go to their
doctor and they're told her there's just
a problem in your brain now I want to
stress there are real biological
contributions to depression and anxiety
drugs can give some relief but we've
told this ludicrously simplistic story
the factors that cause depression and
anxiety for which there is enormous
scientific evidence have objectively
gone up in many cases and lo and behold
more people have in fact become
depressed and anxious and yet what we've
done is we've told people a reductively
biological story about that has cut them
off from us it's cut us off from hearing
the signal right this depression this
anxiety this addiction
crisis they are signals they are telling
us something we've got to stop insulting
the signal by saying it's a sign of
weakness or craziness and start
listening to that signal you early in
the book you write about the in the 70s
where they had the the checklist for
reasons for depression and I think one
of them was like morning talk about that
dynamic how they sort of you know
someone you knew died they were like oh
well that's it that's not actually
you're not you don't have depression
because you should be upset about that
but then so this tells you something
really profound about how we
misunderstand pain in this culture so in
the 1970s the American Psychiatric
Association the APA decided they were
going to standardize how they diagnose
depression anxiety across the country
which is a good idea so they drew it
it's kind of simple they just drew up a
checklist of 10 symptoms kind of obvious
things like crying all the time a
feeling life is not worth living and
they send them out to doctors all over
the US and they say if your patients
show more than five of these ten
symptoms for more than two weeks
diagnose them as mentally ill do what
you can so doctors start using this but
after a while they come back and they go
look we've got a bit of a problem here
if we use this guideline we're going to
have to diagnose every every grieving
person as mentally ill because this is
how you feel when someone you love dies
and the APA were like that's not
what we men so they invent they added
something that became known as the grief
loophole they said okay if anyone shows
more than five of these ten symptoms for
more than two weeks they're mentally ill
unless someone they love in their family
has died in the last year in which case
they're not mentally ill it's totally
normal to feel like that don't
pathologize them but of course that begs
the question well hang on a minute so
this is a brain disease this is just a
problem in your brain that can just be
identified on check and a checklist
unless someone you love is died why is
that the only situation where you're
allowed to feel like this without being
told you're mentally ill why not if
you've lost your job why not if you've
lost your home why not if you're stuck
in a job you hate for 40 is everyone can
fill in a load of sand
but that was such an inconvenient as dr.
John cassia Tory who's one of the
leading experts on this bill it to me
that requires you to look at context we
don't have a mental health system that
is designed to look at context we're
designed to just identify things on a
checklist this was such an inconvenient
conversation that the APA just got rid
of the group grief loophole so now if
your child dies at 10 a.m. and you're
still showing all the symptoms of grief
at 10:30 a.m. you can be diagnosed as
mentally ill in fact nearly 10% of all
grieving parents are diagnosed and
drugged in the first 48 hours after
their child dies and it's dr. cassia
Tory put it to me this shows we just
don't understand pain right grief is not
a mental illness we grieve because we
have loved this is a necessary human
response and I think it tells us
something really interesting and
important the grief and depression have
the same symptoms I think part of what
depression is is grief for your own life
not going how it should its grief for
your own needs not being met now if you
are you know when someone we love dies
we can't fix that right we can hold the
people who survived we can honor the
memory of the person who's died but we
can't bring that the dead but when we're
grieving for our own lives we can
together not in this individualistic
neoliberal way but together as citizens
we can change these factors right you
mentioned our mutual friend Rick Bregman
is a wonderful person who I interviewed
for my book lost connections because
he's talked a lot about one of these key
antidepressants right so we talked about
the incredible financial insecurity that
has spread across this culture right as
wealth has been district sucked up to
the top right as Bernie says the top
three richest people in this country
have more money than the bottom half of
the country right and the the whatever
is the six heirs of the Walmart fortune
who did nothing to earn their money
their heirs have more than the bottom
100 million Americans so in Canada they
did an experiment with what we can do
about that in known in the early 1970s
the Canadian government chose genuinely
at random
a town in Malian Manitoba called orphan
and they said to a huge number of people
in that town
okay guys from now on we're going to
give you a guaranteed minimum income
there's nothing you have to do in return
for it and there's nothing you can do
apart from going to prison that means
that we'll take it away from you we just
want you to have a good secure life it
was the equivalent converted into US
Dollars and converted into today's money
of $12,000 a year so not so much that
you're going to live well but you know
you're not going to be homeless if
you've got $12,000 a year and this was
monitored to see what happened a
wonderful person who I interviewed
called dr. Evelyn forshay did the best
research on this loads of things happen
but to me the most important is there
was a really big fall in mental health
problems across the board mental health
problems that were so severe people had
to be shut away in psychiatric hospitals
that alone fell by 9 percent in three
years right now in some ways this is an
insight that's a kind of no
Sherlock insight being financially
insecure makes you feel terrible and
dealing with that financial insecurity
makes you feel better
as dr. 4j puts it to me a universal
basic income is an antidepressant right
but this requires us to expand our
concept both of what causes depression
and of of what an antidepressant is my
argument in lost connections is anything
that reduces depression should be
regarded as an antidepressant right and
and in to some degree right there is an
incentive by forces in society and I'm
not saying that it's a plot but there is
incentives to you know if you've got a
hammer than everything's a nail and if
you're paid to have a hammer then
everything's even you know you're to see
and nails and so there's you know our
society is structured in such a way
where the incentive is to pathologize
these things rather than to in any way
say these are things that we as a
society can change I think you put that
brilliantly son because what we've done
is we have deep
sighs the pain caused by think it's like
neoliberalism right so there were
changes in the society that that totally
understandably and predictably made a
lot of people feel a lot worse and I
want to stress there are real biological
components but by telling a story that
is primarily or entirely biological what
we did is we D politicize that pain we D
politicize that signal we we actually
cut people off from understanding in
many cases why this was happening to
them and why they felt so bad and from
fighting for the biggest solutions right
for the better solutions a lot of those
people who have been given drugs which
have indeed taken of some of the edge of
their pain but we know from the
long-term research at the chemicals
depressants but most people don't solve
it and a lot of those people what did
they need they needed a democratic
workplace they needed a universal basic
income they needed a ban on advertising
that's designed every day to make us
feel like there's a whole range of
factors I also talked about more
individual things that people can do but
but if we don't understand what the
signal is we can't respond to the signal
in a meaningful way if you don't have an
accurate map you can't find your way
through the territory and what I'm
trying to do in in los connections my
book loss connections is Express redraw
the map in line with the best scientific
evidence and this was one of the things
that was really surprising to me this
isn't some kooky you know fringe
left-wing position this is the position
of the leading medical bodies in the
world the World Health Organization the
leading doctors at the United Nations
this isn't some this has been well known
for a long time it's just not translated
into how we've had our depression and
anxiety explained to us and and so it's
one of the reasons why we're in this
disaster we hadn't been told the right
story and therefore we can't find the
right solutions okay and I I appreciate
your hanging with me I know I've held
you for quite a while but I just wanted
before we go because as much well and
and obviously
you know well folks we'll pick up the
book but I want to talk about the the
disconnection from childhood trauma just
because that is one of those things that
is ostensibly right outside of both the
a biological imperative to do suffer
depression and also outside of
theoretically outside of of the way that
society is structured theoretically yeah
so I find this one quite hard to talk
about the best way to explain it is to
tell you a story and if I tell you the
story for a minute you're gonna think
why is he telling me this this has
nothing to do with depression but I
don't think people can understand it
there and this story take about three
minutes if you got yeah you know no
please don't
great so in the 1980s in the mid 1980s
in San Diego a doctor called Vincent
felitti was approached by Kaiser
Permanente the big not-for-profit
medical provider there and given a quite
difficult task they said to dr. flooey T
we've got this big problem
obesity keeps going up and up every year
and nothing we're doing is dealing with
it right we give people nutritional
advice that doesn't help even if we give
them personal trainers it doesn't make
much difference and what can we do so
they gave him a quite big budget and
they said just do blue skies research go
away figure out whether how we can do
doctor Fellini starts to work with two
hundred and fifty severely obese people
people who weighed more than 400 pounds
and people who tried everything and
they're really at risk of dying and it
starts to work with them is interviewing
them and one day he has an idea that
seems and in some ways is quite stupid
he he asked himself what would happen if
really obese people literally stopped
eating and we gave them like nutritional
supplements like vitamin C shots so they
didn't get scurvy stuff like that would
they actually burn through the fat
stores in their body in an Lee's way so
obviously with a shit-ton and medical
supervision he starts to do that and in
one sense initially it worked there's a
woman who I'm going to call Susan to
protect her medical confidentiality who
went down from being more than 400
pounds
138 pounds an incredible transformation
not untypical of the group and her
family is celebrating she's celebrating
they're telling dr. Fellini he saved her
life and then one day something happened
that no one expected Susan cracked she
went to KFC or whatever it was she
starts obsessively eating and pretty
soon she's back not quite where she was
but at a dangerous weight and dr. Phil
Edie calls her in and he's like Susan
what happened she looked down she was
really ashamed she said I don't know I
don't know and that was when dr. Flutie
started asking her some other questions
it never occurred to him to ask you said
it actually started by saying well tell
me about the day you cracked did
anything happen that day that didn't
happen any other day it turned out
something had happened that day that had
never happened to Susan
she'd been in a bar and a man had hit on
her not in a horrible way not a pretty
three-way quite a nice way but she'd
felt really frightened and she just
wanted to eat that was when dr. Fellini
asked her well when did you start to put
on your way in her case it was when she
was 11 he said well did anything happen
when you were 11 that didn't happen when
you were 9 didn't happen when you were
14 and I think that year and Susan
looked down again and she said yeah
that's where my grandfather started to
rape me dr. felitti interviewed everyone
in the program he discovered that 55% of
them had put on their extreme weight in
the aftermath of being sexually abused
which is such a higher proportion in the
general population it seems so odd he
couldn't understand what was going on
Susan explained it to him really well
she said overweight is overlooked and
that's what I need to be he realized
this thing that seems so irrational and
is really bad for you obesity was
performing a positive function it was
protecting them from a sexual attention
which is something they needed and had
very good reason to need but this is a
pretty small group it's 250 people it's
hard to make big scientific conclusions
based on that so dr. Fellini went to the
Center for Disease Control and got a
huge budget everyone who came for
medical treatment to Kaiser permanent
they in San Diego no matter what for
headaches
it's a free
broken leg anything for a whole year got
given a questionnaire the first part
said any of these 10 bad things happened
to you when you were a kid things like
severe neglect abuse sexual abuse
physical abuse and the second part asked
have you had any of these problems as an
adult things like obesity and then they
added a load of other stuff at the last
minute depression suicide attempts
addiction when the figures were added up
by the CDC I interviewed some of the
people they were just like this some
mistake here for every category of
childhood trauma you experienced you
were 2 to 4 times more likely to develop
depression anxiety addiction but when
you've got into the multiple categories
it just blew up
if you had six categories of childhood
trauma you were three thousand one
hundred percent more likely should have
attempted suicide and 4,600 percent more
likely to be an injecting drug user I
mean these are just crazy figures one of
the scientists who worked on it dr.
Robert and ER said to me it made him
realize when you come across someone
who's doing something that seems
irrational obesity addiction depression
we've got to stop asking what's wrong
with you and start asking what happened
to you but the reason I talked about
this being one of the really hard ones
for me if you Sam if you met dr. felitti
you would really like him he's a lovely
kind good man
and I remember the first time I went to
see him in San Diego
leaving the interview had shaking with
anger and walking on the beach of San
Diego I think you why am I so angry with
this really kind old man who's done all
this good work and it helped me to
understand why for so many years
I had remained stuck in this
simplistically biologic been attracted
to this simplistically overly biological
story about my own depression when I was
a child I had experienced some very
extreme things over a long period of
time I'm an adult in my life I didn't
want to think about this I didn't want
to I didn't want to give this individual
any power over me as an adult I just
didn't wanna think about it all but one
of the reasons I'm glad I stayed with
this is because of what
felitti discovered next so if you had
indicated on your form the hood
experienced some form of childhood
trauma your doctor was told
next time the patient comes in don't
call them back but next the patient
comes in say to do something like this
I see that when you were child you
essentially abused or whatever the
nature of the abuse was I'm really sorry
that happened to you that should never
have happened would you like to talk
about it have 40% of patients didn't
want to talk about it 60 percent did and
they wanted to talk about it on average
for five minutes
it was then randint my some of them were
told we can refer you to a therapist to
talk about this more what's incredible
is just those five minutes of an
authority thing of saying I'm so sorry
this should never have happened to you
that alone led to a really significant
fall and depression and anxiety and and
the people who refer to a therapist have
even bigger fall and this fits with a
wider body of evidence from people like
Professor Steve Cole UCLA professor
James Pennebaker at Florida State
University which shows it's not the
trauma that destroys you it's the shame
about the trauma but databases to
release that sense of shame and trauma
is an antidepressant I think you can see
in that story for example why what we've
been doing often with good intentions of
course there's issues about Big Pharma
trying to maximize profit and also some
other things going on but you know most
of the people who promoted this
simplistically biological model rather
than acknowledging that biology is real
and a contributor but one of many
factors people point to that are mostly
well-meaning that you can see how
harmful it is thirteen years I was given
very powerful drugs right I was told
that this was just a problem in my brain
and nobody ever asked me is there any
reason you might feel this way and don't
get me wrong I don't want to be
simplistic about this I'm not sure I
would have been able to talk about those
things then and I might have said no but
the fact that I tell people a story that
focuses on a real but only one small
part of this problem you cut people off
from understanding the deeper texture
and and most important
one of the reasons I'm not depressed now
is because I could release that shame
because I could learn that story I could
understand how that was playing out my
now I couldn't have done that if I
hadn't been exposed to wonderful people
who taught me that depression has wider
cause and anxiety and addiction have
wider causes than just the biology and
this is a shift we have to make as a
culture because you've got to be honest
we've had 40 years of telling people
just a biological story and doing
nothing but drugging them while the
society goes to and where are we
right every year the problems got worse
it's not got worse because of the drugs
the drugs have taken the edge off for
some people but there's something wrong
with that story with that picture
what's missing from that story and that
picture is most of what is causing this
crisis in the first place well it's
fascinating stuff Johann Hari the book
is lost connections uncovering the real
causes of depression and the unexpected
solutions will of course put a link to
that at majority report radio.com it's
fascinating stuff Johann and I really
appreciate your sharing with us today I
love your show another what you do all
the time Sam and I'm I'm really grateful
chief having me on thank you so much
thank you Johann all right we'll talk to
you soon bye-bye the book has lost
connections uncovering the real causes
of depression in the unexpected
solutions fascinating stuff and he's
also just incidentally AG of just a
great writer so very accessible read
really positive guy yes like a
shockingly positive guy we could all use
a little bit of that around here he is
one of the few people I know who
actually used like hooray in a like in
his like and is actually it sounds like
it's not like it's just like another
word that he uses alright folks we've
got to take a quick break and head into
the fun half of the program
just a reminder this program relies on
you for its daily operating budget you
can become a member by going to join the
majority report calm when you do we say
thank you by giving you extra content
every day just about every day I mean
every day not every every workday five
days a week let's put it that way
so for pennies a day you can support
this program and you can always as
always you can listen to the fun half
first if you want just uh jump in
usually it's around this time we went a
little long in the free half today and
you also get the full show commercial
free if you become a member and we don't
have commercials every day but we
certainly endeavor to but but you don't
have to listen to them although
sometimes if you want to you can also go
to the website and read the the
description and the podcast get a sense
of what the deals are because we don't
won't advertise anything that I don't
use let's put it that way I mean there
were a couple of things like I don't I
don't use some of the business software
I have to but I don't I don't claim to
in that instance but you can get a break
or michaels downloaded that free grow
your business thing I think like or the
entire audience at this by the way I
think the results speak for themselves
join the majority report com join the
majority report also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate talk
about a co-op so just coffee is and the
thing about just coffee is the way they
treat the farms that they buy from like
it not only I mean I don't know what it
does for the folks who work at just
coffee to be working in a co-op in
Madison they all seem you know the the
folks I've met there have seemed to be
incredibly nice and pretty happy but it
provides a tremendous amount of of
financial security for the
farms because they will not bail on them
when they run into trouble in fact they
hang around I think far more I don't
even think far is really is an
understatement
then other sort of Roasters will for the
farms that supply them coffee so check
it out just coffee cop and it's also
great coffee free shipping 10% off with
a coupon code majority go there now
today is Tuesday folks so you know what
that means
woohoo now hooray hooray element to it
that's true I want to just say first
we're getting to be almost a month away
from our la live show TMDs with ana
kasparian Nando Vela big waze waze neil
hombre and tickets are going steadily
and i would buy if the same dynamic
works out as it did with the bell house
will be sold out within the last week
because there are fewer seats at this
venue so get your tickets quickly
tonight in studio daniel bessner and
harvey JK join us we're talking about
everything from the global history of
imperialism and how that correlates with
combating fascism today the suppression
of our left-wing history and more
patreon.com slash t MBS michael brooks
show on youtube Jamie so this week on
the anti Fattah we have another episode
of history as a weapon with Sean and
Matt Chrisman from chapo Trap House it
actually kind of is relevant to a lot of
what we were talking about just now or
what you were talking about in the
interview just the ways in which
capitalism has fed into antisocial
behavior and nationalism
on the part of some individuals just
like they really go into the history of
France because France was first in a lot
of these things good things and bad
things and show how you know when you
dissolve these community bonds and these
feudal webs of obligation
and don't replace them with anything you
get an atomized Society of messed up
people some of whom believe some messed
up things a literary hangover we're
talking about King Phillip's war this
week there's some stuff on the YouTube
channel as well which you should
subscribe to if you haven't already
alright folks
quick break six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty see you in the fun
half
you
you
Sam cedar on the majority report ladies
and gentlemen the number is six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty let's
start with this up this I think for some
people this is a little bit baffling but
I do think that what we are seeing here
is a is the playing out we're watching
in real time the development of a I
think it goes beyond a tactic I think
we're getting into sort of strategy area
a little bit and it is not unrelated
from the salt on on Gawker
that we saw and we've seen this now in
the media the the right is starting to
become I mean do you remember there was
a time now you have to go way back this
is probably eight years ago or nine
years ago like ancient history now and
never mind ten or fifteen years ago the
idea of anybody suing anybody was a
complete enactment to the conservative
movement it was your disgusting using
the courts in that way suing people and
that seems to be like now like literally
the sort of weapon du jour and and I do
mean weapon because none of these suits
so far have been necessarily successful
what we're seeing is the really just
what money can do in the context of
lawsuits I mean one of the things that
I've learned in my years in covering all
the the tort cases that I've covered and
in talking and knowing Mike Papantonio
is a big trial lawyer is that
corporations have understood this for a
long time the way that they would win
suits is simply by out spending the
other side by literally a war of
attrition and certainly in like dockers
case
there was nothing that they were ever
going to be able to do that would get
them out from under the massive amount
of legal bills that were gonna added
their way if they were going to continue
to try and litigate this stuff over and
over again and this seems to be there
seems to be some strategy here where a
we can intimidate companies corporations
individuals with lawsuits maybe we'll
win some maybe we'll lose some we're
gonna cost them money in terms of
lawyers but we're also gonna create a
narrative right like Donald Trump sort
of gave away the game here when he kept
saying like I'm gonna sue all those
women who who claim that I sexually
assaulted them now those suits never
happened but they were talking points
that established his credibility or the
credibility of his denials now it didn't
work for everybody but again their plan
is that none of these things have to
work for everybody they have to work for
the base that supports Donald Trump so
here is Devin Nunez who has filed a 250
million dollar lawsuit against Twitter I
think just for the purposes of
maintaining this this narrative that
there's such a thing as shadow banning
remember they had the shadow banning
hearings
I remember Maria barb we get out it got
no life it got no life and I know that's
something that my followers and viewers
care about here there is a quality to
this let me just like and just
understand I'm not making an analogy
although I think there is some
coincidental crossover but you know how
the white supremacist the reason why
they they hate the Jews even though
they're white is because the Jews are
the ones who are supposedly the race
traders who are allowing people of color
to succeed like that's like the
calculation that's built into this this
whole thing about shadow Bay
is part of like their narrative the
Wrights narrative is like why nobody
seems to agree with us or why we're not
being retweeted oh it's because there's
some other underhanded plan that is that
is being taken place some tactics that
are beyond that are outside of fairness
like I my free speech this we're in the
intellectual dark Twitter right because
we're shadow band this is all part of
their narrative that they build when in
fact none of its true well how is it
that every day there's conservatives
that are being banned so you know look
they don't want to call it shadow
banning that's fine they can call it
whatever they want to call it but the
fact of the matter is is people could
not see my tweets okay so now but if you
move forward if you get emails from
Twitter it's constantly left-wing stuff
it's constantly fake new stuff so I
think if Twitter wants to be in the
public square and they don't want to be
a Content developer they should come
clean give us all your algorithms how is
it possible that I can be attacked
relentlessly hundreds of times a day by
fake accounts that they claim in theirs
in their Terms of Service should not be
there so I guarantee you if I put
something out that was sexually explicit
or attack someone personally they would
they would stop it they would say this
is a sensitive tweet they never did that
to any of the people that that were
coming after me or other conservatives
so so this is Devin unas on on Hannity
basically coming up with this massive
conspiracy theory that Twitter has an
algorithm that sends only emails pushing
liberal stuff and in in his some way
like been zeroing in on Devin Nunez like
this is some multi-dimensional chess
here where Twitter is like the people of
the Twitter are like we've got to
silence Devin una respect check dorset
yeah watch yeah I had no idea that Jack
Dorsey was so conscientious wait I
thought he was just an enabling idiot
how long might accounts how much have we
seen this be an issue on the right you
know Eric Alterman coined the phrase
working the rest and that's what they
did with the media
and now they're doing it with the social
media right Facebook Twitter they're all
gonna have special select committees
that are basically going to be like the
Republicans are in power we've got to
you know Devin Nunez has to be the boo
we have to come up with an algorithm
make sure that Devin Nunez isn't ratio
to every time he puts out his stupid
stuff but here's your Shawn screaming oh
yeah here's Sean Hannity and you know
they're trying to seem like they're
serious when Hannity drops the reading
glasses down the nose to talk to Devon
Nunez about how Devon Nunez there he's
in the intellectual dark Twitter do you
have a high bar we all need that because
if you're a public figure you need
actual malice and what's known as a
reckless disregard for the truth or else
I would sue people every hour of every
day but it's harder it's not like in the
case of the Covenant high school kid
tell us about the suit yeah so this is
the first of many Sean and what we're
doing here is we're actually going after
Twitter first because they are the main
proliferated on go back no one I want to
point something out rewind it from the
beginning right there oh it's two people
every hour of every day but it's harder
it's not like in the case of the
Covington high school kid tell us about
the suit yeah so this is the first of
many Sean and what we're doing here is
we're actually going after Twitter first
because they are the main proliferator
and they spread this fake news and the
slanderous news so if you look at the
lawsuit I think people can go and look
at it on Fox News posit it's you know if
I was Twitter and I heard this guy go on
television and say that my business
proliferates
slanderous news the implication being
that you know we're doing this on
purpose I don't know I might sue them
for attempting to harm my business you
just need to prove that one of those
things was like basically true and then
it wouldn't be slander right that he's
look at it on Fox News it's all there
but what we're the case we're basically
making is is this was an orchestrated
effort so people were targeting me there
were anonymous accounts that were that
were developed and look there's not
supposed to be these accounts aren't
supposed to exist Twitter says that they
don't have accounts that do this so like
I said this is the first of many
lawsuits that are coming but it that
there were several fake news accounts
whether it was regard to the Russia
investigation or to me and we have to
hold all of these people accountable
because if we don't our First Amendment
rights are at stake here this isn't 20
years ago Sean what's happening is is
that is that Twitter becomes the
gaslighting for all of the news and when
they're regulating us they're regulating
what people can see on my tweets which
they've done and then they're there
proliferating out things that they agree
with with the algorithms that they
develop positive identity is used like
the English language and they're
proliferating out why was it like the
gibberish that he's talking about there
was a lot of proliferating Landorus news
previously no liberating essence your
Trump milk brain impression made more
sense than seven newness they're their
shadow banning him they're their
inhibiting the the full expression of
his tweet his tweets just wanted they
just didn't want to fly a lot they need
to see from the wings of his tweet stop
blocking my expression I tweets which
they've done and then they're they're
proliferating out things that they agree
with with the algorithms that they
develop they need to come clean where
they are content developers shadow
banning I've been shadow banned to wait
Twitter is not a public square I've been
I've been doing it wrong this is like
going outside and yelling stuff it's not
a public square and they've been
proliferating if they want to be a
Content developer what is that I don't
know yet any any of that even means what
is a Content developer I think he's kind
of co-opting the antitrust critique of
like Amazon being a platform and like a
producer at the same time like they're
they're stealing a lot of these
different sorts of like work Twitter
doesn't have like Twitter's not putting
out its own
10th seem to imply that they these like
they said they don't have accounts like
this look at the news section that
they're always trying to trick you in to
clicking on but I won't but I mean are
they they may drive you to certain
places but they're not in the business
of like he is he's suggesting that giant
wiener is actually making these bot
accounts as because they're trying to
inhibit his First Amendment right I mean
what doctors yeah that is what he's
implying with actually literally no
evidence well but this is this is what
gives away the game here for the
Republicans and it it really I mean
they're marshalling these forces I don't
know maybe it's just a campaign tactic
or maybe it's maybe Nunez is trying to
sort of protect himself he thinks he
might be have some type of liability in
the future but like they this is this
seems to me to be a pre-emptive move to
tell his own folks that there's you know
don't believe anything you're talking
about because Twitter's actually got a
whole operation that not only keeps you
from hearing my explanation but they
have bots that are specifically there to
attack Devin Nunez well speaking of bots
remember Nunez was pushing the whole
hashtag released the memo thing like a
year so ago and it turned out that that
hashtag was driven largely by BOTS that
like certain outfits would identify as
like Russian BOTS but who knows their
BOTS and their push and release the memo
the it's a very strong I have a feeling
we're gonna have a better sense but it's
honestly we're not going to fully
appreciate what this was about for
another year or two I think it's one of
those situations now of course here is
here are some examples of the Devin
Nunez that he says our BOTS that have
very creative but that that are
suppressing Devin Eunice's free speech
and as far as I can understand Devin
newness is charges so far as I can
understand he's claiming that Twitter is
has some type of algorithm
that actually creates these BOTS that
are targeting Devon Nunez so here's one
entitled Devon Nunez his mom and does
she disappointed in him it's not my real
mom right not now I have no mother does
not make Human Centipede jokes about me
Sean
Devon noonas mom seems to be responding
to a Natasha Bertrand she's a journalist
who writes about the the Russia
connections with the administration and
denna Devon Nunez his mom not the real
Devon Nunez his mom but the the one on
Twitter that ostensibly according to
Devon Nunez has been created by Twitter
right so here's a helpful diagram to
explain their relationship and there are
three individuals Putin Trump and Nunez
that's the names on there they're not
you can't you wouldn't be able to
identify them except for the names
because they're all like sorted like
just sort of stick figure type of things
NBC's there what non-player character
click on player characters right and
they they're they're each on all fours
lined up as if they were but sniffers
like dogs almost and be a bit worthy
yeah they're doing more than sniffing
the human centipede the human is a very
high I'm not familiar with like you say
what's interesting your sickness and
maybe demin unions has a point because
we clearly has to work things out with
his mom here but I do want to say that
Devon Nunez his mother from what I can
tell from watching looking at this
incredible graphic design skills for
someone in her age cohort but highly
vulgar movie taste yes those kind of
surprised me and I actually can I can
relate to Devon Nunez on this if my
mother did a human centipede graphic
targeting my political party and myself
I think it would be pretty upsetting
here's Devon Nunez replying to Fox News
Devon Nunez himself and the FBI saying
Devon Nunez this is again Devon Nunez
his mom your district is looking for you
question mark are you trying to obstruct
a federal investigation again question
mark you come home right this instant or
no more minecraft ex-con
right now stop being Magga you little
bastard
I this is uh now I'm starting to get the
feeling and maybe it's because I'm
inclined that way because of my
background in comedy but this might be a
parody account
wait you don't you don't think that this
is I thought his mom was a Democrat a
lot of people are saying oh because I
just did the whole Minecraft thing
because Mayans you know I
Devon Nunez does not strike me as a
minecraft guy could be a little bit but
maybe I had heard from many people that
Devon unions his mom was a very talented
graphic designer and a Democrat here is
Devon Nunez responding to Donald Trump
for bringing much-needed attention to
our flawed environmental policies for
should be managed properly water should
be allowed for farmers to grow food to
feed people and Devon Nunez his mom
again says these two geniuses want to
teach us all about environmental science
never mind the fact that both of their
expertise put together is worse worth
less than a bag of dicks when we have
questions about hookers or Vegas strip
clubs will call you okay Devon Nunez
that's pushing it it just seemed the
sissies pushing it and especially me God
keep some things in the family dicks
would be worth a lot actually if you
could get one together I would imagine
the just the effort involved in getting
a bag of dicks would be difficult but
why would Devon Nunez this mom imply not
explicit but just imply that at least
you knew about Vegas strip clubs or
hookers in such a way or Devon 'united
that's fascinating so here is part of
the lawsuit defendant Devon Nunez is cow
newness is a farmer right oh okay yes
farms in Iowa there that was a very
bizarre story right yeah a person who
would Twitter's consent created oh this
is the idea that Twitter gave their
consent specifically to a parody account
created and maintains an account on
Twitter at Devon cow for the sole
purpose of attacking and defaming Nunez
Devon cow has 1200 and four followers
like Devon Nunez his mom Devon Nunez his
cow I'm reading incidentally from the
lawsuit
Devon Nunez his cow engaged in a vicious
defamation campaign against Nunez that
lasted over a year
Devon Nunez his cow has made published
and republished hundreds of false and
defamatory statements of and concerning
Nunez including the following Nunez is a
treasonous cowpoke as one of those I
have to think that a judge is going to
look at this and go excuse me counsel
are you telling me that Devon Nunez had
no idea this is satire like our is
society supposed to take Devon Nunez
it's cow as a serious source of material
I mean I used to the mom one cuz I still
kind of think it is his mom I don't
maybe I'm missing something here but
that's clearly a joke well cows killed
the cat right right well you know his
mom could be a super talented graphic
designer who doesn't like her son's
politics and things he's less worthy
than a bag of dicks that is possible but
the idea that a cow would have the
ability to just even hit single
keystrokes on a keyboard his virtual
walks through a field you could get some
type of like stick stuck in one of their
cloven hugs and in that instance just
and that would be lucky or maybe the
cows like ah I've got this thing stuck
in my hub this is horribly you know I
don't want this here but on the flip
side I will be able to type now and I
could start a Twitter feed and because I
have this unique ability as a cow to
actually like hit one keyboard you know
you'd be like you think these jokes
might be a little tacky but they take a
long time to find out this is also the
case you don't know if Jack Dorsey has
been invested in sort of bovine neural
networks to help get cows on to the onto
the platform way to transcend the
industrial abuse of animals is to get
them wired
there's more connectivity they can't be
beefed it's the same stuff as a Peter
Till's case against Gawker right because
he didn't really sue them for outing him
although he made a big deal about that
he didn't really sue them for
mistreating Hulk Hogan he wanted them
gone because they made fun of him by mr.
Hoge think people should be allowed to
make fun of powder and like it's ironic
too because twitter is actually taking
steps to protect the powerful as we
speak from getting free she owed when
they say dumb things
this is and and I'm quite convinced that
this is part of at least part of the
motivation here is we're going to work
the refs and the idea is that regardless
of what's going on in Twitter we're just
going to keep throwing suits at you and
regardless of whether these suits have
any basis no one wants to be a company
that's getting sued often now let's hear
from a known a well-known legal expert
Brian Kilmeade oh my god that guy is a
historian as well talking about he's
great he's great when it comes to you
yeah it's great it's good it's great
it's great woody the legal expert not so
great at framing up a TV behind it when
he shoots a video call you for advice
yeah exactly I hear he is Brian Kilmeade
talking about why representative Nunez
has a right to sue Twitter for allowing
the two accounts Devin Nunez his mom and
Devin Nunez his cow for for beef on
Twitter I want to ask you about Devin
Nunez suing Twitter for 250 million
dollars because they censored
conservatives what do you say about that
and they're not cracking down on some of
these right not existing people that are
attacking him on Twitter constantly and
I think he's taking he Co saw what
happened with the Covington kids in the
lawsuit they won against Washington Post
CNN and others of positive let me just
correct
renowned legal expert and also AV genius
Brian Kilmeade here the correct way to
frame the status of the lawsuit against
the Washington Post and CNN by the
Covington kid is that they filed a suit
not they won a so that's the first step
to win it really really splitting hairs
here sir I know just finally it just the
filing baby it was the first route filed
that's 1 0 we filed it good he saw what
happened with the Covington kids in the
lawsuit they won against Washington Post
CNN and others of to over 200 million
dollars and he said listen this is not
okay you're ruining lives now Devin
Nunez is not too worried
he knows that 50% of 50% of the country
is not gonna like what he does anyway
but if you're gonna tweet and have some
of those tweets suppressed if people say
they're tweeting at you and it's not
getting through that reminds me exactly
why Don jr. Trump was on our couch two
weeks ago he says it's been happening to
me the shadow' banning these the way I
blues I lose all of a sudden I lose
these followers or there's just no heat
I'm not trending I mean at CPAC o is the
number one conservative thing happening
in politics it was not trending on
Twitter for a long time it makes no
sense so he's gonna force some answers I
think it's a very courageous move I
think it's about time we had it out
about the censoring conservatives on
social media what this is I think it's
about Tom we use the courts to suppress
other people's ability to do satire so
that we don't have a Fifi's hurt on
social media as we sit in the main
propaganda network of the world run by a
dangerous billionaire I mean possibly be
that nobody likes you that's that's
impossible it has to be a conspiracy
well first off like the idea that there
are two accounts with eleven twelve
hundred followers each that you can't
just block them like that somehow this
is inhibiting your role as a congressman
on Twitter is absurd there is the the
idea that they're being shadow band is
also just it's stunning this is and you
know this is
Dave Reubens entire business model
apparently seems to be I mean he
wouldn't have any purpose for Twitter
except to complain about YouTube
subscribers I mean it is the a it really
is just I got another email today from a
very influential person in Silicon
Valley you told me that they're doing it
here is the question that I think you
know maybe we'll all just die before we
know the answer to but is it possible to
be a conservative like to even like to
identify in the same way that all these
people identify with and hear this stuff
and not just feel so ashamed that you
decide to sort of like just move to the
to the woods and just hide in a cave
like I can imagine there are some
conservatives out there who or who hear
this stuff and say these guys again I
the no one believes that Devin Nunez is
being shadow band this is absurd but I
can imagine that there must be some
conservatives like that but are there
really no conservatives out there who
like this is so embarrassing because
everybody and the conservative movement
at least the pillars of this movement
seem to believe this is a real thing I
need to just stop whatever I'm doing and
just go away some have taken steps to
distance themselves from the worst ones
like Laura Loomer who got kicked out of
CPAC by the way which is hilarious I'm
talking about a congressman who is the
ranking member of the House Intelligence
Committee and the next thing we're going
to talking about to lower accounts named
Devon Nunez his mom and Devon Nunez his
caucus his mom that have a little bit
more respect he apparently can't block
and it's pissed because he's not getting
two retweets he wants to say David Devon
Nunez the social media person is
with him just legal operable deeds one
thing to distance yourself from Laura
Loomer because she is handcuffing
yourself to the and she has no official
capacity just some random nutcase
right congressman right this is a
congressman who is in the leadership of
the Republican Party
he is the chain was the chair of the
House Intelligence Committee so as an
example much easier to dissociate for me
when I'm on TV
than when I'm president of United
 stage right like I mean so
good luck associating from that maybe
him and Laura Loomer aren't so different
but that's my point is that the
Conservatives there must be like some
conservatives out there just go like I'm
sorry I can no longer self-identify in
this way and therefore I am going to go
to the woods I look at that as like part
of this job is to basically demoralize
those people and to disengage from
politics really I mean if if that
doesn't do it if they're the idea of
their their their congressional media
complex is pursuing and they've had
hearings about this I mean if they're if
this doesn't embarrass them out of
everything you know Society I don't I
don't know though I feel like their base
probably eats it up I'm talking about
but I'm talking yeah of course they do
but I'm just saying like they don't care
we're so a shadow bin there's some you
know like version of like what we do or
a writer or just like who's just like
this is just too embarrassing for me to
be associated know like that be like
what like steven crowder he's talking
about how the Democrats are for killing
babies right yeah these these people are
not embarrass appalled I think we've
seen that by now so stunning I think we
already have that right we already have
like people like from and they didn't
have the honor to go in the woods they
were just like it's a super tasteless
I'll stick around till I can shove a
knife into your progressive yeah exactly
I do my next piece is the top ten
reasons why we should poor support on
site killing at the border or Democrats
won't pick up in the midterms let's go
to the phone's calling from a two one
zero
area code who's this where he come from
good afternoon Sam Johnson San Antonio
John from San Antonio how are you sir
what's going on I'm doing good yeah I
want to continue our impeachment debate
and I know you're very passionate about
subject is just remember our history I
was very happy to see you disagree with
Nancy Pelosi on a shows last week I
agree with you that people should be
held accountable you continued your
comments on Ring of Fire over the
weekend you made the following comments
I actually believe there's an argument
from a political standpoint you don't
want and teach him I think the strongest
argument against impeaching the
president is the full knowledge there's
simply no way the Senate will convict
him when controlled by this many
Republicans and you only get one bite at
the Apple and God forbid that Donald
Trump gets reelected in 2020 you're
still going to want and Pietschmann
arrow in your quiver because otherwise
you've already expended it and if you've
already impeached in the Senate has
rejected it Donald Trump is going to
feel like it is completely as completely
no checks and balances on him because
you basically unload it the only
metaphorical of course bullet in your
chamber and then you talked more about
Pelosi and then you went back to Donald
Trump needs to be impeach the
Republicans are protecting them now is
the time to do it because you can't get
the job done which is you know very
similar to what a lot of Democrats are
saying so we agree that primary voters
should vote based on what they believe
politically not based on who has the
most potential to win an election that
will be held in the distant future but
we don't agree with the political
calculation of pursuing impeachment the
area where the gym emphasizes the fact
that Republicans won't remove Trump from
office your argument has held up well
Republicans are corrupt to the core they
probably won't remove Trump from office
before I said that if you needed
overwhelming evidence they will impeach
and remove them if you look at the
people who've been indicted most of the
people have slipped on Trump everybody
everything relates to a percentage and
the odds are that you're right but this
goes beyond politics I want to address
the fact that one bite at the Apple
Theory Trump is a weak president he just
lost 40 seats in the House you simply
don't know if the impeachment process
will be a political advantage
for either party I think it will help
Democrats because it will expose Trump's
genuine law-breaking but I don't know
for sure but why should Trump get
immunity just because he's created a
cult in society where Republicans won't
hold him accountable you think of the
impeachment as a strictly political
action but it's also a matter of law
enforcement because of the terrible
office of legal counsel ruling that's a
sitting president cannot be indicted the
question is should a sitting president
get away with breaking the law and the
obvious answer is no the élysée memo is
wrong Trump should have already been
indicted and people should be taking
talking about this more well you say
that you only get good well no I mean I
get you I mean I get you
counter-argument but but first off I
agree with you in terms of
accountability but I can tell you that
he will not you he will not be he will
not be held to account we know this
right I mean this is from a discreet
look I'm not saying that that we
shouldn't go forward with the
impeachment process okay or let me put
it this way I understand I'm not I don't
know I don't know that one can know
about the the value of the impeachment
process politically on the the race in
in 2020 I just don't know I you know it
could go either way I could be convinced
by I their argument in terms of starting
the impeachment process I sort of feel
like we already have right like all of
these Oversight Committee hearings
they're not formalizing the impeachment
process but they're they're all
providing what would ultimately be
articles of impeachment I agree with you
that he needs to be held to account but
there is no way he will be before the
2020 election there is no way and so my
argument the one argument that moves me
is this is that right now if you make
the analogy that the that
impeachment as a law enforcement
mechanism right it's more political it's
not with the law enforcement but it's
you know is a law accountability
mechanism it's the equivalent of saying
like okay half 75% of our police force
is out sick today today is not the day
that we should go you know perform that
raid on the major drug cartel because we
could go in there and all our officers
could get slaughtered and we will never
get that drug cartel kingpin that's
that's the argument that I'm making that
if you actually impeach right I get to
the point where there's a vote for
impeachment and it goes to the Senate
and the Senate rejects it
they do not convict and Donald Trump
gets reelected forget about it like like
what won't Donald Trump do at that point
well I mean I mean first of all if you
if you try impeachment and you bring the
information out in the public domains it
wasn't available because of the research
that you've done you may may actually
prevent him from being elected in 2020
you might say freeze right you might you
might know I I agree with you that you
can't really know how it's gonna play
politically you have to do this based on
on the law and the fact that you know
he's already in an unindicted
co-conspirator and if he wasn't the
president he would have already been
indicted child I agree with you but but
but what about my case of this okay
we know the drug kingpin is a drug
kingpin we know that he runs a cartel we
also know that he has a hundred armed
men you have ten do you go that day and
try and raid him or do you wait until
you got more men but but
because I Got News for You Leila he
walks out of office is the day he gets
indicted
maybe there's a lag time right right and
that makes him more dangerous because
you know all of his authoritarian
tendencies you know just last week he
was saying during the police supporters
could get tough and he's always lying
about election fraud so John do you
think thinking all of John what do you
think you mean what do you think the
Democrats are gonna find that is gonna
compel his supporters to say yeah yeah
maybe I shouldn't vote for her at this
point
like honestly well I mean you you have a
good case there but I mean there's also
some independence you know I mean I
think it's actually his chances of being
elected are very very thin right yeah I
agree it is and so but I mean you know
you might have some independence the you
know feel feel different or war might or
you might have a dynamic that happened
with Bill Clinton that Bill Clinton who
had very soft support on the Left a guy
who got into the presidency with 45% of
the vote you know with the the constant
dogging of him around what I think most
reasonable people would see is like
small-bore stuff motivated some of his
support thanks for the conceivable
conceivable it happened it would happen
in that it would motivate Trump voters
we you know you and I can argue with
that back and forth wouldn't we're not
gonna know the Trump voters would never
buy into a persecution narrative right
exactly but I vote even if even that
even if I stipulate that we you know
that that is an open question what is
not an open question is there is no way
the Senate will convict him you will not
get that conviction and so that
conviction isn't going to come in the
second term with this so-called second
term what you're saying we have to be
ready for the second term they're not
going to have Democrats on 67 votes in
two in 2021 either so how is that good
at least they have
gingery at least 2530 at least the
threat is you know has some has some
theoretically ability to mitigate his
actions well I I can tell you how Trump
perceives the Democrats right now he
thinks they're weak and spineless we're
taking this this tact
and that's the way a lot of people on
the Left do to including a OC to leave
and in ill Hanna Omar in their rights
they are weak they're afraid of their
own shadows and there's no reason I
agree with you we should be doing a lot
more oversight and you know and I just
think that you know I just think that
the oversight and in the the possible
impeachment should start happening and
it should it's happening it hasn't well
it's happening it's low he's our the the
new Congress has already been in in
office for two and a half months and who
was they brought up they brought up John
you've got a higher staff it's not like
there's there's like teams of Democratic
investigators who have been waiting
without taking any work anywhere waiting
for these committees to build up like if
you literally have to build a staff like
you like there's like there's there's
not like people just waiting who are
like Democrat you know sharp demo you
know lawyers who are gonna be staffing
and investigators that are just like on
day one are gonna be there and you can't
hire them until you start because you
have no budget I mean it's only been
sixty days not even it's been 60 days
not even 60 business days so I mean I I
like I'm not I'm not defending the
Democrats on this I just think that it's
like a little bit premature to say that
there's no investigations happening I
mean just that the Oversight Committee
with with Cohen spurred investigations
in New York City right and I hope by
Vance you know we'll put a place in his
history marks by actually indicted
strong I mean he
can do that and you know he doesn't have
to answer to a bar and in bars gonna
obstruct everything I think you get a
given the Krait the right take on on bar
and it's sickening to see all these
people that are saying Oh bars gonna
stand up for the rule of law he's gonna
do everything that is possible to
obstruct this I agree with you but but
good corrupt arrest but he's not gonna
be able to look he's not gonna be able
to have control over the Southern
District of New York there's just no way
I just don't think so I think it's just
a you know generally like they they
operate you know with a lot more
independence than a lot of other play
other but look let's let's have let's
put a pin in this conversation
and let's let's reconvene on this
particular conversation not your calls
because I want your calls to keep coming
but this conversation for like two or
three more months I will I am quite sure
you will get more and more of this stuff
as we go on I mean yet Nadler the other
day coming out basically saying you know
Whitaker was tied into conversations
about Cohen all this stuff is happening
the one thing that they're all doing I'm
quite convinced this is trying to
schedule more and more oversight
hearings I think that's I think we're
gonna have so many oversight hearings
John that we're gonna have to change the
name of the show to the majority
oversight hearing report maybe not I
appreciate the call well we working on
the title but John I appreciate your I
me too
thank you calling from a7 over you carry
water for these people's weird kana on a
702 area code who's this we come from
row flamingo from Las Vegas what's on
your mind
I'm doing a two things one I went to my
first Bernie rally nice it was a mower
part just to give you Road just click
over to be wrong it was nice you know
I got that kind of late her Nina tennis
because I got there late so I was like
for the glass that her speech was really
good then Bernie came and
you know he's saying all the right notes
with a provider part though was
announcing over Trump stirs members of
the Fourth Reich in all those idiots
calm and you know protests and stuff and
I've been reading that book pathways and
break them into the Katherine Kathleen
the Balu I think her name was and you
know she's talking about you're not a
paramilitary you know like that notice
the white power movement stuff that's
really good but I'm almost on with it
but um you know and they're hitting you
know all the Trump stirs are talking
about you know you're a communist you
know you know you know all that coverage
of socialism stuff and they never booked
you know she was telling that over Wi-Fi
movie to kind of is very anti-communist
you know in any time this is covert for
a lot of things you know empty black and
all and interracial marriage or I had to
start so it is very interesting and also
the one that saw saying mom you're not
going to my next point was on uh a lot
of the Trump stirs like a lot of Trump
stirs you know and you know there was
like the second amendment guys you know
the nut jobs and all the type of stuff
but uh they're all either always really
old or really young
sounds interesting then it was like it
really was in in between really older
really young guys Gen Xers oh yeah yeah
I got to say you do I saw one guy though
he was like he wore a shirt that said
after your safe spaces but you know he
seemed like you just intimated you seem
like your guy who's like internetting a
lot so I didn't really not really paying
attention to him and then like I don't
know forget Gen X F them but go ahead
okay Tibet expect but uh the second
point is uh you know we look at this
College Admission scandal and you know
it's so funny to me because it's just
like I remember Abigail Fisher versus
Texas you know yep that scam you know
you look at that scam and also I believe
you probably know better than me Sam
there was a recent I guess it was filed
on behalf like Asian community or some
Asians that they felt like affirmative
action was tension
to their kids I believe and I believe
the father but the lawsuit is like Yale
or Harvard I think it was a Harvard
lawsuit you know exactly exactly and
then this this comes out he's blowing
the lid off the whole thing you know the
scam is up it's just you know you know
it's these kind of new money white
society guys you know reading the system
just hit all throughout and it's like
you know this always seems like it all
just seems like to me there's a black
horse it just seems like it all just
seems like black people in affirmative
action all this stuff you know but when
you look and you turn around and look
it's my us just reading the system or
it's not us you know point all this dark
money I think when you guys made a
really good point where it's like you
know Elijah wants to coming out now
against a Stanford Yale and all stuff
about the validity of their of their
diplomas or people which is literally
not getting in because you know Olivia
Jade you know who Luigi who said I don't
care about College got in you know it's
very and this is a microcosm by the way
it's almost as if I wrap it up I'm sorry
but you look at this it's a microcosm of
the malignant majority and what we're
starting to see now just me because I'm
a millennial but if you pick up if you
pick up if you pick up the rock under
any of these institutions look under the
rock of college all the sludge comes out
if you look at this you pick up the
rocks of the lobbying lobbying firms at
all this much come I come I may afford
remember on a matter last night
basically a democratic operated novel of
a basically a Democratic White House
Council for Obama get in this game about
lobbying it's tough this thing this
corruption is expecting all areas of
society the mallika majorities to be
changing in everything and it's time for
us to really push back against these
guys because these guys they're really
serious about this they're going all in
on this and we really need to do
something about it is all areas of
society now are being affected by
capital white supremacy and racism just
full stop and it doesn't make no bones
about it yeah
you know both about it I mean I think
you're right and you know it's worth a
read is Hayes's first book on the
twilight of the elite particularly like
it this came out eight nine years ago
now I guess maybe maybe a little bit
less but it is it sort of captures the
the failure of all of these elite
institutions not even elite you know all
of our societal institutions and how
they have been corrupted and in many
respects are you know still telling
themselves the story of merit when in
fact that's not what's happening at all
appreciate the call thanks bro flamingos
by the way it's it's not just a buzzword
like fascists are obsessed with
communism for a very good reason right
because I mean as a communist not
everybody believes this I believe it's
the only way to fight fascism in the
long term is with communism and whether
or not you agree with that Communists
and anarchists have made it a priority
since there was a fash to be anti right
since since fascism first arose as a
response to communist and anarchist
movements in Italy so they feel very
threatened by us for a reason I mean
obviously Bernie is not himself a
communist but they they kind of put the
whole left in the same basket where
that's concerned calling from a71 for
area code who's this where you call them
from hey this is Johnny from Orange
County Johnny from Orange County what's
on your mind
hey just wants to say I'm a big fan
first-time caller
I really like the guest you brought on
today
Johan he kind of addressed a lot of
things I was I have been feeling I'm 26
quote-unquote or working quote unquote
my first real job for four years and
yeah he brought up a lot of good points
it's it's not that amazing it's pretty
monotonous and I guess boring and well
you should pick up this book I mean
particularly I mean the the lost
connections
is definitely worth a read I think yeah
and also Megan day she wrote a great
article and jacobian or Jacobin it's
called you don't want Hyuga which is a
Danish word you want social democracy
and it talks all about how figures that
were a Danish word for like comfort and
contentment but not just physical
comfort but also like you know comfort
knowing your place in society is
meaningful when you have connections and
stuff and anyway my point here is we
always talk about in America you know
what is how can we bring the country
together and you know how can reach
across the aisle so to say and I think
really the unifying issue is time like
you simply do want more time away from
work to enjoy with your family and
friends are just excuse me doing leisure
stuff and that's what social democracy
and socialism offer so yeah but it's a
good way to put it program that got a
read Megan Reese is just she's we have I
would read every piece that she has in
the Jacobins she's so good you called
the jacobian or the Jacobin the Jacobin
I call it the Jacobin like the Rolling
Stone or whatever it's Jacobin you just
said Jacobean oh really I think actually
didn't even notice today that's pretty
funny I'll start mixing it up we're
gonna start calling it the yaqoob' in
yaakov in get Bochco Rani's leaked so
it's not that white people even though
they came from caves can't be socialists
but we have to know what we're dealing
with what's sort of fascinating about
this period right now is the Republicans
have like moved there they're starting
to the the right is moving into sort of
their opposition posture which means
that they get even more consolidated we
have seen so-called never Trump errs
starting to like
fall by the wayside erik erikson
remember how like he was gonna tear
apart his whole company he was gonna
leave he left his company I'm not gonna
through what's happening here Donald
Trump okay I guess I'm now not a never
Trump or anymore and all of the you know
of course a lot of the never Trump errs
are starting to sort of like you know
get a little bit like well I'm still
never Trump but I can forgive the entire
the conservative manole Ike look maybe
it is a problem with immigration says
David Frum in the Atlantic maybe it's
not there's a maybe we need to go a
little soft on this or bill crystals
like well we've reinvented ourselves we
call ourselves the bulwark now and we're
really you know like as if conservatism
in everything that's going on and the
conservative movement now can really can
really show any daylight there's never
been in a daylight in terms of policy as
there it's really just been Donald Trump
is rude and grotesque and saying the
quiet parts loudly and delivering the
text I mean the subtext not the text
he's just not reading the text he's just
reading the subtext and of course so it
should come no surprise that Glenn Beck
is back ladies and gentlemen he doesn't
have the chalkboard but that doesn't
mean well he does he does he just didn't
bring him with him this time to Fox
syndicated radio television star author
of addicted to outrage blaze TV and
radio host Glenn Beck posit you know can
I just say now understand Glenn Beck
when Glenn Beck was booted from Fox part
of it was a function of an advertiser
boycott part of it
supposedly Roger Ailes wanted to sort of
like tighten the ship a little bit when
we go over in the run-up to the MIT
Romney election there was also a real
resentment coming from some conservative
quarters against a Glenn Beck for coming
in and stealing sort of the the
narratives like Mark Levin hated Glenn
Beck hated Glenn Beck
because all of Mark levins
constitutional conspiracy theories
essentially were usurped by Glenn Beck
and I think he would say this he would
say you know I got copiers people copy
what I do and then but then they add a
little more pizzazz then Mark Levine
could and I think that they resented it
now Mark Levine just happens to be best
friends with Sean Hannity those guys are
very very close so there was a little
bit of a war going on now they've since
buried the hatchet but there's still
some remnants of that and here comes
Glenn Beck I don't know if this is the
first time back on hannity show since
the day he was friends with O'Reilly but
he's back on and here it is so this just
lays the context of this little
awkwardness at the beginning Glenn Beck
I remember your time on thyroid on
because I was kind of cold yeah a little
chalkboard and you know Glenn they're
not bored oh I mean I'm being
complementary you know you know I'm
smiling I'm being complimentary thank
you and but one of the things I know I
one of the things that Utah see a lot of
I also what I'm really enjoying is the
slight tape delay so the awkwardness
between the two of them is also enhanced
by the delay and sound back and forth
I'm smiling I'm being complimentary
thank you and but one of the things I
know I appreciate it one of the things
that you talked a lot about was the
dangers of radicalism and the dangers of
socialism I've never seen the threat
this bad hundred people agree with the
new Green Deal in the Democratic Party
many of the 20 20 candidates agree with
it and our are campaigning on it and I
thought maybe it's time to go back and
revisit some of those things you talked
about and I talked about at the time
Sean I I I distinctly remember every day
the last year of my Fox show I said what
was coming and I the last few steps were
that the radicals the an arc
the Islamists the Socialists would all
gather together they would not be
working together plotting together but
they would see the opportunity and they
would all come together and work to de
stabilize Europe and America and that is
exactly what is happening
you have care now in the halls of
Congress all the time and I think that's
who Nancy Pelosi was afraid of when they
when they change them about them being
beautiful conspirators when you talk
about I don't think people may not
remember no I'll go I'll go step further
they weren't just unindicted
co-conspirators in the Holy Land
Foundation they were started and the
people that were I think we don't even
need to hear the details of the dumbness
that he's saying here what is really
instructive is now that he's come back I
remember back in the day now if we were
to travel back sometime in between then
right it's now 2019 let's go back to
2017 or let's go back yeah let's go back
to 2017 when Glenn Beck was very very
sorry for Donald Trump yeah look at this
Glenn Beck's regrets in politics in the
Atlantic written by Peter by night his
paranoid style paved the road for
trumpism now he fears what's been
unleashed or the new york times magazine
glenn back is sorry about all that
or the washington post style section
he's in the Style section now glenn
beck's wants to heal the America he
divided one hug at a time what oh it's
unbelievable
oh well you know maybe these big
journalists were you know got sucked
into this whole notion but it's not like
you know the the jaded said did either
yes so far this is going great we've
established our mutual tribal animosity
and that I need to wear eye protection
but healing healing for my audience
who's struggling right now
understand why I'm sitting and talking
to you and blame it on her not on me
I'm not struggling with it I want to
talk to you right they are it's her
fault not mine it's fine she inflicted
me on you not the other way said a lot
of crazy okay okay all right
for like people in my world even if all
you said for the rest of your life were
reasonable things I feel like you've
still earned a permanent side-eye from
them is that okay with you
not okay but I believe I think it's I
think it's rational so I would turn that
back around why would you have me on if
you don't want to mock what is your
right so then what is why should you
have me because I think that our future
is going to require a broad coalition of
nonpartisan decency look at where we've
come lesson the idea of trying to reform
these individuals is just absurd and
every moment that you did every Glenn
Beck is sorry for Donald Trump Glenn
Beck's regrets Glenn Beck is sorry about
that Glenn Beck what the he'll America
etc etc now 18 months later like
literally like in 18 months it's due
it's two years it's been two years to be
forward well good Beck feels like
forever ago yeah it was only two years
ago we're you know January 17 issue this
is when a he when it when the publicist
came a-knockin with the new Glenn Beck
who's now tacking back because now he's
gotten into business with Mark Levin and
it's all just being a grift now we're
back to this Glenn Beck question is in
the last 30 seconds yeah what's the
antidote that's what I wanted to ask you
waking up and I don't know if there's an
antidote but I will tell you this if the
Republicans don't win in this next
election I think I'll turn in other
words officially at the end of the
country as we know it we may not survive
even if we win but we definitely don't
if the battery never realized some of
the trials lose with Donald Trump that
means re-election to trump three people
that maybe didn't like him now they can
see kept a lot of his promises most of
them you he well I know I did I saw that
he kept his promises and I will tell you
there is no choice this time around we
must come together what happened right
there it is I can't wait I can't wait
for the other conservatives and you know
look I'm sorry folks don't tell me
there's a difference to David Frum and
Glenn Beck at the end of the day they're
just different flavors of the of the
same of the same product I know we've
got to go quick but just listen to the
end of Glenn Beck laying it on what some
have to be here visual people against
Donald Trump it's all of us against
trumpism I agree and so I actually think
it's important to reach into places
where we wouldn't normally reach I agree
I said yes to you because I believe I
watch you I believe you actually don't
want to do damage I as a guy who has
done damage I don't want to do any more
damage
I know what I did I helped divide I'm
willing to take that
[Music]
good like doesn't she have a school to
go segregated somewhere
honestly like she's not embarrassed well
I mean fine she may or may not be but I
mean that's it's a much bigger it's not
just Samantha bee I mean the whole thing
was all over the New York Times The
Washington Post the Honorable exception
of Bob Weir on on the media exactly Bob
Garfield the only person who was anyway
skeptical to this and the idea that we
were able to do that little piece there
and it only took 24 months to do this
complete 360 that we just witnessed is I
think like I mean yeah it's I guess I'm
appreciative self that ego it's also
ironic he kept talking about survival
right we need to elect Republicans if we
want to survive um which is the party
that wants the earth to die in flames
and which is the one that's kind of
trying to fix it I listen to that full
interview and the weird thing is is how
much Hannity appropriate Slyke certain
like he liked the deep same thing we
know about they're talking about
two-tiered justice systems for Nunez and
also Glenn Beck called the Democrats of
death cult yeah no this is first of all
precise in the max that that's a that
has always been what they did I mean you
can go back and look at John Kerry's you
know election in 2004 where they took a
basically a guy who was a wall who who a
wall was actually the upside of him
avoiding the draft in the first place
and a guy who served in Vietnam and they
flipped it I mean this is something that
they always do as a strategy period but
the the the the fascinating thing to
with Glenn Beck is we need to come
together is exactly the way he ended
both the interview where he apologized
for supporting Trump saying you could
never support Trump and the interview
where he said I'm sorry I didn't support
Trump I do now support Trump we just
need to bring everybody together I mean
this the idea that into ostensibly
intelligent people at any of these
outlets cannot see through this garbage
is just it's really hard to believe okay
there you need to step down or you need
to be less corrupt and and I'm going to
the benefit the doubt is I'm gonna give
is like you're not corrupt you're just
like that ignorant that detached from
what ostensibly you are entrusted with
trying to suss out oh my god
all right we just have literally five
minutes here so callers we don't have
time for any more calls I'm sorry I
apologize
let's I want to play this this this
Trump thing is just stunning to me about
how this guy is so dogged by John McCain
like I can't even figure out what the
hell is going on here he's he's not into
McCain I mean I will say that this is in
the context of him in bowl scenario
basically outlining the details of a
United fascist front but yes Donald
Trump really doesn't want you right
Donald Trump is sitting there
terrible with with bolson ro and going
all it's almost like Trump is trying to
show off here I think this you get to
put your main rival in jail and you get
to be President even though you're
directly linked to assassinations but
but I mean watch this not equal to I
honestly think that there's something
going on here in terms of the psychology
of like I'm gonna show him watch how I
 on a dead guy
[Laughter]
very unhappy very unhappy that he didn't
repeal and replace Obamacare is you know
he campaigned on repealing in a place
replacing Obamacare for years and then
he got to a vote and he said thumbs down
and our country would have saved a
trillion dollars and we would have had
great health care so he campaigned he
told us hours before that he was going
to repeal and replace and then for some
reason I think I understand the reason
he end up going thumbs up and frankly
had we even known that I think we would
have got the vote cuz we could have
gotten somebody else so I did I think
that's disgraceful
plus there are other things I was never
a fan of John McCain and I never will be
I mean I badly have glad he's dead and
he can't do anything around this hack on
the view I think that Trump is sitting
there with Bolton ro and just thinking
like I just I on a purely just sort of
his own manhood is just sort of feeling
like I've got to go fall in on this mr.
president
you say lock her up but I locked we
 up the most popular president in
our nation's history before that he even
got a chance to run probably literally
 on a dead guy so he's got Trump
beat there yeah exactly but let me just
let me I'll take care of this I'm just
gonna on him check this out
well okay fair enough but what about
this hey remember John McCain glad he's
dead glad he's dead
I know yes ever view that I'm never
gonna vote against us in taganga no more
thumbs down you tell debt daddy's dead
it's enough stuff I like people who
didn't die I like people who didn't get
brain cancer and we could had great
great health care for them but his brain
was blah Blee how was that alright well
we will get to more of this tomorrow
folks we'll cover some of Elizabeth
Warren's Town Hall from last night we
will cover the fact that Jordan Peterson
very proudly took a photo with someone
who had a t-shirt that turned out to be
a little bit problematic in New Zealand
not aging well no all this and more
tomorrow a see you
then the magical street that got to get
to where I want but I know sir
[Music]
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
