[Music]
um what's going on in Texas ladies and
gentlemen as you know the great state of
Texas just recently had to narrow a law
that they had written that prohibits
government agencies from doing business
with any type of contractors who are
involved in boycotting Israel so if
you're a speech therapist for instance
this was the actual case that found that
their law was unconstitutional and they
have since changed a law via a speech
therapist and you're providing services
to some third graders at a local
elementary school you're helping them
learn to speak but you also decided not
to buy any products that were made from
the occupied territories in Israel where
you're boycotting them or you have
divested from stocks in any companies
that are doing business in Israel then
the state of Texas can decide not to
give you a contract based upon that the
previous version of the law the state
could not have a contract unless you
signed a statement saying that you would
not boycott Israel this was one of 25
states that had a measure like this the
new bill doesn't change anything as a
defect in that existing law according to
this report but they did change it in
some fashion that supposedly will make
it they just keep one thing keep want to
try and pass it so the flipside of that
is when
the governor says that no city can
decide upon awarding contracts this is a
little bit different if they find that a
company is hostile or discriminates
against people now there is already on
the federal level laws on the books that
say the federal government will not
provide a contract to you if you're
discriminatory in any way but apparently
these states rights guys because it's
localized they want states rights not
local rights states rights and so in a
scene that looks like a parody people
assembled in the State House in Texas
where the governor surrounded by fast
food containers filled with I don't know
maybe something or maybe just held his
props signs a bill sort of like set up
like Donald Trump they're all doing this
now oh he is well nevertheless the way
that they surround everybody in these
type of signings now as a fast food
eater I for one am supportive of the
normalization of fast food cups on
important desks like yeah here you go
and he signs Greg Abbott signs this bill
here listen to him now discrimination is
not tolerated in Texas pause it now let
me he's gonna have to parse this because
chick-fil-a discriminates at least in
terms of like they pay for people to
build in societal and institutional
discrimination against gay people but
that's not the kind that he means no
business should be discriminated against
simply because its owners gave to a
church or to the Salvation Army or to
any other
organization what about like a Muslim
extremist terrorist organization well
now come on
he said religious okay I mean very
shifty sunburned was elected to the army
or to any other religious organization
no business should lose a government
contract because of their religious
beliefs the save chick-fil-a legislation
that I'm about to sign is a victory for
religious freedom in Texas I want to
thank Senator Brian Hughes and represent
Mack oh no keep going I want to hear
story on this sooner hall thank you very
much here we go he's gonna sign
[Music]
[Music]
there you go America progress
yes think against discrimination thank
God
corporations are people too my friend DP
us
