[Music]
look I don't wanna make too much of this
but I do think it's funny some reason
President United States cannot pronounce
the word origin or maybe he cannot
remember the word origin I mispronounce
things all the time all the time I
mispronounce names quite a bit I stutter
I I have all sorts of verbal tics but
this is pretty funny and he does it he
says it up front and then this is a long
clip right because he says that it comes
back around that's the funniest part and
he knows that he can't say it which is
also funny like a lot of people are
saying like oh this is signs of dementia
or obviously you know whenever you see
something like this the first things you
think if you're in you know on YouTube
it's Parkinson's of course or some other
problem I have no idea syphilis
untreated syphilis untreated syphilis
affect people's speech patterns I don't
know I have no idea
there's like addicted to I don't know
see like diet pills is something as an
example just the thought this could just
be that he just can't access the word
and I certainly go through that but I
can tell you that when I can't access
words at least for me it's because I
haven't slept and that's usually because
my kids wake me up now of course Donald
Trump probably has not been even near
his kids at any time at night at least
here is talking and attempting to say
the word origins hope they now go and
take a look at the oranges or the
oranges of the investigation the
beginnings of that investor looking not
the origin of the investigation where it
started how it started who started it
whether its McCabe or Co me or a lot of
them
where does it go how high up in the
white house did it go you will all get
Pulitzer Prizes okay you're gonna all
get Pulitzer Prizes you should have
looked at it a long time ago and that's
the only thing that's disappointing to
me about the Muller report the Muller
report
I wish covered the oranges how it
started the beginnings of the
investigation how it started it didn't
cover that and for some ways on its day
none of that was discussed the oranges
the oranges he knows he's not saying it
right because he says the beginnings oh
yeah no he knows he can't say it's a
tough one I'm going in one more time for
oranges God duh it's starting the
beginning you know actually I heard from
and again that origins is that's the
mispronunciation it's supposed to be our
engines orange and then it was ruined in
the common people say I don't know how
to say that word but I don't I don't
like it it's not a good word oranges so
I renegotiate our engines harren jizz
just self around it to make kids or
losers who try to view my criminal
conspirators that's like why that's my
girlfriend and I don't know what the
other one is his spray tan has seeped
into his brain all he sees is orange
