[Music]
speaking of a-holes
here's Boris Johnson attempting to
salvage the disaster that is his I mean
I don't even know what what I can't
quite figure out what's going on in
Britain but uh does he have you know he
doesn't have a prime ministership
anymore does he know he is Prime
Minister he doesn't have a majority in
parliament so we're just in stasis there
is an election scheduled and he's not
like a lame-duck I guess but he's like
an active lame-duck and here he is
trying to shore up his image by going
and visiting sick kids and a dad
basically calls him out on it
here is oppressive
let's think about it like as net which I
mean years of years years and it just
being destroyed
and this is the first opportunity
okay
good I mean that is just fantastic and I
also enjoy watching the sort of the
hospital official concerned be like oh
this is going sideways the NHS have been
under assault for for quite a while in
Britain and it's they're starting to
feel it I'm cutting you keep cutting and
it's gonna start to make a difference
well this is what's what's interesting
here and it's great he's being called
out because the cuts began and
accelerated under Cameron and Clegg and
then under May and what Boris is doing
is see Boris has a political adviser
who's whose eccentric and smart and
basically there's a video of him Dominic
Cummings who led the brexit campaign he
said just like here in Britain but
there's actually video of him saying
this year to ago saying look the centre
of this country is to the left
economically and to the right on things
like the death penalty and constantly
just like here they always assert that
the centers to the right on economics
and socially liberal which it isn't and
so in any way rate what Boris is doing
is he's superficially pretending to jack
up funding for things like the NHS so
it's not just that he's going and
getting a backlash he's kind of running
a scam campaign on basically you know
he's bragging he's gonna have the
biggest investment in public services
since the Blair government of 2002 and
the dad's folks right that's not going
so no so it needs to be but it's also I
mean it's all the more reason that you
do need a left flank on him because they
are a clever
