[Music]
all right so here's another question
that Bernie got and it is it is a
similar question came earlier it is and
I think he didn't do as well with he did
well with part of this question the not
so well with one of them one of the
premises and and so there were a couple
of stories of what appeared to be narrow
instances of sexual harassment on the
campaign in 2016 this is every campaign
as far as I can tell had the same
problem Clinton had someone very high
placed in her campaign I guess who was
accused of of similar but his response
here makes it clear my understanding is
the campaign is taking this extremely
seriously but there was another part and
I think he addressed that well there was
another part of this question that I
didn't think he did as well Shaunie's
from Denver as we saw in the 2018
midterms the Democratic Party has become
more female more racially diverse and
younger in age how can a voter like me
feel confident in your ability to
represent the party especially given
that your response to sexual harassment
allegations during your campaign is that
you were quote a little bit busy running
around the country trying to make the
case to be elected as president well I
think that quote was a little bit out of
context but let me ask you a question
I am enormous ly proud of the fact that
we have the most diverse progressive
freshman class in the history of the
United States Congress and you know what
I did in 2016 and in 2018 I ran all over
this country to try to make that happen
all right so when you talk about the
political revolution you're talking
about two things number one are the
ideas that we are fighting for an
economy that works for all not just the
1% but the second point that I have made
over and over again is we're not going
to be able to implement a progressive
Genda unless millions more people get
involved in the political process so I
am delighted I am that we started an
organization called our revolution I
think Nina Turner is here you know what
the purpose of our revolution was about
is precisely to bring young people into
the political process and I think we're
making some real progress so what are
you gonna do senator to make sure that
the allegations that occurred against
your campaign a couple years ago are not
repeated what are you personally gonna
do to make it for one second all right
so because he does much better with this
question in terms of the sexual
harassment but the the problem that
Bernie has in addressing that first part
of the question is regardless of whether
you think the premise is important or
not
the fact of the matter is the party is
far more diverse and dynamic and
changing no if it's changing as rapidly
as much as we're you know there's a
greater awareness of the party being
made up of a vast majority of people you
know a diverse group of people but but
he has to acknowledge that's the case he
has to acknowledge that I am aware that
when Democrats win they lose the white
vote and when Democrats win they always
lose the old white man's vote and we're
going to have to rely on people who look
like this woman to win and he has to
acknowledge the reality of that and then
simply say and then go on with the rest
you know there cannot be any defensive
miss you're not fooling anybody she
asked about you know about people of
color about women and he responded with
young people and he's got it he's got to
address the question and and you know
he's got to do exactly what he did later
in the in the broadcast in
response to you know some criticism that
he's gotten in the african-american
community more more specific criticism
but he's got to be able to do that
because he I think has the confidence
that his policies are going to help
across the board and the reality is he's
an old white guy and he's an easy
obviously he's not getting getting
younger and he's not gonna gain less
white and so he's got to just
acknowledge it and move on and but for
you know day two of the campaign or day
six of the campaign I think he's in
pretty good shape and then this I think
was very good because yay have some they
clearly have a specific a specific
apparatus that they are have developed
or developing to deal with a sexual
harassment on the campaign in a couple
years ago are not repeated what are you
personally gonna do to make what happen
tell you what we have done and what we
are doing I was very upset to learn what
I learned when I ran for re-election in
Vermont in 2018 we instituted I think
maybe the strongest protocols against
sexual harassment and that will be the
protocol as we bring in to the 2020
presidential election every employee of
mine in this campaign will get
significant amounts of training to
understand what sexual harassment is
about anybody who feels harassed will
have an independent entity to speak to
outside of the campaign and we have
hired some of the best people in the
country to help us on this issue we take
this issue very very serious haha you
know I think this is a you know I don't
think campaigns have had to deal with
this in the past women have had to deal
with it probably the entire time
campaigns themselves have not had any
type of formalized apparatus as far as I
can tell to deal with any you know
employee issues like of this ilk
they just haven't felt like they needed
to and it's good that they now realize
they do and there should be formalized
systems for people to deal with this
stuff
and it's good I mean I I frankly think
every campaign they should be we should
be able to go to their website and see
what they're you know obviously not the
specifics or it shouldn't be too
granular but we should see like hey this
is a process that we have that is
institutionalized within the context of
our campaign we have you know a some
form of human resources function to deal
with this because inevitably stuff like
this comes up in the context of
campaigns
