6:02 area code who's this where you come
from
6:02 does that mean yep oh hi first-time
caller
I'm actually very surprised I got to I'm
Danny from Arizona so I've actually been
paying close attention to what you guys
have been saying about the elections
here and I've been trying to spec
everyday just to see you know them not a
cinema fan but I'm glad that she took
the lead um and it's just funny you know
to hear the dum-dum side of things
talking about you know voting not voting
out of fear just because uh you know
we're we're an immigrant family yeah and
my wife is the only one in my family
that can vote I'm a I'm a resident she's
actually a citizen and the reason there
is oh she voted is the first cinema and
not the the Green Party candidate who
even though she dropped out she still
got two percent of the vote because she
dropped out when it was already too late
take her off the ballot
so you know with everything going on on
the on the national stage and the
stories you hear about people being
stripped of presidencies and even
citizenships
you know people not being allowed to
come back into the country when I hear
you know just brain that people talking
about you know voting not voting out of
here voting your you know your
conscience whatever you know it's just
upsetting to me that there isn't enough
solidarity for you know minority issues
in this country and you know it's just
things where it's it's
incredible I mean on one-on-one level it
is an incredible exhibit of privilege
right like because they don't have the
same amount of fear and they don't have
the same amount of justification for
that fear that someone in your position
does in addition they're also ignorant
to you know all the reasons why you vote
and and and what they should be fearful
of but the bottom line is there are real
people who have real material concerns
that are more or less life-and-death
about why they should be afraid for
certain people to get elected and I'm
with you
kristan cinema is pretty close to the
last person I would want elected in that
out of that state except for the
Republican who is such trash right even
when she was left she was trash right
but he's trash whenever the farther the
mix Allen oh yeah
without a doubt and there are two people
on the ballot who could win one person
who certainly you know I don't know what
percentage of those green voters would
vote for would vote for cinema maybe all
of those people would not come out and
vote what so a that's actually a
question I have for you do you think we
could start maybe with some of those
green voters it might be fair to get
just getting to the point where like oh
these people are just not up for grabs
but but even even if those 50,000 even
if she doesn't take those percentage
points right that would increase the
percent that cinema would have so even
if they didn't show up at the polls she
would be further away outside of like a
recount outside of any doubt about her
vote because she would be winning by by
a higher percentage so you know yeah
well I you know I think it's looking
good for cinema there and you know hang
in there Danny that's all I can tell you
is that it's you know
hopefully you know the things will
improve for folks in your situation but
yeah I understand I appreciate why you'd
be nervous it's a very bad time in this
country for immigrants for for folks who
have various status of immigrants for
what family etc I mean it's bad it's bad
for all minorities I feel like right now
and one thing I appreciate and you know
I started listening to you guys I think
it's been like a year now
ever since the mic service thing
happened you know I luckily it made a
big enough splash and then I'd like
Google then decided to listen um one of
the things I appreciate that you guys do
and I wish more people on the left would
do it is to talk about voting as not you
know like a self-expression thing but
you know as a civic duty and as a civic
duty you got to think about the benefit
of the whole not individuals yeah so I
appreciate that you guys talk about it
in that sense well I appreciate the call
Danny thanks so much sounds like you're
motivated by fear off
thanks for the car wet no matter where
you are I don't sound robbed if
somebody's getting deported
it's not I mean you don't have to
believe that it's a civic duty although
I think it is for you to vote but it's
also just like it is it is a tool to
build something or to you know prevent
the onslaught of something it is not a
mode of self-expression nobody knows how
you voted unless you tell them and guess
what you don't have to tell the truth
yeah but dating white woman is awesome
when I when I go and vote against Cuomo
in the primary in the general that's
kind of
there may have been a little
self-expression going out of my house
voting that it is great to have your
you'd be able to stroke your ego and
make yourself feel good about yourself
and to actually have that align with
what's best for society and for the
goals that you supposedly espouse that's
nice when that happens but that's just a
that's just nice when that happens oh no
that was actually it was fun
voting for Hali Hawkins it's it's like
cuz even the other side of it is easy
when it's like the type of people who
are like yeah cuomo leads by 50 points
but you just need to because you know
like the sort of like neuroses of like
you need to vote for democrats at all
times no matter what because that's the
only choice and it's like well no
actually that's the only choice if you
live in the presidential election you
were natural only election right
republican and in fact if i thought it
was actually in question then i would
have to submit to voting for Andrew
Cuomo but luckily I've never been put in
that position so I was able to vote for
a nice labor guy upstate alright wasting
his talents to the Green Party one more
one more
[Music]
