[Music]
earlier on Fox and Friends stuart varney
showed up speaking of people who
actually can't get the out of my
country right here's stuart varney and
talking about the french and i don't
know i'm not sure what the hang on this
is just that you know how europe is here
is stuart varney talking about the riots
that have been ongoing in paris 26
percent approval inside france and this
is the worst riot since the 1960s look
what's happening in france and what's
happening tomorrow is a lesson for the
left in america for democrats in america
and a lesson for all democracies number
one he's putting up taxes on gasoline
and diesel fuel he is defending the
welfare the cradle-to-grave welfare
state they need money the economy there
is slowing down
he needs Monica wants to impose these
taxes the people riot lessened to the
American left watch out
you can't fund all these social programs
by endlessly raising taxes number two
he's part of the Paris climate Accord
he's got to defend his position on
climate so he raises taxes on gas so you
loot use less gas so you conform to the
Paris climate Accord lesson to the left
in America you keep raising taxes like
this for global warming and you can have
a problem on your hands yeah no no three
Hollanders there's another one here this
movement is you let Shawn is it's called
Yellowjackets it started about six weeks
ago so it seemed to come out of nowhere
in fact it came out of social networks
in rural France the rapid organization
rapid development of these protests
there's the lesson social networks play
a very important role in modern politics
indeed and it's a way of getting
movements going really really fast too
Wow
that last one was really insightful that
I almost felt like I was in 1998 right
not a Clay Shirky seminars
brilliant very timely social networks
mobilised protests let's welcome
hopefully splatter by Ronnie doesn't
hear about what happened in Egypt that's
gonna blow his mind
anyways but with that said Makran is in
trouble for
raising taxes and did so by basically
looking for funding at in the wrong
source let the the wealthiest go out in
protest because their taxes are raised
that's right I mean he's you need to
soak the rich period for climate
proposals and he's already been hacking
at the welfare state raising tuitions
and really hurting people the third
thing I would say though for the left
and melon Sean's been kind of
interesting with this because he sort of
embraced the protests he's intimated
that they should be a reason to call
another election but these are the
grievances are right but this is a very
right-wing oriented protest that people
need to be a lot more like savvy than
just like oh it's a protest that's great
McCrone is garbage but this is a rural
National Front style protest and just
like in Brazil when it started as a
small anti austerity movement and an
advocacy of free public transportation
morphed into a far-right Street movement
which backed the coup and led to where
we are today right I mean I think the
lesson for the left is that we need to
be as aggressive as the right like we
can't let networks of rural
conservatives take up all the you know
the good riot porn that goes on TV we
need to burn some cars - there you go
the French do not put up with anything
though I gotta say that's uh yeah I'm
divided on this because it's not really
the things that I would like to see
being protested but they they really are
a good model like you you try to raise
the retirement age one year it's like
riots everywhere you know well that's
the great thing are charging five
dollars a semester for
for higher education and people are in
the streets so they take that lineand
seriously but I've you know like the
best deal but I think I also though
think that you know more broadly I'm
seeing people like libertarians on
social media run with this because what
macron associating harming people with
addressing climate is not only the wrong
policy it's also destructive for a
long-term action and also for idiots who
stand from a Crone and will say like
he's being brave on Climate without and
disregard the austerity just a note
macrons environment minister who was by
far the most progressive member of his
cabinet quit in August in a live radio
interview and essentially said I can't
take lying about this administration's
record anymore they're terrible on these
issues and they're not fulfilling their
commitments I'm gonna quote or well
again as I often do from the lion and
the unicorn is talking about how you
deal with sort of austerity in a wartime
situation but he says it cannot but
lower the general standard of living
because the essential act of war and I
think war is a climate change you know
replacement here is to manufacture
armaments instead of consumable goods
the working class will have to suffer
terrible things and they will suffer
almost indefinitely provided that they
know what they're fighting for they are
not cowards they're not even
internationally minded they can stand
all the Spanish workers stood and more
but they will want some kind of proof of
a better life as a head of for
themselves and their children the one
sure earnest of that is that when they
are taxed and overworked they shall see
that the rich are being hit even harder
and if the rich will audibly so much the
better
Kanjar points just released a good video
on climate change on this topic and it's
very dangerous to portray this as
something that is either caused or can
be solved by individual consumer choices
when about 70 percent of the pollution
in the atmosphere comes from a small
handful of giant corporations
