welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Matt Carr piece an assistant professor
of history at Princeton University he's
also the Czar an ideological director of
the Jacobin magazine or also known to
the public as contributing editor and he
is the author of is this the future
liberals want a brilliant piece that
just came out in Jacobin Matt professor
thanks for being here
actually sorry I'm as a step one of my
prevention professional class
credentialism I'm going to have to
insist on being called the referred to
as an associate professor because I did
get tenure and that's of minor
significance in this in this
conversation well I don't know actually
how minor it is I've noticed some people
kind of zero in with a lot of uh there's
one Vox writer that was giving you a lot
of but yet you drive cars arguments
about your piece we'll get to that later
oh yeah let's not lead with him Melissa
definitely not lead with him and let's
actually talk about the the nice and
smart one as well the one at New York
magazine but before we get to all of
that let's um talk about actually really
get the bigger picture in terms of the
contextualizing your piece let's talk
about a modern history of the Democratic
Party the New Deal coalition what
happened in the 1970s through the rise
of Third Way and where we are today
give us that broader social history if
you can yeah and I think I got to go a
little international with it too because
I mean I think this is a sort of a basic
you know kind of a historical
fundamental about modern societies into
kind of an you know industrialized or
post-industrial world that you know
basically somehow sort of escapes 99% of
our discourse but I mean like what were
the political forces that basically
built the basic infrastructure of social
democracy or the welfare state or
however you want to call it
in the United States in Europe you know
everywhere across the Atlantic world
what built the National Health Service
in Britain what created unemployment
insurance free college in Scandinavia
and helps where family leave policy and
in the u.s. our our welfare state is
much more patchwork what would produce
even the things that we do have Social
Security Medicare etc in every case
organized labor and labor struggles were
crucial central to these movements but
they were also as sort of a matter of
the record although we don't talk about
this very much
produced by political parties that were
dominated by the working class that that
in in whom the working class in European
cases were sort of formally at the
center of socialist and Social
Democratic and Labour Party's but even
in the United States and the Democratic
Party of the New Deal era overwhelmingly
as a coalition from you know black
workers in Harlem who switched to the
Democratic Party under FDR through to
rural farm workers and in in say New
Mexico or industrial workers in Chicago
or Cleveland you know this is a party of
work that was dominated by working
people and we don't need to be nostalgic
about this mid-century era but the
that's what made the the New Deal itself
and including I think the the
achievements of the civil rights
movement of the you know from the 50s
into the 60s was that the Democratic
Party was a party of workers was a party
which had a close relation to the labor
movement and whose main voters whose key
constituents were workers and you know
that alignment is gone now and it's been
gone for a long time and I think you
know it's one of the main you know
things that the left are progressives or
anyone who's trying to sort of make a
big structural change in this country
has to grapple with the passing of that
alignment that that actually produced
the fundamentals you know in our society
yeah and you make the point that even a
politician who you know frankly but a
you know pretty mediocre in many
respects and one that ended up embracing
the you know the genocide in Vietnam and
I think one of actually the ironies is
that part of the limits
to these political projects that
delivered so many gains the United
States in Europe is is the International
dimension which actually has some today
and then the other dimension of course
is the is the broader civil rights and
equity dimension which also X has echoes
today but you know a guy like Hubert
Humphrey arising from this working-class
base was actually number one was
actually quite he deserves real credit
in terms of civil rights work in terms
of especially actual political risk in
the beginning of the year and then even
through the sixties even as he becomes
the you know subservient vice-president
to LBJ embraces the genocide in Vietnam
this is still a guy who's talking about
you know free college labor policies
health care an extraordinarily
progressive baseline and that as you say
is not the product of particular
qualities of leadership it's the class
configuration exactly exactly I think we
still we kind of have this view and I
think it's partly inculcated by 50 years
of of having lost this class you know
configuration that you know political
parties or even movements within parties
and and frankly this is this remains an
issue we know with the Sanders movement
that I obviously think is our you know
our only hope at this point but that
identifies kind of you know progress or
possibility with individual leaders or
Kerry or the character of certain
politicians you know whether that's you
know whether that's somebody like Barack
Obama or somebody or somebody like you
know abel's with Warren whatever that we
need somebody who thinks this way but
the whole point about what Herbert
Humphrey Hubert Humphrey and sorry I'm
very sorry mr. Humphrey what you were
home-free
represented was that it wasn't I mean he
did the he liked our politicians had
individual personal qualities but what
made the democratic party possible would
made the achievements the limited but
still real achievements of the New Deal
era possible was that this was the
baseline and it wasn't about the
politicians any old hack was going to
support
was gonna support a national health care
system you know even if they couldn't
get it through the democratic party
hacks voted for it you know this was
this was this was I think I liked your
word this was the baseline and we don't
have anything like that baseline we have
to build that face line again but we'll
get to that I guess how does that come
apart so in one part of the story
obviously and this I think you know this
is a very important part but this is a
part that well you see it in the
Democratic Party certainly with the
certainly the racial politics that
people in the third way and Bill Clinton
embraced in the 80s and 90s which really
you know they didn't go as far as Reagan
but they were quite comfortable making
very racist and xenophobic appeals so
people know that certainly you know the
rise of Nixon and part of the breakup of
the New Deal coalition is definitely a
you know a you know apartheid as being
Jim Crow as being formally dismantled in
the United States it's of course still
actually existing in many respects but
it is being legally dismantled and then
there is a you know there is absolutely
a strong racial backlash amongst a
significant portion of white voters then
the other parallel those that we see and
and you know this is just and this is
more relevant for understanding the
current dynamics of the Democratic Party
is a rise of a professional class and a
highly educated baby boomer generation
coming out of the 60s who might even be
really correct and highly socially
progressive on civil rights and women's
rights and correct on Vietnam but have
no conception of class maybe even our
reactive and condescending and snotty
towards labor politics and then also you
know a rise of I mean you know as an
example I Adolph read talks about you
know the historical breakthrough of an
african-american mayor in Atlanta in the
70s and then who also goes on to proceed
to lay off 2000 primarily
african-american public workers with
devastating effect on you know an
emergent black middle class in the south
right so those two trends start to
coalesce and then we start to get the
the origins of the Democratic Party
you have Chuck Schumer's saying you know
for every blue-collar vote we lose you
know in in Michigan I think it was we
pick up an affluent suburban night in in
the suburbs of Philly yeah exactly I
mean that that that is a culmination
that schumer quoted which i think is
that goodbye edwin dell and you know
half a dozen other other of these these
figures is a culmination of this you
know half century of you know much
larger political economic social
transformation that you know is not
unique to the United States either you
know the the the broader factors that
you know America has a particular
narrative and I think the the narrative
about civil rights which I do include I
think you know and I think a lot of the
way to scholarship includes as a real
achievement in some ways of this
working-class labor driven class
configuration in the mid-century you
know there's a reason why you know
nothing like the civil rights movement
was possible in the Gilded Age without
kind of anything like class voting but
leaving that aside the backlash the
civil rights very important as you as
you as you as sorry as you have laid out
there in terms of transforming the voter
bases but you know you don't actually
need the racial backlash theory to
explain this because it's been happening
in other countries that didn't have
didn't have the same racial politics as
the United States I mean it's happened
everywhere in Western Europe where
parties of the left traditional
working-class parties with the with the
rise of globalization financialization
automation etc and the sort of arrival
of new of the knowledge economy and new
professional class you know new
professional cost constituencies have
gradually sort of moved away from a
working-class base ideologically they
moved away and decisions to move right
on on on economic questions on free
trade on
on on Union politics that you know or
not unique to the United States
obviously you had the Third Way in
Britain and boo Tony Blair and
everywhere anyway these the mixture of
both
larger larger restructuring of the world
economy you know in the 1979 teen 60s
and 1970s and this sort of this the the
maneuvers of these center-left parties
away from a working-class base has
really accelerated this transformation
where you now have yeah from the party
of Hubert Humphrey where I think I think
Chuck Schumer is a nice analog he's
neither the best nor the worst of this
new breed he's just perfectly average as
a representative absolute like that yes
absolute straight out of Harvard Law
right into the legislature and kind of
followed the trajectory of this kind of
professional class politics all the way
down in terms of his connections on Wall
Street in the you know which he built up
in the 80s and 90s and his kind of you
know you know he's not even the most
right-wing Democrat in some ways though
even to the piece is not so much that
this uh that that swapping out
blue-collar workers for white-collar you
know college-educated off an affluent
voters it's not it doesn't necessarily
have an ideological cast that has to
move things to the right you know that
did happen in the 80s with the New
Democrats that that was Dukakis and
Clinton's political project but it can
also you know come under the mantle of a
kind of progressivism I mean the first
the the first wave of this process that
you see I think you know if you look at
voting returns is in the McGovern
campaign of 1970 of 1932 which is
admirable in lots of ways
certainly on its in its rejection of the
kind of you know the atrocities of the
Cold War and Vietnam but but also
represented a conscious effort on the
part of some of these kind of
college-educated early boomers that you
described to kind of move away from a
working-class alignment and towards you
know coalition of the educated and the
dedicated you know basically people who
had the right values rather than people
whose material interests were aligned
right yeah they didn't yeah okay yeah
you come in yeah I just no I just want
to really underline that because I think
yeah that is I mean one and it should be
noted I mean there's a lot to admire
George McGovern for but
he was and partially I guess you know
because to be fair to him he dealt with
maybe some you know problematic union
politics however it was inexcusable I
mean he was a virulent fighter against
unions he literally in the beginning of
the Obama administration recorded a
propaganda ad against card check I mean
so his actual broader labor politics
yeah it's a mark against his career he
was not good on a number of Labor you
know issues it did not match with the
rest of his progressivism which
obviously was quite noble and correct in
many areas but that flipped though and
it's gonna take us cuz I want you to get
us to today and explain the Anna Gonia
road to socialism but that flip and of
course you know look it's always based
it's always superstructure if people
will indulge me for a minute
of course values matter of course people
at the end of course there's moral
calculations in politics and of course
you know look something as exalted as
you know you want to have a globe that
works well for workers everywhere
east-west north-south is obviously a
moral commitment however there is also a
base understanding of politics that also
says things fundamentally revolve around
power and resources and we should be
working diligently and in conflict to
deliver power and resources to the vast
majority of human beings so they're not
gobbled up by a few and that that
actually is a question literally of say
just labor verse capital as an example
that politics is not a broader abstract
field of persuasion and ideas and in
material trends and I think that is
where you actually really can if you
understand those terms politicians as
different as George McGovern Bill
Clinton did that Michael Dukakis Tony
Blair Barack Obama and Elizabeth Warren
fit in that tradition as distinct from a
Bernie Sanders who really does look at
things in class and power terms so that
just setting that up to get to the Panna
Gonia road to socialism and how this
distinction is playing out today
yeah I mean so I mean this is where we
can bring in our my friends at at Vox
and NY mag which are gets the same thing
I guess it's I don't know what it is
just going to be called Knox or
something like that I do want to
emphasize there is an actual friend that
NY magazine and Vox I don't care about
that guy yeah yes and I and in some ways
I probably did a little bit of an
injustice to I Eric Lovitz by lumping
him in with Matt Iglesias here and I
apologize for that to an extent but I
think the point is you know love it I
will just start with him because I think
he's a more serious you know I wouldn't
say antagonist but he's a more serious
discussion partner here you know I've
made the case basically that this
doesn't that you know even though this
is worrying in a kind of conceptual
sense in fact in this current moment the
truth is that you know affluent liberals
who are now the college-educated
suburban i'ts who truck Schumer wanted
to bring to the party actually also not
only will come into the party but will
support significant progressive reform
you know and that in that sense
including economic reform because the
argument goes and it's not entirely
wrong that the the actually the real
gains the trends the way that the
American economy the world economy - but
the American economy in particular has
been twisted and distorted in the last
50 years is that it's actually not the
professional class that have prospered
it's not even you know it's even the
affluent professional class isn't doing
the top 10% isn't isn't actually reaping
the benefits in the way that the top 1%
can so in this sense you know the
argument goes that Democrats don't need
to worry too much
at least about this shifting class
coalition which is actually accelerating
you know this is the point it's not an
ideological thing you know Obama was
ideologically to the left of Clinton or
Dukakis no question about it but just
that that ideological difference didn't
did nothing to transform this kind of
ongoing class shift which actually
increased in the 2000s and and and my
perspective Warren who's now to the left
of Obama that's wonderful she also is
not going to do anything to try to sort
of alter the tide of this movement and
these guys think Levitt argues that this
is not going to that that Obama ISM in
effect and Warren ISM can actually still
achieve significant reforms because
these you know relatively affluent
professional class New Democrats will on
board for something like Medicare for
all etc and I have a lot of skepticism
about that based on you know the news is
mostly polling data to support this but
I think the actual record of Democrats
in power whether it's in the Obama
administration or even at the state
level more recently suggests that there
are some really fixed limits to the kind
of struggle that these that this new
breed of Democrats is able uh is is you
know how much iron is in their blood
when it comes to fighting for this stuff
because their constituency doesn't
actually need it in the same direct
material way that a working-class
constituency would need and so if you
look at you know on the state level all
sorts of Democrats have you know totally
swept and dominated these blue state
legislators but they're not actually
doing anything like serious economic
redistribution in fact their first thing
they're doing when they get into power
is ruling out tax increases even in
ultra blue progressive states like
Washington state say you know this is
this is off the table and and you know
if you look at the Obama restriction
same thing I know I know we can talk
about Obama and Warren but I mean Obama
had a lot of progressive plans and
platforms that in theory a lot of these
professionals might might have supported
and and and in theory might even have
benefited from but he didn't fight for
any of them really in particular you
know the card shack employee Free Choice
Act is a shining example of this and is
that because Obama himself is actually
totally neoliberal and hated unions
I don't know I'm agnostic on that I
think the truth is it met it what the
real truth was that the Democratic Party
didn't have it wasn't part of the
party's baseline anymore it was part of
the baseline rhetoric but it wasn't part
of what the party actually stood for as
a party and I worry that even no matter
how grand our plans and schemes are if
the party continues in this direction as
a coalition as a as a
in its material underpinnings we get
even further away from that baseline yes
so this is where and I think actually
the comparison of Warren to Obama is so
much more illustrative including even on
the trendline of you know okay we keep
you know Obama's to the left of Clinton
warrants the left of Obama but we still
have this fundamental dynamic of a class
identification and really how this
translates practically again is the
difference and some people think it's
petty but actually it's fundamental to
any way of understanding how we do
politics of do we have an organizer in
chief who has a bottom-up pressure
strategy or do we have you know ultra
charismatic or you know ultra brilliant
or whatever you know people's preferred
adjective person helming it who usually
has a special academic ability and
somehow we'll be able to kind of adjust
the bureaucracy so what you know what
does this tell you in terms of the
overwhelming wealth gap and the support
for Warren and then the fact that you
know and maybe also just a liberal a
berate on the first part right I want to
quote briefly from you just just going
back a second yeah even Levitz knows
that the Democratic Party has moved
dramatically leftward why else would the
Center for American Progress now propose
a federal job guaranteeing universal
health care and I like this part because
you know the timelines get so shortened
here and we need to be a bit more
historical why now indeed inequality
yawn just as grotesquely ten years ago
under the presidency of Barack Obama and
a filibuster-proof Senate when the
senator Center for American Progress
supported no such things now getting
back to the beginning part of the
conversation is there's one theory that
you know well the pickety book came out
and you know there's different
conversations going on in brownstones
and suburban homes and the kind of
intellectual culture yeah the discourse
is shifting or it's the relentless
onslaught that has been taking place for
decades that first of course was felt
most disproportionally and most
aggressively in the peripheries in the
inner cities and racialized ways and
Apple
in rural areas and then gets pushed and
pushed more in so that you can you know
just I'll be Thomas Friedman for a
second you can jump into an uber and
talk to somebody and they're like oh
yeah actually you know I was making a
really good living and you know tech
fifteen years ago or something and
basically I haven't had a proper job in
over a decade and my savings are done
you know and I'm driving an uber and I
and you know plenty markers of privilege
and I did all of the quote-unquote right
things and the economy doesn't work for
me
that Bernie Sanders and other adjacent
social movements came along and said we
just need to raise the baseline stop the
 and put a social democratic
platform that people are actually
fighting for him which is why his lead
donators are employees at Amazon Walmart
and teachers that it was a material
force not an ideation um as the what
shift of the game yeah no exactly and so
some of it does come down to your
reading of the history of the last ten
years absolutely I mean because I mean
at one starting point I think which I
think to a certain extent even you know
sort of good faith Russ liberal critics
don't always appreciate fully or reckon
with is the extent to which you know you
know stuff is getting worse to put it
very nicely you know I mean eighty
percent of American workers right are
living paycheck to paycheck right you
know even as you know American
corporations and twenty eighty not
something almost two trillion dollars in
corporate profit it's doubled as a
percentage of the GDP right this is
getting worse this so this is all post
Obama this is not Trump didn't do this
right and you know if anything is you
know we both argued this produced Trump
so so how do we address this you know I
think I think you're right that there I
think I actually I think those
narratives are not in tension you know
that there are different conversations
being had in bounds and that's why
warrants call for big structural change
is something that actually you know the
brownstones are getting behind but the
question is what kind of coalition can
actually deliver or begin to deliver
this new baseline that we're talking
about for me what's actually what's move
the needle in a material way and if you
look at the timeline pretty precisely I
mean if you really want to parcel
for years I mean even in the Year 2015
which is you know right at the end of
the Obama presidency you know right
right before the hurricane
you know nobody was talking about any of
this stuff this was not you know
something single-payer health care was
like not on the agenda in any
significant way I think the New York
Times like
spent all year basically without talking
about Medicare for all even though they
had been talking about it you know years
and years before during the health
policy issue and it was in a significant
extent the Sanders campaign not because
of he was like a sort of a lone
progressive hero but because he kind of
articulated these baseline demands and
thrust them kind of by you know by sheer
force into into this conversation that
you know has unleashed all sorts of a
revealed all sorts of discontented
energies all the way down and I think
this that has produced his 1 million
donors right his truck drivers and his
you know and his bartender donors who
are you know or who are you know pushing
this movement and it's these demands
that have caused I think a lot of the
official liberals to sort of backpedal
and now they're in a situation where I
mean the paradox is for somebody like
Warren and even for you know even
Warren's kind of centrist opponents you
know Medicare for all is incredibly
popular so I actually even you know it's
now it's now the thing that everybody in
that every Democratic voter wants so you
can't actually oppose it and that's
because that's down to the pressure that
Bernie Sanders and a movement that did
not originate in the brownstones has
applied so the question going forward is
do we want to continue with that kind of
movement that is bringing large and
large and increasing elements of social
pressure on the system or do we hand
over the keys to the best person within
the system who's gonna you know our you
know redesign the architecture of the
system somehow kind of without anything
like that movement and in fact with
mostly buoyed by most enthusiastically
buoyed by the support of of a
professional class I mean you know we
can read the polling crosstabs in a lot
of different ways and it's not the case
obviously that Sanders is you know
single
you know every single one of his
supporters is some kind of you know you
know is like a line worker at GM or
something like that and every one of
warren's is a is a professor of
astrophysics but but the truth is to the
extent that there is anything like a
working class driven working class led
movement not just in the who you
passively support in a you know kind of
a poll crosstab but who you donate to
who you volunteer for who you're who
you're energized to enter politics for
like someone like a bartender the most
famous bartender in America alexandria
kasi or Cortes you know that that that
movement is all in the Sanders camp I
mean for me I don't see any telling that
in the Warren camp in fact I see I see
it the inverse yeah so then what and so
then that goes back to then well you
know to two things that seem to always
crop up for them to debate and one is
funny because one they always say well
Bernie will face barriers too and that's
I mean that's a bizarre because it's
like yeah of course I'll face even more
barriers because he has even more
targets he's literally trying to take on
capital as a structure not even just
discrete abuses within capital and to
the argument is that the only way so you
know that's the paradox
yeah Warren's put some very good ideas
on the table and by the way even you
know but even like Joe Biden's health
care plan would get killed by the
industry today if he actually fought for
it which obviously we all doubt so the
right the question is is you know even
if you put on a much more modest limited
plan than the full structure plan that
Sanders has on offer for real no b.s
healthcare real no BS complete medical
and student debt relief you know a
serious green new deal labor power I
mean that you know he's put forward a
structure that's unparalleled in modern
politics but even something that's way
more limited than that would still
require the thing that he is assembled
and that I think is where you know and
and the kind of tragedy of Obama because
Obama actually did assemble something
analogous but it was built on a kind of
feeling and a brand and an ethos not a
policy set so when you say is this the
future liberals
can you get really specific into like
how you see those two choices playing
now in terms of the way that snakes I
mean yeah totally sorry yeah I mean I
think for one thing is we get so and I
don't I don't think this is an entirely
you know is an understandable but I
think our horizons especially around
elections get so shortened and so narrow
that it's like okay well what is X going
to do in office what is X how how going
to get by you know how you get by
Congress how you know or you is burning
about the filibuster it's like it's all
about like immediately assuming that
what what what the entire premise of a
campaign is like how much legislation it
can pass in the first hundred days now
that's really important and absolutely
that is to the extent to to a
significant extent how you know larger
structural changes happen ultimately it
does have to come through a legislative
barrage there's no question that that's
on the horizon somehow but clearly in
our current configuration neither
neither Bernie nor Warren nor Biden or I
actually can't imagine any of these
other people becoming president will
will be able to do that because of these
structural constraints so the issue is
you have to start to think a little bit
beyond just the next you know beyond
March 2021 and so thinking a little bit
about what is the future of politics
going to look like over the next say 10
20 years even I'm not trying to go
further than that I mean and we've got
obviously as we've you know you've
talked about many times a pretty
existential ticking clock here so we
can't push this down the road forever
but we have to think about in terms of
the climate crisis but we have to think
about what we can do to get to the much
more radical and much more
transformative you know baseline that we
need and for me the risk with it will
start with a warrant future the risk
with doubling down on that kind of you
know on that kind of politics that
accelerates and I think this it would
you know partly for reasons of style and
performance which I think are
significant here a warrant trump
campaign would really highlight I mean
you know people could disagree that
Warren can come out and how populist
Trump I mean I would love to see that
but I think the this
all the indications are so far that it
would you would have another kind of
deranged right-wing populist campaign
against the kind of sober plan for
liberal you know where the ideological
differences are actually submerged not
heightened and and and with the
coalition like that you know you end up
creating a situation where the Democrats
become you know you want and say wins or
loses and you have one day one and you
have Buddha judge coming up next because
people who support Buddha judge or
actually have a similar cast as people
who support Warren
you know materially and and and there's
sort of no basis at that wheel material
basically that that wheel is not going
to keep spinning around and around and
around well its Sanders look we
shouldn't be delighted about this huge
obstacles and not just obstacles in
terms of the Republican Party or the
Democrats or Indus or establishment
Democrats or industry there are huge
obstacles in terms of organizing and
building a working class movement in our
atomized individualized kind of you know
you know you know sort of decomposed you
know class society but but there are
signs of hope there there are signs that
in the polls yes but also in the donors
in the volunteers in the energy in the
people who have thrown themselves into
politics and I think if you think about
how that would look over the next not
just during a Sanders administration
would would obviously heighten and
accelerate that that kind of
politicization that is really what we
need to sort of mobilize not just not
just you know a frustrated you know
professor or lawyer or doctor but to
mobilize you know the bartenders and and
the you know in the in the drivers and
the you know the Industrial Workers and
then having leaders also emerge I mean
you know the best president of the 21st
century is Lula I'm so you know without
a doubt forty million people out of
poverty that's a worker who never went
to college he was illiterate until he
was a teenager and he's you know we need
to draw and as you say I mean AOC is a
bartender it's a mate and it's also
incredible I love Republicans who on
once you know they do they're they're
endless whining about you know liberal
elites and then attack her for having a
job right like how effective is that
just
as a metric that it shows they're snobby
was their snobbery but as a final point
I just think it's to me it's really
starting to come down to its is it a
politics that says we reconcile these
historical contradictions but we still
recognize that any type of durable just
solution oriented society has to come
from a bottom up base rooted in working
in material conditions versus do we keep
sitting on the outside and read like the
article and hope you know do we want
like the good person on the Harvard Law
Review or the bad person and you know
what's so bizarre is that really that's
what politics has been reduced to and
then you look and of course you know
within that context you know Warren is
is good you know John Roberts is a
villain Pete Buddha judges its cypher
but the truth is is they're all friends
to some extent they all share a
framework and we're on the outside
looking in hoping for redemption versus
realizing that we have to do it
ourselves and Bernie absolutely
understands that and it is reflected in
the campaign yeah that's that's like
supremely well said I think I think I
mean I think the only thing that I would
add on that is that you know when you
talk about Bernie as organizer in chief
a lot of this work has to be done
outside of electoral politics right as
we say and so what we're talking about
here and so it is a little bit of a moon
shot I mean there's no question about it
it's kind of an attempt to sort of use
electoral politics to do things that are
not just electoral but but I think but I
think you know you can see you know in
the way in which Bernie activists and
Bernie volunteers were instrumental in
forging the red-state revolt among
teacher strikes in West Virginia in
Arizona you can see like actual like
real evidence that this movement even
though right now it is electoral and and
certainly that has to be a focus for in
terms of electing Bernie Sanders and
will it can never be completely
back-burnered but it's an attempt to
kind of forge results and movements that
are not entirely themselves electoral so
yes we want more working-class people to
run for office
and we want more and we you know we want
more working-class involvement in
campaigns etc etc etc but we also need
this kind of fundamentally this labor
revival driven by not by kind of you
know cautious bureaucrats or or or you
know you know sort of you know I don't
know hesitant managers of a sort of
decline of the labor movement and
decline but active organizers who see an
ally in in a powerful political movement
I mean I think that's and then
bureaucrats court and then the
bureaucrats can come in to support that
effort I mean you know I was just
debating that with with Ryan grim and
actually it's funny because at the end
of day he still said last night on TMDs
that it should be you know he like he's
a much bigger warren fan than me or I
think you but you know he said yes it
should be he wants Bernie at the top of
the ticket and Warren his VP and he but
he made the point that you know Justice
Brandeis that good isn't that like anti
monopolist kind of progressive tradition
that his aggressive you know a decision
making from the bench still did come in
the context of the rise of the American
labor movement so in some ways that even
to do the job that people like Warren
are putting on the table where they're
constructive in terms of designing
effective bureaucracies and specific
policy areas that work still hinges on
the movement and the strategy that
Sanders is building so it's a second
order thing yeah really of course you
know this is not we're not talking about
some kind of like the way party work
party the American party system works is
we're still talking about a two-party
system that is going to be a cross class
coalition that even if at the peak of
class voting in class voting
polarization in you know say the 1930s
1940s you know it wasn't it wasn't the
case that no professionals or managers
or any or anybody except you know you
know a West Virginia mine worker voted
for FDR obviously the whole country you
know huge sections of the country we're
voting for FDR and Truman etc and I
think it's wrong to say that you know
this is an attempt to sort of push out
the the quote-unquote PMC the
professional manager across and say
you're a class enemy so actually you
just have to curl up and die somewhere
obviously there ha ha take bless and run
it yeah but but obviously you know this
is you know the Warrens of the world I I
think have a huge part to play here the
question is on what terms you know is it
is it continue to be on the terms of
yeah Harvard Law Review manages it and
everybody else shows up to press a
button every two years or is it in the
terms of immobilized energized at
politicized working class is is actually
starting to write its own agenda and you
know it's professional class allies can
advance that agenda I mean that's to me
that's obviously the superior path 100%
and you say all that as a prison as a a
Princeton professor I bet you use
airplanes too even though you talk about
the claim yeah well you know absolutely
I'm yeah and I breathe I breathe air
that is produced by our declining
crisis-ridden climate so right you know
you know pretty much yeah we coordinated
this over iPhones I love when when when
when conservatives and liberals use
essentially Unabomber arguments against
socialism but at least the Unabomber had
the integrity to live in a cabin in
Montana and actually not use this stuff
you know that's like I mean to me to me
to me to be sincere for a minute to me
it shows like a little bit of the the
nuts of the intellectual bankruptcy but
just a kind of almost like kind of a
schizophrenia on the part of people in
that world who just actually can't
contemplate a different kind of politics
and so sort of have to spit out a kind
of you know sort of a confused and
actually you know not very systemic or
thoughtful answer in response to you
know even though they a prize all of
those qualities you know above all you
know the the response to this kind of
piece from people of that ilk has been
so revealing in that sense that they you
know they in a sense almost abandoning
their own supposing commitments to to
the rules of debate
it's very striking it is very striking
Matt Karp the pieces is this the future
liberals want the Jackman everybody
should read it and share it
he's also a tenured professor goddammit
at the Princeton University teaches
history to America's skullenbones I'm
just kidding though that's Yale my Ben
I'm sorry you're tenured I can make
jokes like that no it's the eating we
got the eating clubs here yeah yeah you
got to get me I wanna I want to go visit
one of those one day I want to do I want
to do a TM BS from an eating Club at
Princeton let's make it a less said the
better all right man thank you all right
all right thank you Mike
take care all right folks
