[Music]
but with me now is Daniel Nye Daniel
where you're an attorney from Antonio
Levin Papantonio to cold Florida okay
and so tell us this case it's valsartan
okay it's it's really an interesting
project because it's a lot different
than a lot of the drugs we've handled in
the past which are name-brand drugs and
really you start looking into corporate
America greed and those kinds of things
where they're putting profit over safety
this is this also originates with you
know it's a generic medication and
what's happened for generic what does it
what is it when it's up to treat it
treats high blood pressure so the idea
is a you know one of the backstories
behind this is you know most of our
generics we've put in the hands of of
India and China and with very few
safeguards and that's what we're seeing
happening here in valsartan we've
allowed 1.5 million to 2 million users a
year to be taking a contaminated
valsartan pill that causes cancer okay
way to take it all right let's back up
here so Val valsartan is a it's a
generic drug and you say it's blood
pressure for to treat high blood
pressure okay and it's manufactured who
are the American they they're
manufacturing in and we're so here's how
it works okay whenever you have generic
medications they the vast majority of
them they have the active ingredient
which is what makes the medication
actually work is manufactured overseas
that's manufactured in India it's
manufactured in China the vast majority
of active ingredients are manufactured
overseas and the reason for that is
because they can do it a lot cheaper and
in large part because they have fewer
safeguards all right well so what so how
many different let's say US companies or
how does that get contracted out like I
mean who is who is making Val sergeant I
mean I not let's let's start at the top
of it and follow the the chain of title
if you were absolutely so here's here's
how it works so we've got our active
ingredient and and and the main bad
actor would be
this JS wrong way hi facility manager
and plan in China they're making the
active ingredient leave hiring them to
do that so so then what they do is they
send that pill that contaminated not
pill but contaminated active ingredient
into the US and they have a US
subsidiary who puts it into pill form or
there's some other people some other
people like tether us or activist you
know and some a torrent is another one
of them so some of these large companies
that that man you are US manufacturers
in the US they take the active
ingredient to put it in pill form and so
the idea in terms of generics you know
we've recognized that this is a problem
that we're turning over the vast
majority of drugs to China and India let
me let me before we get there I mean I
want to just understand so we have a
Chinese manufacturer who is basically
making this active ingredient on spec
that's right and then they're coming
into the marketplace in the US and
they're saying here by our active
ingredient and really any number of
different pill manufacturers at that
point can say okay we'll take your
active ingredient I mean they could
theoretically have I'm not in the
valsartan business I'm in the making
generic pill business exactly and so
I've got a bunch of like yeast and whey
or whatever it is that I put into to
make a pill and I shop around for
whatever the cheapest active ingredient
is and say okay this guy's got valsartan
and there's some space in the market so
I'm just gonna buy from them you've got
put it into a pill form and then sell it
okay so that's the way it we're
completely in so it's all about pricing
whoever can whoever can manufacture that
active ingredient for the cheapest will
oftentimes win the bidding war for the
US manufacturers and so is there any
like who oversees that marketplace of
and because I presume if I'm making an
active ingredient in the United States
I'm getting inspected by the FDA like I
mean somebody must come by my factory
occasionally right that's right but the
problem is we don't have the adequate
number of inspectors
to inspect those plants the FDA has been
saying that for some time the plants in
this country in China in China that's
right where the active ingredient in the
wrongdoing is occurring that you know
the contamination is occurring so the
other thing that we've done is we put
safeguards to say we recognize we can't
fully ensure its safety so we say us
manufacturers you have to do the testing
to ensure its safety because there's
such a long and robust record of
companies policing themselves instances
worked out so well okay so all right so
the FDA doesn't have the resources to
send inspectors to these plants to make
sure that that is there any testing of
the active ingredients I mean at any
point of the process and how does that
relate to I mean are there any active
ingredients that are made in the United
States well there are but in terms of
valsartan and a lot of times for
generics there's just very few of it in
the United States so to the extent that
there's any active ingredients made in
the United States is there a process to
sort of test that like hey this is
actually you know like a you know uh my
understanding is Las Vegas has marijuana
dispensaries right if I go there and
they they put on the envelope that it
has X amount of THC presumably like
there's somebody who comes in
occasionally and tests whether that's
actually the case right do we have
anything analogous for prescription
drugs in this country we do I mean
there's there's all sorts of testing
that can be done and the US
manufacturers will still do some random
testing of these products they did it
here with valsartan they found signals
of the contamination they sent it back
to the Chinese manufacturing plant and
you know what they did they sent it to
their local lab and they said we don't
understand the reason for having these
high testing errors so we think it's
just an error and they repackaged it and
send it right back into the US so what
so okay so with that sort of broad
understanding so what happened this
valve our turn that was sold to I guess
presumably multiple genera
pill making companies yes and all of
those generic pill making companies
presumably have the responsibility to
make sure that what they're actually
buying is this active ingredient as
opposed to say like lead or what yes and
what does it turn out was in the val
sergeant
it's called NDMA or in DEA which are
nitrous and nitro so means that are very
Geno toxic and cause cancer and how did
they get into this Val searching
so basically when you're combining
certain chemicals and the this Chinese
manufacturing plant realized they could
save money by changing the patent on how
they combine chemicals if they had done
the simple chemistry upfront I think
they would have realized that there was
a real high possibility of getting this
in DMA and in DEA but they didn't do the
chemistry upfront that's the problem
so so they simply changed the molecular
structure of of the active ingredient
and because it was it was a cheaper way
of making it that's right well they the
Maneka molecular strikes are still the
same still the same tetras all ring but
the byproduct is different because of
how they combine the chemicals and
that's the byproduct is in DMA and in
DEA and so this is in the val sergeant
and so how many years has this been the
case well it's been they changed the
process in 2012 and we know that that
active ingredient has been flowing into
the u.s. at least by the end of 2014
until present I mean they recalled it in
July of 2018 so and how did the recall
come about it was a it was a manufactory
a local manufacturer I don't even think
it was a u.s. manufacturer was a
different country who realized that
there was contamination they realized
this in DMA and they called jjwong way
high out and then the EMA picked up on
it and they said you need to recall this
and then it took the FDA multiple weeks
from that after that to finally actually
issue the recalls here in the US what's
the EMA the European medical efficacy so
if I understand you correctly there was
a local there was a Chinese generic pill
manufacturer
analogous to an American generic pill
manufacturer who just has all those sort
of the byproducts and the stuff that it
presumably makes it stick and cling into
a pill or right you know coded to slide
down your your throat or whatever it is
and they're the ones who found out that
the manufacturer of the active
ingredient was had tainted stuff none of
the American corporations who make this
there they did not find this out well
they may have they may have found a
signal of it and it wasn't a Chinese
company I think it was a European
country who figured it out and then
flagged their European authorities I see
okay and then and then it they started
to figure it out from there and the
recall started rolling there after that
doesn't speak very well for the hour
pill manufacturers versus the European
ones that's not okay so so that gets
flagged in Europe and the FDA gets wind
of it and so what do they do they start
to check the these pills that are coming
in now they now they've realized this is
a problem so they're vigorously checking
and testing you know all different
batches to try to figure out if there's
any India mayor in DEA contamination so
it's no longer just the Chinese
manufacturing plant that they're
checking they're checking all the all
the facilities that are at a
manufacturing active ingredient for
valsartan and other certains as well
okay and so who is your plan plaintiffs
and who are the defendants in this
situation
well my plaintiffs are people who have
been diagnosed with stomach cancer liver
cancer colorectal cancer or kidney
cancer because the science shows that at
these high levels of indium a
contamination it causes those cancers so
those are the people that I represent
it's unfortunate because there are many
clients that I have that I'm completely
convinced that it's that NDMA and their
bill that caused their cancer and could
say been taking this first in three four
years there's four years that's right
who know who are the defendants at this
point I mean do you sue the US
manufacturers of the generic pill do you
sue do you have the ability to sue
the Chinese manufacturer the actual
valsartan I mean who who gets sued here
the people who make the active
ingredient are sued so the Chinese
company is soon but then all the US
manufacturers are also sued so we sue
them and then you even have people who
repackage what the US manufacturer put
together so and they stick their own
label on it well they're also in
ensuring the adequacy of their drug when
they do so so those are people who also
get sued and then the other thing you
got to consider is the person who
actually makes the decision as to which
generic a consumer is going to get is
the pharmacy and so in many states
there's distributor liabilities such
that a pharmacy who's making that
decision they should also be ensuring
the adequacy of their drugs how would a
pharmacy do that at that point I mean
because they're there they seem to me to
be like three times removed right from
the special manufacturing I mean do most
men do I guess the pharmacies must be
able to track like this is a active
ingredient made at this factory or this
company yes is that is that oh yeah they
can tell where it's made up so you can
see that in the batch numbers so where
and so theoretically right there are
some pharmacies there like we don't sell
active and pills with active ingredients
that come from X Y or Z countries
because we don't the FDA doesn't have
the resources to really police this
stuff that's right
so okay where is this litigation now in
the process and where does it go so at
this point there are quite a few class
class action cases that have been filed
where people are arguing that if we had
known this was contaminated then we
would have never paid for this drug so
that you don't necessarily have to be
injured in order to be part of a class
action you're trying to recoup the
monies that you are paying for a drap
bad drug right so we have those cases
filed but we also have quite a few
personal injury cases and they've been
consolidated all the personal injury
cases and class action case has been
consolidated they're being handled in
front of judge Googler and judge Snyder
in the district of New Jersey and so
that's a again a multi district
litigation right and that's correct in
New Jersey and
how do you pick that venue New Jersey I
mean what or is that just it's the
responsibility of a panel of federal
judges it's called the jpml and it's
their job to figure out which federal
jurisdiction would be suitable for a
case like this and so you know judge
Kugler and judge Schneider we're a good
fit for this case because they handled
benicar which is also known as OMA
Sartain so they already had some
background understanding of this class
of medications interesting so that's the
way that some venues are picked is and
does it have any implication to it's all
federal we're all federal courts here
right so that's right it doesn't the
jurisdiction is less relevant I mean
obviously for travel and issues like
that but the jurisdiction is less
relevant it's more specifically who the
judges are and those judges are picked
by a panel based on maybe issues like
they they have a understanding of this
sort of type of litigation in this type
of product that's right or and obviously
what's going to drive a lot of it is
their availability they want to be
making sure there's an even spread of
cases amongst different litigations and
also that it's a convenient forum to for
the attorneys to be able to get to is
there any are there heightened levels of
responsibility for in terms of how you
collect damages from let's say the the
the manufacturer of the pill versus the
manufacturer of the active ingredient
are there because there's like more I
guess us obligations maybe on the
manufacturer of the pill or their
heightened liabilities there or is
liability shared across all sort of
classes of people involved in it well
that's a great question and and do you
at the buck stops at the u.s.
manufacturer I mean it's their job in
terms of generics we've recognized
obviously they're the Chinese company
they're bad actors there's a very high
standard in terms of what these US
manufacturers required to do and in this
in the liability standard a strict
liability such that if there's cancer in
a pill it doesn't matter if you did
something wrong or not you're liable for
it right and they clearly don't have
terribly strict testing regimes for this
stuff
that's right and just to be clear we do
think they did something wrong on top of
it obviously but the standard is is so
high that if you put if there's cancer
in a pill you're strictly liable for it
so now do you go into discovery and try
and find evidence that they had Inklings
about this and just didn't press too
hard and thought they could sort of make
it somebody else's responsibility that's
correct
and we've already felt like with some of
the 438 those are the inspection reports
that we've already been able to uncover
we've already we've already have some of
that information that we believe these
manufacturers in the US should have been
on notice of this problem
horrible and how many how many
plaintiffs are we talking about I mean
how many people is there been to any
type of like epidemiology these studies
that that give us a sense of how how
many people were talking about I mean
how many people take this drug or did
during those years and how many do we
have a sense of how many are are
suffering from from cancer that's a good
question so we estimate that there are
approximately 1.5 to 2 million people
who were taking contaminated by certain
each year between 2015 2016 2017 and
2018 now some of those are the same
people taking them throughout all those
years in fact a lot of them were taking
them for those years the FDA came out
early on and they said that the incident
rate was one in a thousand that you
would one in 8,000 people would be
expected to get cancer but we've looked
into this and we just think they're
absolutely wrong and that that incident
rate is much higher than the one in
8,000 and we've looked at meta analyses
of gastric cancer for example and we
just think they're utilizing the wrong
formula as to how they come up with that
one in a thousand who develops that
formulas that internal development or
they farm that out to the companies -
well no I I think and we're not sure
maybe they do farm it out that's a good
question but I know that the information
first came out of EMA so it might have
been the European medical agency and
then the FDA basically adopted the same
reasoning and then we saw Health Canada
adopt the same thing but that was all
early on
I don't think they're speaking to
incident right now because I think they
recognize the problem that it's very
possibly a much higher incident rate but
they can't tell people that because
they've already received 40,000 calls
from the FDA agency I mean if they start
telling people how high the incident
rate is I don't think they'd be able to
handle the blow okay alright lastly so
how long does this litigation stretch
out do you have a notion well I mean we
got a pretty good example in benicar
with these these the judges that are
overseeing this litigation they're
efficient and you know we don't know how
long this one will last because you
don't you don't necessarily know what
the information that's going to be
discovered or what the experts are going
to testify this early on but oftentimes
you'll see somewhere in the process
between two years for a shorter
litigation sometimes as long as five
years for some of the longer litigations
Danny and I thank you so much for your
time today I really appreciate it thank
you Sam
