where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat come
on Jordy rapport with Sam Sita it is
Friday August 2nd 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks
and hope is a casual around here half
the crew didn't even show up
[Music]
Jamie's had a secret conference again
she goes to more conferences than any
corporate person I know
diplomat it's unbelievable it's Friday
so of course Michael's not here because
this is a weekend adjacent day it's
other end of Monday right exactly
but I'm here
Brendan's here Matt's here and soon to
join us in studio will be Alex Perrine
ladies and gentlemen and then
later I think this is the this is the
confirmation I got from Judy gold can
you do it and the confirmation I think
so
so we shall we shall see meanwhile on
the program today the Manhattan da
subpoenas Trump ink and the
pro-impeachment caucus crosses half of
the Democrats we are now in the majority
of Democrats in the Democratic caucus
the House of Representatives publicly
said they support the starting of an
impeachment inquiry meanwhile
congratulations to the Republicans
you're gonna be lily-white
in the House of Representatives and you
will also have less women than men named
Jim following even more Republican
congressional retirements breaking news
Chuck Schumer is alive wants everyone to
know not to criticize Obama or get too
heavily invested in this whole
medicare-for-all thing I do think Bernie
proposed in the literal circular firing
squad was a bit much that was a mistake
meanwhile Lindsey Graham blows up the
Senate rules and does so in service of
locking up children for an extra 75 days
deal struck with Taliban for a partial
withdrawal of US troops in Afghanistan
good thing now the bad thing the
intermediate nuclear forces treaty dies
today because why not and lock her up is
now supposed to be the soothing chant
that we hear at Trump rallies
John Ratcliffe keeps lying in his bid
for becoming the Intel chief of the
country and the EPA formerly known as
the Environmental Protection Agency to
make polluting the air easier for
corporations got a couple more lastly
Liz Cheney attacks indigenous Americans
for and this is horrible
destroying quote the Western Way of life
and lastly a new report between 2016 and
2018 counties formerly subject to the
preclearance provision of the National
Voting Rights Act because of racist
voting initiatives have purged 40% more
voters than other counties over those
two years kind of trim the Fed just a
coincidence I'm sure because I believe a
huh not mistaken John Roberts told us
that racism was over in this country and
he said that I think at least six or
seven years ago so even if he wasn't
totally right then I'm sure he is now
racism is over brown people illegally
voting is in full swing there you go
and I mean the idea and that brown
people would line up and keep changing
their hats so they could go in and vote
more times I think like what what do you
expect people if you're gonna do stuff
like that it's gonna create it's gonna
create racism that's where racism came
from that's where racism came from
there's all the different hats that
people wanted to wear when they voted
voting discusses so we are still basking
in the fallout from the democratic
debates and I would say on Wednesday
night earth was it Wednesday night on
Wednesday night when we left this
building it I think I was here quite
late frankly
with the idea it was my supposition that
we were going to have a narrative
amongst the media who followed this
stuff and maybe even more insiders
within the sort of like you know
political junkies and activists and
whatnot that the narrative would be Joe
Biden's looking a little shaky and there
was definitely some evidence of that we
have done a focused group based upon one
person Matt's mom where apparently that
did not necessarily get widely
disseminated which I'm not terribly
surprised about I think your casual
observers probably aren't getting that
message yet like I say if he stumbles
again in the next debate that's the only
thing you're gonna hear and it does
appear that there's a 50/50 chance we're
gonna have a single debate next time
that we're only gonna have 10 people in
the race by September based upon
criteria that must be met by about three
and a half weeks from now
August 28th involving number of donors
and involving breaking certain
thresholds in polls I think you got a
break like a 2% threshold which i think
is reasonable I mean I appreciate the
idea that the Democratic Party wants to
be as democratic small D as possible or
Big D I should say small D one of the DS
and but I think I think saying that you
need more than 1.3 percent in the polls
or 1.8 percent in the polls to qualify
for the third debate it seems fair to me
otherwise we'll have John Delaney in
this thing for the rest of eternity cuz
he's a millionaire and he can pay for
himself to go through it so the other
things that seems to be sort of like
coming out of this and we haven't seen
any I haven't seen any polling yet have
you seen a polling coming out of the
debates that a program this weekend and
but there is a a sense that the media
really hates to give Bernie Sanders any
credit at all that's just I think the
fact they're more willing to do so with
Warren and in some ways I think you know
certainly the feeling that night was
that they both did great and they were
doing it it seemed like they were you
know it was Butch Cassidy Sundance Kid
type of situation I'm not saying when
was butch when was Sundance I don't know
you everybody has their own favorite and
I'm saying in the middle part of the
movie yeah for our younger viewers not
in college in high school still what
what is this Butch Cassidy and Sundance
case well as Paul Newman a Robert
Redford yeah and they they were they
were and they were actors and they were
going around and having fun robbing
banks and whatnot and but they were good
they were always very polite about it
now of course the end of the movie
didn't work out so well cuz they went
down to Bolivia and they ended up
getting well whatever but but
nevertheless it's about foreshadowing
right well but for that one moment they
were reminiscent of that and but in the
in the wake of this I mean I think like
you get the notion that there will be no
bigger supporter of Bernie Sanders if he
wins the nomination than Elizabeth
Warren and you get no and you get the
same sense that there'll be no bigger
supporter of Elizabeth Warren if she
wins the nomination than Bernie Sanders
and in the meantime I think this is this
is great because they're both building
and they have distinct coalition's we
talked about this the other day they
have distinct coalition's different age
cohorts the biggest difference is that
Bernie Sanders has 61 percent of Bernie
Sanders support
have less than a college degree it is
almost exactly the flip for Elizabeth
Warren 57% of her supporters are college
educated there's also an age disparity
Bernie Sanders 64% of his support comes
from people under the age of 45 with
Elizabeth Warren 60% of her support
comes from people over the age of 45 and
so Sanders does 62 22% of his support
comes from black people and 17% come
from
Hispanic wear as compared to Warren
where it's only 10% black people and 9%
Hispanic and then men and women Bernie
Sanders is exactly 50/50 with men and
women which is interesting and Warren is
got 60% women 40% men so they have they
don't have it there's I would imagine
there's obviously there's some overlap
but there is definitely room for some
migration there and appealing to some
people now the only thing that that's
sort of like you know makes me a little
bit nervous is I look at like Joe Biden
56% of his support comes from women he's
number two to Warren in terms of support
from women so anyways the the long and
short of this is basically to say that
we could be looking in the next month
we'll know by the end of this month at a
debate that happens in September that is
going to be with ten people and the
those 10 people will obviously
Joe Biden Bernie Sanders Elizabeth
Warren Kamala Harris Cory Booker then I
think it's none clear there's I think
one or two others that have already sort
of passed the threshold I think bateau
and I'm not sure who else but we'll see
but nevertheless the big the big
percentage people are gonna be Biden
Harris excuse me Biden Warren Sanders
maybe Harris you know she didn't have a
great night could be Cory Booker who you
know people are saying but we'll find
out when the polls come out but let's
watch this clip of Elizabeth Warren I
know I have to say that like the big
knock on Warren from people three months
ago was that there was not a huge
confidence that she had the ability to
beat Donald Trump and I think part of
that was a function of a lot of things I
think people were concerned about the
whole the way that her campaign handled
the whole Indian heritage Native
American heritage thing and I think
there was also just sort of a sense of
like she didn't seem I don't know that
glib or nobody could you know when I
would talk to people about it
and I felt some of the same and I it was
very hard to articulate what what
exactly it was about her presentation
that didn't seem to be I don't know like
glib or practiced in some way or
confident or I don't know what it was
because I as I say those adjectives I
don't think that's those adjectives
capture it really but there's been clips
that have come out particularly in the
wake of the debates but particularly in
wake of this debate which I think have
been really impressive and she has
changed her rhetoric she has changed her
rhetoric to appeal to Sanders people and
you can see it in things like structural
the the economy needs a structural
change and you can hear it in the
context of talking about movements and
grassroots more and it's it's very adept
I don't know how much of it is legit or
not but it's very adept here's this is a
little bit long but watch this because
it's it's it's certainly worthwhile this
is on CNN and this comes in the wake n
don't know if we played this the one
with Chris Matthews we did the other day
where Chris Matthews was insisting that
she just say the words taxes will go up
with Medicare and for all and she would
not say that because because she wanted
to frame it as costs to individuals
because at the end of the day it is the
case that people don't just look at
taxes and say you know like ever every
dollar I pay in taxes is worth $2 that I
pay in health care no that's just not
the way that people do their budgets and
she was relentless she didn't waver at
all and and and I have to say Chris
Matthews was steamin which I took a
little bit of enjoyment from but here is
Elizabeth Warren with a crew of CNN and
it is there's like six to eight people
and listen to this this is uh this is
good stuff
here's the national election Donald
Trump has already made it basically has
one sentence and that is anything
in your life that's bad like you haven't
got to raise you know you're worried
about sending your kids for whatever it
is blame them people who aren't the same
color as you people who weren't born
where you were born
people who don't worship like you people
who don't sound blame them
that is his message my message is you
got things that are broken in your life
I'll tell you exactly why it's because
giant corporations
have seized our government and for
decades now they have been making that
government work for a thinner and
thinner slice at the top and they do it
mostly out of the headlines just a
little tilt here just a little shift
there just a little exception until over
time they've gotten richer and richer
and richer and richer and everybody else
is left eatin dirt but that is the
message and that's what we need to get
out there and talk about and then not
enough just to say it's wrong to say we
actually have a plan to fix it we go
after the corruption head on posi for
one second now
Alex Breen welcome to the program we got
him on mic
yep okay there you just heard that that
half will get we did another half of
this but I mean you can almost tick off
the and III think it's consistent with
her plans in her proposal but you can
almost tick off the different things
that she is is adopting from the Bernie
Sanders critique things like
billionaire's yeah
things like a thin slice at the top I
mean that's just a sort of a less
granular version of you know Bernie
Sanders 1% ninety you know percent
differentials it's not enough just to
have plans you've actually got to have a
plan to do it I mean this is very adept
she's she's taking these things from
Bernie and Bernie's never gonna get out
there and say don't don't say that's a
thing right exactly yeah he's in he's
not gonna he's not gonna go out there
and be like you're a phony you're
stealing from me he's going to say I
welcome her critique I what's notable
doing is that with Warren I think she
has in her usual political style a lot
of specificity and what is interesting
about this is that there it's very
general which is that is what I feel
like is being borrowed from Bernie like
usually she's very specific about the
industries and the people in company
she's talking about and now she's
speaking much more generally about the
system right about a system and she's
talking about structural reform and
she's saying stuff like and he's stuck
with dirt yeah
yes right I mean I feel like everybody
in the room when that came up was just
like whoa yeah like um she's saying this
on TV to people yeah but let's continue
sure this economy and a couple of basic
ways make it easier to join a union get
workers some power pass a wealth tax and
protect our democracy that needs to be a
part of what we talk about that we never
talked about tonight we need to make the
economy and the democracy you make but
honey are just for everyone but for and
not just for those at the top making it
but it but it's a lot of it's a lot of
power and influence you say it won't be
corrupt power and influence but it's
still a lot of power and influence in
Washington what convinces you that
people especially in some of these
states that are let's just say to the
right of Massachusetts are not ready to
support that look I think when we talk
with people for example about the tax on
billionaires they are ready to support
it when they talk about cutting their
kids didn't loan debt man therein talk
to people about what it's like today on
child care how many mama's can't finish
their education can't take a job how
many daddies are saying I can't do this
we simply cannot get that what I like
about it so I like about you you make me
feel like help us on the way you make me
feel like something good could happen in
America you make me feel like like we
it's hard out here and what positive for
one second so Van Jones do you like step
in and make it about him right that's
nice let me get on camera for a second
right exactly you know what I like about
you I'm gonna say something so that we
make this about what it does for me and
but it's oh gosh I don't know if he can
help himself but can take this is what
optimism is all about optimism is about
knowing what's broken laying out a plan
to fix
and then build it a movement to make it
happen it means we have the power
just final questions I know you got to
go from people who are trying to choose
between you and and former Vice
President Biden why are you a better
candidate what I'm not here to diss any
other Democrat just get somebody else
for that job that's not me I've laid out
my vision of what I believe we can do as
a country but why then is just fix all
right and I would just say in the last
part that she's not I hope she's saying
specifically she's not there in that
moment you know in that seat to diss
another Democrat but I hope that when we
see hopefully her on stage with Joe
Biden that we do see some of that yeah I
hope so too
desperate I mean everyone wants the I
really actually the way the way the last
debate draft worked out I thought was
sort of beneficial for everyone because
they don't like they don't necessarily
at this stage like saying Warren doesn't
want to be seen as an attack dog yet I
feel like but letting I feel like
letting Booker and Harris do that is
what they want so far absolutely I think
you're absolutely right about that and
you don't want to you want a hopefully a
weakened Biden going in to September
frankly and I don't know that it's gonna
be much weekend but I do think that this
sort of like undergirding of the idea
that he is the strongest candidate it
seems to me and I just I mentioned this
before you came in it seems to me that's
that's happening yeah but let's talk
about that more in a moment let's play
this clip from Bernie who and the
premise here is you know we just saw
Elizabeth Warren and I and I don't know
Majorca gotten better I mean look it's
inevitable they all get better yeah
although it's true by does not vitamins
not yeah he's not I mean go back and
watch him in a 2008 debate versus now a
man it's and particularly like compared
to
Warren and Sanders yeah I mean H impacts
people in different ways and I don't
know if Biden is older than them or not
but he certainly he hit a threshold
where it's it's just it's different and
but from your perspective is Warren
gotten significantly better uh I don't
know I mean she's got you know what
she's gotten better at doing that that
particular TV thing I guess right
because well you were talking about
before where a few months ago no one
could quite put their finger on what it
was but they thought she didn't have
enough of something I do think it was
because of her background a professional
background in part where the thing that
people were worried about was that she's
professorial right and she is has now
gotten better at the at sort of
practiced down-to-earth Ness right so
that's what I think that she actually
had like she's translating this stuff
that is specific into sort of more
general
and general notions that capture the
experiences of more people yeah all
right so here's uh Bernie Sanders on
Morning Joe I think was this this
morning this is just on MSNBC yesterday
and here is and this I I just I find
this fascinating and mean it's part of
and we've been saying this for a while
that Bernie Sanders is talking about not
just having the plans but how to execute
the plans in the context of a highly
polarized country no matter who wins
they're still gonna be dealing with that
me despite the fact that Joe Biden seems
to think that it's all gonna go away
they're gonna be dealing with almost
half of the country which you know
support the likes of Mitch McConnell and
Donald Trump the ideas that I am talking
about whether it is taking on the greed
and the corruption and the illegal
activity of the pharmaceutical industry
whether it is guaranteeing health care
to all people through a Medicare for All
single-payer system
I think that those ideas are popular and
I think once we rally the American
people which is what I intend to do as
president I'm gonna run the presidency
differently than anyone else I'm not
only going to be commander-in-chief I'm
gonna be organizer in chief we're gonna
go out to Kentucky a very very poor
state where people are earning low wages
can't afford health care can't afford
insurance or pharmaceuticals and we're
gonna rally the people there to tell
their senators to stand with ordinary
Americans and not with wealthy campaign
contributors and I mean I think he made
a point of saying Kentucky too because
right now there is a protest in Harlan
County and I protest it's a when I guess
it's a protest they are the miners there
have been literally like blocking I mean
it's a pretty yeah strong protest
blocking roadways because they're their
company which is in receivership
apparently is just not paying them their
wages yeah and I think I think you're
absolutely right that's why he said it
because his kids campaign and here are
hyper aware of all of these strikes and
labor movements happening all over the
country I mean it it strikes me that
Bernie is setting it up and I had asked
him this question when he was on the
show shortly after his his Democratic
Socialist speech whatever he's building
he intends to run it yeah yeah
regardless of what happens with this
election yeah I think so and I find that
well that I mean that wasn't that wasn't
really interesting maybe this is not the
correct reading but it feels like a
pretty pointed critique of the Obama
administration right which and one of
the original sins view of the fifth of
the first term the massive
demobilization of the organization they
built in favor of they're sort of inside
strategy right yeah remind people of
that because we have a lot of young uns
around the other I mean they they the
the the 2008 Obama campaign was
massive massive grassroots organization
you know they built this giant list they
could have done so many things with it
and then sort of what happened when they
actually got into the White House was
they brought in people like rahm emanuel
whose strategy was totally inside he was
like okay here's here's our legislative
agenda we're going to get corporate
stakeholders on board we're gonna woo
congressmen and Senators a traditional
way and they let their grassroots
organization that they had built their
campaign around wither on the vine I I
would even say it more pointedly they
they suffocated it they did yeah I mean
III don't I think that they were afraid
of that existing outside of their it
wasn't just a question of like it was in
attention it was I think a deliberate
because you remember in the 2008 the
summer 2008 right after he became the
nominee you remember that word went out
to all outside donors do not contribute
to outside groups mm-hmm yeah do not I
mean it was in and there was you can
find there was a lot of people who were
very across the board all of a sudden
that the the funding for everything
people who were agitating for Medicare
for all was a big thing at that time
trying to push there was all sorts of
people you know marriage equality
immigration I mean a whole host of
different things and they and they put
out the word you donate to us donut you
do not donate to them yeah and they were
very clearly afraid of of ofa yeah which
was Obama for America and then became
something oh that became organizing for
America for America and it literally
just disappeared
yeah they never ever used it and and I
think that was by design and and Bernie
Sanders seems to be saying like I don't
care who's president yeah I mean I'm
gonna be President or you know but guess
what that OFA that I'm building yeah
that's gonna you know this is what I was
sort of alluding to it's remarkable that
his campaign is already doing this by
telling by sending you know
text alerts to people that there's
there's a strike happening you can go
demonstrate in support of it you know
like that's that's only barely
presidential campaign politics right
right that's just organizing right I
mean I I you know I think there is an
argument that it could be detrimental to
the campaign I mean you're you're using
resources yeah to organize but it is
certainly not detrimental to being
president no and it is certainly not
detrimental towards obviously building
and you know an organization that is
going to have if handled correctly is
gonna have a lot of power and a lot of
ability to help or hinder an agenda that
the president has you know and so the
you know did you see the New York Times
thing with the map of other donors that
they just sit up a little while ago yes
actually we just you were you just you
were just a pre-show we were all just
looking at it and it's it's remarkable
because you know not to fall into the
fallacy of like geography equals
population but it's Sanders is all over
the clique every corner of the country
yeah every corner of the country
okay this beautiful map here here get it
you get it see if you can get it in full
full full size there okay so there it is
the red dark red is beta O'Rourke that's
the that's Texas the light red is clover
char she's up in Minnesota of Bernie
when an oil country North Dakota yeah
look Bullock is doing pretty good in
from Montana right yeah and then you can
see Biden look at the Biden support it's
just Biden support is yellow orange and
it literally looks like just the the Sun
froze on the horizon like it just crept
up and just froze there and then the
world stopped turning on its axis Buddha
judge is doing all right in his part of
town and then it is Sanders everywhere
yeah California yeah California was
crazy to me because Harris has
has a lot of donors and a lot of money
but that's remarkable
yeah it really is crazy and you don't I
mean I I don't see Warren has the second
biggest yeah a number so just like if
they have another map where they took
Bernie out and it's Warren it's
basically the rest of the map is Warren
right but he's just like I mean he's
what got double her practically yeah
double the number of individual donors
practically it's it really is stunning
and now of course I I guess the really
the other thing you'd want to see is
like what what is Trump's look like yeah
right and I would also want to see this
in terms of like I would love to have
seen this graph for for Clinton - yeah
particularly at this stage right because
you know the real question is going to
be and let's turn to Joe Biden obviously
I imagine Alex you watch the debates
this week I did yes this is what are we
watching here this is the the go-to Joe
three okay now
now give me your sense of what Joe
Biden's performance was in the debate up
to this moment like treading water I
think or like I don't know did that does
that seem fair yes yeah I thought I
thought it was like shaky in some areas
but would have forgotten about yeah if
it's got about heavy IDIA yeah there was
I think like you know like the vite get
that vise thing that that they put up
let's play that one first because I
don't think this gets made this vise
compilation gets made
if Biden doesn't have this problem at
the end let's play the one at the end
first and then you can play the device
one yeah go to Joe 303 300 feet go there
and it was it was it was it was tough
but it wasn't just that - he had a slip
right before that in his closing
statement go back in that closing
statement for a moment you don't have
any time just in that click you have the
hole closing statement there you don't
in that no I just have the jaw
he had a slip in there too and then I
think that becomes in some respects the
that becomes the the the narrative yeah
and then people start to remember this
do we have this the the rest of the
stuff we'll pull it up and I'm curious
as what your sense is like I have not
had the time to watch the yeah here
here's this this was by was this the
vice one oh these are the full closing
marks okay here it is sure I'm going to
leave this country because I think it's
important we restore the soul this
nation this president has ripped it out
it's only president our history who is
equated racist and and white
supremacists with ordinary and decent
people he's the only president who has
backed engaged and embraced dictators
and thunder knows that our allies I'm
secondly running for president because I
think we have to restore the backbone of
America the poor and hard-working middle
class people you can't do that without
replacing them with the dignity they
once had
lastly we got to unite the United States
of America as much as anybody says we
can if we do there's not a single thing
the American people can't do this is the
United States of America we can do
anything if we're together together so
god bless you all and may God protect
our troops
[Applause]
wait that was it that wasn't that
couldn't have been it because he didn't
do the Joe threw oh three well
nevertheless but you saw that was from
the Daily Caller
right and this gets to the point is that
he's gonna go up there and Donald Trump
will mock him for that you will yeah and
it also like it also has me
be concerned because I have seen footage
of Joe Biden in the past and he may say
ridiculous things yeah but he doesn't he
doesn't have that fumbling asthma no
that that yeah that delivery like he's
you know usually he's very confidently
saying foolish things right exactly
and I I mean what what actually kind of
bugged me after the debate was done was
I noticed that but it felt like no one
wanted to talk about it on CNN like
maybe just because they all had their
sort of pre baked cakes and they had to
get their sort of the the take say it
developed before the debate started they
had to sort of get those out there but I
did I don't know it felt like I felt
like it should have been mentioned how
shaky that was yeah I was going to ask
you like because I have not watched that
much cable television although last
night I went and did Hayes's program in
the first segment was there was a lot of
talk about Joe Biden being a little bit
shaky yeah and it was and to hear it
their top of the show Joe Biden's
looking a little shaky you know at the
end of the day it's like this is this is
sort of like the establishment II yeah
place yeah and if people are starting to
say that I mean that is the one thing
that sort of you know because I'm very
concerned that we're gonna go into the
general election from the perspective of
wanting trump gone and we're going to go
into the general election with someone
that nobody seems terribly enthused
about and but gets just gets across the
finish line yeah and then turns out to
be like you know there because of like a
projection of who he was five or six
years ago yeah like the worst case
scenario in my mind is or the second
worst scenario case scenario my mind is
Joe Biden as the nominee the worst case
scenario in my mind is is a like a lame
joke yeah like at the
two minutes yeah and here is a moment
where yeah this is a compilation of him
getting beat up by people and like you
said I think this is what Warren and
Sanders probably wanted was like other
people to do this so that they'd be the
Chris Christie that's how I was talking
about with someone else
well I think right no de Blasio was
gonna do that Blasio was supposed to be
the Chris Cruz what do you didn't why'd
you get there he started strong yeah I
mean yeah you didn't bring up that that
that meeting more than once which was a
big mistake yeah but he did bring up TPP
yep and we'll talk about that in a
moment because I think that was actually
yeah I think he did exactly what he was
supposed to do with TPP yeah
unfortunately
Vice President Biden you just simply
inaccurate mr. vice president there's a
saying in my community you're dipping
into the kool-aid and you don't even
know the flavor mr. vice president you
want to be President United States you
need to be able to answer the tough
questions I guarantee you if you're
debating Donald Trump he's not gonna let
you off the hook
senator Biden your plan will keep and
allow insurance companies to remain with
status quo doing business as usual mr.
vice president your argument with is not
with me it's with science and
unfortunately your plan is just too late
the science tells us we have to get off
coal in 10 years your plan does not do
that Vice President Biden I didn't hear
your response when the issue came up of
all those deportations you were vice
president I states I didn't hear whether
you tried to stop them or not using your
power your influence in the White House
mr. vice president you can't have it
both ways you invoke President Obama
more than anybody in this campaign you
can't do it when it's convenient and
then dodge it when it's not what we need
or politicians they have some guts on
this issue it's really irks me because I
heard the vice president say that if
you've got a PhD you can come right into
this country
well that's playing into what the
Republicans want to pit some immigrants
against other immigrants and if you want
to compare records and frankly I'm
shocked that you do I am happy to do
what vice-president help author in 94
was a mistake
and he has flip-flopped on these things
Vice President Biden was in the United
States Senate working with
segregationist you said women working
outside the home would lead to the
deterioration of family my grandmother
worked outside the home so my mother
worked outside the home but it was wrong
to take the position that he took at
that time mr. vice president
it looks like one of us has learned the
lessons of the past and one of us hasn't
there are people right now in prison for
life for drug offenses because you stood
up and use that tough-on-crime
phony rhetoric that got a lot of people
elected but destroy communities like
mine the problems that he is talking
about that he created I actually led the
bill that got passed into law that
reverses the damage on the Hyde
Amendment vice president where you made
a decision for years to withhold
resources to poor women to have access
to reproductive health care and
including women who were the victims of
rape and incest you didn't answer my
question
what did you mean when you said when a
woman works outside the home it's
resulting in quote the deterioration of
family and that we are avoiding these
are quotes it was the title of the op-ed
you do nothing to hold the insurance
companies to task for what they have
been doing to American families mr. vice
president mr. vice president I didn't
interrupt you please show me that
respect sir Wow
I mean a journey I almost feel bad for
you
looks like genuinely hurt and so much
for that video I think he comes off as
that's the most sympathetic I think I've
seen watching all that edit it together
I'm suddenly like oh no you like walk so
I'm like George Michael I mean on some
level he comes off as a lot less
sympathetic when he's actually given a
chance to speak yeah that's why he's an
arrest of shut up all the time
III imagine that's part of it
yeah and that was the speaking of like
the his performance that wasn't the
other remarkable thing was he kept just
being like
ending his like just being like and now
I'm done like no more there was there
was like he's in the middle of a
sentence and Senator and he's like okay
yeah I'll just stop right there I'll
wake up right there I that is I mean
this is this is one of the things they
were saying on that panel last night
which was that he's not like the happy
warrior yeah that he and and I tend to
think that stuff is you know silly a
little bit yeah but I can see what they
meant by that that he didn't seem that
he seemed it seemed to be exhausting and
laborious for him yes rather than he was
getting a he wasn't right he wasn't like
enjoying the opportunity thank you i I
think it's it's a little bit well I
don't know I guess in in those instances
when I getting into arguments with
people I that's actually probably what
am i happiest but I think like but it
shouldn't be the most exhausting thing
if you're starting out at the beginning
of a presidential campaign yeah well
you're right right you'd be questioned
this at the very beginning and next the
next time when there's a much smaller
group of people on that stage he's gonna
have to talk more and talk longer it's
not gonna be you have 10 seconds to
respond well well with that said there's
gonna be 10 people that's true and
they're gonna all be there's gonna be
more parody so they're not gonna be able
to ignore two or three people at the
edges in the way that they have been or
maybe they will but he's not gonna have
to talk more until it's down to like 7
or 6 people right and who knows when
that comes I mean on some level if I was
if I was someone who wanted to charge
the DNC with protecting Joe Biden I
would be complaining that they're not
cutting it down to 6
yeah right yeah I mean honestly like
that this is the best-case scenario for
him right keep it 20 people yeah
especially because next time people are
gonna be taking shots a lot more shots
at Sanders I I would I would think so
yeah
but I think there's I mean the funny
thing about the debate so far as the the
palpable frustration that taking shots
at Sanders has now resulted in
popularity like among the like bollocks
and Delaney's or whatever keeping they
keeping like why isn't this working well
there are all the chris christie's yeah
exactly right i mean they're the chris
christie's for Biden yeah and it's not
working yes and this is the this is the
thing that struck me in that first
debate and I think it was the it's the
case of really the two of them combined
the the progressives are ascendant mmm
like I mean do you remember a debate no
that was like what Sanders and Warren
were saying obviously they say it there
they're there their ideas are much more
formed and they're they're much more
tested in a way tested insofar as like
they've been attacked for quite a while
and taken seriously mmm-hmm
but those are the two who you usually
see on the end this is that's what's
incredible to me is that watching that
the first night was that the Kucinich on
stage was the moderate white guy that
was the Kucinich exactly the guy who
kept being like I'm like I'm the
mainstream centrist right who's that
kook on the end
who's that complete nut sticking up for
the private market like if you had that
sensation and your entire adult light no
I mean in the period I don't know what
you were doing as a kid I mean I was
watching the debates I once knew but I
don't
I wasn't quite as savvy yeah that to me
I was i I I mean people were like that
debate well you know you saw someone say
like that debate was man I was like are
you kidding it was one of the most
exciting things I feel like I've ever
seen like it was like I was getting like
that dynamic is amazing really and it
didn't go away in the second debate no
right I mean there was nobody who was
put on the defensive right for their
espousing
the most left position right some people
might say your numbers are a little bit
weird or I don't know do I trust you but
like everyone is headed in that
direction yeah and to the extent that
anybody's not it's really just sort of
like it's an argument of like political
pragmatism as opposed to what's a good
idea or a bad idea yeah that's that's
the other thing is that no one is really
even trying to attack these progressive
ideas on the merits I mean because they
are the only argument Pilar making is
like like I'm going to do the electable
version of that yes yeah that's what I
think is amazing yeah in terms of where
the party has has has gone in such a
relatively short period of time and I
mean frankly it is as if everyone is
running on I mean I think at one point I
tweeted out like you know my
medicare-for-all plan is called Medicare
for something that sounds like what
Bernie's proposing but it's not yeah
yeah and I really got that sense which
is just in terms of people who are you
know I'm voting for an issue frankly a
couple issues right and that that's a
good sign
yeah assuming that the trajectory goes
in that way what do you think is going
to happen with Biden like how much of
this notion of he may not be up to the
task how much do you think it is
permeated and at what point does that
leak out well or bleed out I guess yeah
I think it my feeling is that we're
gonna stay right where we are with the
polling numbers for the rest of the
summer and then if he has more
performances like the one this week I
can see it all changing fairly quickly
just because you know for the if we
assume his
Faye's is a little older not paying that
close attention like once they do they
they will have viable alternatives to
him if they watch him and are like oh
that's not the guy I remember but so
that but that that does depend on
whether this last performance was a
fluke or whether it's actually
indicative of that that he's not as
vital as he was before okay let's let's
move to another topic is this basically
as far as I can tell sort of like three
stories that are going on now right I
mean there is what's happening with the
presidential race and what that says
about the party what's happening with
impeachment and what that says about the
party and then what's happening in terms
of like legislatively and what that says
about the party and they're all three
different stories yeah the presidential
race is the most sort of like heartening
I guess I should say the way yeah let's
look at this what's going on now with
impeachment we we now have 117 House
Democrats who support an impeachment
inquiry here is Chris Hayes with with
Pramila jeyapaul on oh wait this is it
this is something different right yeah
okay we'll talk about that later then
all right let's just talk about the
impeachment yeah in the wake and we're
in the wake of the Muller hearings which
is sort of shocking because that was
only a week and a half ago right not
even a week and a half ago was a week
ago Thursday right or Wednesday yeah so
close to a week and a half ago man right
nine days ago nine days I mean I
remember in the last cycle I could have
told you what I had for lunch
you know like twenty two days ago yeah
and now I can't even remember what day
was that we did six hours of coverage
yeah but we've just crossed the
threshold there's a couple members of
the leadership what you said to me about
Nancy Pelosi worried about Chuck Schumer
yeah getting those votes in the Senate
has been almost the only thing I've been
able to think of since you told me that
yeah and I get the sense that like
that's the case patty Murray came out in
for impeachment she's number three in
the Senate yeah it is weird how quiet
Chuck Schumer is about this yeah
yeah I mean just give me your sense of
how you think this moves forward at one
point Nancy Pelosi has to do something
right like and you can slow walk it and
you can say in October like it's too
late yeah but but there's no reason why
you can't have impeachment hearings I
don't know up until June of next year
without anybody going like hey this is
too close to an election although I
don't even know why you have to wait
until why do you have to like like what
like what norms are we supposed to be
following I don't right exactly well you
know where it's recess right now right
so you can't do anything basically for
August like August has just written off
and then in the congressional schedule I
mean I it is it's really I don't know
what Pelosi does now because it does
seem like we've crossed a threshold with
the number of Democrats and the high
ranking Democrats who are now on the
other side of her and I imagine that
she's just going to go back to some
variation on that we have to protect our
vulnerable moderate argument again but
somebody came out from Florida today was
it who was there was someone who came
out from Florida today in support of
impeachment and they're in a purple
district yeah I mean they're some of the
front liners when some of the front
liners start coming out for impeachment
right yeah then it becomes a problem for
yeah the Ted Deutsch I think it was
Deutsch yeah yes I mean I like maybe we
actually maybe we actually will get
hearings like maybe they actually the
rupture will be an inquiry I don't it
does seem like I thought she was very
successfully holding it off this entire
time until basically the last week and
now it really seems like she might her
hand might be forced but I don't know
what do you make of the the resignations
that we're seeing from Republican yeah
that's interesting because you don't
like it doesn't feel you know you trumps
can be on the ballot and one of the
things that happened in the last
midterms was presumably the Trump vote
was less than it was in 2016 which led
to part of the Democratic wave so but
Trump's can be back on the ballot I
don't know you know like the they seem
to maybe they know something we don't
know about like Texas and and about like
their bases enthusiasm right there's
something that we should say that what
of the seven or eight that have now
announced a resignation like five of
them are from Texas right yeah I mean
and the Texas Texas right now is also
like the state GOP is like in the middle
of a civil war if you read anything
about this no it's like the I don't know
all the details in my Texas journalist
friends will yell at me if they got it
wrong but the the House of
Representatives like the I think maybe
like the second or third ranking
Republican was like caught on tape
promising to end the careers of like
eight other Republicans and they're just
really like that I think the Republican
Party they're they've been in power for
so damn long but there there's real
divisions there but I don't know you get
you get the feeling that maybe they're
more worried about like what where that
state is going then they let on there
was a poll that came out that showed
Beto O'Rourke beating Donald Trump there
be like eight points yeah yeah by like a
lot yeah that's a nuts yeah it was yeah
it's crazy that's nuts
yeah and they have now there's two facts
one is that we I said resignations what
I meant is they're not gonna run a
reelection yeah Hurd is the latest yeah
to resign and he is the only black US
congressman who is a Republican yeah so
this is the other this is the other
thing that this is going to mean too and
I've written about this and a while ago
is that
the GOP in the near term is going to get
so much crazier and they're going to
retain a lot of power because that's the
way our elections work they will retain
a lot of power but the the individuals
making up the elected officials of the
Republican Party are not going to get
more sane they're just going to get
worse that is a I I couldn't agree more
with that this notion that somehow like
the fever's gonna break or that you can
go and convince this is we're in a war
of attrition hmm essentially I mean
that's basically it they're there they
have to for the Republicans to change
they have to lose decisive yes they
think it you can't even be close because
they will claw back yeah or they will
believe that they will claw back or they
will have no other option but to attempt
to claw back and I mean that gets into
the the mechanical McConnell stuff you
know with this that you wrote a piece on
I think just yesterday or today or yeah
and we should talk about but I need to
say this just to remind people I
headlined it with the announcement from
the congressman from Alabama she was on
the judiciary who is it Robbie the
Republicans will have I think only 12
women in their caucus which is no that's
insane
right like less than 10 percent I think
of their caucus there are women yeah
they will have more members in their
caucus named Jim then they will have
women yeah just named Jim right like
it's it's 2020 yeah yeah and there's
freaking nuts yeah and then all of that
in the context of a system that is
designed to make it likely that they win
50 percent of the time and 50 percent
right like that's right in fact I mean
it's basically whether you go from like
Wisconsin to the Nash
a stage 46% is a decisive victory for
them yeah and and and part of that
explains why Mitch McConnell as much as
he doesn't like Moscow Mitch it's so
funny like how he seems actually
genuinely get upset about it's a wild
usually it's like he left everything
just roll right off him but he actually
was man about now part of it could be
there's also some type of investigation
yeah that's going on I believe with the
Justice Department which is odd or that
there is a business in Kentucky that got
a tremendous amount of investment oh
yeah Russia shortly after he voted
against he voted to end sanctions right
it's a foghorn figure but so maybe he's
just afraid that that that you know he
wants to show that like hey if you mess
around talking about this stuff this is
this is just normal corruption it's
right because it's Russia yeah just like
I voted in favor of an entity that's
gonna give yeah yes it's not even think
it's like you look at his entire history
and like foreign governments have bought
him off before so I think it's maybe
he's just like it's not Russia it's just
like anyone exactly kokaina mich
captures it more yeah Moscow Mitch makes
it sound like I'm in league with Moscow
no I but just the the fact that he's not
voting for these election protections
you got pretty granular with it to sort
of Express like what parts of it he's
worried about right and so the the
democratic election security bills and
there's a bunch of them because they
were they were bringing them out in the
wake of the Mahler hearings they were
focusing mainly on the ones that are
about not accepting contributions both
monetary and like non-monetary like
intelligence or from foreign nationals
right and he blocked those and some were
like unnamed Republicans told the New
York Times like well you know he
actually just doesn't like any
regulations of money in campaigns it's
not again it's like you just wants
everyone to be bribable right yeah I
want to set a precedent that will
impinge on the koch brothers but like
the i think the most significant bill
democrats have that in in a world where
politics behaved the way centrist
pundits wished it did this is a bill i
would actually have a chance of passing
a republican senate i think because the
bill is mainly just about requiring
paper ballot receipts for federal
elections and then having a federally
monitored process for auditing elections
and that sounds highly controversial it
doesn't doesn't it sound highly
controversial doesn't it and paper
ballot like mark meadows has a paper
ballot bill
in the house like Republicans have come
out in favor of paper ballots in the
past but the they really like if they
don't do it in a way and we're they're
doing it in a way that allows Mitch
McConnell to block anything from
happening right so it's it's I think
it's a way of signaling that you care
about election integrity without ever
having to actually do anything well it's
the only way that you can be consistent
when you're pushing all these like voter
ID laws and whatnot and saying how
important it is that we have this
maintained well why wouldn't you want to
make sure that there's a way to count
that the ballots are accurate yeah and
then so you look at what in what
happened in Georgia where the governor
who was the Secretary of State during
the election for the governorship like
the Georgia has voting machines that
they purchased in 2002 after the help
America Vote Act which have no paper
receipts at all and basically can't be
audited and people are suing Brian Kemp
over this and they want to institute the
the paper ballots right now and and you
know like Georgia could do that tomorrow
if they wanted to but they don't want to
like then the reason they don't want to
is like irregularities help them almost
inevitably irregularities help them well
and there was also I mean I haven't
followed this too closely but not only
did they destroy the servers yeah to get
rid of the information after the suit
was brought right like yeah they were
they've been like wiping they've been
wiping the memory with with magnets yes
like they've been doing it in the way
that you would do it if you were like
like I'm afraid of like I've got you
know stuff on my computer that people
shouldn't see yeah yeah I mean they're
doing it in a very like losing losing
this lawsuit will be much less damaging
than anyone seeing what is on here even
yeah getting a some type of fine or you
know destroying evidence is worth it
that charge is worth it that's a little
bit scary it is and coupled with the
fact that you know the we know that
according at least to these the reports
that came out of the Senate I guess it
was last week right after right before
the vote or right after the vote was
that the Russian
had hacked into all 50 states maybe not
on the statewide but maybe on a
countywide yeah it was example County
there were examples and every in every
state of them going in not necessarily
doing anything but just basically saying
like oh we have access to this yeah I
that almost you can just imagine that
it's like the Russian hacker just being
like oh like I shouldn't be in here
great because I didn't I don't think of
any evidence they did anything but they
must have just been like oh that
shouldn't be this easy right yeah you
get the sense to get the sense that like
one guy came up and said you know like
commander I was able to get into Rhode
Island yeah like and they said seriously
yes well go see if you can do it in
other states and then he comes back in a
half an hour later needs like
Massachusetts I am sure Maine well my
god damn it get back to the computer and
see if you could do all 50 yeah
and they come back and they're like we
can do all 50 and they're like well
alright but it's good to know that me
like you know and and you know the
reality is is that you or I anybody in
this room probably could sit down and
come up with like alright let's just
pick 20 counties yeah and we're gonna
change the outcome of the national
election I mean you know and you know
the the even is easily changing the
votes but by throwing people by changing
the registrations throw people off and
the the insecurity of this system has
been well known for a very long time I
was reading journalism from like 2004
when I was writing about Mitch McConnell
just because it was about to help
America Vote Act which was passed very
bipartisan in the wake of the 2000
election which a terrible piece of
legislation because it didn't actually
do anything to fix our the wood is very
easily known to be the vulnerabilities
of our system but back in 2004 there
people were saying these machines
everyone bought are the software is
horrible and the only people who know
how to patch it are the people who
manufactured it and they're vulnerable
to being hacked by college students like
all these things are known and like the
way to fix it is with this bill the
Democrats introduced which is basically
just like you get a paper receipt and
then when there's an audit you count
that you count the paper ballots why do
you think that this issue and
and I'm guilty of it to a certain extent
as well because I've certainly you know
over the years remember that black box
group Beverly I can't remember her name
and there was you know the certainly
John Kerry has has said on the record at
this point that he thinks that they were
shenanigans in Ohio in 2004 he wouldn't
talk about it at the time no why do you
think this doesn't get traction in the
popular sort of like is it it sort of
feels like it's almost like climate
change like it's like how do you I think
because it sounds conspiratorial on the
one hand because you are edging up to
alleging without solid evidence that
electrons are being stolen and that
sounds conspiratorial and it also like
gets at the entire legitimacy over a
system right and a lot of people don't
like to think difficult questions about
the legitimacy of our entire system
because it starts to make them get
nervous and you know I I think when you
look so we run elections it's way on
purpose because in part because the GOP
wants their state secretaries of state
to have the ability to throw thousands
of people off the voter rolls and and
like to be fair and here in New York
Democrats do that
yep they and they they threw hundreds of
thousands of people illegally off the
voter rolls in advance of democratic
primaries a few years ago yeah but
primarily it's a thing outside of blue
states primarily it's a thing where
Republicans want to maintain the right
to screw with the electorate but when
the reason doesn't get more traction is
I that's three I think it doesn't get
more traction because it sounds too
conspiratorial to say it basically I
wonder too if it's a question of like if
we have evidence that this has happened
yeah how do you like their it obviously
the only thing you can do is fix it for
the future
yeah but there's gonna be a lot of
people going like hey wait a second yeah
like that means that the Supreme Court
is illegitimate exact
means that all the laws that have been
signed are illegitimate and all these
hundreds of judges and available the war
shouldn't have happened yeah I mean yeah
I mean it means that the global
temperature should be a few degrees
cooler maybe right I mean like you you
have to start going backwards and you
say it starts to make you wonder like
you know at what point do you well
alright let's take a quick break Judy
gold is going to join us can you hang
out yeah ok great Judy gold is gonna
join us I have a feeling her assessment
of this stuff is going to be a little
bit more explicit we're gonna take a
quick break we'll be right back
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen it is a
casual Friday sometimes we get a little
bit casual with the for radio
appropriate language let me play a
little song that I think will explain
[Music]
calm cool and collected
he called his own line to keep us all
connected the matter with them a
steady hand to God she'll keep us calm
and carry you now too bad Jimmy Rifa
 didn't find a worthy / son and he's
he's such a penis head liar
[Music]
that's our President of the United
States that's the present okay Judy hi
you sound like you're in a great mood
oh I I can't even like I can't even like
he texted okay really bad news the
Baltimore house and Elijah Cummings was
robbed too bad like what is wrong with
this what is wrong with him
and why is he still there why is he
still there
well I mean I think it's yeah I mean I
think he's uh I think it's pretty clear
he's gonna be there until at the very
least until January 20th of 2021 mm-hmm
okay listen I we're having impeachment
and clamoring ringing Pink's may be
creamy and we can all work into this
it's like shut the off and do
something
I can't we none of us have Bowl and then
and the narrative is all Tim look that's
a baby it's like I'll you and
that's exactly what they want that's
exactly what they want that's exactly
and he sits there with his tiny dick and
it's Stephen Miller bold piece
of and they laugh and laugh with
their Kentucky Fried Chicken
 them okay we can't feed into this
narrative he's a piece of he's so
immature he's so discussing you such a
 liar that's a liar he
said I am and enmund get a and Mitch
McConnell I mean look at him yes no
penis looking human being in the entire
world
no what we had never done we're done
this buy from you I ate unbelievable how
 stupid we are and that you know
everyone in the rally last night
Democrat mayor Democrat Megan Democrat
you piece of sowing hatred
you insecure mental case he's a
 it I cannot believe that he is
still there and they're sharing Adler
like they're all standing there like we
have a patient penis we can't do the
impeachment claymation yeah
how's everything else going I think I
can't believe it I can't even deal with
it anymore battle I should say he's a
 bully he's a bully and they sit
there in the right of him they're just
afraid of him like call me everyone you
can call me a big you know like I just
want to go somewhat yes I know on the
big guys I'm an on the deal I'm
a Jew I'm not funny but you're ruining
the world you stupid tiny dick
piece of how does he not kind of
stroke I mean that is that's actually a
really that is it that is I think of
like a full-on legit question I know and
that's an incident like when he's out uh
and they're all like yeah he's an
airhole but you know it's more like what
I don't how do these people and what
about all the singing groups now with
all the women are like really returning
me you know then have been chosen and
they're just you know like whatever III
just I cannot believe how bad it's done
you know I used to wake up in the
morning I put on anything BC and I'd be
like oh he'll be out by 2:30 2:45 in the
afternoon
okay no he's just there I wake
up I'm like oh there's no right you can
survive this and he's still
there the Democrats have no balls they
are fighting with each other on stage
it's a no one less to hear your
intricacies
health care plan so then get out there
and say look what what's happening in
this country we have to fix it I'm gonna
do it I'll be your leader if we can walk
continue like this
all right now let me know wait a second
let me just ask you this I get a couple
of questions now for you one are you
watching more or less MSNBC these days
I'm switching around to UM CNN and one
reading more because I can't deal with
it I can't it's just you know you just
float on and well I did see you last
night and you look hot
oh well thank you I just want to say Sam
you know at least on my girlfriend was
like I love him so much look you know
what ELISA go go do me get it
over with because I can't listen to
every time he's on oh my god
looking at me so hot it's like annoying
okay yeah
oh she's laughing right now she's
laughing because we were making fun of a
hawk de Blasio was see where
does peace literally what are those
 teeth okay
he has a sideburn from like 1975 right
well I mean to be fair I do too right
and then you come on and only suspect
with Sam her sideburns but they look
really good okay I appreciate that all
right but okay so then here's the other
question yeah don't you think we're
doing an array of sideburn videos now
don't you think that Oh
did people really I guess CBS did a they
did a thing about his sideburns Wow
local CBS News did did a thing with you
said they are they are pretty long what
are those piece seriously all right well
aside from the teeth
yelling boobies like de Blasio you're
going to see people okay I shot on the
subway yesterday at 7 a.m. to go to Penn
Station and I'm still waiting
for the train pass oh well alright but
but a little bit that's that's more
Cuomo's fault than de Blasio's but be
that as it but don't you think judy judy
now you go around right you go around
well now you can you headed to
Massachusetts I guess this week this
month right good Father's Day are you in
promise town now ok so you're out there
for the month but in province towns
maybe not exactly you know
representative of like the country
across the board in terms of Trump but
yeah okay I know that I know that but
you know what last night I had three
Trump supporters in the audience Brit
Jesus first of all coincidentally were
all wearing orange and then I started
and they won't laugh like I did I
started doing a joke on and they kind of
interrupt it you can just tell because
they don't clap in anything they're the
most miserable submission of
 in the audience and I'm and unlike
your transporters and they wouldn't say
anything but it took me a half an hour
for them to let go all right she's funny
you know what I mean but I was like you
know every other president every other
 president was fair game and this
one can't take a joke but he and
he just dishes it out he's not even
funny he comes with a big comedian like
he gets one lap and he's like goes off
on some tangent like some shitty act you
know like oh yeah then they did that I
hate piece of
they will not laugh at you because of
your political leanings until or with
you um so you know like they can't get
over it it's like a cult it's a
cult now but wait a second so all right
well here's the here's the point and I'm
glad you sorted you brought that up
because my question to you was don't you
had and this gets to the Democrats
fighting amongst themselves because this
is what a primary is supposed to be
about right is the right to flesh out
what's the best
ideas and we you know what we've done in
the past that have been helpful but is
Donald Trump the the the problem or the
cause of the problem or is he the
symptom of the problem well I think he's
all of it and I think that it's all
referendum on having a an
african-american president who did his
job with them fighting him fault a long
way they're so hypocritical it's
like oh my god I can't believe these
people voted in an African American and
now you know whites happened he's a
 white supremacist he's a
anything on the least racist person
you're such a piece of
you're just a piece of you don't
even like white people into your
buildings you scumbag we have videos we
have them just like because you know
what it just proved how racist
this goddamn country is now they're all
coming out now they're all coming out
they were all quiet and that you know
not saying anything and now he gave them
and now we see we see what this country
is filled with racist idiot people with
no integrity who don't care if the
president's a liar now he's like
threatening Kim
Chinese carrot like and he talks about
himself in third person what the is
wrong with you
well now we're getting somewhere about
themselves in third person what Sam does
occasionally okay about that sorry I
guess I really and we sit there and I
just want to take Jerry Nadler and Chuck
shoot I just want to go yeah yeah why
Bernie no my burning okay
Judy yeah we're talking what well I mean
you know it's funny because Bernie
Sanders got criticism for his raising
his hands and that he was supposedly
yelling through it and
that stuff would have resonated I think
ten years ago in a democratic debate
like this notion of like what are you
angry about and and you know I mean it's
what sunk Howard Dean or at least was
the sort of the predator I know and and
now I think that doesn't work at least
not in the same way and you know Jerry
Nadler has a a challenger now who I
think she opened her basically your
campaign talking about impeachment and
the idea is that that's what's going to
light a fire yeah exactly
it's like we're following every little
rule and you can't play you can't play
with him against him if you're gonna
follow all the rules and he's going to
ignore them and make his own you can't
do it you know you're not going to beat
him at his own game so do what
do what you have to do call him on
 liar the New York Times with the
 the falsehoods it's not a
falsehood he's a lawyer
he's a liar did you see this
thing with Lindsey Graham and and Paul
and inland Lahey so in Alex I think
you'll appreciate this and this will get
I don't know if you'll be as angry as
Judy is about it but I think you'll be
angry so Lindsey Graham basically calls
a committee hearing to talk about
amending a law so that they are able to
I I guess it implicates the Flores
agreement that they are able to
basically keep children imprisoned for
about another seventy five days on top
of where they are now at the border and
there wasn't enough Democrats to pass it
out of committee and so he basically
threw the rules out that said that you
need a certain quorum to do so
and um and then Patrick Leahy who has
been studious in maintaining the the
rules when he is chairman of the
judiciary much to the detriment of the
the country in my estimation right did
this little show where he got up and he
tore up the laws and he said like you
know Lindsey Graham's are gonna ignore
him I'll just do it for you and I
thought like is there is it possible to
do anything that would be more
ineffectual at this time because I know
that Patrick Leahy has in his desk a
bunch of scotch tape and he's going to
take those up in a moment that he
becomes Johnny this is the problem with
the Democrats but it's also that you
know it's amazing how how angry it
seeped into everyone's in a bad mood
everyone's angry you really realize how
he controls the zeitgeist you know it
it's amazing how unbelievably
you know irritated people are they say
when I have guys get me in a theater
because I was like you know a sideways
going into the aisle and my after him
and I just didn't understand that this
there's God right
here's know Obama could not be angry
because they would call him an angry
black man you know they mean yes so he
was and he and this one is angry you
can't comment on of him he's a
 he yells at these he journalists
these women of color and he such an
obvious misogynist racist piece of
and he sits there and yes mr. president
yes yes I do this and it's no no
you know what mr. president you are just
great your disgrace to this country the
world even your hair back on camp there
sorry hair really is bothersome so I
just line it up I just want you to know
someone just told me I'm homophobic
I'm the the yummy tweet are you're
homophobic yeah I used homophobic slurs
during my wine mom white mid FEM rant
[Laughter]
primarily for gay men to enough trap Oh
apparently now you have to be assigned
the vocabulary according to your
sexuality or gender okay gotcha I just
you know what okay you know getting a
 from some young boy he's got it
all he's got it he's done it he's got
 on all of them on all of them I
mean yeah the fact that Trump will go
overseas and and say about his own
country and never says a thing
uh you know about Russia and that no but
he did that saying like okay I just
 ripped his hair out so bad I
just wanna god dammit hums gotta
 do something you you really do
get the sense of and of course I'm I'm
I'm being metaphorical when I discuss
this I want to make that absolutely
clear but you see like those those
situations like where Saddam Hussein got
caught and heads at the trial and like
people like abuses body or they did that
with Gadhafi I think or something like
that like you get the sense that there
there would be there would be an
opportunity to do that here
in a way that I had never sort of
imagined with an American president with
an American right I mean the anger
towards Trump is anger towards Trump is
visceral in a way that even though I
think like certainly people hated George
Bush III among them I mean right not
personally like George Bush didn't
disgust me in the same way like there's
no I thought okay I can't stand looking
at the sky I can't stand him but this is
beyond that like this is a whole other
level
just it's I've never seen anything like
I mean remember them kids you're like
I'm gonna mean anything like anyone you
know that's one Mariam Williamson affair
is because anyone can be President of
the United States anyone you know it's
funny cuz Alex wrote a piece was a month
ago yeah after the fact for the first
saying that Marianne Williamson was well
you described the piece she if if there
was a democratic version of Trump it
would look more like Marianne Williamson
than anyone else because I think of what
you identified anyone can be President
and she appeals to right she appeals to
sort of the non policy based desires of
the base in terms of that's different
she's God knows you can say that that's
the difference between the two bases if
you want the two base she I think had a
comment something she said something to
the effect I think after this last
debate I don't remember exactly the
context but basically saying like
there's a lot more yoga moms out there
than any like she knows who she's
playing too
and I imagine that it'll be interesting
to see if she gets a bump after that
last event I'm not really sure but my my
question I've been asking is if the
Democrats blow it this year what
happened to her in 2020 or in twenty
four years down the line I mean or
someone like that I'm like yeah I mean
so right another you know so bright I
felt oh I mean okay there could be
someone out there yeah who is like like
her who understands I mean that was sort
of the appeal of Oprah on some level I
mean aside from the fact that like sort
of demographically she's going to speak
to the experiences of black women more
than you know then marianne williamson
is but she you know Oprah's a lot of
what Oprah is about is sort of like a
self-help self-actualization type of a
vibe there could figure who who rises
who is of that ilk Yeah right so she's a
self-help you know you create your own
reality and you know like when I'm
always saying like I'm so fat
and people are like Judy if you keep
saying that then you will be it's like
shut the up probably say five of us
and fast I'm not going to gain
weight he's like so anyway but she's of
this self-actualization right and there
are you know what are they up for
helping people they're like only for the
rich that's it it's not so it's like you
haven't we're learning you're going to
keep your money and we're going to take
it away from everyone else you know
hasn't be sucking guys their parents
their fathers were on the GI Bill they
the government worked for them and there
are families and now they become
millionaires and they don't give a
 yeah well yeah I think
that's uh I think that's right I mean
it's not like we're the parents and
grandparents you know they all hate FBR
yes
you sorry so you have to pay income tax
sorry
structure infrastructure week has been
going on and on and on on going
ridiculous it's good he sees in tune
it's all it's a
television show we have been taken over
I mean that's opening a base yeah it's
true that was all right well listen Judy
we got a map my watch in the middle of
that and said you've reached your goal
[Laughter]
all right
well listen I want you I want to try
something different this time I want you
to I want you to leave us with something
that you think is positive that you're
not gonna be sustained because I will
say this that as you were talking about
this like when Donald Trump goes away
the hunger for a for self-help gurus and
self-healing like books and stuff I got
like I'm already like is like in the
middle of this conversation I was like
what about like a self-help that was
like how to stay engaged but also
disengage at the same time you know like
one of those like don't you know don't
let the pressure up but here's a way to
let the pressure somewhere around there
but okay so but but we're not there yet
so no time for you know self-care you
know in Puerto Rico they went into the
streets and said enough okay
enough already and it's enough and we've
got to do something we got to get off
our asses the gerrymandering the Russian
interference it's enough it's enough we
have the power stop giving it to him
it's ridiculous control and you know
being angry like unity goals okay do
something next do something she
brought it around to talk about herself
in the third person Judy
all right well listen it's ridiculous
it's so stupid I don't think it's as bad
as you're saying I don't think it's as
bad this is healthy it's good this is
how you train this is how you train you
don't want people to get out there who
aren't used to fighting I'm telling you
no I know the way you prep a fight as
you get into the ring with a sparring
partner do you think yeah that he is
going to debate the Democratic candidate
that's a good question
that's a good question I listen I think
that it would be uh it would be too
risky not to cuz I think first of all
he's going to feel like first of all
somebody coming in saying like we were
afraid of you debating whomever it is he
would immediately decide to you you
going are you kidding
like of course I can debate them right
and the the danger of this narrative
like he's too afraid to debate like I
just don't think he has the resources to
do a why should I hmm like you know I
mean I just I think you need to have
enough insulation and there's just too
much of the country that would be like
whoa I I think you would have to debate
so I think he's going to but I think I
think it would come off as he's too
afraid he has they have the ability to
own the media enough to do that like I'm
just thinking of Sean Hannity going like
why would the president debate the you
know they would have to get so offended
like you know why should he debate you
know Andrew yang he Judy I'll tell you
what there is no debate about that your
kill me now podcast is tearing it up
father James Martin I don't know who
that is
oh my god he's the greatest
James Martin he's a Jesuit priest he's
the greatest guy you have you gotta
listen to it it's amazing oh wow
and I I enjoy oh great you know look
listen people can check you out on
Thursdays and Fridays all the way till
August 30th the entire month at the art
house right then your podcast Judy you
know thank you so much I love you bye
all right we'll talk to you soon thanks
Judy
all right Judy gold everybody totally
destroying our YouTube non swearing
friendly well they say you can say the
f-word as long as it's not up close to
the beginning of the video so we might
be okay I think we could be okay you
will test you it's a little bit late in
the video and it's also not in it's not
a it's an adjective you're not none of
it was a noun or I should say none of
that was describing an action
right yeah right although at one point
there was something that struck me as
like oh that might have been all right
but that's just the wrong chief that got
was honestly about you was about it they
got a little bit heated actually it was
described it in action in that it was
but it completely theoretical so all
right well let's head into the fun half
and then we got out so stick around and
we got some more clips some from Morning
Joe
Oh obviously best place to look for your
advice if you're a Democrat mm-hmm I was
to Trump's best friend until he wasn't
right exactly until he got thrown under
the bus as it were and we've got some of
the stuff from Donald Trump's rally
which we don't want to miss and Jesse
Watters weighing in on policy which is
always a fun thing to watch just a
reminder this program relies on your
support you can become a member by going
to join the majority report calm for
just pennies a day and you get the the
fun half go back listen to the debate I
had earlier in the week it wasn't even a
debate I had the libertarian chairman on
the chairmen and libertarian party to
ask him what it would take for me to run
for the and if I could go and espouse
medicare-for-all
as a libertarian candidate and he was
pretty good natured about it we had and
then we got into a little bit of a
debate about some stuff mm-hm and but he
was I would say the best natured of all
the libertarians there's been a couple
that have been pretty good he was
welcoming though of your run I think he
was you were interviewed Gary Johnson he
wouldn't that when he ran last time you
would talk to anyone yes and and but it
wasn't he wasn't terribly interested in
defending libertarian three or four
three or four people from the debates
yeah that ran against him oh yeah I I
sat on a couple panels with Gary Johnson
pre his run yeah on MSNBC and I
was never impressed by his intellect
sure yeah I mean I don't know what is I
mean I get super surprised in those
situations yeah because I just presume
like I just presume a certain level I
presume a certain level of competence
that sometimes like when I was watching
the debate I was like some of these
people are just not good political
communicators and don't have a lot going
on upstairs yeah it's it shock it's a
little brief in American society without
having what one would consider to be the
sort of like the formula that you would
want to have so I guess we should drop
out but with that said if you remember
you can go back and listen to that
episode and you can listen back to any
episode for that matter also a reminder
just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea
or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off and enjoy the a.m.
quickie every morning now we give you a
bite-sized headlines of the day is that
something that you would enjoy certainly
yeah I'd rather have I'd rather that
than wake up and turn on MSNBC exactly
this is gonna give you five minutes of
the stories you want you super quick
it's in the majority report feed right
now the audio feed but soon we will have
it on its own feed and maybe its own
like I don't know we'll distribute it on
YouTube as well all right
don't forget literary hangover what do
you got this week I got the Pioneers by
James Fenimore Cooper part one where
James Fenimore Cooper basically writes
about his dad as a good-natured but
ultimately exploitative landlord of
Otsego County in New York and make sure
you check out the Intifada at
patreon.com slash the Intifada and TM BS
was on Monday this week go back check
that out Michael should be well rested
by Tuesday
it's a dles should be stalin next week
all right see the finance Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
frees up their buggy whipping like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry
[Music]
maybe you should rethink your defensive
 idiot we're just going to get
rid of you all right yes dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal seat I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double flip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
come here not they accuse me you
 take quick break I want to take
a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there take whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber laughing I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
do a minute
[Music]
a little bit it's a free speech issue if
you don't like me thank you for calling
into the majority report them we'll be
with you shortly
that just that video is just I I've
probably seen that thing
a hundred and fifty times now in every
time I see something new a remarkable
piece of work yeah it's unbelievable
I would say I was here for the O'Reilly
Dennis Miller one I love that one that
was you know it's amazing is that like
it's possible no one has ever said that
before that might be the first time
those words were putting that order
Hitler's gotta be one of the top names
referenced in the history of man
yeah and for him to be able to come up
with like the perfect order of words and
it's only like you know it's like what
three or four words yeah Hitler was such
an idiot and all of a sudden he's come
up with a like the most profound
sentence yeah it's like one step above
calling him a stinker such a poopy folks
on the phone I cannot guarantee we're
gonna get to your calls today we got it
we got to wrap it up by 2:30 today and
we got a lot of this to go through here
is here is a Morning Joe and look the
reason why playing stuff like this is
important at this point is because when
we get to September which is the next
debate the that's when people are gonna
start paying attention I don't know what
the numbers were for the debates but I
don't think there were more than 10
million I think it was less and both
units and I don't think that more than
30 to 45 percent of Democrats are really
keyed in know to the primary yet and so
really I mean this is the way this our
politics work I don't know if it works
this way in other countries probably not
in the same way because there's not the
same amount of time and there's so much
shorter and the media is different too
but just like there is the invisible
primary with donors there's another
primary and that is sort of create these
narratives in the media and it's vastly
different than it used to be because of
Twitter I think yeah totally right
because the the they're journalists are
not they're probably having same amount
of conversations with each other but
they're not just having them with each
other yeah yeah and there's other people
in the room and they're hearing other
people and so we're a big part of it
gets disseminated is on cable television
and particularly like in terms of like
the conventional wisdom because the
interesting thing about a Joe Biden's
candidacy is that I don't feel like the
Democratic establishment is as lined up
of behind him as it was again by Hillary
Clinton and the establishment adjacent
people like you know there's there's a
whole bunch of cohorts that are not with
Joe Biden yep and there's a sense that
they don't want Bernie but then after
that things get really murky it seems to
me yeah so let's just see what Morning
Joe has to say about the Democratic race
because who cares but also it's
important if you've just taken that
democratic debate and you play that
let's say two or three years from now my
lord you would have no idea that that
democratic debate was set right in the
middle
of Donald Trump's amping up of racial
hostilities attacking Elijah comment
head of oversight
Hilma racist attacking the city of
Baltimore attacking black leaders across
the United States of America attacking
urban centers where there are majority
people of color attacking women of color
who are in Congress leading chants and
they're leading chants in North Carolina
to stand her back this again this is
straight out of a fascist playbook and
yet they're sitting there it can be
positive yes like it's it's you want to
talk about how how insane things feel
now the centrist conventional wisdom
this is like the Kucinich is in the
wrong part of the stage thing right the
center of conventional wisdom now is
that why weren't the Democrats calling
the president of fashion during the bush
and Scarborough I feel completely insane
watching this and also like why aren't
they playing identity politics it is
we're like in a parallel universe where
they're leading chance in North Carolina
to send her back this again this is
straight out of a fascist playbook and
yet they're sitting there quibbling over
what Barack Obama did wrong quickly they
need to wake up cuz they just you know
what they just handed joe biden an
advantage between now and the next
debate
they need to wake up and i said it
before they didn't listen that's fine
nobody listened when we said that trump
could win yeah everybody mocked us and
ridicule this is how we got this in the
bag so a lot of people stay down
whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa I would like to
check the record on that but be that it
may also I would also like to remind
these to that to the extent that there
were people in the media who were
helpful to Donald Trump mm-hmm like it
to the point of coaching him mm-hmm yeah
I listen to Joe when he when he replied
positively to Trump saying you make me
look good right and that hot mic but
continued focus on Donald Trump okay
repeat after me I will not attack Barack
Obama I will focus on Donald Trump and
the dangers his presidency brings it's
really easy I actually tweeted it you
can read it slowly five times before you
go to bed every night I'll even do a
mindfulness tape for you okay so like
that sound of bobbling Brooks in the
background oh that's no sign of my five
well I will whisper okay focus your
focus your focus be present I can see
what's happening right now Lee that's
what I'll do for you because I care
about you so much but really you're
letting yourself down you're letting the
country down sit all right it's
interesting because this is what you
know part of the reason why I like the
whole never Trump or phenomena I never
wanted to and ever give them any type of
legitimacy yeah because or validate that
I mean yeah do you want to go and fight
against Donald Trump let's swim you're
psyched yeah and you know if I can lend
you some provisions yeah I'll drop it
off you know down by the rock you pick
it up and go take it good but they don't
want the Democrats to have a debate they
don't want the Democrats to to develop
any proposals they don't want a
reconsideration you know Matt Stoller
have you been reading math scholars do
their feed on this yeah
because Matt Stoller has been obviously
a longtime critic of Barack Obama I mean
I had him on the show in 2012 I think we
were debating you know Mitt Romney do
you vote for Mitt Romney or Barack Obama
I don't think he was suggesting voting
for Mitt Romney but I think he was
suggesting that there would be no
difference right and and I don't think
that that I still don't think that was
the case and certainly I was critical of
Barack Obama from you know the cramdown
on I think in terms of bankruptcies but
it is really relevant to assess his his
presidency and figure out what the
Democratic Party now thinks is
unacceptable oh yeah mass deportations
right like a whole host of provisions
that he did I think in policy there's
this really weird idea that saying I'm
like I'm critical of some things that
happened during the Obama administration
is going to like personally offenders
who voted who like who who supported him
basically like they will be personally
offended if you say well he shouldn't
have deported so many people I don't I
mean I don't think that maybe that is
something that would happen but I don't
really know there's any evidence of that
well they have to keep calling in an
attack and it's like no one's asking
people to go milk shake Obama it's just
like it's just saying he should have
gone further in certain areas yeah I
mean I guess the theory is this that if
you if you say that Obama wasn't good
you're gonna lose you're gonna take
yourself out of the trust circle the
circle of trust which is the media
training term and then once you're out
of the surco trust anything you say
nobody's gonna listen to ya because
you're gonna think you come from a
different planet and I don't think those
people are that engaged in the debates
at this moment and and and frankly I I
also don't see how that works
somebody's gonna come out and be I mean
maybe it's gonna help Joe Biden to do
that I mean that seems to me to be an
argument that you shouldn't attack Joe
Bhama because it's gonna help Biden yeah
I I don't know if I agree with that
argument but I mean personally I would
have liked to see them
instead of cleaving Biden to Obama and
attacking Obama and Biden that way I
mean I think it's right to criticize the
immigration thing talked about it but I
would have asked what did you mean when
you said that when when Trump is gone
you'll be able to deal with Mitch
McConnell well right like are you saying
that that that Obama blew it
yeah yeah right because that's the
unfunny part of that the unspoken part
of that is Biden hints a lot that other
Republican to listen to me like and you
know why that's exactly what I would
like Cory Booker or Kamala Harris in
particular to ask Joe Biden why do you
think you're better than Barack Obama
yeah why yeah well how are you gonna
succeed here where where do you feel I'm
quite frankly I'm shocked that none of
them have brought that up in the context
because that seems to me to be a line of
questioning that reporters would like ya
to go after I don't know why nobody has
but all right let's look into Jesse
Watters he of course is part of the
brain trust over at Fox News and head of
policy head of policy at what's going on
with him it's he in front of a video
showing the making it appear as if he's
out there you know yeah they have a
image there but there's some something
going on with his look right now that's
a little bit weird I don't know what's
hairs get a bit longer yeah maybe that's
what hairs big yeah I don't know what's
going on he's doing like a like an Elvis
thing or something but all right let's
let's hear his advice for the Democrats
I don't know about you guys but I like
my health care I go to the doctor
I check in I got a dollar cut what would
you say how much do you think he makes a
year oh my god I don't want to know um
do you think he's like I mean do you
think he's getting it he's six figures
or what 77 I mean 86 87 figures I mean
do you think I would be surprised if he
was making anything less than half a
million dollars yeah I wouldn't be
surprised if he was making 750 yeah from
his stint as a political
commentator on the Fox News Channel here
earns an annual salary of two million
dollars according to celebrity net worth
but I would be surprised if he's making
anything less than half a million I
wouldn't be surprised if in making 750
and I think he could be making up to
over a million dollars yeah with
probably very good health care from his
but it doesn't matter you got that kind
of money you're not worried about
co-pays is it I don't think he has it's
you have a family is he married yeah he
had an affair with his producer but he
has two twin daughters oh okay
Thank You Brendan Thank You Brandon now
if you have an affair with your producer
you don't have to provide their health
insurance you don't consider them on
your program right probably got similar
okay through Fox okay okay I go to the
doctor
I check in I give a five dollar copay he
tells me I'm fine I leave I do no
paperwork it's great and a hundred and
eighty million Americans feel that way
only twenty-seven million Americans who
do not have health insurance right now
let's focus on them instead of tearing
the whole system down in Bernie he
thinks making a profit is evil I don't
know what he's talking about so many
great things have been done through
Aetna Blue Cross and Blue Shield I don't
think these are evil companies I think
these are good companies that need to
bring costs down and there's ways to do
that without destroying a great system
Trump can exploit this divide within the
Democratic Party and it's a gift because
the Republicans I'm not really sure what
their health care plan is but the
Democrats are making it so easy to
exploit it by offering up this socialist
utopia that makes no sense and does
remove health care from water felt like
now is he running for office like that
was just the strangest thing that now
he's saying like we've got a bet but
we've got to expand universal health
care and we got to bring down costs yeah
and apparently how you do that is
if everyone is employed by fox what do
we all
aye aye my sense is is that when you
have them arguing about policy it's good
for the Democrats oh yeah right like
just talking about this as opposed to
that they're gonna ruin anything like
they're defending Obamacare now right
yeah
the I'm still struck by the many great
things Aetna has done yeah name a couple
just like who's that now right like I
mean people are they're like going like
you know the the five dollar copay going
like it does sound like he's got great
health insurance he has almost as good a
health insurances you would get under
Medicare for all and so I don't blame
him except for the fact that what
difference does it make except for he's
gonna be paying more in taxes Yeah right
I mean that's better he's exactly the
sort of person who like would be the
loser and there aren't that many of him
because this is sort of a generational
thing too I don't think people realize
people with employer-sponsored plans who
are younger have terrible plans with
really high cost now right and leave
people with the like who've been in
their companies for years and make
$750,000 a year like they don't actually
realize that like a lot of these
employer-sponsored plans you're paying a
lot more I mean if I was if I was you
know Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren
I would be cutting him into an ad and
just basically say like yes you should
be against this plan yeah yeah you
specifically you and about you know
$5,000 of right I just that was pretty
stunning and it's it's interesting I
like you know I'd like to see Donald
Trump get up there and give his solution
for that yeah I mean that's why I
contend the that all of this policy
arguing is actually highly beneficial to
the Democrats because
at the what's one of these people is
going to be the nominee and I think the
only way that they will not the only way
but the easiest route to beating Donald
Trump is to just talk about policies
yeah because if you have to prove to
people that Donald Trump is a racist if
you have to say that he's a racist to
convince people that he's a racist right
I mean I can understand why people are
doing it in the Democratic primary
because people want acknowledgement like
are you seeing what we're seeing yeah
yes I am seeing the Democratic primary
that took that people want this is again
like people want to be validated and be
like you're right it's crazy out there
exactly but when it comes to the the
general election I think the idea is
like did your JV I'm not gonna engage
with you yeah we've got real problems
and here are the solutions and if you
want to join the party join the party
and come in and bring what you got yeah
I didn't see that did nikki Haley when
you had up earlier I did not even see
that one that's a remarkable document of
the age oh yeah okay let's let's do this
so Elijah Cummings I don't think it was
related but who knows Elijah Cummings a
home was we can't know I mean we really
have no idea i i i would actually my
first i would be surprised if it was
related because you would think that
they weren't coming in to steal anything
as much as like vandalize or something
like that yeah but who knows in this day
and age the FBI incidentally has come
out and said that conspiracy theories
are highly problematic in terms of
domestic extremist group yeah it's a new
extremist type of thing like that guy
who shot the the mafia guy yeah and
everybody thought it was a mafia they
thought and so you know who who knows
right so Elijah Cummings at 3:00 in the
morning apparently hears somebody in his
house and he goes to the edge of the
whatever it is the balcony of his house
and just yells down God knows what he
said to get him out but they laughed so
use bait I mean who knows what could
have gone down in that situation and the
president I
States tweeted out really bad news
exclamation point the Baltimore House of
Elijah Cummings was robbed too bad I
think he was being sarcastic
yeah and I also think he didn't even
really have a point beyond just wanting
to go on Twitter and say gotta say
something gotta say something about it
cuz I don't get there he doesn't think
he's not making an argument he's just
sort of being like too bad like just
directionless meanness yeah I think that
he knows his peeps yeah he want that
yeah I mean you know I get in Twitter
fights with people and I know that like
you know part of our audience wants me
to dunk on on certain people and that's
what he's doing I'm not the president
knighted States and I would frankly even
even the people that I dunk on on a
regular basis I would never sort of say
oh hey you got a home invasion yeah are
you serious yeah and so nikki Haley
wrote and this is pretty bold stuff this
is so unnecessary I'm in the rolling
eyes rolling I the county faces
presidential very very statesman like
yeah of nikki Haley let's just go
through see what else we got Wiggins are
speaking out they're really really not
afraid to and ben shapiro of course what
the WT AF want the actual f trying to
push his bona fides Eli Lake ways in
your the president United States what
are you doing I mean I wonder if yeah
Ben Shapiro retweeted Ben Shapiro loves
these moments cuz he can cite them the
next time he's mentioned in a manifesto
of some sort right exactly
I have been very very explicit I wrote
WT AF in regards to the Elijah Cummings
thing I don't know how much more I could
have done that's me that's gonna be
nikki Haley out of debate eight years
from now
right exactly if you checked the record
I think you'll find out you ha but
Donald Trump sarcastically said he was
happy that Elijah Cummings house and I
said this is unnecessary need we didn't
emoji of that guy who said have you no
decency sir exactly exactly is this
really necessary sir
unbelievable should we go to the the
rally stuff okay
oh no let's talk about number seven
you'll recall that back in the day I
went to the 912 rally or something like
that some Glenn Beck rally and one of
the things that I was struck by was not
just how white the crowd was but there
was a moment where I saw a black guy
there and he was with a friend of his
who had a t-shirt that had an arrow on
it you know like I'm with dummy type of
shirts except for this one says do I
look racist and they would he was
walking around with his arm around him
and people were all taking photos of
this guy raising a lot of questions
answered by my shirt exactly on the back
it says now ask me if I know what yeah
here it is
was back from the days I was doing that
that's thing can we is that a
screengrab or can you yeah just do it
run this video we added the yeah this is
I was doing a tally of how many black
people were at the the the rally here
just pull it back a little bit and we'll
watch just a little bit of this say he
was telling me there was a black people
on the train coming
I think it's awesome I just wish it was
more consistent on the one issue of
Luther King when it comes to Van Jones
and needed dawn Barack Obama who shows
promise I'll bet she's very well he
demonstrates that he gives true when it
comes to Martin Luther King he feels the
need to see more and more blanks of tea
party usually when a black person does
come the tea party event they're
treating to celebrity because they're so
glad to have on their side I wish yeah
I think that's true that's true look at
all the people coming over with the
cameras oh it's a good signs it said do
we look racist people can go check that
out on our page but I I the reason why
we play that is because this moment was
reminiscent of this and understand that
all those people who have taken those
pictures are white yeah the entire
audience for those signs are white
people yes trying to prove to other
white people like we're not racist yeah
as opposed to sort of like talking or
assessing their racism yeah with black
people right right and that's what I
believe this stunt was all about to as
president Trump is in Ohio and the
biggest beneficiary is the African
American community biggest beneficiary
that's the economy
and they don't show them but you can see
everyone looking Torrell my god I've
been waiting and looking they're like oh
my god
standing up and looking over at the
group of Trump supporting black people
now they don't shell it no they don't
cut to it do we have a picture of some
image there was about a dozen I think
men and women black people who had
shirts that said blacks for Trump or
something like that or what did the
shirts say oh yeah I don't know it was
just a concentration of black people in
the audience
hello see if we can find the image but
yeah okay we'll play this I mean it it
reminds me of and maybe there's a good
sign of the 2004 Democrat a Republican
convention and I was walking around
looking for a gay Republican and like I
had a sign and I was on one end of a
massive square garden and a guy waved me
over and he said I think there's one in
California oh yeah here we go
so there's a about a dozen people Trump
and Republicans are not racing shirts
there you have it folks
there it is proof positive I would they
say that if it was there sitting in the
black section and there there with the
signs like I want other black people to
wear bright white t-shirts so I can
identify them yeah we're gonna seat them
separately from all the white people
that's but the second guy from the left
is that every single rally they must fly
there was a group yeah there was a
greater civic group yeah yeah and but it
was like on earnest or something or some
connor cultists yeah like maybe cult
connection yeah it gets it now hopefully
these signs encourage more black
Republicans to run for office and make
it to the house on there for the for the
Republicans there what else should we
had let's hear how should we do the the
visa system or
okay let's do the Soviet Union one more
one more clip of Donald Trump talking
about Russia he's gonna lay a little
history on you I think we're now the
largest energy producer in the entire
world
bigger than Soviet Union formerly
remember the Soviet Union when it was
all together the Soviet Union when it
was all together before they decided we
got to call ourselves Russia when it was
all together they wanted to be that was
always their dream to be the biggest in
the world then it became Russia and you
know what they've done a good job with
energy and so has Saudi Arabia done a
good job with energy but we are now
bigger than Russia Wow so he basically
says Soviet Union mistakenly and then
tries to cover cover for it as if it's
part of his speech which is a little
hand motion when he says formerly to try
to wake her we're now the largest energy
producer in the entire world
bigger than Soviet Union formerly I mean
you can you can explain 90% of what he
does just by remembering that he has not
formed any new memory since 1991 right
just got to update it nothing has
penetrated his head something today we
go for Japan it's I you know it's nuts
it's absolutely nuts and of course last
night at the rally they did not chant
sent her back they just did the more
benign lock her up yeah um it's unclear
now to me who I don't know it was about
yeah I don't know who we're locking up
anymore just women right as long as we
say her it's valid as long it's to her
do we have the one about Poland do we
have that clip okay we got to play this
one lastly the yesterday
I think it was yesterday maybe it was
two days ago was he yesterday I have
lost sense of time yesterday was the
anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto
Uprising in Poland for those people who
don't who aren't familiar with it
Jews were basically put into a section
of Warsaw gated locked in very little
provisions food was running out and it's
one of the most renowned in and fairly
rare times during the Holocaust where
there was an armed basically resistance
by the Jews now of course they were just
you know they were they were it was sort
of like a Masada quality to the whole
thing and they were you know gonna be
starved out the anniversary took place
yesterday
and Donald Trump was asked about it
apparently has not been read into this
very much he's asked the question do you
have any comments on the anniversary of
the uprising in in Poland respectful and
as you know the people of Poland like me
and I like them and I'm going to be
going to Poland fair
fairly soon and I know they're building
an installation that and they're putting
in all of the money a hundred percent of
the money so they're building something
very nice for the United States he had
no idea I mean I imagine he had no idea
that it was the anniversary of the
Warsaw Uprising when the guy said the
Warsaw Uprising it didn't occur to him
as to what it was no trumpet present
yeah we're not the most egregious of
situations because it would have been
more egregious if someone said no the
Warsaw Uprising mm-hmm do you know what
that way that is yeah those are better
questions for Trump exactly like I know
not a lot of people get time to sort of
sit down and with him as opposed to
these sort of situations but yeah
sometimes you just like let's have a
follow-up where you just ask him basic
factual question here I don't think that
matters really voter he doesn't matter
with voters but it would be illuminating
it would it would be illuminating and
I'm not sure exactly
to what end but maybe just for posterity
just so that the world knows in the in
history the future knows just like how
bad it is and you know maybe it will
explain some problems in the future
mm-hmm you know when they win this when
the aliens land on this sort of desolate
planet they're like what went wrong here
oh I see oh I see this huge Empire which
was sort of chewing up everything fell
apart yeah and so bad that it got to
this essentially what else we got
anything else and all right let's just
take a couple of calls and then we'll
get out of here come from a 702 area
code who's this where he come from
7:02 damn yes thank you hear me yeah I
can hear you who's this it's performing
from Las Vegas what's going on bro
flamingo from Las Vegas what's happening
I got a couple of quick things you guys
pretty much hit most of the marks it's a
couple things so quick though
number one um I think one of the biggest
losers that nobody mentioned with
acquaintance if you create if you're
criticizing Barack Obama and not
attacking but criticizing his record the
cleaners are a forgone thought does that
make any sense like that I feel like
there's the institutional power and grip
on the party is gone I mean I think
that's true to a certain extent but I
think Joe Biden represents in many
respects at least that that that on the
form of thinking and you know we I
mentioned Matt Stoller one point that he
had was that if we get a Joe Biden
administration we're gonna get that
tribe to the extent that that Joe bot we
know what Joe Biden's administration's
going to look like it's gonna look like
yeah the the Clinton tribe that was you
know came out of you know that has been
wandering in the desert as it were right
also a couple of things also I felt like
I told my dad this before the debate I
said if anybody really wants to break
through doesn't have the brakes to the
cloak of Barack Obama that Joe Biden is
wearing so if say whoever has the guts
to do it I think I think Cory Booker did
it in the third debate I think all bets
are off and um I got to say de Blasio I
think the ball had a good night except
the plant how your thing makes them
really shaky because it can he come back
coming back to hound him Buddha judge
has the same problem I hope they do it's
a brutal judge by the way it's they're
gonna if you're gonna hammer can't all
do that that's all that racist that you
gotta do to go to judge why is this guy
fired why he's very weak I don't know
but but Buddha judge has skills and he
that skills and also a wall I think I
want to point out is that um I just feel
awful
- you guys point Mike really Michael II
hit this home about the TPP the problems
obeid into is that he's weak on
everything literally everything
everybody got a shot in on him and
I'm on train all day please put the best
bet that's a very distinct problem is we
have a candidate reverent mother who's
literally weak on everything we see that
music is available on all sides yeah
that's a good point that's a huge I Bri
appreciate you bringing that up good
awesome one more thing I think that this
also the one thing that was interesting
to me is that um because a duty of us
really good point you know or I think
you asked is that what's up gonna avoid
is gonna void the debate same actually
got a theory about that you're right in
the sense he can't he can't avoid but I
think the first one because you see this
debate at me see this debates and the
first night debate being really elevated
to debate okay
there's no aura tease you know the tax
your timber timber so type of gotcha
style questions whatever after Donald
Trump gets destroyed in the first debate
Sam the best to I believe you'll skip
because it's gonna be a disastrous for
him it's all the Trump tricks noise but
it's not gonna work
they really elevated the debate during
the first debate don't think it's no
going back
I don't think isn't going back Sam and I
want your thoughts on that dr. Kara
preciate I you know we'll see III don't
think you can count on anything specific
happening in any debate with Donald
Trump and and who knows what he thinks
is gonna work for him he well I have
actually it is an interesting question
to think about because he believes in a
narrative of his election in which he
dominated the entire time so he thinks
to himself I got this that's like I have
a feeling that's what he thinks to him
yeah I think that's right
breaking news Donald Trump has walked
back his plan to nominate John Radcliffe
as DNI apparently doesn't want to expose
the congressman to months of liberal
slander I want to expose someone else to
that exactly bro flamingo brought up a
point that I wanted to mention to you
that I thought Bill de Blasio did very
well that I don't think he's going to be
apparent until until September October
and I think that was a one of those I
don't want to over credit de Blasio but
I think it was one of those I mean whose
leaders credit for candy
well I really I really wonder about this
because this came up after the first
night when John Delaney said he was for
TPP and I did a little asking around
afterwards and and trying to find out
what what Joe Biden is said about TPP
because obviously it was all in when
Donald Trump was there and he had been a
little bit wishy washy on it mm-hmm and
Bill DeBlasio I think set the hook
because put aside the salience of trade
in the context of the democratic debate
I don't think trade I don't I think it's
too muddled for it to become but the one
thing that is clear that is clear is
Donald Trump will take the TPP and beat
Joe Biden into a pulp with it absolutely
I mean he ran on the TPP mm-hmm it and
every anybody who has any savvy about
politics knows that it hurt Hillary
Clinton and for the people who support
Joe Biden that is gonna be a liability
that they're gonna be aware of that it's
gonna be very very hard to justify I
mean I would hate to be a surrogate
going on CNN and having a you know
having this out there because I think
it's gonna come up in the next debate
mm-hmm
having it out there and saying like what
is what is Joe Biden gonna say when when
Donald Trump says he wants to bring back
the TPP and I killed it yeah yeah I mean
well Joe Biden's gonna bring it back
with a better later provision I'll bring
I'll bring it back but good it'll be
good this time
right III think that's gonna be a big
liability in his claim all right we got
time for one more call and then I got to
get out of here come from a four seven
eight area code who's this where you
calling from
that's insane different sources we got
from Georgia you are the final caller of
the week sir fantastic
hey Walter I miss my dog I guess I'm
free to chew all over this weekend man I
don't know this but you know fortune
favors bones so I would hate to pull
myself the chair of the vice
presidential election attorney
nomination President of the United
States their Idol
Pula neighbors also likes to bounce now
all right your wait a second your uh
your phone's breaking up a little bit
are you saying that you're pulling my
vice-presidential yes yes sir I'm sorry
is that is that better of a walker
Kitchener fetches better
yes I've assembled a vice presidential
selection committee to try to pick a
candidate it really propel you through
to victory 2020 I got something real
good for you okay listen it brings
racial balance oh talking about
libertarian you're talking about in the
libertarian erase okay I see yeah Livni
he's constitutionally eligible it brings
regional balance to the ticket he's on
record as being a strong supporter of
hentai for regular people which
libertarians look he's strongly anti
drug enforcement strongly anti criminal
justice right in a true to change
fashion I've chosen myself Sam I think
I'll make it as for London you I think I
suppose bring a lot to your campaign to
your ticket I'm ready to deliver the
state of Georgia to your freaks and it
will have me listed I've got enough it
going on right now criss cross the
nation
listen I tell people about our crusade
to you know both the Polish driver's
license and also Medicare for all with
somehow we're going to ruin it all that
in and in you know I know it sounds like
a tough road saying but libertarians you
know this and I know this because I've
been watching your channel for years
they're not that smart they're easy to
trick we can do this thing we can do
this we should flip jump we can flee
patient list every faith they are worth
birth listen I appreciate your
enthusiasm but I'm gonna need to see the
vetting file because I have a feel that
there may be some issues tailpipes
perhaps a big family I was just I just
do a favor probably you
you'll give
I have second thoughts I will indeed
give it even maybe more than that maybe
two seconds also I am podcast it exists
it's called the district okay Jeff from
Georgia folks check it out visit in
peasant available at on iTunes or
wherever your podcasts are served
Alex preen as always a pleasure I hope
people are reading you at the new
republic yeah I certainly a.m. yeah and
anything else you want to plug huh you
going on tour you have a sub stack no I
know I you know I mean to start well but
I'm kind of lazy there you go all right
folks we'll see you on Monday
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
