so Sarah in the last segment you
basically walked us through the more or
less the tick-tock that I believe was
and there was a lot of credit for you
know the Democratic politicians holding
the caucus together not caving on the on
the government shutdown but when you
issued a press release basically saying
on that Friday is the head of the flight
attendants Union Mitch McConnell I hope
you can hear us now something to that
effect on paraphrase we have do we have
your attention now and you did and
quickly things turned around the
government reopened and when I think
there were threats coming from Donald
Trump and the Republican Party to shut
it down again you folks were out there
again saying we are prepared not to
waste any time this time around so let
me ask you this in that context do you
sense I mean you know this your union's
action comes in the wake of a lot of
strikes that have been happening in the
education sector we have seen teachers
unions and teachers associations flex
the the muscle of labor in this country
in a way we haven't seen I think it
really I mean in such a broad way in in
decades I've had the opportunity to talk
to teachers unions heads who all told me
to a person we're gonna use this power
more we didn't realize really in many
respects that we had it and we were too
we left this power to dormant do you
have a sense that there's something
changing in the way that labor perceives
itself in this country yes well I think
whether labor gets it or not the average
American has had enough the rubber grant
band is breaking all over the country
and you take those teacher strikes for
example you know the teachers have the
support of their entire communities
that's because everything centers around
around education if there's not good
education in the your school district
the businesses that are we're trying to
attract to that air
you are not going to want to come
because they are going to do an
assessment of whether or not the
employees that they have can put their
kids into good schools everything is
connected and what we're starting to see
is that there is a commonality in the
experience of the American worker
whether it is a public or private job
pensions have been gutted and there is a
continued attack on the remaining
attention there has been more and more
moved to Wall Street instead of
reinvesting in companies and working for
the good of those companies to succeed
and sharing in the success with the
employees more and more is given in
stock buybacks to Wall Street and in
executive bonuses and this is the same
this is the same narrative happening
across the country you see that right
now there's an attack on health care and
an inability to have even a conversation
about climate change and how that's
affecting all of us and people are sick
and tired of Washington not working of
Wall Street trying to take all of the
profits and productivity that this
American the American workers are
turning out and and people are seeing a
commonality here and the old tactics of
dividing people through racism and
sexism people are setting wise up and
see that those work bosses tactics and
we have to come together as workers and
stand up and use our power because we do
have power you know when I start first
started talking about our union with
holding our service the first question I
got was where what are the pilots going
to do well that was maybe a sexist
question it was maybe an idea that only
some workers have power some workers
have more power than others and in a
very short time that question went away
and you know mad respect for my friends
in the flight deck and we coordinated a
lot of work on this but the reality is
that flight attendants had enough power
to shut the system down and people
started to realize that and so workers
have incredible
however when they come together and
exercise that power together and in a
time when that can also be recognized by
the public as part of something for the
public good we're in a good position to
exercise that power as workers and fight
for our country for our democracy fight
for good healthcare fight for good green
jobs with good labor protections and
good jobs for people not just green we
can really make some strides here and
and workers can flex their muscle to
really fix what's wrong with this
country you know I think just the the
biggest change I think that I think
we're seeing in the in the union
movement is that union leaders like
yourself are talking about issues that
are not specific to your union members
that ones that are shared across the
community and but with that said we got
two minutes left so I want to hear also
about what's happening in terms of
frontier this is an airline which seems
to have like consistently underpaid its
flight staff what what's happening with
just about a minute and a half left here
what's happening on that front yeah so
frontier we were successful in getting
in a contract and we were successful
because frontier flight attendants
turned out a 99 percent strike wrote and
they were out there picketing and making
it very clear that they were willing to
make good on that strike vote and we
were able to negotiate a contract the
terms of which are not going to be
released until later this week but that
will be life-changing and dramatically
and grant improves the pay the working
conditions and the benefits for frontier
flight attendants and this is going to
finally make Frontier pay when they have
pocketed massive profits off the flight
attendants backs for years based on a
bankruptcy and an inability to or a
refusal to get to the table and
negotiate terms that were competitive
with the rest of the industry so we just
made them pay by flight and standing up
and saying that they were willing to use
their power together to fight back we
just have about 30 seconds left but I'm
curious when you as a as a union leader
you have a successful a threat of a
strike and it turns out this successful
what what does it do for the rest of the
Union in terms of like you know a
loading forbear for the next fight well
look you know sometimes you have to beat
it out of them sometimes they have to
just remember the beating they're going
to take if they don't deal with you
fairly and what we find is that with
power comes responsibility
what we have seen is a respect that
comes from management and an ability to
work together better than ever before
and that's the result when you stand
together and you use your power you're
going to get results and you're going to
have them remember what happens if they
step out of line Sarah Nelson thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it
