[Music]
look yeah Amazon announced today that
they are pulling out of New York City
Amazon is reporting out from the New
York Times Amazon said on Thursday that
it was canceling plans to build oh yeah
dude
I don't even remember though what was
the hotline bling' skua died oh no I
know this is the one where he does this
right okay okay amazon has canceled
you
goodbye peace you're not gonna make our
subway system even worse than it already
is
Long Island City is saved Sorry
know you that I've already bought oh
sorry oh that's a shame what if there's
a return policy oh yeah hmm maybe we can
use your base tip to pay off the condo
that you bought not so prime real estate
now is it organizing works people
organizing works it was an incredible
testament though to the passing of the
baton to like real progressive forces
like Bill de Blasio's done some really
good things he's done some really bad
things I you know I I totally in the
elections where he was up I'm glad I
voted for him but uh him going up there
talking about the synergy between Amazon
and a housing project I mean some of the
most disturbing a ridiculous dystopian
nonsense from any public official in our
country and of course we all know what
Andrew Cuomo is so this is a great
victory for New York it's a great
victory for labor organizing and I hope
other cities will take a late age out of
this like no I mean Amazon is is a we'll
get to that in a second Amazon is a
structural danger to the well-being of
the country labor forces supply chains
I actually love a point that quarry pine
made which was like you need to have
more friction than what Kazan provides
you need to be willing to wait an extra
day the the human cost of frictionless
delivery like that is innately abusive
to people and Amazon I mean you know
that's the bigger point the the sort of
also very significant point obviously is
the notion of giving this not only
usually profitable but like you know
potentially the most structurally
dangerous monopolies of our time
additional money to bribe them to come
here to drive up rents and make this
city even more gentrified and clog up
our public transportation because of
course there's no money that's gonna get
pumped into subways we're gonna use that
for a helipad is just I mean well it was
to be let me let me not be as as
polemical it was extraordinarily
short-sighted policymaking which takes
us to this tweet because Bakari sellers
I just want to get this I don't really
know who bark Ari sellers is frankly I
know that he's a pundit and a former
politician I know that he supports
Hillary Clinton and he seems to get into
a lot of beef with with Bernie people on
Twitter and I'm I'm not really I'm not I
don't ride on that stuff that much I
mean it's obviously where I stand but I
don't really see a need to sort of fight
with people about these things every
five seconds but um and and what I've
seen him on TV he seems like a nice guy
and certainly when he's paired up
against a Republican you know he's good
that being said on just a relentless a
supporter of the anything Israel wants
anytime anywhere anyplace variety which
is always why it's a decent idea to see
him with his picture of shmuly bought a
ik and so and just you know again to be
clear like Elie Wiesel unfortunately
towards the end of his life said some
really despicable things in defense
of Israeli atrocities in Gaza Eli Wiesel
is also a Holocaust survivor personally
and he wrote some really good books and
you know like he still is it was an
important figure in our national
discourse one that should and needed to
be critiqued but like just as a contrast
I mean schmuely both haic I mean he's a
right-wing nothing I don't even
understand how he gets into all of these
pictures with Bakari sellers and Steve
Bennett I know that he was Michael J
literally was Michael Jackson's rabbi
that is why he is in national
consciousness so car resellers you know
I mean obviously that that part of his
record is bad and now we look at this
which is this totally lame-ass tweet and
I'm wondering if he's looking for some
type of consulting or lobbying contract
here because Pocari sellers tweets out
at 11:58 a.m. today opposing Amazon in
NYC was very short-sighted and what's
extraordinary though is that it's just
the absolute inverse of true because you
know I held no I had no beef honestly
with labor unions that were like hey
this is gonna happen let's get some good
building trades jobs you know the truth
is for working people obviously things
are incredibly tight and that's an
understandable perspective but one that
I would say and I and I'm in no right to
say what their decision should be in
that sense as a non-union person but I
could sell you as an objective political
analyst that's a short-sighted move
because if Amazon comes into the city
it's going to have a huge structural
undermining effect of what remnants
remain of the middle and working class
in this city and it's an anti-union
company and there's no doubt that that
is gonna have a spillover effect with
the oligarchy of New York City a far you
know a corporate right-wing Democratic
governor so Bakari sellers um with the
opposite day tweet of the week this is
just billionaires being babies again as
Howard Schultz being pissed because
Seattle won't build a new
arena for the Sonics so he moves him and
this is Bezos being like well we wanted
to help the community so much but only
if you give us all the and give me
a helipad and then subsidize our 100k
Plus salaries for people to move here
yeah sellers is a pro-business Democrat
he was on a panel with Sam at a
politican and he was definitely right of
everyone on there but I think the
problem is him coming from like a rural
South Carolina background it's like yet
no businesses want to go there we have
to do everything we could incentivize
them to go here right and but we're
talking about New York City and giving
away three billion dollars in tax
credits to build this thing like it's
completely unnecessary that's totally no
that's actually a really good point that
does that I'm sure that that frames his
perspective and I and that's fair that's
a big American divide too right I mean
there's a there's a viral review of
Olive Garden that came out in Grand
Forks North Dakota when I was in college
because this woman's like we got an
Olive Garden to finally come here and
that is it like I remember getting
excited about like certain sporting
goods stores no dude even growing up in
rural Massachusetts I mean you know and
it was different but because there was
big fluctuations within a pretty small
geographic area so there was definitely
like middle-class college town types of
people that can support a bunch of nice
like coffee shops and independent
bookstores they don't want big-box
stores but then there also was you drove
for it he you know minutes out I mean
there was real there was some like legit
rural poverty and of course people
wanted a Walmart built but I think yeah
I mean yeah that's a very astute point
with Bakari but it's also like what I
love about this too and the tantrum that
Amazon's throw I mean first of all
obviously we're dodging a bullet here
but it's also like what's awesome is
that they've gotten such pull back push
back that they need to take their ball
and go home and have this little hissy
fit when of course as we point out in
the beginning this whole thing of like
all these cities across America are
gonna compete for us I mean this
horrifying like feudalistic Hunger Games
thing was also extraordinarily
because you know they picked DC metro
area and New York places they clearly
want to be so another what's it's very
funny about this actually is that if
Amazon wasn't short-sighted and if
Amazon wasn't so goddamn relentlessly
greedy they could have just said we're
opening in New York City and we're not
gonna try to like steal three billion
dollars and throw away your tax money
for it like we're gonna come here we're
gonna cause more gentrification we're
gonna clog the public transit system
we're gonna be obviously horrible
corporate citizens and make New York
suck even more but we don't have to do
the cherry on top of taking three
billion dollars out of the state budget
that could be spent on like anything
else of better use because they did that
they got this great pushback and now
they have to whine and you RunAs what's
hilarious is that they clearly want it
to be here so it makes it all the more
hotline bling another great thing is and
very pedantic as well but it Cuomo is
still Amazon Cuomo still am ia big deal
still still Amazon Cuomo and it's a
tough deal
