Mehdi Hasan he's on what is it AJ you're
dreaming or English English Global News
and is this the one that's exclusively
online or sits online and I can't
remember I think they are available in
some cable packages so Mehdi Hasan has
on Steve Rogers who is a an advisor on
the Board of Advisors I guess to Donald
Trump's 2020 campaign best people and
you know it just he wasn't prepared for
the questions that were about stuff the
president lives daily multiple times
when he says we're the only country in
the world where a person comes in and
has a baby and that baby is essentially
citizen the United States is that true
or false
no it's what it's a misstatement that
means that ok ok he said there were
riots going on in California against
illegal immigrations and so-called
sanctuary cities where there any riots
in California oh yes there were a lot of
silver servants in California there was
there were street skirmishes in Los
Angeles a spokesman for the California
police chiefs Association says there was
no there were no riots taking place as a
result of sanctuary city policy there
were no riots he just made it up when he
was asked to say where they were he said
go look for them I can give you many
more he said during the campaign that
there's six to seven steel facilities
that are going to be opened up there are
no US Steel has not announced any
facilities why did he say they've
announced new facilities that's a lie
isn't it no it isn't because there are a
lot of companies offering up there are
steel facilities that are going to be
opening up all right he said I know it's
difficult for you I don't you want to
try and offend them is it difficult let
me read the quote to you US Steel just
announced that they're building six new
steel mills that's a very specific claim
us still have not announced six new
steel mills they have said they've not
announced six new Stillman's there's no
evidence of six new stillness
he just made it up and he repeated it he
didn't just say once look I don't know
of what context these statements were
made but I could tell you this the
president of the and I said whatever
about to say is not true the US Steel is
opening up 60 that's the part they take
me out of here ready doesn't say that
what I said right before that is I wish
what I'm about to say we're so in an
ideal universe what I'm about to say
would be true now let's go ahead many
lies about thick journalists yes the
President of the United States has been
very responsive to the American people
and the American people are doing well
look at me Rogers lied and the president
can be a liar there's no contradiction
between those two statements all right I
am NOT gonna say the President of the
United States is a liar but I've just
put to you a multiple lies and you've
not been able to respond to any of them
let me ask you this I think I respond to
him what didn't happen is you didn't
hear what you wanted to hear what did I
want to hear I wanted to hear that there
are no steal know what may want didn't
hear me say no well let's go on I mean
you want to go on because you've know
it's a lie there is there anything
better than someone with a British
accent
yeah like pressing people on stuff like
that that's how most interviews should
be in the quote unquote liberal media
but the creepy part is they can get
caught in lies on lies and lies and it's
not going to change any of their
supporters minds not at all not at all
it is it will alienate like think clear
thinking people and alienate certain
people and in some ways it's like what
more the true thinking people who are
going around going like I wonder if
Donald Trump is a liar
I think the reason Republicans are so
unpopular generally is because this is
all they do and it just takes time for
people to catch up well I think there's
also that I think that's true - that's
actually chapter 5 of my blame the
voters book
