Donald Trump had a sort of non-event
addressed to the nation I think about
eight million people saw it cleaned up
in the ratings and he didn't say
anything it I mean of course he lied
fear monger he tried to work people up
into a lather with demagoguery and
dishonesty about immigration and
undocumented people but he didn't move
forward with some of the more
extravagantly crazy plans that we've
been hearing he might move forward with
still might still by never know but this
shutdown continues and again this
shutdown was essentially and some
respects came out of nowhere I mean the
Senate unanimously passed a bill to keep
government going Trump was all set to
sign it and then apparently word from
people like Rush Limbaugh and Ann
Coulter the other core leaders of the
Republican Party got to trump about you
know where's the wall
and so Trump all of a sudden threw a
tantrum and sure we've been for about
thirty days and of course it's affected
some real people's lives like government
workers and it will start to seriously
broadly affect people's lives and
implicates essential programs like food
stamps which of course Republicans are
always trying to gut regardless but you
know this is a time where obviously
Trump is going into overdrive with lies
and bloviating he's really boring when
he's scripted which is one of the
reasons that his address even though it
was fun we live streamed it on TMDs made
fun of it you can check it out on our
youtube channel as well as Bernie's
response which was good but it was
boring
Trump is definitely boring it's boring
you've been boring Trump's particular
form of being an is much better
off the cuff here he is yesterday we
don't have barriers walls call them what
you want but if we don't have very
strong barriers where people can not any
longer drive right across there
unbelievable vehicles they make a lot of
money they have the best
you can buy them stronger bigger and
faster vehicles that our police happen
and ice has and then Border Patrol has
so they're pretty good at that
they have areas that they go to it's
like a highway and we have to close them
up and we don't close them up you're all
kidding yourself
Wow you know what this is mind-blowing
because I might have to issue a mockery
retraction here but I that actually was
sort of like a pathetically steamrolling
over the truth there because his heart
really wasn't in it now matt has a
theory about this which involves a good
piece of pop culture Matt so Ken clip
enstein everyone knows him at TYT does a
lot of a freedom of information yes
great journalist he's not the only one
in this sort of circle that does
couldn't do freedom of information stuff
so I was able to find the dossier Steven
Miller prepared for Trump to help him to
help influence his decision in this and
we have a little bit of it here tonight
so groundbreaking reporting here from
Matt luck from the EM our team go ahead
so exist daily so who so Trump saw this
he was like oh my god I had no idea was
so bad Trump if they showed this to
Trump and all this was happening at the
border he would literally be hiding
under the Oval Office desk he does such
an extreme panic attack
you get general mattis to come back in
general mattis cut that please I'm sorry
I was so rude I'm sorry that I told him
that his daughter looked fat please
somebody protect me please oh my god
there are really those moments we just
like this guy there aren't how many
world leaders are there right now that
are you know there's plenty that are as
you know I mean they're all in the same
vein I mean I don't know bolsa Nara was
kind of dumb in some ways but I'm not
talking about morality or politics right
I mean err Diwan is authoritarian
fascist he's an enemy but he's smart you
know he knows how to operate how many
other are there other people that are
just analogous in terms of really just
and I'm sorry to go donut Twitter here
but I mean a guy she really as he's
I mean look at other Republican
presidents there's W obviously also not
as ridiculous Ronald Reagan may have
been influenced by first encounters or
what does that movie think counters of
yeah counters nurse Encounters of the
Third Kind its we yeah yeah but he was
also influenced by I think was The Day
the Earth Stood Still which is why all
of a sudden he became really great arms
control yeah that's dumb yeah it's super
dumb reason to be dumb but like it would
be cool Trump watch like Space Jam or
something and supported civil rights
after it that would be like analogy no
aliens there's still a lien there to be
funny in their talent everybody at Trump
or Trump watch like I don't know like
like some like eco video that Michael
Jackson put out in the early 90s there's
like whoa gonna do something with
deforestation cause the monkeys in the
forest folks I just saw Coco and let me
tell you
they're good people I had almost cried
almost cried it was bad stuff I mean
that was what Reagan watched Day the
Earth Stood Still and he's like kid
Mikhail Gorbachev on the phone that
looks super bad and also Ares is a
sentient Nancy tells me so if we don't
do something the whole balance of the
Cosmo news could be put into question
all right folks
