now speaking of where Abby Huntsman and
Megan McCain if they're curious might
get some decent information on what's
really happening with the racial nature
of that 42 percent of craziness that
support this wall Tucker Carlson would
be a great place to start now there's
this whole broader argument about how do
you respond to when tucker carlson makes
a point that's right that's generic
about financialization about capitalism
or even sometimes about intervention now
my point has always been well
unfortunately you got to look at the
broader context and you got to look at
what he's really smuggling in with those
arguments which are almost always
xenophobia and bigotry and not
redistribution and even in a military
sense and even in an intervention sense
almost all of his content seems to me
has been just trying to sort of clean up
an Assad image as an example I don't see
a broader anti-war effort there and let
me give you a contrast if Tucker Carlson
was really serious about this anti
interventionist agenda I actually know I
read profile Tucker Carlson several
years ago where he said some things
about Iran that you would not expect to
hear from a right-wing pundit it Tucker
Carlson was really on any anti
interventionist game he would be
pounding the Trump administration and
the Republicans for destroying the Iran
deal and for uh trying to foment
conflict with Iran he would be throwing
at mate maybe he did comments on the
report to John Bolton asked to draw up
plans to bomb Iran maybe he did but that
would be a nightly topic in fact
obviously we're so overwhelmed that we
haven't covered that nearly enough that
was appalling horrifying of course you
could talk about intervention in Syria
and critique it but look at the context
look at the fascism he smuggles in when
he talks about real economic issues and
if he was really into a global
or push he would be putting every single
public official unnoticed almost all of
whom right now in the Republican Party
but certainly Democrats and certainly
golf and Israeli lobbying groups that
he's gonna be the voice in far-right
media for the Iran deal you know that
would be something that would be real
and I frankly wouldn't have anything to
say about it I would have to get I would
I would tip my hat every single segment
if that was the case but ain't there
another thing that people are really
fixated on is this Russia thing and I
think that maybe in this office we might
have the least interest in the Russia
story of anybody because I'm not
interested in obsessively debunking it
the way some people seem to be and I
certainly don't know it might be a
relatively unimportant story relative to
everything going on in the world and the
only way to really understand it to the
extent that's real is another question
of oligarchy and influence-peddling and
we'll see that's really the other bottom
line we're gonna see the guys gonna
write his report we'll see there's very
little to talk about before they got
Kremlinology about it is just a waste of
time we'll see we'll see
now look I have no problem using I think
to the effect that the extent has been
used to hurt Trump that's great I have
no problem with it
I think Senate's been used to actually
try to have a seriously intensified
hostile relationship with Russia that's
a problem
although incidentally I would say to
other people were constantly you know
sort of freaking out about this well you
know Trump stepping out of and talking
about reigniting a new arms race is
actually way more important than a
couple of targeted sanctions I hope
people are aware of that which I don't
necessarily support either and in fact I
would have voted against the Russia
sanction package because there was an
Iran sanctions package in it as well and
the Iran deal is way more important than
this so all that being said look at
Tucker Carlson coming up with the most
incredible reason to oppose the green
New Deal and I thought he was a
anti-war voice might be one way I've
heard put he might also encourage the
u.s. to adopt a self-destructive energy
policy you'd have the American
government sharply restrict the
exploration of oil and natural gas in
the name of the environment
so that America produces less energy why
would you do that because global energy
prices would rise and the US would have
to import more who would that benefit
Russia a Petro state their economy is
dependent on energy but Trump and this
is weird behavior for a secret Russian
agent has done just the opposite of that
the United States for the first time in
my lifetime is an energy exporter in
fact it's the largest producer of oil
and gas in the world is that good for
Russia no it's not who's pushing the
opposite oh weirdly it's the left
they're the ones pushing a green new
deal that would have this country
shutting down oil and gas wells across
the nation huh someday we're going to
look back in shame and confusion and
wonder how so many supposedly smart
people went completely off the deep end
there's some truth to that last part and
but that truth is going to be a quite
broadly spread and talked about and it's
also going to include a trust-fund baby
err cynical media commentators who
attempted to Midwife fascism in the
United States that might be part of a
broader group of people who went off of
the quote-unquote deep end now look
Trump hits this talking point all the
time and everybody who knows that the
questions about Russia and what Trump
may or may not be doing about Russia
don't result don't revolve around energy
questions they revolve around questions
about his aides around business steals
around why he doesn't want the
conversations he had with Putin to be
available even for his own advisers
right and again I say this somebody's
really not particularly interested in
this at the moment till we know more
information and then there's the other
point that goes back and I forget the
name of the guy he was on the show a
couple of months after Trump won and
he's an energy guy and he said look this
is an energy administration and even if
superficially there's a conflict with
Russia these are the inner Saudi Arabia
Russia the United States they want to
keep expanding drilling and powering
forward with the petrol economy
damning all ecological and survival of
human species implications right so if
they're teamed up on these broader
questions of blocking a fundamental
change to the energy economy and don't
forget that all of these main energy
economy companies are global operators
that profit off of energy deals across
the world it's in a global market that's
the proper way of looking at it versus
these small scale stories about energy
exports which aren't particularly
significant to begin with and of course
god forbid our you know who would ever
even want to bring this up you know
destroying our ability to survive as a
species and harming the United States
right now well and to talk about
changing the government wanting to
change our energy you know policies or
infrastructure fracking itself was a
Department of Energy invention basically
that's where the research and
development came for it you can find
that that's on energy gov right um so
like the idea that you wouldn't also use
the government to say hey maybe we
should like start producing the out
of solar panels or wind like of course
you do that of course nicely it's not it
this should not be a no-brainer and you
can even do like that's the whole like
Tom Friedman style like I would never
frame it in these terms not the point
but you could say like yeah we need to
be it and you know look it's not the
point
ultimately but actually in a narrow
sense it might be if you're running for
a campaign for president it might be we
need to take over China's leaving us in
the dust when it comes to things like
solar panels and breakthroughs in
battery and other innovative
energy-efficient technologies so instead
of despoiling what remains of our
natural ecosystems to score small points
on a midsize regional economic power
maybe we should be trying to figure out
how to incentivize us keeping up with
the next phase of industrial development
which is sustainable energy which China
for all of its unbelievable problems in
the environment is leading us on but I
thought he was you know opposed to that
sort of any competition with Russia
