[Music]
good news folks
we have cracked the code I know there's
a lot of people who send their their
kids to college and they worry because
of all sorts of things and you know for
modern parents one of the things you
worry about my kid had a lockdown drill
the other day is it's the idea of a
shooter coming in and killing people
well a lot of people say we should
probably curtail the number of guns and
the type of guns and the type of
ammunition that people could buy that's
silly
when there is much more common-sense
solutions that are on the table
in fact at Oakland University in
Michigan law the gun lovers out in
Michigan fact I've shot some skeet out
there they've come up with a new plan
and here's Fox to tell us about it how
do you stop a bad guy with a gun a
college in Michigan says use a hockey
puck hockey coach for my kids when they
were growing up and getting hit in the
head with a hockey puck once and it hurt
the hockey puck fits really well into
your briefcase or your backpack it
doesn't roll around when you're taking
out your books 800 pucks have been sent
to Oakland University faculty members in
case of a potential active shooter
another 1700 will go to student can we
get the music as well cannot be real
that cannot be real did we do a double
check on this got a good deal on somehow
honestly I know it's on Fox but maybe
they got hoodwinked well no maybe I mean
the hood Joaquin is gonna be is Fox is
not bi if that's not like the yes-men or
something like that
that just feels like to me it's a yes
men I think it's a Michigan hockey puck
manufacturer it is that the idea that
that is the response to the gun crisis
like you would do more to actually
inhibit the chances of having a shooting
event at that campus by simply like
holding a protest and saying that we
should we should have more gun control
like that like talk about butterfly
wings the the idea that someone's going
to take the hockey puck out and throw it
well they say it's very easy to carry
around with you but I gotta say if I'm
preparing to save myself from a mass
shooting with hockey pucks I'm gonna
carry more than one no because you're
not ever gonna be in a moment thinking
that guy's got a gun unfortunately in my
pocket I have a hockey count thank you I
don't want to throw it at it oh well you
don't yell like I was a pitcher you know
what they say you should always bring a
puck to a gunfight
exactly but no they say you should
honestly a puck I'm very confident about
my throwing arm that looks like a
medieval sort of know I have this shot
in case we have an open shooter in the
studio and I'm just gonna throw it at
their head and believe me
this'll hurt I mean wow can't be real I
mean maybe we're being a bit too
judgmental imagine if a kid pulled a gun
out in a classroom and every single
student through hockey puck at them at
that moment all right it sounds cool
you'd probably lose two or three kids
yeah maybe two or three but you would
probably take that guy out then you can
go play huh okay I'm being informed that
NPR is reporting on this as well I no
joke no I know
Brendon just so bright in here that I'm
sorry so that's wow I can't believe
that's real it could in resourceful it
could be a yes-men thing it could be
