[Music]
this is just too too good
the as you know AOC introduced the green
new deal with Ed Mackey now a couple of
weeks ago and it is it has been the
focal point I think of the of CPAC which
is the conservative I didn't even know
what the name of it is now
political action committee should be
action committee but it's just not it's
just it is some conference with with
conservatives that we're gonna pack it's
not a pack it's just a copy Woodstock
and but the thing is it's gotten more
boring as the years have gone on in part
because it's no longer shocking the and
I will say this you know we may cover a
couple a couple of clips from it that
are interesting but used to cover CPAC
quite a bit on this show and even on the
radio program you know over a decade ago
and it was always like oh well we get
some pushback why are you just covering
the freaks and now they're boring
because the President of the United
States basically is a half a step ahead
of these people diamond and silk opened
the CPAC and the other standing ovations
there you go I mean that's not even a
joke no it's it's I mean look it's been
just as bad in the past it Scheffer just
like dominance of course they did of
course they did they've been brought in
to testify in front of Congress by by
Republicans on you know D platforming
they bringing in their performance I
mean did you hear that that song they
wrote about Cory Booker sounds like one
I might actually like it was about
eating meat one of them beatboxed
because he's a vegetarian he's a vegan
which is very triggering for them and
they performed this number on their Fox
streaming show and Cory Booker does have
like you guys see it well I'm glad you
mentioned vegan and it being triggering
because
Fox & Friends the F&F viewers weigh in
on the green new deal
they have assembled a crew of Fox and
Friends viewers to comment on the green
new deal and who is this host I don't
know who she is
oh okay I just have never seen her not
you know like up and walking seedy
between yeah there's never been an on a
hole named Ainsley I would imagine that
in the the proportion of Ainsley a holes
is pretty pretty one tripping Ainsley
alright but here she is and for the life
of me we have we've gone over this tape
multiple times cannot figure it out Gary
our farmer friend I see you shaking your
head what are you thinking about Gary
many environmentalists lots of points I
now understand that there are two types
of farmers
there's one that realized like hey
climate change is going to fundamentally
threaten what I do because I can't move
my property
I can't move my land and there is
already there already if you know
anything about growing zones in this
country in New York we live New York
State largely a five the growing zone
five in just the past fifteen years we
have like slid into like a five point
five growing zone in this in this region
so if you're a farmer you're a little
bit concerned because of of what this
means for your future ability to raise
crops or on the other hand you're just
upset because the EPA doesn't allow you
to use basically Agent Orange
many environmentalists and OAC being one
of them do not realize that America is
covered in Gras just one second
incidentally OAC is not a thing I like
how he's dressed like he's going to a
Mad Men cosplay convention why is he so
dressed up yeah he went to the Banana
Republic Mad Men OAC I think he meant
Deo super good Oh AC being one of them
do not realize that America is covered
in grass and 75% of a cow or a beef
animal's body weight is made up of grass
which we cannot eat so we would be
eliminating a livelihood a huge portion
of America or United States anyway and
their production of beef thank you all
for your comment they were so excited to
talk to the farmer and he made
absolutely no sense first off I would
also refute the idea of that he has a
full understanding of what constitutes a
cow in the context of the American meat
market because the one of the biggest
problems is that a huge percentage of
our cows don't eat grass as their
primary feed why there's grass-fed
exactly that's why grass-fed is such a
unique product because the bastard thing
this guy for not reading Michael Pollan
well I mean he's a farmer and he
obviously is not aware that the vast
amount of so-called farming when it
comes to livestock in this country is
our corn-fed everything about Fox News
is elder abuse on some level it's
unbeliev by them but what's his argument
that there's so much grass that without
the cows to eat the grass what are we
gonna do not make that grasp turn into
cows that it will make a lot of cows
unemployed it will I believe them
reading comprehensible totally
incomprehensible but but sort of funny
all right well let's turn to the to the
hearings this week
