there are two separate issues that are
not mutually exclusive but there are
separate issues in terms of how we deal
with them and and where are the the sort
of the choke points for these these
issues one is that that came up this
week one is the is gun control and we
made the point that this is not a Donald
Trump phenomenon this is a Republican
phenomena the the inability for this
country regardless of how many
six-year-olds are killed
how many country-western music fans are
killed
how many Latinos are killed at a
shopping mall
how many revelers going out to a club
are killed and in Florida or in Ohio or
people in a movie theater the and how
many people die by their own hand and
committing suicide these are all
problems that can be laid on the right
at the doorstep of Mitch McConnell
frankly in the Republican Party and we
will never be able to deal with it until
they do not have the ability to stop
this legislation which means that they
cannot hold one of the two houses of
Congress nor the presidency the second
issue is of course the white supremacy
and you wrote about that quite a bit in
your second piece at salon this week
let's talk about that and how it plays
into this culture of grievance well I
think I mean I think the one thing the
one point I wanted to make about all
this is that I think that there I'm
hopeful maybe not hopeful is not the
right word but I feel like there may be
a chance this confluence of white
supremacist ideology terrorism and then
the gun issue all kind of you know
surrounding Trump and the Republicans it
may end up you know maybe that will
bring this to a head I mean maybe I'm
just being naive here but it seems to me
like there's something that has
Bend's when you see that the it become
explicitly political as it was in El
Paso as it was with the Tree of Life
synagogue and Christ Church in New
Zealand and you're seeing this sort of
ideology sort of coalesce around going
in and shooting people I mean they're
terrorists
their method of terrorism is to use
these you know these automatic or
semi-automatic weapons to kill mass
numbers of people and it strikes me and
I thought maybe that this would be a
moment when you would see maybe some
kind of recognition among the American
people that that something has actually
shifted in a way that is even more
dangerous than it was before and it was
already horrifying the body count is it
is absolutely horrifying and to that
extent I think that Donald Trump he is
certainly encouraging and abling white
supremacy but there's also something
about his personality in general which I
think we can apply to this idea of
grievance and vengeance I mean that is
what he ran on he ran on the idea that
it's a violent world and the only way
that we can that we can survive it is to
be violent in return I mean he said this
over and over again that he believes in
an eye for an eye he believes in getting
even this is his operating philosophy
and when you look at the profile the
personality profile of these mass
shooters they're very other thought
99.9% of them are men most of them are
white and most of them have this exact
same you know sort of operating
philosophy they are entitled they feel
that they've been unfairly treated and
they are out to get revenge I mean that
is Donald Trump and I think we have to
start you know I'm not going to talk
about toxic masculinity I'm no expert in
that particular thing but I will say
this if such a thing exists we have a
president who is an avatar of that
particular issue
[Music]
move from the misogyny to the racism to
the sense of entitlement to the to the
sense of grievance and to the answer for
that always being vengeance you must
he calls himself a quote counter puncher
and he does it to every single that he
never lets a criticism go by without
without reacting and I'm not saying that
he's been physically violent we hasn't
been but it's you know it's
disconcerting to think of the most
powerful man on earth having the same
kind of personality profile as many of
these people who feel they need to act
out violently
I mean this man has a tremendous amount
of power I am I
closed my piece in salon this past week
in talking about this with you know a
deep concern that Trump will decide he
needs to get even with somebody and he
has the power to do it in ways that we
don't even want to think about yeah I
mean it's it's disturbing on both ends
of this right
it's disturbing on the Trump end it's
disturbing on the general population end
I mean I I frankly I think largely what
you are describing this sense of
grievance the sense of entitlement
is really at the core of a conservative
worldview and it's it just feels like
more and more of the Republican Party is
getting closer and closer to that core
and that it does not bode well for the
country at least in the short and
midterm hopefully it's okay in the long
term where it looks a little bit less
rosy for the Republicans but one can
only hope we got to take a break let's
continue this conversation and talk more
in the next hour
Digby we'll see you then in the meantime
we'll take a quick break we'll be right
back with more during a fire radio
