[Music]
wait what was that the BuzzFeed thing
yeah Bernie is Bernie's making this this
is look Bernie is so honest right now
about a month ago BuzzFeed news union we
shared news about our progress toward
recognition of our union but since then
the company has dragged its feet and
failed to address some of our most
pressing concerns
it's now been 112 days since we went
public the BuzzFeed and Bernie Murray
tweeted this with a comment let's not
forget the middle class was built by
organize later I'm very concerned to see
the buds feed still hasn't recognized
the union formed by its newsroom
employees our workplace democracy Act
will put an end to corporations getting
away with these stalling tactics I mean
this is so much of of unionization is
the process is stymied by administrative
issues and so much of this can be
addressed on some level with just the
National Labor Relations Board but also
legislation that basically just changes
the methodology in which people unionize
and you don't need to come out with the
legislation that says you know unions
are automatic or unions are prohibited
to have to to basically dictate the
destiny of of unionization I mean the
one of the things about the taft-hartley
Act that makes it so difficult to
unionize are these sort of like
artificial roadblocks that are put up
there and things that sort of create a
structural context that weaken the union
movement in this country and they have
been exacerbated over time the the we're
going to have I think I'm not sure when
they come up National Labor Relations
Board appointees but at one point it's
possible I think maybe even in this term
I'm not sure Donald Trump is gonna be
able to appoint and have a majority
Republicans on there again
and then forget it this is going to be a
crap show
