[Music]
oh yeah yeah and you were a cheater
stuff is at the deal stand what they
thought about it
[Music]
makes me furious
[Music]
so you're not allowed to make fun of
anybody ever bad deal should have never
been thought up every day
casual Friday that means Monday is
casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat the majority
report with sam cedar
[Laughter]
it's Friday November 16 2018 my name is
Michael Brooks on a Michael Friday this
is the five-time award-winning majority
report all we do is win broadcasting
live steps from the industrial ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
casual Friday joining us ana kasparian
she's a co-host for the Young Turks
Network we're talking about her thoughts
in the new Democratic House notes of
optimism hints of skepticism also we
need to get rid of Facebook we're gonna
talk about that and Chuckie Schumer
another thing that we need to get rid of
plus later on some people's favorite
podcaster didn't like when we criticized
has also gotten mixed up in the Facebook
mess told you Sarah why do we always get
predictions like that right vindicated
again always been decay we're such
 then what did you say chalk it
up chalk it up I said all we do is win
then David felt we should go back to a
map like the Holy map check out the map
oh look look at the bat look at the map
this is the majority reportedly was
trash and it turns out to be trash again
and again and again david feldman
brilliant writer comedian host of the
very good very informative very funny
david feldman show he's gonna be giving
us a movie recommendation talking about
comedy satire in politics he's been at
it for quite some time seeing better
O'Rourke and Ted Cruz in Texas while he
was there writing for arguably our
generations greatest comic triumph the
insult comic dog and we have stories to
get to in the fun half Carol Carol Katey
Porter is flipped another house seat in
California eisah I believe is gone best
as Stacey Abrams is pushing forward for
a new election
as Republicans work to steal that
governor's race in Georgia Florida
recount news continuing not looking
great for Bill Nelson and little man
races Ron de santis is the new governor
of Florida Republicans use a
congressional maneuver to get rid of
protections for wolves and support the
Trump administration and continuing the
ongoing war on Yemen conducted by Saudi
and the United Arab Emirates political
prisoner Luis Lula Lula da Silva was
seen in public for the first time
yesterday at a court in Qatar de teba
it is there as an attempt to pin new
even flimsier charges on him we have a
clip from him it's a little
heartbreaking folks as we will continue
our coverage of Brazil the Amazon scam
looks worse and worse as Ron Kim
Assemblyman in New York pushes for an
alternative in the state legislature
let's refer give over a million New
Yorkers student loans instead of giving
money to the wealthiest corporation in
the world all that plus bill de blasio
looking to privatize public housing as
he morphs in to Michael Bloomberg all
that and more on today's majority report
samantha is out of town
jamie is out of town so it's the so
three amigos why not
it's the Bernie bros it's the Bernie
brothers pure thought Bernie pretty
fried hey we wanted to start this Friday
off with some fun and what could what
did you say Brendon did you she said
what did you haven't you call this Steve
Doocy
and Sebastian Gorka in conversation I
think funds of bed some like PBS music
underneath it's like Steve Doocy and
Sebastian Koch I have a different bed
plan okay let's go for this according to
Senator Jeff Flake sending those troops
down to our southern border that's just
us
it was all for the election it was to
bolster the president what do you think
are we talking about Jeff irrelevant
flake why doesn't this guy you know he
is more lame-duck than the House of
Representatives right now all right
the mob deep sound is perfect but can we
just play that one more time for a clean
listen as to what his pager burn on Jeff
Flake just was all for the election it
was to bolster the president what do you
think are we talking about Jeff
irrelevant flake why doesn't this guy
just you know he is more lame-duck than
the House of Representatives right now
[Laughter]
he's like he's a senator who is retiring
so he's in the lame-duck and just like
the sessions of Congress between the
Congress's are referred to as the lame
duck I guess he's like other people that
are not coming back
so he's super duper lame duck
incidentally it's a stunt and a total
insult and waste of time to military
service members who were there actually
in really harsh conditions
as sort of a broader test plan for
authoritarianism terrorizing immigrants
is a the seriously Moyne that we would
like to add to that and you know there's
some and some were like it looks like
flake might be doing some actual things
with regards to some things on the Trump
agenda right but I don't really want to
hear about it until that stuff is done
until he's actually thrown until the
wrench has been thoroughly thrown in and
the machinations are completely gummed
up I don't want to hear anything from
that's exactly right you know a hundred
bucks can paint contribution to Doug
Jones like people act like this is
you're not Vaslav Havel you're not
Nelson Mandela buddy
you manage to endorse a right-wing
Democrat over a serially alleged
predator like what do you want a cookie
every everything that it's happening
right now with Trump all roads lead back
to a Chris Rock routine which white
people should have never listened to but
it always applies I think just like
these people like Jeff Flake want credit
for like things you're supposed to do I
think he said it was the best hundred
bucks he had ever spent
no really skip it yeah Wow
maybe tell it to your son yeah some of
these problems start at home Jeffy Jeff
Flake is laughing at you and he says
 like that he is he's laughing at
you he's laughing at us because of us
the guy got his start in politics
lobbying on behalf of I believe a mining
company against sanctions against
apartheid South Africa now you might say
that in contrast to say a Kris Kobach
who got his start in politics in 1980s
being like hmm what's the great
situation that white people have over in
South Africa I guess Jeff Flake is
better than that because I'm sure he
would say oh oh you know we learned a
lot Oh Nelson Mandela oh I saw that
Invictus movie with Morgan Freeman what
a great man but I mean Jesus Christ talk
about the soft bigotry of low
expectations with these people they all
suck and I don't understand the need
that people see if you're actually on
the flip side like people get pissed off
at like Bernie for saying that like he
was sad that McCain died as an example
it's like dude Bernie's a senator he has
to work with people and build
relationships okay so like he's not
gonna be on the Senate floor being like
unemployed of the lanyard class
patreon.com car but if you like this
content please like and subscribe and
the bonus episode me and my office are
gonna do a read from Frank Bruni latest
column
what a loser okay he doesn't do what we
do so like relax they're gonna say it's
sad that my colleague died but on the
flip side people who are on Twitter all
day with no need to cut deals with
anybody of relationships than anybody
like Jeff Flake is not your Savior daddy
Jeff Flake is a right-wing I hard
extreme far-right Republican as they all
are who has voted for every pertinent
piece of the Trump agenda and likes the
grandstand on TV occasionally and yes if
in the next couple of months if he
actually I don't even know what he could
do at this point it's the lame duck it's
already done you know if if McCain and
he and one other person that people
fantasized about year ago said were
caucusing with Democrats for a year and
we're just doing investigations on Trump
okay fair enough
there you go you can have your little
resistance wet dreams all day I'll be
like they're not doing that and it
it even and it's like I want to see it I
want you to have the receipts I want it
to be in the past
I want your accomplishments to be done
and accomplished indeed what he wants to
do is not confirm judges on the judicial
committee and he no need for
memorization he hasn't he'll bring them
to the McConnell can still bring these
people to the floor so it's an awesome
point yes it's another empty gesture
it's it's nonsense
he had it he had his vote if he killed
the Cavanaugh nomination even people
like me would have to say like you know
what the same with McCain McCain was
totally full of it ridiculous a nonsense
overpraise but he did that thumbs down
and it was grandstanding and he actually
if he knew he was gonna vote no he
should have just said it and not had
such people you know people are
literally sitting there to wait for this
guy's piece of theater wondering whether
they're gonna live or not my last hurrah
yeah but the truth is is he gave the
thumbs down so you know what and for
that day you had to say okay all right
you actually scuttled something that
would kill millions of people points on
the board alright thank you for like a
scratch of basic human decency
just make sure you do it well and you do
it with passion oh I think John McCain
did grant standing with a lot of passion
but I gotta say when every time I see
Megan McCain it's like whoa like it
makes me realize some of the talent and
capacity John McCain did have because it
clearly did not get transferred although
they're both pretty they were both
pretty messy and they both love drama
all right
we're gonna take a brief break and we're
gonna be back with the great ana
kasparian from the TYT Network joining
us I believe this is our first casual
Friday on the majority report we will be
right back
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Ana Kasparian she is the executive
producer and host for the Young Turks
Network ana thanks so much for being
here thanks for having me so Ana first I
want to talk a little bit about these
midterm results which actually look
better and better by the day for
Democrats in terms of Congress there's a
lot of signals taking place I mean
there's definitely this sort of
certainly everybody focuses on
Alexandria Acacio cortes but there's
also I would say Rashida to lib there
are several other people that are coming
into the house who are a lot of them are
women of color they're really strong
candidates there is actually a
contingent in the house to begin with
people who get less profile like say a
Jim McGovern or somebody like that who
are actually really quite progressive
and there's still you know obviously
Nancy Pelosi so I mean what basically do
you read this situation as positive
forward momentum or do you see it as
sort of like we're still kind of stuck
oh I definitely see this as positive
momentum and to be honest I was one of
the people in the press that
unfortunately on election night
minimized some of the progress that
we've made because the first result that
comes in is from Florida and to see
someone like DeSantis when you know I
mean of course there's this whole
recount effort going on so at least
election night it appeared that DeSantis
was definitely going to win and it was
depressing and so that kind of set the
tone for the rest of the night but as
things progressed and as you know more
ballots come in or the counts are more
accurate we realize that we've actually
made a tremendous amount of progress and
what I'm most excited about is what is
happening within the Democratic Party
and I don't think that that gets enough
positive attention I love the fact that
you mentioned some of the
members of Congress who were already
progressive Pramila
Primula Jaya Paul is another
congresswoman out of Washington and
she's fantastic really pushing for
Medicare for all and so I think that
what we're seeing right now will
fortunately push establishment Democrats
to the left I mean they have no choice
because these incoming Congress women
some of whom you mentioned are they're
not even waiting I mean we're in the
lame-duck session at this point and they
are not waiting to push for real change
and you know that was evident in a
protest that just took place in Nancy
Pelosi's office that was spearheaded by
Alexandria cross Neil Cortes and we're
also seeing it in this push for members
of Congress to vote on a
medicare-for-all bill next year early
next year yeah I think you're exactly
right and I think the other thing that's
really different now that people if they
take a little bit more of a historical
view can be a little bit more optimistic
now with the Democratic Party is that
there was a time when of course we know
that a main reason that whatever you
want to call them establishment
corporate conservative Democrats
there's ideological differences but
there's also just the reality that you
know a handful of corporate sector
interests fun campaigns and so there's
obviously you usually disproportion
influence for Wall Street Pharma arms
petrochemicals all of the usual suspects
not only here but even internationally
and there was this gap between the
constituencies that vote for Democrats
and who fund Democrats but what's
happened now is there's a lot more I
think of like a congealing that there's
gonna be people who run and get elected
and constituencies really around a clear
progressive agenda versus just sort of
like this major disconnect and a kind of
a lack of sort of cohesion and
leadership around an alternative to that
establishment if that makes sense yeah
it definitely makes sense and you know
for all the naysayers who argue that the
Democratic Party can't be reformed and
we need to abandon them I mean that's a
silly argument because we've already
seen this massive shift to the left
especially when it comes to the issue of
money in politics I mean now we have a
record number of members of Congress who
have pledged to avoid taking any
corporate PAC money and you know there
have been so many successful campaigns
at this point that prove you don't need
to take corporate PAC money you don't
need to rely on corporate interests in
order to fund your campaign you know
small dollar donation help fund Bernie
Sanders they help fund Alexandria Acacio
cortes and other progressive members of
Congress and I mean we certainly saw
that with federal rorke
now unfortunately he didn't win but I
think what we saw with his funding
proved that again you don't need to rely
on corporate donors so an example of
something that I wish people would talk
more about especially in progressive
media is how this defense commission
came out with a report yesterday and it
got no attention so the hill published
it and it enraged me because basically
all these military guys got together and
they're making this argument that they
need more funding they need more
military funding because the u.s. is
deteriorated deteriorating in terms of
its military capabilities and Russia and
China pose a threat and we need to worry
about them and we would be able to show
in China pose a threat and we need to
worry about them and we would be able to
fight multiple Wars simultaneously even
though we're currently fighting multiple
Wars simultaneously so that comes out
and it's clear that they want more
funding but there's never any debate
about that there's never any debate
among Democrats or Republicans about
whether or not we have enough resources
to provide additional funding for
defense but at the same time you know
when it comes to Medicare for all just a
mere proposal of leads to these fiery
debates with people arguing that we
don't have the resources there's no way
we can do it and it's because the very
people who actually benefit from
Medicare for all are these you know
small dollar donors and so there are
establishment politicians period both
Democrat and Republican who still
haven't realized that representing the
people at their best interests it is
actually more beneficial because they
can run prints
both campaigns that represent the best
interests of the people and they can
still get the funding they need to run
their campaigns but again like we have
corporate as democrats right now who are
fighting medicare for all tooth and nail
and they're just regurgitating the same
arguments that we're hearing from the
right and it's infuriating and those
same people will never debate whether or
not it makes sense to give more money to
the pentagon i mean yeah and a great
example here there's just in new york
there's this trash deal that andrew
cuomo and bill de blasio or giving
amazon which will be really harmful to
the city i mean it's gonna be bad for a
little housing it's gonna be bad for the
subways it's not going to net that many
jobs it's not gonna net the kind of jobs
that you need frankly and you know as a
contrast Ron Kim who's an assemblyman
here is saying has a bill in the in the
legislature saying let's take that
billion dollars get it out of these
Excelsior tax giveaways and just get rid
of student debt loan student debt for
over a million New Yorkers and that
would definitely have a bigger both be
the right thing to do but also pay much
bigger economic dividend for like actual
people in terms of buying houses and
spending power so it's like it's never
the spending it's always the priorities
and one thing I will say on the on the
negative side that overlaps what you say
why is Nancy Police Pelosi talking about
Pago right like this is exactly the
wrong and destructive thing to be
talking about that incidently nobody
cares about when you know Democrats have
power and it's time to actually deliver
real things for real people yeah yeah I
mean Nancy Pelosi really does need to
step down the Speaker of the House and
it's I mean that was already abundantly
clear
but once Democrats took charge of the
House of Representatives
I mean her first statement was about
bipartisanship no no no we don't want
bipartisanship how can you argue that we
need to unite the country when
Republicans consistently and incessantly
punch you in the face when they have all
the power right it's frustrating and I
think what people want on the left is a
party that really fights for them we
want fighters and I'm not talking about
you know Trump like if the souls that
fight for no reason and have this
authoritarian streak we just want people
who actually represent our best
interests and do so in an unapologetic
way and that's what we're seeing with
some of these new Congress people and
it's great I absolutely love it that's
that's honestly what I'm most excited
about yeah I'm with you I'm really
excited about that too
I I agree with you I think Nancy Pelosi
should probably go I don't exactly know
who would replace her I would like
someone like Barbra Lee to replace her
but I will tell you who I mean she
should go you know who should definitely
go and it's amazing he's not getting the
amount of heat that she's getting is
Chuck Schumer now look he had a hard
road map Chuck Schumer is the big you
know what we'll get to this Facebook
thing in a second but I mean first of
all just tee off that dude is such trash
and I'm sure you might want to add to
that you want to add for that so I mean
think about how pathetic Chuck Schumer
was during the government funding debate
in which daca also was you know an issue
that Senators need to make it he needed
to make a decision on and so at that
point I mean it's amazing because it was
a rare moment where Democrats had some
leverage because they could have easily
prevented the government funding bill
right
unless Republicans signed on for
protections for daca recipients and of
course Chuck Schumer folded immediately
as soon as Mitch McConnell gave him the
promise of a standalone daca bill how
did that work out for him I mean how
pathetic is that
I mean we're talking about Mitch
McConnell I mean he he is boastful about
how obstructionist he is I mean look at
what he did with Merrick garland was
bragging about that why the hell would
you take his word on anything and so
Chuck Schumer you know I don't even know
if he really believes Mitch McConnell
but part of me feels like maybe Chuck
Schumer didn't really care that much
about providing protections for daca
recipients because if I were in his
position and I knew that I had some
leverage
I would certainly wield that power and
he just failed to do it
and the fact that he was so ready and
willing to help Trump confirm all these
federal judges who will have a negative
impact on our lives for decades to come
just shows you what kind of you know
pathetic non leader he really is
yeah it's that amazing combination of
total moral MIT just sort of moral
nothingness with out any of the like
effective strategic you know capacity
that you might expect from a cynical
politician that's what really drives me
nuts about this crop of like you know
center-right corporatist Democratic
leaders whether it's Chuck Schumer or
Hillary Clinton is at least like if you
go back to politicians that I loathe
because of the incredible damage that
they've done in so many ways but like
you could make an argument that people
like Bill Clinton and Tony Blair knew
how to be savage in a certain way and
win now what they did with those wins
and who those wins came on the backs of
I agree like Honda and even whether they
it worked out strategically in the long
term
all of those are fair criticisms but at
the same time on just some basic level
they could walk around and say we knew
how to win a certain type of campaign in
a certain kind of environment and people
like Chuck Schumer are fusing having no
moral commitment to as an example daca
recipients it almost seemed to me and a
like he just wanted that on the table to
potentially run on to rile up activists
versus actually save those people's
lives and statuses and then you combine
it with just like no tactical strategic
capacity like they don't know what fight
they're in yeah I mean it's incredible
and one other way you know one other
trick you can look at to show that Chuck
Schumer and you know Senate Democrats
had all the leverage in that case was
just the polling that indicated even a
slim majority of Republican voters
supported protections for these daca
recipients I mean they keep squandering
opportunities to be real leaders and
then they'll turn around and get
frustrated at people like us who have
these types of conversations or
are you know incoming politicians who
are much more progressive who are
fighters they'll turn around and accuse
those people of either being sexist if
they call out Nancy Pelosi or of you
know dividing the party and and you know
leading to the victory of people like
Donald Trump but they need to take
responsibility for their own actions and
what I'm most concerned about is that
many of them including people like
Hillary Clinton still refuse to take
responsibility for their own actions I
mean when she went on that speaking tour
to promote her book it was frustrating
to see how she kept citing sexism as the
primary reason why she lost now sexism
I'm sure played a role but it was one of
many factors the biggest factor was this
feeling of economic abandonment that
Americans were feeling especially people
who had been voting for Democrats and
she won't take responsibility for that I
mean during her one of her debates
during the primaries she talked about
how you know she went to Wall Street and
they she told them you better cut this
out I mean how pathetic was that
statement she said that during a debate
I mean it was so abundantly clear that
she wasn't going to fight for the best
interests of Democrats or Americans in
general so I think that people turn
their backs on the Democratic Party
because of those reasons and they
haven't some of them haven't learned a
single thing from that yeah and to be
really clear I agree completely what
you're saying and we don't even need to
get into this like debate about Trump
voters most Trump voters are just
Republicans but as an example of my show
the other day on on TBS I had on our
thermal I coachable II who just did this
long piece for current affairs with
african-american voters in Wisconsin who
just didn't vote and it was all
overwhelmingly like I mean in some cases
you had labor organizers who had
migrated from Arkansas to Wisconsin and
they were like yeah I remember what Bill
Clinton did even as a governor and was
in Arkansas in terms of being anti labor
and not forward on civil rights and then
there was a lot of people just sort of
expressing you know general discontent
with the economic policies the
Democratic Party the fact that Hillary
Clinton campaign in Wisconsin and those
points are not score settling points and
they're not justification of Trump
points those are essential strategic and
more
points moving forward which this great
crop of people the Rasheeda two libs the
Alexander Acacio Cortez is the mark Polk
cans the you know the Pramila and the
reason I should just I'll cop to it I
would cite her more I just have trouble
pronouncing her name which is pathetic
Jay Paul like those people are they get
it and you know and and of course and
and it's so funny because for the actual
like left politicians and for us this
whole distinction that supposedly exists
in this argument about whether you're
there for social democratic policies and
universal programs like Medicare for all
and whether you're really serious about
stopping ice and terrorism and having a
humane and for real immigration policy
and dealing with police violence and
structural racism there's no division
there it's actually always the same
people on the left and most aggressive
and most moral position across the board
yeah definitely definitely and I think
that there is you have there's a fine
line between you know wanting to hold
establishment Democrats accountable and
you know how do I say this and you know
just regurgitating commentary that
actually helps promote crazy people like
Trump right you know and so I kind of
struggle with that because I do want to
criticize my own party I think that's
the right thing to do I think it's the
honest and fair thing to do but at the
same time you know you'll have to
include the caveat that if you know the
primaries are over and you're left with
two options and it's a corporatist
Democrat and a Trump supporting crazy
person you gotta go with the you know
unfortunately the corporate is Democrat
and hold that person speak to the fire
push them to do the moral thing and I
think that we can accomplish that I
really do especially considering some of
these incoming Congress members I agree
with you completely yeah I mean that's
just reality I want to talk a little bit
about this Facebook story the New York
Times put out an incredibly extensively
reported piece a couple of days ago
which I think just sort of confirms
probably what most people who understand
Facebook at all to begin with which is
that
like Amazon needs to be nationalized
Facebook probably just needs to be
abolished just totally destroyed and you
know Mark Zuckerberg actually in a way
is totally delusional and disconnected
but seems almost because he's so
disconnected less blameless in a way and
Sheryl Sandberg is totally full of
and I another you know what that's
another early majority report called
there's another person that I never
showed any respect for and we're
vindicated again but but anyways besides
my pettiness what did you take away from
that story I mean both in terms of like
the way Facebook played some very
traditional DC politics contra to their
brands of hiring Republican Oppo firms
trying to even play both sides of
anti-semitism and also really you know I
have to say on the flip side to look I
don't there's so many things that are up
in the air about the Russia stuff but
what's interesting to me is that
regardless of the role that those ads or
those Russian sites or just fake news
generally played obviously Facebook was
covering it up and had an incentive to
cover it up and that has a much bigger
application than this or that Russia
story that's a major media publishing
platform which is totally willing to lie
and cover up its culpability and a whole
host of things definitely you know legs
it was a huge story because of Kanye
West and Candace Owens but I think one
of the stories that isn't really being
focused on enough is the number of
people who are turning their backs on
Facebook and no longer using the
platform because of all these
controversies because of all these
scandals you know the Cambridge
analytical scandal and then you know now
we're hearing about this awful research
firm that essentially you know spread
crazy conspiracy theories that we hear
from the right wing and you know in
regard to George Soros and what I took
away from the story more than anything
was that at the end of the day Facebook
is a corporation and for all the
that Silicon Valley guests from the
right wing in regard to them allegedly
being too liberal when push comes to
shove these organizations these
companies are not really liberal they
might have socially liberal positions
and I think that that's actually the
easiest thing to do to have socially
liberal positions but when it comes to
taxes when it comes to regulation when
it comes to the things that really
really matter they are always in line
with what the right wing wants and they
always concede to right wing desires I
mean they'll get a little bit of
bullying from right-wingers even like
clownish right wingers like a little bit
silver and silk or whatever I mean so
they help get some info diamond and silk
and I don't know why you're calling them
clownish ana they're super important
advisors to the Trump administration oh
my god Jim Acosta got his press
credentials pulled like 15 minutes after
they went on TV and said to get rid of
him so those are some hitters amazing
amazing so I really like though they'll
do a freaking national tour speaking to
her about how all the world is so unfair
and we're being censored and Facebook
will you know get on its knees and beg
for forgiveness but you know when it
comes to other things when it comes to
hitting back at liberals you know
they're pretty aggressive and you know
especially hitting back against their
competitors like Google they're very
aggressive but another thing that I took
away from this story actually doesn't
have to do with social media at all it
has to do with this whole industry of
awful researchers and and the damage
that they do to our political system
because there are a lot of great people
out there who have flirted with running
for Congress running for office and just
knowing that these firms exist and they
just seek to destroy you and do
character assassination I mean it
persuades you to avoid running and
something that's never been announced
ever publicly so I guess this is a
exclusive for your show wait hold on is
my board up not you ready all right
majority reporting exclusive
Anna go ahead
so I was considering primary dianne
feinstein and was a really difficult
decision right but I decided against it
and one of the reasons why I did decide
against it is because the Oppel research
wheels were already turned like turning
like she she had already I don't know
who she employed but they had dug up
some crazy nonsensical video where we
were talking about Olivia Munn's book
this is like I don't even know how old
years and years ago and in her book she
had made fun of I'm forgetting the name
of this producer filmmaker she made fun
of his genitals and so the only
commentary I had about it was that's
that's classless you shouldn't do that
well it turns out that the same person
that she ridiculed in her book years
later she came forward and said that
this person had sexually harassed and
sexually assaulted her and so what they
did was they found that video from years
ago where we're not talking about sexual
assault at all and then they fed it to
the press PDA to be specific and made it
seem as though I was calling her
classless for her sexual assault
allegations which I would never do in a
million years so anyway the aqua
research had already begun and I'm fine
with it being you know geared toward me
but then I started thinking about family
members you know I had a conversation
with multiple family members about you
know what do you think about this and
beiges did not want me to run because
they didn't want to be you know targeted
and it's just disgusting that these
industries exist because it really does
discourage people from getting involved
in in office getting involved in public
service yeah it is disgusting and I and
and you know this group to finer
strategies which is the Republican firm
that they hired they they they cut their
contract right around the time the piece
was published and a spokesperson for
Facebook might even been Zuckerberg was
like oh well you know they did things
that we don't want to be associated with
and I just think in general I agree with
your point I mean these these industries
are really disgusting and they
you have big sort of civic consequences
but people just need to let go of any
fantasy about Silicon Valley being any
different than any other part of the
corporate sector and the negative
dangerous influence they have them
public life and frankly Silicon Valley
needs to let go of it too because when
you talk to Wall Street people they're a
lot less delusional about what they're
up to than Silicon Valley people in my
experience I mean there's some you know
obviously there's exceptions to every
rule but you know you talk to most Wall
Street guys don't like hey I'm trying to
make a lot of money and that's what I'm
doing in Silicon Valley it's like
they're oh no or improving connectivity
well why and for what and how and what's
the benefit only no connectivity is
great I just want to add to this and
we'll do the the Patty part later but I
actually think this is important because
what pot save America got locked up in
this gut because they have a guy named
Tim Miller on regularly who is sort of
like their you know their hashtag
resistance like I'm a Republican but I
don't like that Trump is overtly racist
guy and he was a part of the consulting
firm that did this work for Facebook and
I just you know Ashley Feinberg
basically she has a piece and Huffington
Post called what did pod save American
expect don't put a professional
Republican smear man on your podcast I
mean yeah like I don't really have
anything else to add to that like that
the again I just keep using that word
delusional like what do you expect from
these people and just because they get
that Trump I mean talk about low bar I
mean these are still operatives yeah
absolutely
and like the the whole song pod save
America you know we're deeply tied with
the Obama administration and they're
they're very comfy and cozy with the
establishment and you know I'm not
saying that simply to insult them it's
just the truth and so in that mind frame
working with other establishment people
is even if they have a completely
different political ideology makes sense
I mean it's the same thing we were
talking about earlier right this notion
of bipartisanship this notion that the
other side like the other side back in
the day was
as bad as they are now I mean I remember
watching a debate between George HW Bush
and Ronald Reagan on the issue of
immigration it's on YouTube and everyone
should watch it because it's
mind-blowing and it sounds like to
modern-day liberals debating immigration
it was amazing right and so that that
that provided even more evidence for me
indicating that the right wing has moved
so far to the right they're far gone
there there is no working with that and
this is why when I go to events like
politican for instance I have no
interest in hanging out in the green
room with a bunch of douche bag
right-wingers that I despise I don't
want to be friendly with them I don't
want to smile at them I don't want to
have a nice conversation with them they
are by definition the enemy at this very
moment and we need to fight them and so
when I'm going there to debate someone
I'm in that mind frame and we need
fighters we need people to fight against
these dangerous ideologies
especially when it comes to people who
claim hey I'm Republican but I'm a never
Trump er I don't care because you've
been pushing for this this movement for
the country to go further to the right
for decades
you know you're the problem you're part
of what led to someone like Donald Trump
having a chance and so you know Bill
Kristol was one of the people on my
medicare-for-all panel he's a never
Trump er doesn't like Donald Trump at
all but it's also a pretty deplorable
person and so I wasn't gonna give him a
pass during this debate because he's a
right on Trump he's still horrible in a
million other ways I'm also like can we
get back to like I mean not liking Trump
is like I can't even think I mean
honestly I just can't anything the right
analogy but I'm just saying like this is
like the type of thing where it's like I
don't know like this is like don't I
think basic basically everybody doesn't
like Jeffrey Dahmer like this is not
something like I get that he has a cult
and he has a following but this is not
like a major accomplishment we're
talking about here you're not supposed
to like Trump you're not supposed to
like there's nothing any yeah and in
fact like I mean you just exactly you're
talking about with that pathetic debate
with Steve Bannon and David Frum that
took place a couple weeks ago
because on top of it all Bannon beat him
because Bannon is a better speaker and
more in touch with people in very bad
ways too by the way but like and they
don't have much of a policy difference
just free it from his like let's have
restrictive punitive abusive immigration
policies but you know don't be a dick
about it with your language and
everybody sees that yeah yeah I feel
like the never Trump Republicans are
people who actually agree with most of
his policies they just don't agree with
the rhetoric yes because the one thing
that Trump has done is he's you know
he's been very transparent about what
Republicans and the Republican Party
have been about you know their hatred
for people of color their hatred for the
LGBT community I mean he's been so their
desire to essentially provide more tax
cuts for the wealthy while
simultaneously pushing for cuts in
funding that we as the middle class and
working class have paid into Social
Security and Medicare I mean he's just
so brazen about it and I think that the
Republican Party specifically those who
are never Trump errs are just worried
about the long term damage that that
honesty is gonna do to their party yeah
Anna Anna I think you're exactly right
and I appreciate your time as always I
hope we'll do something like this again
soon and I'm gonna I don't know some
point when it's cold here I'll get out
to LA and do a panel with you guys yeah
I would love that thank you for having
me I really appreciate Ana Kasparian you
can of course follow her on Twitter and
everywhere else we'll have links she is
an executive producer and host for the
Young Turks Network Anna thank you so
much thank you alright folks we are
gonna take another brief break here and
I should say I was remiss I should have
mentioned this in the headlines this DOJ
that apparently federal prosecutors I'm
not entirely sure how they did this but
they accidentally revealed that they're
gonna be indicted Julian Assange and
they did it as part of another case that
they were bringing forward I don't even
think the other case
has anything to do with what they're
doing with Assange so it basically just
seems like a kind of very buffoonish era
and I'm gonna talk about this more later
but I people need to get and we have
fully crossed the Rubicon on Julian
Assange is trash and it's a shame
because you know what Julian Assange
first came to my awareness when he was
releasing things like the Afghanistan
cables you could criticize specifics of
what he's doing you could question
ideology but it was very important
things like the Collateral Murder video
revealing US civilian you know presiding
of our mass civilian casualties
incredibly important obviously most of
the Edward Snowden revelations are
incredibly important for mass domestic
spying for us interference abroad no
doubt uh but it's been clear for quite
some time that Julian Assange has a
political agenda that's at least
coalescence with the right maybe he was
doing it out of self-interest obviously
the Clinton the Obama administration
Hillary Clinton were very hostile to him
well that was incredibly foolish if it
was a strategic play on his part because
the Trump administration's charges that
have been unsealed are things that even
the Obama administration which was
incredibly aggressive on leaks and very
read on freedom of the press issues
actually held back from doing and which
is to say will elaborate later people
are gonna need to walk and chew gum on
the same time as this because I have no
love for Julian Assange I have no
particular concern about him I have no
problem you know with him going back to
Sweden or wherever else but the charges
that they are unveiling are a
fundamental threat to press freedom
period and this is definitely one of
those times where you know even if the
case study is contemptible you must be
concerned about the case we're gonna
take a brief break and we'll be right
back with the great david feldman host
of the david feldman show
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now David
Feldman
he's a community Sam hey Sam you know I
gotta tell you I've been doing this show
for a couple of years now yes and it
doesn't sound good today I don't know
what it is Sam do you have a cold
oh you bastard are you getting your
Adam's apple shape again what what's
going on what happened Sam the show used
to be so good it was fired I always
aspired to be as good as Sam seed sader
cedar always hello hello hi hi alright
thank thank you for having me on oh it's
it's was my pleasure
how come I never get to do it with Sam
how come I always have to do with the
substitute host that was David Feldman
everybody you occasionally can hear him
talking to Judy gold somewhere thanks
David where is Sam I think that's off
the record actually okay I don't know I
love Sam I love your show I do I watched
this show and I watched you know this
guy Michael Brooks yeah he's really he's
pretty good a prick and I hear he smacks
the staff around off by often oft often
often I get I get pissed when he gets
angry when there isn't Lulla sound and
his sound sheet
who says off ten what the heart with a
heart T is this the is this the thanks
that I get for getting up at eight
o'clock in the morning and talking to
you on some horrible phone reception to
be stuck in between like some vertical
editor or Think Progress and some lounge
comment for your podcast this is the
thanks that I get
we're not incredibly jealous of you
get on so the for our david feldman
podcast which you didn't even give me a
chance to plug and praise i'll go right
down to to insulting it oh go ahead and
plug it and praise it and the date one
thing that stands out about the david
feldman show is it's extremely long and
sick it's very long and i and i it's
very generous and it takes you know what
the show takes its time and wants to
please and it's very loyal and doesn't
flirt with other podcasts
it's very devoted to the audience
everything that can watch other podcasts
the middle of the night yeah yeah you
know what i what i like is I like when
you cuz I actually I really do know
 I listen to the david feldman
show and what I like is sometimes we cuz
you you have an interesting array of
guests you'll have people like like me
or Sam who are kind of you know and or
who's that guy how weak line is that is
no I
yeah he's a he's a good Jackie genius
genius lefty guy and then you have on
like comics because you're you're you're
like Sam you're sort of entered show
business adjacent boom yeah and so and
then you have on sort of like more of
hashtag resistance types the type of
kind of neurotic uptight people that I
make fun of and who have sort of like
mediocre standard-issue Democratic
politics and I actually really enjoy
those interviews because sometimes you
you get those people to sort of break
out of their shell and I think say stuff
that's a bit more radical than they want
to say and then other times you give
them like a six-minute load up question
that offends them on so many levels that
they're flustered and they don't even
know where to start so you'll be like I
have on you know the chief of staff for
such-and-such and so-and-so or the head
editor of whatever and my problem is
Nancy Pelosi is terrible you know these
are people that are going to be like
with Nancy
Pelosi at a press conference the next
day and you and then you very calmly and
very sort of Jewish uncle II lay out the
case against Nancy Pelosi and then by
the time they're done they're like I
don't even know where to start and we
doing this again
I like that tension I you you are a
master of the stealth tension creation
[Laughter]
what is it the secret to my shows I
surround myself with mediocrity
so I'm not afraid if they don't come
back I don't mean no but I do tell well
thank you for that compliment it really
is I enjoy listening to I think it's
fascinating I'm rude yes I'm a stand-up
comic and if you come on Mike if you're
stupid enough to come on my show then
and you're in a position of authority
I'm gonna ask you questions and I don't
do it live I tape it right so I say to
my guests who are in a position of power
listen you're gonna answer my questions
because Jim Acosta isn't gonna live
forever and I can be a circus freak just
like him so I'm gonna be real no I say
to my guests you gotta answer my
questions and I'm gonna interrupt you
because I want answers so what do you
think you actually what do you think I
just a judge just ordered Jim Acosta
reinstated do you think the Acosta thing
is just sort of a sideshow or is it
actually an important authoritarian
thing we need to respond to it's
everything but you know we talked about
this on my show you CNN should be
spending all its money on lawyers to
report what Zinke is doing what you know
how the troops are down at the border
you're never gonna get your answers from
Sarah Huckabee Sanders so it's ratings
and you know see you and created Trump
and we tune in and watch the
professional wrestling Matata comfort
ourselves with the warm blanket of the
First Amendment but at some point you
have to say these press conferences are
a waste of time and energy and money go
report what the Republicans are actually
doing right explain to the listeners
explain to your viewers how a bill
doesn't become Lavar go you know stay on
Capitol Hill and report what the GAO is
saying and what they're doing in
committees educate your audience that's
design this doesn't it's not civics it's
not it's it's just everything they
warned us about when television came
into being this is does it kind of freak
you out that I'm sure I think how to put
this it so much of the freaked out about
Trump from the types of people that were
criticizing right like the people who
are and again I don't want to minimize
it I mean if you should be freaked out
about Trump and the whole thing by the
way the whole Republican Party and much
of just the corporate state in general
in my opinion and Trump is atrocious and
obscene and it isn't just policy there
is a trickle-down effect on culture and
there's no there's no so of course
there's a correlation between Trump and
increase in hate crimes and everything
else so all the stuff is incredibly
important that being said do you think
that do you find it funny that there's a
lot of people who are ostensibly more
you know there in journalism or there in
policy and they're sort of a lot of
their public commentary on Trump has to
do with the sort of the theater of it
the optics of it and you are a comedian
and on your podcast you're constantly
wanting to talk about the executive
orders the tax giveaways the what's
actually happening politically or
policy-wise like just that kind of
inversion is sort of funny well yeah
yeah I rather talk about you guys do it
I love your show you guys talk policy
and you know you enjoy the freakshow
right if we're not talking about the
what's going on if we're not talking
about poverty in America and you know
there's a story I read two days ago I
can't believe this is not the biggest
story in America Iowa has the second
lowest unemployment in America P not
David David David there's a really
choppy connection here can I just let's
just take a break for a second I'm gonna
try to call you right back okay cuz
you're cutting in and out constantly I'm
not that boring folks that was David
Feldman unfortunately the line is bad no
I'm just kidding let's just let me just
call you right back and we could see
hopefully it will even out it's just
cutting out a little too much just good
we'll be right okay
[Music]
all right joining us now is a promising
young Anakin comer David Feldman
but David where were you you were
talking about a story out of Iowa what
was it well yeah that they have 2.8
unemployment it's 2.8 percent
unemployment which is essentially full
employment in Iowa it's a success story
they talk about all the job openings
that are going unfilled meanwhile 40
percent of people in Iowa can't make
ends meet they can't pay the phone bill
they can't pay their rent they can't pay
for their health insurance that's the
story of our that's the story of the
generation and for Jim Acosta to just be
wrangling with Sarah Huckabee who cares
right you know if you're not addressing
these economic problems and what what is
ailing Americans you know healthcare is
very as the orange buffoon said it's
very complicated health care the the CN
n is to educate your viewers if you
don't explain to Americans have private
equity works that the the retail
apocalypse two years ago all of a sudden
Macy's and Target reported you know
record losses that didn't happen because
of Amazon it happened because of private
equity that's right loading up on debt
and that's complicated you know I don't
know what private equity really is your
job at CNN is to teach us how Wall
Street works who is the enemy and this
is my complaint about the Democrats
Michael avenatti who it looks like is I
guess innocent right I'm yeah I haven't
followed that story because it seems
like it's it came out yesterday but it's
looking like it comes from a very
sketchy source and I think we got to
practice the and I'm not a Michael
avenatti fan but you gotta practice
you're a big proponent of don't trust me
don't trust the accused
believe the accused I think yes exam
which is that what you say to me
off-mike I never know when we're I know
it's it's Harvey Levin's saying right I
don't know Harvey Levin who's Harvey
Levin TMZ
he's the TMZ suppose it I but I guess I
haven't been fond that I heard that this
surefire might be involved i I just I
haven't it's too it could totally be the
case and as I say I have no love loss
for Michael avenatti but I've just
started to I'm wearing now when anybody
you know who sort of gone up against the
Republican machine like that I just I
just want to let it breathe for a minute
and see what happened right I would one
way or another like to see him not be on
TV as much frankly I'm sick of the guy
but that's not your fault that's not the
fault of the Democratic Party that's the
full fault of the media because he's
Tamara ready and he's got his link to
stormy Daniels who is very camera-ready
and we need people like Michael a
vanetti the same way we need gloria
allred I mean Gloria Allred if she sees
a camera shell you know she's ready but
you know she also gave us Lisa bloom
who's one of the world's biggest
scumbags her daughter was defending
Harvey Weinstein but she need these pit
bulls right
like Michael avenatti he's not a bad guy
you need them it's the Democratic Party
that we need to do better than stormy
Daniels even though it is why Michael
come flipped I mean David pecker and the
National Enquirer and the Muller
investigation avenatti
if you go back and trace the fall of
trumpet it lays at the feet of Michael
have an audio and we're not there yet
we'll see don't hang we're not there yet
was I mean don't you also just though
think that I think but I think to me the
other problem Michael avenatti was it so
Democrats and whatever you want to call
that sort of resistance centrist kind of
Trump Pete anti-trump people are they're
not strategic at all so they go from
you know Hillary's gonna win and we have
the we have the analytics we don't need
to campaign in Wisconsin Trump said
jackass there's no there's no either
massive insurgency or massive you know
reality of racism misogyny and bigotry
at this guys plugging into in this
country there's also not this massive
discontent because all of our failed
economic policies we're just gonna coast
and we've got the analytics in place and
it's fine and then and then these same
people you know go from that arrogance
and that sort of cruise control
technocracy to oh my god how are we
gonna be Trump how are we gonna beat
Trump
oh my god we need somebody who can do
this we need somebody who can be on TV
and then you know avenatti comes along
and it's like okay you go from this is
all just a big joke to the one person
that can take them on is someone who can
do like a decent CNN hit and call Trump
a jackass and I think in both cases it's
like guys whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa like
take a breath
let's game them out a little bit okay
like both approaches both being sort of
arrogant technocrats who don't see
reality in the second one being like a
you know in a state of total emotional
freakout and grasping on the first straw
you see isn't gonna work either
yeah yeah I I agree I think the duh you
know I'm a Democrat because I'm
practical and I wish something better
would come along that could actually win
but I do like to win yep so I think that
I think the Democratic Party right now
needs to fight we need to really punch
each other we need to be like that big
family who has you know is yelling and
screaming and punching each other and
throwing dishes and then the minute
company comes over we go hi how are you
and people leave what a great family
what perfect they always get when when
we get together behind we don't even
have to do it behind closed doors we
need to have constant a non-stop fight
for the heart and soul of the Democratic
Party that never ends
it should never end the same way the
Republicans are constantly bickering and
threatening each other that's how you
sharpen your Spears that's it you need
to fight each other before you can go
fight the other side we're so afraid of
the party imploding and so we're we're
we have no teeth we don't stand for
anything well I think that there is an
insurgence of really great new people in
Congress and I think that there are some
people who is something cluding some of
them were not flashy at all I mean
people like you know mark Pocan as an
example is a really good congressman
from Wisconsin and he's not just for
yeah I mean there's a guy that district
one what's his I don't know Randy Bryce
well Randy Bryce ran but I mean poke can
is in there and poke can is yeah and you
know he's a labor organizer he's an
openly gay man he's been great on
killing bad trade agreements he's great
on Brazil and Lula which obviously means
a lot to me and you know this guy isn't
he's gonna get more support now because
now we've got you know Rashidah to Lib
and Alexandria Acacio Cortes and you
know so I think there is some energy
coming in I want to slightly shift gears
here because we got to get before we get
to your movie recommendation we do have
to talk about your incredibly important
role in comedy and you are someone who
has done some writing for really one of
the most important comics of our
generation and of course I'm talking
about triumph the insult comic dog and
yes very proud of that you should be you
guys were just in Texas yes and
unfortunately beta well Roarke who
obviously were all rooting for it didn't
quite pull it out but he ran a great
race against Ted Cruz and he also gave
you and triumph and some Smigel guy I'm
not sure what role he plays Robert
Robert Robert Smigel
of course brilliant voice of triumph a
very funny man you had this exchange
with Ted Cruz this is very funny let's
take a look and just remember it wasn't
the Republicans it was the Democrats
that took you into the vet to get fixed
and there is freedom on the other
support Hey I support Spain I support
spaying and neutering just like Trumpton
to you what is it like when you're there
was Ted Cruz the thing that's weird
about Ted Cruz it's like it's not Trump
at all because Trump's totally like like
I feel like Trump would probably just
push triumph off like if I'm gonna be in
a situation where I don't get the better
of it I'm not gonna do it period
but Cruz has this weird thing where it's
almost like he wants your approval he
wants to be in and he just never is
gonna because he's just repulsive and he
gets that look of hurt on his face cuz
he is aware enough to know that he got
bodied yeah he's and he's a big fan of
comedy big watches The Simpsons
you know Robert Smigel is a comedy
writing legend you know look up his CV
it's just incredible and and Ted Cruz
knew exactly who Robert was and
immediately started talking about
Saturday Night Live and all these
sketches so these guys watch but at
least ted cruz's he's a big fan of
comedy and I always say never meet your
enemies they always say don't meet your
heroes you'll be disappointed don't meet
your enemies because they're very
charming and you fall in love with them
I never Ted Cruz was charming yeah well
of course he is you know you don't get
it yeah you don't get to that with that
little charisma how do you rise that far
there's something there there has to be
you know it's like I was thinking oil
money I mean oil money and extreme yeah
I don't know yeah yeah and the CIA and
the Nationals yeah exactly exactly I
feel like I feel like Trump's lying
about Cruz's father was the most
well-founded crazy thing that trumps
ever seen
here's the thing about triumph the
insult comic dog very quickly yes go on
YouTube and look up all the stuff the
dog did during the 2016 election I ran
into Sam at the Philadelphia Convention
and the one in Cleveland in 2016 and I
felt guilty because Sam was there
covering the the two conventions and
triumphs had all access to everybody and
I remember thinking this is what's wrong
with our system trying I can get into
any room and talk to any politician but
the real journalists like Sam can't and
it's definitely something that's wrong
with our sister puppet can gain access
you can go talk to Bill Clinton but of
course it's that it's wrong guys who
write and script the puppet who have
those concerns that's like the other
like compounded irony right is it's
there's nobody in like the press shop so
we're thinking oh this really reveals
something about our system you it's the
guys who are and by the way I have to
say we won't play it but what you guys
did to Mike Huckabee I mean yeah wow I
thought because he is such a horrible
human being but even by the end of that
one I was like whoa this is what drives
me not the middle of Huckabee's I fell
in love with Mike Huckabee will be hung
and Huckabee in Iowa in the run-up to
the convention and I realized this fat
slob grew up in Arkansas and the only
way he could get out of that trailer
park was through religion you know he
went into radio and politics he had a
rise from the muck of Arkansas using
conservative ideology and religion
because that was the only thing that was
available to him but if he grew up in
New York City he would have been a
completely different ideologue the guy
is a genius the sharpest mind one of the
sharpest minds comedic Lee
comedic ly I thought David not on him
sweater feet not on his sweater view I
am telling you Mike not on his Twitter
feed well but he has to play to his you
know I think it was broken or he might
be like both Edel what I think well I
think if he grew up in New York you'd be
like Bo Dietl or somebody like that I'm
telling you if you met Mike Huckabee he
is in the moment he sharp nothing gets
by him and the same applies to the the
I'm not gonna say anything nasty about
the daughter here's the thing about Mike
Huckabee because I wrestle with us you
meet these people and you like right
then they're charming you think you know
what I could have dinner with this mass
murderer right and what you realize is
it's partly a game and it's partly hate
but it's also dominionism it's also this
evangelical Christianity where you're
lying for Jesus you know Soraka be
Sanders is lying for Jesus and Mike
Huckabee is lying for Jesus and being
mean for Jesus they believe they're
saving fetuses which I am too by the way
I keep them in a jar in my attic who did
I make laughs everybody you scored a big
hit on that one you didn't go with the
Mike Huckabee is funny thing everybody
was like what the hell is going on and
then you back so but but speaking of
which I mean you
speaking of horrible people that you've
had associations with I gotta ask you I
got to put you on I've worked for I've
worked for a lot of monsters and well
the weird there's one person but I don't
know I don't wanna guess / yes good yep
the funniest person who's the funny I
think I think triumph the insult comic
dog because I you know you've seen who
I've written for ya know try and turn
amazing he is the most insightful
political satirist I work for Jon
Stewart I
for Bill Maher I work for Dennis Miller
I've written for politicians triumph the
insult comic dog is the most insightful
political comic working today I totally
buy that but I do want to ask you about
a very special person to this program
and if yes I'm talking about the hashtag
Dennis Miller option he had a joke
yesterday I don't have it in front of me
about Alec about how he got he had a
concussion so he signed his attorney
powers over to Alexandria Kazuya Cortes
and I yes I quote tweeted it with just
two question marks and then hashtag
Dennis Miller option and an H John
Benjamin quote tweeted me and he said
that is the punchline Dennis Miller
option what I want to ask you is you've
written for Dennis Miller ten years
what's going on with that chachi
you know here's the problem with
commerce I did ten years with Dennis he
was my boss I kind of raised my kids on
his show we did very well and you know
loyalty is a dangerous thing
mmm we have you know everybody the thing
they the thing we covet most in
Washington and Hollywood is loyalty are
you loyal can I trust you and that's why
everything sucks in Hollywood in
Washington DC because more because
everything's about loyalty and not going
out in front and bad-mouthing people and
spilling the truth about the people you
work with and for loyalty is what's
destroying Hollywood and Washington DC
because you because people won't tell
the truth but I'm gonna tell the truth
about Dennis Miller oh wow
I'm ready do you honestly think he's
conservative you go watch
Wow I gotta tell you something you know
David that's as controversial as
statement as the second season trebles
instead I can't even spell moons on
majority report like Liberace in Bucks
County in 1975 hold the draft beer I
watch you and Kindler yes and I was damn
Cedar if this charade one of the
greatest comedians of the 21st century
of the 21st century again oh my god can
I ask you the Huckabee question again
have you looked at his Twitter feed
you're not getting it man it's like you
know what do you know who SJ Pearlman is
no you never read a straight part of a
read else J Pearlman okay you're not
getting the joke man Jesus growing a
Savannah shut-in in Southern California
is nothing to be upset about but for
some reason is miserable is that the
joke he's playing seedy
three-dimensional comedy chests that is
so beyond anything there Kindler could
comprehend it is so funny but yours
limited your limit was he doing as you
say he's doing an incredibly low energy
high concept Andy costly yes do you I do
you ever see the black and white album
no he did no no cuz you know honestly
when Dennis I mean I guess I mean I was
a 90's kid so I guess I could have came
across him but I feel like most of what
people tell me was when he was really
hitting it was like in the 80s and early
nineties I mean I wasn't watching that
stuff that man yeah you know I don't
know by the time I first was aware of
Dennis Miller he was on Jay Leno being
like why wouldn't we invade the you know
Iraq even the caribou at the Anwar
Wildlife Refuge are like you gotta get
them Laden whoa whoa Pelosi what a
no it's the definition of satire and
irony
say what you don't mean and be so
ridiculous that people go oh I get it
he's parroting so so basically you know
the the one part of your theory that I
find plausible
it's not a fairy I know for a fact okay
oh the one well you would know
better than us but the one part that
does come across to me because I will
admit to being far too dim and I feel
bad because this is disloyal and I'm
kind of blowing the lid on Dennis's act
and I did very you know I love the guy
yeah I do but you know I like he said to
me Felder I'm gonna trash Muslims but
yeah it's gonna be really funny most
people aren't gonna get it it's gonna be
really funny to watch Jewish people get
frightened by the way I trash Muslims
because she's coming for us next it's
gonna be really eye-opening and a real
experiment the new level of comedy but
you can't tell anybody like okay but I
you know I watch you know so I can I
just say that there's one part of this
that I he said to me this is what he
said to me this is the this is the God's
honest truth yes he said I'm gonna I'm
gonna wave the war flag in Iraq and I'm
gonna get about a million Iraqis killed
and about five thousand Iraqi sold
American soldiers are gonna die and
hundreds of thousands of them are gonna
come back wounded with PTSD and we're
gonna neglect them but I'm gonna show up
two or three times a year at Walter Reed
Hospital and kind of thank them for
their service even though I was against
the war even though he's for the war no
really oh you know oh I get it and
that's like a ruthless satire of the
American war machine honking he was
punking the so he Punk's the soldiers
it's you know it's so funny
it really is it's like I'm gonna send
these guys off to war I'm gonna bang the
war drum get these guys killed and
wounded unable to you know get back into
American society when they come back
right right and then I'm gonna support
tax cuts for my friends so these
soldiers can't get any help at the VA
it's hysterical yeah yeah I do you think
that's pretty funny it is pretty funny
but you know and I feel bad because you
know Harvey Levin has been trying to get
me to do this for TMZ but I don't I just
watch you and Andy Kindler and Sam you
don't get it we're just making things in
the world remain evils Versalles do you
one part of it that I sort of get maybe
you see how funny it is he says he
supports the troops did you get you do
get how funny this is
I supported the truth I'm sorry again
they're that they're the greatest
America has to offer I love these boys
these women they're the best I love them
so much right wave the flag now I'm
gonna go send them into a war over
nothing and when they come back I'm
gonna demand a tax cuts so I get to keep
my money and they don't get the medicine
they need at the VA how I mean come on
call back come on I mean is it and I
kind of get it cuz it does seem like he
has a lot of contempt for Bill O'Reilly
and their exchanges I do see that okay
so that's so so we get so that's amazing
so what a lot of us have thought was
this sort of like first an incredibly
cynical opportunity to cash in during
the Bush era and now is just sort of
petered off into this kind of like sad
depressing exhausted thing he is
actually just a brilliant act of
subversive comedy it's the best it is it
is it's it's it's what Colbert would
even dream of doing when he was playing
the fake conservative it's another level
of Colbert I think you don't get you're
that smart enough to get it
you and Andy Kindler and Sam you know
you're making fun of something that you
don't even understand how dare you
frankly we should all be Barisan you
said that Sam should be able to get into
all parts of a political convention
before it doesn't seem very for me
following the bolts that boat on those
guys they actually know Dennis I'm just
tagging along I'm like a young I'm like
the young hit man I feel bad I feel
disloyal you know telling you that for
spill he's not really yeah he's not
really a good anyway let's move on okay
well David look we don't have a couple
minutes left but you do have a film
recommendation for us we're actually
gonna keep format here a little bit what
is that yeah recommendation my favorite
movie is Diabolique because it's obscure
it's french black and white so everybody
listening right now will not have seen
it so I can pretty much say whatever I
want about and they're gonna go oh he's
really bright some guy Matthew probably
seen it it is uh have you ever seen
Diablo II know I haven't tell me if I
can I'd recommend it it's it's seriously
I'm it's a psychological thriller it's
it was to Rack did I think it was like
back in 1955 directed by Henry Clues oh
and I don't think I'm pronouncing that
properly me try again
1955 which I get what is it TMC what is
the what is the Turner p.m. shaking it
no no no Turner Broadcasting that Turner
it's always oh it's underclass always
it's always on TCM Oh TCM without with
our buddy Ben mankiewicz over there yes
I always watch TMJ their movies are
jaw-droppingly painful TMJ believe me
there's a person who knows Andy Kindler
who's looking up TMJ and right now going
that wasn't worth a trip on that joke we
have it up on screen here I got a
disturbing it's good it's directed by
Henry clues oh let me I don't know if
I'm pronouncing that Ari George
loo so close though yes let me see let
me be protected I think it was right
after he directed it was right after he
directed where pages of here which from
the title you can tell is about working
at Walmart I'm gonna wait for the laugh
and we move on wages of fear yeah I've
really ready Alfred Hitchcock saw
Diabolique and he crapped his pants but
by then it was 1955 and what what you
thought I was good what did you think I
was gonna say you either I was just
going to say but you know by 1955 he was
crapping his pants three times a day
what did you think I was no I like that
I like that I like today huh what Alfred
Hitchcock crapped himself over
this flick it's French actually optioned
the movie and he wanted to make an
American version of the film and never
happened but it inspired psycho okay and
Robert Bloch who wrote the book that
psycho is based on Eleanor Roosevelt's
autobiography woman oh you're wrong for
that would say scible psycho Eleanor
Roosevelt greatest people in American
history F and human right in the UN but
the Robert Bloch wrote the novel
Diabolique and he says no no Robert
Bloch wrote the movie the wrote the book
psycho right but he says the
the leak is his favorite horror film
right after Liz Taylor and Eddie
Fisher's wedding movies you know I know
I'm supposed to laugh at that one but I
don't guess it's the rhythm I'll support
you it takes it takes place it takes
place in the in a boarding school it has
a swimming pool a corpse lust adultery
deceit despair ambition teachers school
boys it's kind of like sam cedars first
year at exeter I think he went to Exeter
would I buy it first year at Khan
College more like his first year at Khan
College is probably like I don't know
student government Hebrew student
government class being annoying and the
student newspaper or something I don't
know anyway so go see Diabolique and
you're not allowed they say at the
beginning please don't tell us how this
movie ends it has a surprise ending they
beg you not to run so you're not allowed
to tell anybody how it ends but I'm
gonna tell you how it this DeSantis wins
after a manual recount
yes exactly we're in Florida Florida I
don't want to say there are a lot of old
people in Florida but even their voting
machines are irregular even their voting
machine David right before I am you know
Trump is actually for a manual count but
only if it means counting up everyone
named Manuel and sending them back to
Mexico
hey David I actually have to ask you
before we leave you know they let they
let me now they let felons vote in
Florida too bad they also let them get
elected governor oh okay no that's true
Rick look it up Rick Scott new future
u.s. senator Medicare fraud look it up
Eleanor Roosevelt she'd take a vibrator
go limp
[Laughter]
and that's the FDR FDR's like that's
what I said do you have enough that
we're related all right do you really
think FDR couldn't walk come on some
guys say honey I gotta leave you I'm in
the CIA over the OSS back then Roosevelt
said honey look at me I'm in this chair
go find somebody else then he get up and
pull a guy cabbie arrow from SCTV look
that one up worth it wasn't worth the
trip not worth the trip David I have to
ask you before you go and cut this
interview mercilessly short mercifully
short did you ever write any of those
Dennis Miller's sort of like it's like
this it's like that yeah and then it's
like that bah bah yes okay yeah so what
is the formula for that joke because I
would like it for future reference and
I'm making fun of them mortgage wife
kids gun to the head and the fear of
never working again it's very simple all
right I was hoping more for this for the
actual joke but fair enough
they're similes I don't know it sounds
like it's it just I liked because I like
now how they're so I feel like even
relative to a couple years there's also
the one where we had to do this a while
ago where all of his cultural like he
was explaining like Millennials hate
Hillary Clinton because she's like
Karen's mom and Goodfellas it's like
yeah that right on time reference see
that was a good thing about with death
as he couldn't fire me and lord knows he
wanted to but I was the only one who got
all his references and he knew that I
say yes I see
it's though I was living proof that he
wasn't I wasn't that was the proof he
wasn't insane I love the guy I really do
here's the problem I love Dennis Miller
he changed my life he taught me how to
write he really did and it was very
generous
and I I love the guy I do he has a
psychological defect and and and that is
what the Republican Party is comprised
of there are people who are deeply
deeply disturbed they won't come to
terms with their psychological and
adequacies they go oh I'm not filled
with rage hate and fear I'm a Republican
I'm not a massage I'm not now I'm not
talking about Dennis I'm just talking
about Republican Eleanor Roosevelt
yeah I'm not a misogynist I'm not a
racist right I'm not impotent I'm not
sexually dysfunctional not closeted gay
Republican right right and you go and
hang out with these people they all
share one trait and I mean this they
smell they are rot I'm being serious
they are rotting it's all the courtesans
it's the cortisol she's going through
their system they are rotting from the
inside and you know you don't hate them
don't hate them - don't argue with them
you know it's Thanksgiving just smile
and ignore them sounds like you're a
 sellout yeah yeah I'm trying to
work on a joke here they're gay I want
to give you I wanted to give you that
impression because I know you enjoy that
one as well all right David Feldman
please everybody subscribes to David
Feldman's great podcast you're on today
you're on my show only terrific and
you're great I really appreciate I have
a lot of fun and and you will get this
great buffet of comedy of political
analysis and and very a lot of just
American historical awareness and a
really deep probing into the psyche of
Eleanor Roosevelt which I had never
encountered before if you check out
David show yeah I don't like to joke
about Eleanor Roosevelt she D flat she
deflowered my grandmother sorry
everybody check out David Feldman David
I love no thank you
Eleanor Roosevelt course a total of
Eleanor Rosen all right I love you too
all right I love you too thanks David
all right hey are we off the air cuz you
were so much better than Sam he's an
and completed perfect all right thank
you brother
all right folks uh David Feldman spike
yes a lot of fun and very much I would
say in the that's one you could say with
a lot of confidence if you like majority
report you'll almost certainly like to
David Feldman show uh come see us at the
Bell House on January 13th as part of
pie fest get your tickets and the
majority out of him homepage and then
while you're there get your tickets to
the Michael Brooke show February 1st
also at the Bell House with the whole
Michael Brooks show crew and special
guests Ilona Mankowski Trevor Beaulieu
and Bosch Garson Cara it's gonna be
incredibly fun subscribe to the Michael
Brooks show patreon.com slash t MBS
tonight we're doing a Friday show
because there's no T mbss next week Oh
though we're unlocking several illicit
histories and broadcasting them all over
patreon and iTunes so people get a sense
of the show but tonight streaming on the
Michael Brooks show YouTube channel
we're doing a full show and we have two
guests
excuse me contra point and crew Corey
pine we're live Michael Brooke show
YouTube channel at 7:00 p.m.
Matt what's cooking with literary angle
yeah there's gonna be a new episode on
hope Leslie coming out tomorrow and and
I'm gonna also release the rest of the
volume 1 of that book so people can
listen to it it's covering as far as
I've recorded and narrated so look out
for that this weekend sweet and of
course Jamie's in Mexico check out the
anti Fattah news shows on Greece we're
gonna take a break and be back in the
fun half all right folks six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty see
you in the fun
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degree the white man almost has
one
I am a total can we bring back DJ's
Anarchy song yeah or a couple you put
them in rotation
DJ dead well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough with a break
that's
[Music]
I can't have more consist and the alpha
males Oh like almost says what
[Music]
the back
back
a lot of back
back
all lives
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan bottle it's my
birthday
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have a
thought experiment for you the alpha
males of black black alpha males
someone needs to pay the price of Class
B around here I am a total
 welcome to the
fun half let's take a phone call out of
the gate you're calling from a 509 area
code who are you where you calling from
509 area code who are you where you
calling from please hello hello hello
hello you're here hi hi Ronald Reagan
you hear me yeah I can hear you hi how
are you doing good what's up this
going going David Feldman told a joke on
a show a couple years ago that he it
wasn't it's not even that funny of a
joke I guess but he said that d-day was
overrated there was and I don't know why
that it really stuck with me he's so
funny actually is really funny this is
very funny guy
Danny what well he kind of went into it
you know but he was anyways funny guy
I've been meaning to call in to talk to
Sam he doesn't answer my calls anymore
so I thought I would ask you about John
Benjamin's Arby's commercials I haven't
seen them tonight I got one of them what
tell me tell me about it well there's
like oh there's a lot of them first of
all they won and I don't watch that much
TV but for some reason I guess I'm like
the Arby's core demographic because I
pretty much just see Jon Benjamin RVs
commercials and I guess I'm just
wondering if you have any idea how much
he made on those commercials and also
would you do an Arby's commercial and
what would the pay they need to be
sub-questions
what would you not do a commercial for
that's actually Michael would be
terrible at Arby's Arby's if you're
listening you want to come to me I'm the
I'm the Arby's listener oh because you
eat Arby's you Michael I'm gonna leak
some audio of Michael bashing fast food
off Mike ruined my payday but I feel
like the real question is is like what's
our price so Matt is like Matt would
yeah Matt would do it for free I do it
for us and like roast beef but yeah yeah
Matt would you have a coop I can go in
there and grab a roast beef large roast
beef sandwich at any point then I would
do that I gotta be really honest with
you this is depressing as hell but if
you if Arby's came to me and and yes
I've bashed fast-food plenty and I think
that fast foods the devil if they said
we're getting rid of your student loans
and here's like I don't know actually
I'm thinking of something else but
literally if they just said your student
loans done I would be like come down to
Arby's it's a beef festival or whatever
the full-si I would make up my student
loans because I just be eating roast
beef all the time and save my say you be
like giving yourself colon cancer but
you would be out from under them it'd be
free it'd be literally a free lunch so
he'll be literally a free lunch okay
fair enough and what not expect what
wouldn't exactly he'll volunteer let me
ask you this let me ask you this
question so in these commercials Jon
Benjamin is please it's his face and
he's playing like the chief chef or
something so he's now like the second
face of Arby's Wow
it's not like a voice-over and speaking
of Sam's more successful friends David
Cross is playing the Carmel in in a
recent Eminem's ad so but it's a
voiceover right so anyways the question
is do you is anything off base are you
willing to just straight-up be the face
your rv's guy I'll see you in the
streets
Arby's guy Megan would you not want to
be an
mm it's given the opportunity I would be
the voice of anything but probably the
face of very few things like you know I
would be more selective about that yeah
so I'd be like I'd you know let me just
be a real you know of course I
had my face for wood you know I do an
Apple ad sure no of course not I don't
know no I would not I think apples
probably the worst company in the face
of the existence I would be the face of
Lockheed Martin well they talked about
scientific advancement I mean the only
thing that would be useful
doing that is you could do the flip
afterwards right unless you sign an NDA
or someday always make you but the
Verizon guy with the can you hear me now
guy did to Verizon would be a fun thing
to do that's true that's true what about
you Ronald Reagan Oh face of Arby's I'm
leaning yes I would do it for the
student loans I agree yeah okay up you
late student loans basically anything
dude long it's okay student loan them
like a hundred hundred G's i but for
okay I was a voice of Arby's for student
loans face of Arby's a hundred G's I
agree student loans and Roderick trees
yes
plus we need to get a little bit into
the details about like how long are
these gonna run what is there a
long-term commitment is there an
internal standard is this like a Colonel
Sanders thing where somebody else can
pick it up in three or four months or
you know what's the deal
but yeah I wouldn't want it like during
the playoffs you know this is no time to
do at the beginning of the season yeah
yeah like Marin like in August or
something
yeah so I just want to let the listeners
know they can get and ask the moms
t-shirt at redirects fretless calm and I
sent it ask the moms hoodie - John from
San Antonio yes that's the moms and so
people need to get their gear for the
holiday season
sweet that's all right
that's the moms thanks for the call
everybody subscribe to the redirect on
iTunes and patreon indispensable podcast
on immigration law and policy let's do
some sound let's see
so the Blue Wave is looking stronger and
stronger the Democrats or if I think
what are they are they net net 34 or 35
seats now in the house they're at they
have won they won more seats than they
did in 2006 with the Bush backlash and
they won more seats than Barack Obama
letting them to in his big win in 2008
this is a very good and in a much harder
map so the more this comes out day after
day the better it looks the performance
in the house was very impressive by the
Democratic Party and let's start with
you know an aspect of this the people
might find a bit frustrating although I
don't think they should Alexandria
Cascio Cortes was of course leading
helping lead to protest in Nancy
Pelosi's office for serious aggressive
action on the climate crisis I want to
say this the other day on the postgame
of Michael Brooks show we played
Alexandria Kazuya Cortes thanking people
in Nancy Pelosi's office for protesting
and then we played another group of
organizers and another part of I believe
is also in DC with rashida to lib and
rashida to Lib was talking about
basically environmental justice and what
the Koch brothers had had done to her
her city in terms of environmental
pollution and even her own family and
the styles between the two of them are
radically different so not only do you
got a new wave of people representing I
would say genuine social democratic and
organizer based politics and all
course also Olano mayor but in
supporting people that are already there
like Pramila dipole jim mcgovern mark
polk can barbara lee and obviously of
course Bernie Sanders but you when you
get a range of people you can start
creating first of all an actual
progressive force in the house and I
think there should be hopefully a
democratic socialist caucus in the house
but in addition to that you even get
stylistic distinctions within how these
people are going to exercise power and
how they're gonna approach the inside
outside strategy and AOC
is I think she's obviously as great a
communicator and is morally clearer in
any as anybody on you know Medicare for
all free college universal access
Universal programs opposing this Amazon
ripoff but she's also going to be I
think she has the temperament of of
someone who's somewhat conciliatory and
wants to work the process and that's
great for someone with good politics to
do we need that and here she is talking
about Nancy Pelosi sorry guys what's
gonna there's something wrong with the
clip it's the problem we only have I
just want to explain
okay we can't do this clip okay how
about the other clips those should be
fine it's just this specific clip all
right all right let's just junk that I I
mean look I think the analysis the
analysis is useful but obviously that's
not going to be a clip of AOC and boy
aren't you glad boy aren't you glad it's
me in the chair and not Sam because that
would be
you
Ammar companies are not winning but
knowing that Duncan Hunter is going to
be arrested pretty soon you know I'm
happy about that
as you should be um I was gonna say and
I'm gonna kind of shotgun a few points
here pretty quick haven't called in a
while okay
redirect podcast as great as it is I was
buying some redirect merch which is a
thing you can do
I was buying redirect merch from that
 Raygun guy I was buying some
merch from him he's got a coupon code
but he wiped in majority but I didn't
get anything
I like LinkedIn any discounts I didn't
get any any any ya know who like he's
got a coupon code
there's no majority you Punk's got to
deal with that tough stuff and lastly I
was gonna say I like a lot of the
California results and I think a lot of
people's perception of the blue waves in
general California was a weird case
because like if you're a progressive in
California it was kind of like a little
bit of a bloodbath
but as things trickled in over the past
week it got better and better and I
think people should really kind of
adjust their perceptions of things on
that yeah I mean look there was bad I
mean rent-controlled in past in
California right like how catastrophic
is that there's an insane thing that
people wouldn't vote for that I mean
they definitely ran very serious
propaganda on that you know there was
like Jovanka Beckles lost her state
Senate race that's a huge disappointment
yeah it has and still that was that was
a painful one for me yeah he really
painful
yeah I hear you I mean she has huge
national potential but the reality is is
that there's enough signs overall that
you
and this is where there is some element
definitely in politics I think of
perception being reality and people on
the Left can make a strong argument that
the momentum is on our side coming out
of the midterms and that gets clearer
and clearer every day yeah I'm actually
like I'm I'm I'm a bit of like three
minds about things I'm not going to get
into it right now but like I am pretty
hopeful for the near future I guess one
thing I would ask you is like what's
your perception of how progressives
should treat a state like California
because what do you mean my view has
always been like my my view of it has
always been like because it's the bluest
state and or at least one of the bluest
states
I feel like progressives should spend a
little bit more time just really
utilizing it to its full potential in
terms of getting progressive selected
the flip side of that though is that it
does seem like it's also a money pot
where a lot of people who want census
politics to persist and yep it almost
feels like it almost feels like that
analog to New York where it's like you
I'm grown with them yeah I think you're
totally right and I think the thing I
think especially with the Democratic
Party you can even do this in some
respects of the Republican Party but
particularly now is the Democratic Party
I mean you know that it's really it's
multiple parties inside one thing right
so my read of California is it's sort of
yeah it's a fusion of and lead and still
dominated by centrist center-right
politicians who have a huge amount of
tech money who are industry friendly and
have made agreements with and support
some conditional constituencies like
some of the labor unions because that's
part of the coalition Bill de Blasio of
New York is actually a very good example
you know he's a guy who while he's
announcing this atrocious amazon deal
he's got some union people with him
because they're gonna get some of the
contracts to build some of the buildings
and I think frankly you know I I don't
want to criticize them
I do think frankly that perspective
shows a certain lack of strategic
thinking at times from some of the labor
union leadership to be blunt that said
and now there's a new wave of more
progressive and left energy certainly in
California and a lot of it is coming out
of both the traditional constituencies
that people like Jerry Brown who have
very mixed feelings about but he just
has not delivered for and and also you
know this broader kind of consensus
you're talking about and as well as the
other dynamic which is driving a lot of
leftward energy generally and things
like DSA which is basically like younger
people who were inspired by the
different social movements and by Bernie
Sanders and they want actual no-bullshit
Medicare for all student loan
forgiveness universal free transit free
public housing you know for real good
socialist politics or legit progressive
politics and I just think that you know
it should be it's the same sort of
principle of yeah we got to fight those
battles I I think you're right I guess
if you're saying in in from the
perspective of a national way that how
California is presented I think it is a
little bit of a mixed thing for people
on the left because I think it might I
think the most comparable state to
California is New York like it's a very
very machine politic state
it's a machine politics there I think
the difference is is that you know with
Jerry Brown you do have some you know on
the environment and on some things and
I'll I always remind people the
criticisms but on Jerry Brown you have
some I would say it's more like it's
like this he's a centrist center-right
politician and he's the best that
politics has to offer
Andrew Cuomo is a pure corporatist pure
and there's no there's no so so even in
their worst you know California is
driving certain agendas with like energy
efficiencies as an example and things
like that that you know they're not
dealing with the drill side of it
they're certainly not dealing with the
environmental justice side of it but
there is some kind of far-reaching
long-term thinking on the environment on
technology that have to be part of the
mix and Jerry Brown is doing that Andrew
Cuomo is I mean really I mean he is a
pure 1990s he's a fusion of Third Way
corporatist and total machine hack and
in New York you know it might already be
changing a little bit here too though
because we did get rid of the IDC and
there is a little bit more of a
progressive energy in the state
legislature so III think you know
there's but I think that's really what
it is is to just be clear that in both
of these places yeah they're run by
machines they're run by corporate
friendly machines and they don't
represent a a left agenda and of course
that makes our case harder because when
you know when Republicans as an example
say hey California is such a blue state
but there's all these homeless problems
and all these inequality problems that
you know you can dispute that and say
well it would be worse if we implement
the policies you wanted which is all
true but the bigger point and the more
challenging point to make is to say hey
we're not calling for the policies of
Jerry Brown or Andrew Cuomo right we do
want and I say can I say one last thing
for I and Michael sure I saw that you
know you've got your live show and I
both hope and support people going to it
I know Sam's got his live show I wish I
could go to it your all your all East
Coast coastal elitist over there on the
East Coast with your Eastern Central
Time that's right propaganda I just want
to say I've got my own live show it's at
the wild turkey in January we're all
we're all going to get together in San
Diego we're going to watch
Maur and and drink together so anyone
down for that Jan you are in February
let's do it
love it alright that's great thank you
that's a great call thank you what
sounds what do we have here these are
not on the list
well yeah these are a couple new late
editions one is our ill on Omar
answering a question rather nicely maybe
we should do that one first is for and
then we have some fan fiction from a
right-winger who I don't want a name
because I think maybe we should read
this fanfiction and then you guys can
guess who is responsible well so here
we'll go to it first all right this is
Elan O'Meara she's another one of the
great inspiring new people who have
joined Congress and this question is
basically they're asking her about
representing I guess uh white people in
a district this is a very awkward and
weird question and again this is exactly
where I think actually people who do
adopt more of an adolf Reid perspective
it's so easy in some ways to say we are
absolutely we are funded we are opposed
to astrum discrimination and
essentialism of all kinds and where does
primary and primary identity politics
and the negative sense comes out of the
Republican Party which practices white
identity politics and the presupposition
of this question shows how widespread
this poison and this delusion is because
this question is never gonna get asked
of a white candidate representing a
predominant minority district I just
wanted to follow up on that I represent
a district that's nearly seventy percent
white and congressman keith Ellison used
to represent this district the question
that is never asked of a white candidate
when they represent a minority majority
district is that how did you win your
election so I just want to say right in
a new era where we are focused on
talking about what's at stake for the
people that we represent I hope that
kind of question is one that we never
ask in the same way that I hope we are
never continuously talking about the
first I think
perfect and they're also frankly in that
district it is it's actually pretty
shabby to the people of that district
because yeah voting intelligently and
dropping nonsense identity but some good
old liberals in Minnesota yet or some
good old liberals who are picking the
best people who represent them like her
and Keith Ellison okay this is the fan
art oh my god okay so and I think I'm
gonna be covering this I've covered this
on TMDs on I'm going to cover this more
extensively on both show sanctions are
kicking back in in Iran as part of this
catastrophic unraveling of the Iran deal
which the rest of the world Europe China
and Russia are attempting to save and
the sanctions kickback not only
undermines this very important
diplomatic achievement which all
international bodies said Iran was
closely following and makes the
likelihood of war more likely it's also
doing things like getting people off of
their medication regimes blocking access
to heart medication or you know or even
upgrading airplane fleets for domestic
airline manufacturers in Iran this has a
lot of pain for the Iranian people and
just as the Trump administration is
brutally targeting Venezuela with
sanctions the theory seems to be and has
been basically publicly stated as such
by Mike Pompeo that the people will
suffer until the regime is removed which
is both incredibly cruel and not going
to work and so this is what they put out
this is some idiot put out a sanctions
or coming with Donald Trump posters
still looking like a buffoon but
apparently they think he looks imposing
in this sanctions are coming November
5th and that Matt's split with a
character I forget her name but a
character
Sansa's important from a game of Thrones
okay so and the job of me here is the
guest who did this column II so yeah
this is I think it's will summer is that
his name he yesterday he put out a call
for a certain right-wing sort of you
know a true shock troop on line had
apparently put out some fanfic between
Sansa and the Donald entitled the lady
and the
and my guess would be from what little I
watched that show and I don't watch it
as closely as other people but my sense
would be that if Trump was in that show
his relationship with her would be an
incredibly disturbing well well we're
gonna find out here this is called the
lady and the Trump from October 15 2015
so early on on the Trump train for this
guy sorry tell me to get dating in
October 15 to 2015 okay let me just get
something and the guesses are the first
time Donald Trump locked eyes with her
he built a tower straight to Santa's
heart
Sansa knew he had won her faster than he
had won the support of the Nights Watch
due to their similar views on
immigration named Lady of Winterfell and
warden of the north
after King Stannis won the Iron Throne
Sansa's next duty was to find a suitable
husband she needed someone strong
someone with the resources and know-how
to rebuild the war-torn North Donald
Trump would have like a panic
the Donald all those things and more he
would the way he held himself as a true
Lord the way he spoke with the
confidence of a great leader the way his
hair fell onto his forehead and neck and
ears and kind of on the shoulder but not
on one shoulder but not the other yes he
is the one for me thought Sansa still
she could not give away her affection
too easily many others had come calling
to woo her hand in marriage woo her hand
in marriage oh no and whatever I'm not
gonna be too picky woo her hand in
marriage in the years and Sansa had
ordered the quartering of Daenerys
Ravens had Ravens had this a bit of a
run on Ravens had flown from as far away
as Prince trystane in Sunspear and many
had arrived from Lord Theon on Pyke she
had instructed master Samwell to respond
with only vague courtesy they were
ardent callers but not right for the
first lady stark of Winterfell in her
own right I know it is so poorly written
it's making give me an aneurysm I well
you guys can stop me if we need to but
I've studied literature Matt
uh-oh that man has more of a taste for
the tasteless a hasty marriage to the
Donald however and rumor and folly would
spread throughout the lands and the
specter of another war would rise
Sansa glanced back from the window well
at the Donald who was sitting backwards
in one of the wooden chairs in the Great
Hall
this is Sansa I know this is a big
decision for you he started but let me
tell you something we would be
phenomenal
I will cherish you as much as I cherish
my first two wives and my own mother and
my daughter even I have many women at
work Frank at that I am going to do
great things for him and great things
very very very good things she replied
that you may but what will you do for
the North the North look and now what I
mean is I would be a huge game changer
for the north
I mean I'm very very smart and have a
lot of respect for northerners a lot of
blood on my first men to work in my
castles and keeps and let me tell you
they absolutely demonstrably love me
they love me my whole body is ready for
this iron I can't think the same ok ok
give me this this is pretty incredible
it's disgusting although it does seem
like it could be read as an
unintentional insult yeah I mean there's
a I mean who knows I mean this is you
wonder who it is I do who wrote this
Jack ba Sobiech now I wish I played a
game cuz I almost definitely would have
picked him there is one part that I want
you to read back if you can find it it
the passage describing his hair ok that
I've already read here yeah I I wasn't
listening that closely but that sounded
insane to me
the way his hair fell on to his forehead
and neck and ears and kind of on one
shoulder but not the other I see I
thought that's the line where I thought
is he with Trump but now you
told me it's Jack Pacific and nope and
then I think that's totally sincere yeah
and I think like the Trump impression
he's just enjoying that it's not like us
where we think it's funny and I really
like like people love me right he thinks
like yeah that's cool when he says that
he means it and it's actually Ortiz
actually right that's super cool it
wasn't huge for the north
I don't see exactly how this will well
we'll just skip a bit to the end no
never mind we can we can beat the Soviet
also wrote a fiction like a sort of Tom
Clancy style novel to write I bet he did
I have no idea but I would not be
surprised do you want to hear what wins
over a Sansa or sure go ahead any so
she's like what about trouble in the
east and he mentions China and looks
like there might be some yeah there's
some racism against China that I'm glad
I don't have to read out because and no
China China China China China
chinny-chin yeah so anyway he's talking
about some the Dothraki the Dothraki
those whiners so these slave losers
they're losers what a bunch of goofballs
and to be honest I'm going to be honest
with you Sansa they're boring Daenerys
she did absolutely horrible yeah this is
do boring oh my god I tell you what I
think that I could definitely see a
Trump Ivanka storyline fitting into that
show alright let's do a little bit more
let's let's keep running through the
sound here um so the blue wave gets
stronger and stronger so the need to lie
about the election gets stronger and
stronger Donald Trump said the other day
apparently that people were using
disguises to vote and here is Lou Dobbs
trying to stay in the mix with some more
lies about immigration and voting on fox
news Fox Business what we're watching
you know millions of illegal immigrants
cross our borders and many of them
voting in the past election that's what
it was just a couple of weeks ago and
having an immense impact if there are as
is Yale and MIT say 20 to 30 million
illegal immigrants already in this
country you don't you know what that
means for the districts of the US
Congress and the influence that they're
giving to for example the state of
California Illinois New York but New
York has such an a burden on
it's not going to have much of so that's
of course wrong and the census and
populations and people's ability to vote
aren't based on people who've gotten
their paperwork and so on at least your
ability to vote certainly is based on
your paperwork also in addition to that
there have not there has been literally
literally a handful of documented voter
fraud cases in in the modern era there
are probably more cases that happened a
couple years ago there was this whole
little mini controversy in New York of
underage hassidim voting in a district
in Williamsburg just like walking in
like I'm here to vote that specific case
which drew a few eyebrows played that
had more attempted documented cases
voter fraud in one borough then it
happened nationally so it's all a lie
but this is the lie that is driving a
truth which is that Republicans need to
ethnically cleanse and ethnically
engineer a landscape for a oligarch
white identity party and that's who Lou
Dobbs is that's what Fox is and that's
what Trump is David Roth had this ad
david underscore j underscore roth on
twitter said about this clip beyond the
basic it's wrong to lie and also
extremely racist aspects of which are
obviously not great right this is
basically elder abuse by proxy it's
 up to lie to people like this for
any reason like this mass kill line is
doing significant damage and this is why
I occasionally get in arguments with
people especially in the chat about how
like we criticized Jimmy Dore but we
don't criticize voters specifically for
like a lot of I think really important
reasons and it's because we have this
this is the political education of this
country yep right and it's it's it's it
makes me so angry like this is why I
studied media in college it's because
like how does so many people around me
pass around like emails making fun of Al
Gore as the science continues to get
more and more solid on climate change
right right like it's it's and it's such
a slow people are stupid
it's another subjected to massive
sustained that it's
cases extremely sophisticated propaganda
campaigns like let's actually get I mean
will dunk on pod save a little bit but
one of the things that's really
important to look at in the Facebook
story and obviously the big takeaways
we've already sort of touched on which
is that Facebook actively suppressed the
release of information Sheryl Sandberg
is in fact abusive to employees and then
throws them under the bus and at no step
in the process had any concern about the
actual problems with what Facebook was
doing she didn't have another leadership
role for the rest of her life she didn't
have another leadership role for the
rest of her life to say the least she
should be doing public penance
for and working to nationalize and break
up the monopolies of Silicon Valley
companies if she had a ounce of
integrity which she seems clearly not to
have but in it and also this spin that
they're just a platform and not a media
publisher you know there are media
publisher when they're juking statistics
and manipulating algorithms which have
major effects for people's jobs you know
when they sort of amplify a certain type
of news story and fake statistics on it
people get hired and then they get fired
when Facebook submits their manipulating
statistics and then when they say it's
all about video and it's all about
streaming and then they lie about those
statistics that lay it that translates
to people get hired for positions and
then are fired because their get
literally getting hired on fake and
misleading analytics and that of course
leads to a bigger problem in this
country which is the belief in numbers
ISM and solution ISM and the fact that
there is some sort of objective
quantifiable thing particularly when
you're talking about business you're
almost never there's always a
presupposition that goes into them and
of course the presupposition for a
private enterprise is gonna be a
presupposition that's profitable and
self advancing for that enterprise in
the article when they talked about
whether or not Trump was violating the
terms of service for lying in hate
speech he certainly was now it's a hard
question of course for a leading
presidential candidate and how do you do
that
on a media platform not saying there
isn't difficulties there but to pivot
they made to were just an art we're just
a platform you can do anything on here
belies all of their micro controls of
people's personal you know practices
that belies the fact that they've teamed
up with right-wing think tanks in ways
that have implicated even you know sites
like Telus or which of course like just
like Al Jazeera and so on they have
government backing from some states in
Latin America but they produce real and
important and and frankly vital coverage
on Latin America right now and of course
a right oriented think tank in
Washington DC is gonna target tell us or
while they've not gotten their act
together in the United States they had
weeks in Brazil where whatsapp which
they owned there was slush funds of
money going into spreading fake news and
lies about the Workers Party in Brazil
that down in the last week of the
campaign and for what it's worth that
was when the polls started to close
slightly but when you look at the work
that definer strategies do with Facebook
this is a you know this is how content
gets seated you know you set up a fake
website or some type of website that you
say is some type of public clearinghouse
of information on Silicon Valley you
have people who work at these firms
writing blog posts that get picked up by
Breitbart as an example and when you get
into that ecosystem particularly when
you get into you know coverage of either
specialized you know industries or
general information
you either have straight up PR and
propaganda getting recycled by other
outlets or as in the case of my friend
Luke Mayville who just had this great
success of expanding Medicaid and Idaho
he'll say yeah like in Nuuk local news
places a lot of reporters rely on press
releases from things like the Koch
brothers because sometimes these numbers
are complicated sometimes they don't
have the resources to really follow up
on things and so they you know go with
the flow and so it's just you know just
my point being that this even the
conversation of whether or not you
believe in quote-unquote facts or not in
reality is so much more complicated by
ASUS
pained and relentless propaganda agenda
which implicates everything from PR
firms to even scientific research itself
and you know and and so yeah it's not
about blaming people for not being
intelligent enough it's about really
understanding how these things actually
operate what is this sound that you just
got up now yeah you know Cindy
hyde-smith of the famous I would go to a
public hand if this Rancher invited me
to one in Mississippi yes indeed she's
back at it
Sidney Hyde Smith was apparently talking
to basically giving away the game it
wertha guards to voter suppression in
Mississippi today here we go
[Music]
so that's the hilarious joke that's
another hilarious joke saying it there's
a lot of liberal folks and some of those
schools in other places that maybe we
may want to make it a little harder to
vote which is the one of the more honest
representations that's the most honest
representation of Republican election
philosophy since the guy who was on The
Daily Show if you want to know why
conservatives like Foster Friess give
money to people like Charlie Kirk to
attack the university system just that's
their job it's because if you look at
the returns on election days those blue
areas correlate with a university
exactly and for all of their flaws and
for all their hypocrisy that's still a
place where people can occasionally be
learning history or reading books or
figuring out how to understand what
propaganda is or the scientific process
which means they're almost certainly
unless they're sociopaths
multi-millionaires not going to be
Republicans and what college does is it
gives you freedom to learn free of
necessities of working I mean not always
and less and less so more heads have to
work during college but ideally it's
you're free from the market you don't
need to you know contribute to
production just improve your brain and
we need a bit more of that and in a lot
more of that that actually should be the
purpose of a modern society right some
people actually have gotten pissed and
offended because of my criticism of POD
save America and I just want to say
first of all everybody in general needs
to be a lot less tachi touchy about
their favorite talk shows it's really
okay nobody competition it's competition
you know competition would start kicking
in and I don't even think of my
criticism of POD save America has ever
even been particularly harsh I basically
just said like done a very basic look
you know we worked for Barack Obama like
one of the things that what happened was
like she's a lot about like respecting
the process also give us your email so
we can make sure you're voting yeah give
us your email so make sure you're voting
oh my god like somehow
just wonderfully sir Huckabee Sanders
ever even watched the West Wing and I
mean look I'm sorry that's what the show
sounds like and secondly I mean I don't
know look I would go on pod save America
sure we just have fundamentally
different ideology than they do and this
is a very practical way in which this
fundamental difference in ideology shows
up if you listen to pod save America
which I haven't in like a year I just
listened enough to get the impression
going you will know that they are very
big fans of occasionally look to their
credit they will say Mitch McConnell
scumbag evil got to be defeated they
will say FoxNews pure propaganda okay so
they're not completely delusional
but they are very much of the ilk of
people who find it necessary to find
people who have absolutely abhorrent and
disgusting politics to co-sign on the
fact that Donald Trump is a monster I
don't need this in order to know that
Donald Trump is a monster and I also
think it's quite evident through 2016 to
2018 that this sort of type of pundit
does very little to move real dials now
maybe look if you wanted to do a study
on some of these like women's suburban
voters that seems to be moving firmly
more firmly in a democratic column and
somehow you prove to me that it's Steve
Schmidt hits on MSNBC that is making
this happen I will revise my opinion but
in lieu of that evidence we mostly have
a bunch of people who have disgusting
careers people who have been
propagandist for war who helped elect
George Bush and Dick Cheney who presided
over global torture regime people who
are you know mediocre hacks who have
pushed for actually over 90% of the
policies that Donald Trump is putting in
place and they go out and they say oh
you know Donald Trump's a bad guy they
did this with the CIA guy who ran as an
independent I guess against Trump Evan
mullein Evan McMullen as Matt always
points out they asked McMullen at the
end of his hit on their show what can we
do to fight against this this was in the
December keeping at 1600 episode before
they transitioned and Evan McMullen
basically said we should dissolve the
federal government and give States power
and cut regulations if I recall
correctly so which is of course entirely
in line with the far-right agenda that
Donald Trump is presiding over and they
just got a little bit of heat now
because apparently this guy Tim Miller
who's their resident Trump is bad
Republican a former spokesperson for
 Jeb Bush who is a great
guy a massive but a great
guy he was involved in the sleaziest
aspects of the Facebook Oppo research he
was at definer strategies definer
strategies was according to New York
Times report involved in the campaign's
to utilize anti-semitic tropes to target
George Soros to undermine citizen backed
groups criticizing Facebook for its
violations of its users for its lack of
respect for privacy for its being a
conduit for fake news and the Cambridge
analytic a data breach basically and I'm
quoting now from Ashley Fineman who
wrote a good wrote a great write-up on
this she said she and the name of the
piece is called what did pod save
America expect don't put professional
Republican smear men on your liberal
podcast when the New York Times
published a blockbuster report that
among others unseemly details revealed
that Facebook had hired an opposition
research firm to push back against anti
Facebook groups the campaign exploited
anti-semitism on the right encouraging
reporters to explore the financial
connection between George Soros's family
or philanthropies and groups that were
members of freedom from Facebook the
Republican operative was none other than
Miller this created an awkward situation
for
the boys at crooked media when the story
first dropped Favreau disgustedly
tweeted out the paragraph about the
smears seemingly without realizing it
was his buddy who had propagated them
several hours of silence later the
official crooked media account announced
that Miller would not be contributing to
crooked while Favreau Levitt and Vitor
got quote unquote
got to the bottom of Tim's involvement
in this work dude is this true dude look
it's almost like as if Tim lied to us
about watching The West Wing that is so
not cool
listen Cheryl's cool but like dude you
got a chill like you should like lean
into like stuff but you should lean out
of like anti-semitic propaganda but like
let's be real here and Ana Kasparian
made this point earlier there is not you
are almost never gonna find an operative
in Republican or democratic politics who
is not either supported a foreign
autocrat who has been involved in
astroturf campaigns for predatory
corporations
this is normal and I'm not saying that
the guys knew he was doing this because
this obviously does conflict with the
hashtag resistance nature what's funny
is I think it was maybe Favreau or maybe
one of the other guys but before he got
to the part where it named who was doing
and he's like this is disgusting
no yeah yeah yeah totally it's just
gross we read and we read the New York
Times story about Facebook's lobbying PR
campaigns prevent the disclosure of
Russia's interference in our election
and downplayed the way to platform has
been used to spread propaganda and hate
speech
we found Facebook's behavior infuriating
and reprehensible and said as much on
Twitter we learned from crooked media's
director media we learned that crooked
media contributor Tim Miller's company
definer public effect definers public
affairs did opposition research on
groups that were critical of Facebook
and we've asked him for more clarity on
what that work was we disagree with Tim
on most policy issues that's no secret
he worked to defeat Barack Obama in two
elections and we asked him to contribute
to crooked media because he has
interesting things to say about the
Republican Party in the Trump era that
said we need to get to the bottom
the bottom of Tim's involved in this
work and he will be contributing more to
cricket in the meantime guys this is the
whole problem with that show and the
ideology behind it you should have at
the very least on due diligence on this
guy's client list and I'm telling you
that it is the norm for most media
consultants to do sleazy ethically
questionable work for sleazy ethically
questionable companies because that's
just how you make a living there's
nothing there's not a particularly moral
component to this that's what all of
them do from both parties and secondly
when you're focused on the optics and
you're focused on finding some
Republican who isn't overtly racist who
you can sit back and have a drink with
you're missing the fact that this is
part of a broader ideological and
commercial infrastructure and you know
look I have a very good friend he's a
Republican strategist I've had him on
this show okay he's a smart guy and he
has worthwhile things to say about the
process but the frame is not you know
the frame is actually we really disagree
about everything and you might have some
useful information and it's great to
argue and have a wrong contour or
whatever but the frame for Tim Miller
was that he was like a moral beacon and
a party that has no moral beacon and if
pawed save America doesn't get a deeper
more cynical more strategic
understanding of politics they are out
of it no matter how much more
experienced and institutional
credibility they have and there's no
doubt look if you want to listen to a
show that has a better understanding
about how like what White House workflow
works
pottsy of America is better than any
other show on the market but if you want
one that is cognizant of what the
Republican Party is beyond just having
fits about how disgusting Trump is well
you should probably listen to shows that
don't prejudice Lee hire sleazy
Republican Oppo strategists because
they're civilized enough to think that
you shouldn't say you can grab them and
buy the
it's embarrassing one other part
that's not quite related to tim miller
but on the facebook thing i want to read
this
mr. Caplin this is from the main rd this
is the guy this is the republican the
meaning behind Kavanagh right at the
hearing and this is the guy that they
hired to be the Republican in charge of
their public affairs in DC mr. Kaplan
argued that mr. Trump was an important
public figure and that shutting down his
account or moving this statement could
be seen as obstructing free speech said
three employees who knew of the
discussion he said it could also stoke a
conservative backlash don't poke the
bear mr. Kaplan Warren I don't give a
 about conservative backlash
yeah it's long it's you very clear that
they like having that excuse right it's
not it's never what to worry about
left-wing backlash they only care about
backlash so much is it it it it helps
their power grabs right here it and and
it's very convenient for it to have this
is how this is how corporations and tech
and capitalists in general use the right
wing to get what they want precisely and
you know look and and Mart and you know
and Zuckerberg honestly like if you want
anybody with an even remotely
sympathetic read in this book it's him
in this article and the truth is it just
reinforces that you know what a 34 year
old but no civic political or historical
awareness should not be an environment
that's so deregulated that he runs these
decisions cuz he doesn't know anything
like in the way there and the way the
article is written Sandburg comes off as
someone who really understands
Washington she understands the process
and she's totally cynical and totally
self-interested and has no ethical
concerns and if that makes you know that
should be obvious to anybody following
any of this and Zuckerberg comes off as
you know indulging in some fantasy about
going on a listening tour and to the
extent he checks in
you know he's super bummed because he's
like Pro immigration reform but thinks
that there's gonna be some silly tech
fixes to this and of course like Sam
Bergen like all the rest of them doesn't
want any accountability or oversight
period so I mean if there was one mA
message it would be hashtag abala
hashtag nationalized amazon hashtag
abolish facebook and you know and while
we're at it to another another snippet
that came out of the story and i know
less about this then you know jamie is
an example but I've not read a single
person who works on these issues and
cares about the rights of sex workers
and is concerned about that area of
human rights that didn't say that sess
than FASTA were incredibly detrimental
and while there might be a moral panic
in Congress and it's always easy to vote
you know for legislation that takes aim
at human trafficking that in fact that
bill would make it far more dangerous
for sex workers most tech companies
oppose sista and I'm sure of course they
didn't pose it because they had any
moral concerns they posed it because it
would be onerous but the one play that
Facebook made early on to try to curry
favor with Democrats was coming out in
favor of cesta just sort of massive
cynicism on all levels just disgusting I
want to talk briefly about Brazil it was
announced that Cuba is pulling out
thousands of doctors these doctors
worked as part of health care clinics
supporting the poor and middle class in
Brazil there were a number of programs
that were implemented in the Lula years
from 2002 to 2010 and continued under
Dilma Rousseff that eliminated tens of
millions of people from poverty took
Brazil off of the hunger list and also
reset Brazil's role in the world and in
Latin America and this is part of the
same conversation
there was a corruption investigation
that both in 2013 started first took
protests that were actually anti
austerity left protests and then flipped
them and helped sort of move them over
to these broad quote-unquote
anti-corruption protests I've said many
times I mean Brazilian politics is
corrupt period it's structurally corrupt
you cannot be in Brazilian politics
without making deals without a
changing things just as you can't be in
American politics frankly lava jato the
carwash investigation turned into a
political project to destroy the Workers
Party and a project to make Lula the
Silvo political prisoner the case that
he has been convicted on is so flimsy
that he literally was jailed on what
judge Sergio Moro called indeterminate
acts Judge Sergio Moro who put Lula in
jail who hounded and harassed Lula has
Sept as accepted a job as justice
minister in the incoming fascist
government of jr. bolson ro and even the
Economist last week said that events are
suggesting that the treatment of Lula
was more political than judicial in
their words I would say obviously so and
Lula who has been compressed not allowed
to speak during the election held in
solitary confinement essentially this is
a country where drug cartel heads and
murderers get cameras brought to them in
prison but not a usually successful
two-term president put in jail under
massively suspicious circumstances and
also under threat by the military to the
Supreme Court here he is in court on
another case another highly suspect case
that they're trying to go at him for and
I play this I got us just I mean things
same surprise to anybody but I find this
pretty heartbreaking frankly and I also
think that Brazil more broadly both in
terms of what's happening in the Amazon
the pure neo-colonial project of Anglo
corporations in Brazil which are going
to be empowered even more into this
bolsa narrow government the support of
the wall street journal' for the bolsa
narrow campaign this is something that
the left internationally in particular
united states needs to have full
solidarity for a part of that is
absolutely calling for the freeing of
lula da silva here he is speaking in
court in curitiba there's a few who went
to my liquid water pool i mean she
doesn't what is it yeah we're gonna this
is gonna be in portuguese so i'll say i
guess i'll house you could I guess lower
it I can translate it I guess okay
I get really upset with the lies that
were made about me in the PowerPoint
presentation I get very irritated I
don't know if I will live long enough
for the truth to come out because I'm 73
and nature's unforgiving when it comes
for us I ask God that at some moment of
history of this country the truth will
come out
about what happens lava jato which could
have been done correctly to capture
thieves arrest corrupt people and it
went off-track in my case I'm talking
about my case so I hope that we can
prove this I haven't done anything that
should have caused me to be here today I
thought I was here because of the
vacation house but I guess I'm not isn't
mine but I'm here because of a reform
that was made I shouldn't be here
because of the apartment because I
shouldn't be here because of an
apartment in gara gara juoh but they
invented an offshore and company in
Panama and used it to put me here I
should say again as in the first case
Lula does not own the apartment they
convicted him of taking he's not his
house is not on the deed there's not
even proof that he and his wife spent
time in it it's reliant on the testimony
of a businessman who pleaded out and
then judge and prosecutor Sergio Moro
sentenced Lula to 12 years in prison
nine years in prison which got increased
to 12 for indeterminate acts ok then
they have disconnected Petrobras from
the case but I stayed here and so on and
you see there is an obsession it's back
to Lula you know what I consider myself
to be your honor a trophy I was a trophy
that lava jato had to deliver I don't
know why they don't like me but it was a
trophy they had to deliver I saw so many
journalists over and over say if they
don't get Lula it's no good if they
don't quote if he doesn't go to jail
smell good they have to arrest Lula I
told judge Morrow I said I'm sorry judge
before what has happened so far the way
everything that was set up
you only alternative was to condemn me
that's true and the other lesson from
Brazil was a very far
eight state and international media
constantly that are running around all
over the place and he was a moderate
figure that would have stopped fascism
but the reality is that people like
judge Sergio Moro or pro fascism and we
need to keep up our solidarity in every
way shape and form you're calling from a
five one seven area code who are you
where you calling from hello my name is
Jacobs and I'm calling from Oakland miss
Michigan here in the mid hey Jessica
puts up dawn now you got to turn off hi
oh I'm sorry
one moment no problem I had a Kenny on
speaker because I was like no problem
what's on your mind Matthew okay thank
you I did it because I wanted to talk a
little bit about um what do you think
the most useful political lens to view
things through install the ideas so for
instance I think that personally I come
from a more conservative background and
made my way to the last so I view you
guys arm I'm like obviously paying with
the broad brush here like talk about
race and things like that as not
necessarily a great persuasive strategy
even though I think when you're like
analyzing Republican politics that um
it's a useful lens to see if you're like
Andrea Hawkes child writing strangers in
their own land
that's a really useful lens to look at
things through because that's um that's
how they feel a Lea nation and things
like that but I think when you're trying
to convince people about things it's not
necessarily a great strategy like I had
a conversation with my mom the other day
and I you know depending on how you
define racism I guess I don't think
she's a racist but depending on how you
do it maybe she knows but she has an
issue with how what she called in her
own words um people advocating for
voting for Obama quote because he's
but that didn't and I think you know
that's what's kind of alright I mean can
I just all right I mean finish the
pointed I well I just want to say this I
you know look it depends what we mean I
don't think anybody should go to like as
an example a poor area of Ohio and go
hey you guys have white privilege like
of course not okay like yeah obviously
you gotta go and there there are three
basic positions okay one position if you
go back to the 90s you go back to Bill
Clinton is indulge in people's racism
and xenophobia and in a different way
and try to appeal to them through your
own racial appeals and we have to just
totally reject that it's immoral it's
fundamentally opposed to who we are then
there might be another position which
might even say you know I don't know and
to the extent I see this I don't
actually really see this very much but
maybe some people should would say like
I don't know you're running a national
campaign and you should go to that town
in Ohio and give them a bunch of
intersectional lingo and I think that's
just not realistic or effective there is
some middle ground and but the only but
the catch-22 is is that at least when
you're trying to persuade people and I
don't know how effective thinking about
persuading people is I think it's more
about getting your own people out and
that's really the number one thing and
that's why it's more important to not if
you're building the Left coalition it's
way more important that people who are
african-american as an example feel good
then somebody who might potentially in
some scenario vote for you feel
comfortable and that they'd be motivated
to come out but in the middle ground I
agree with you up until you get to the
tripwire of somebody saying that they
won't vote a certain way because of a
racial prejudice as an example so look
if if if you go to somebody and you
don't know what their opinions on
immigration or whatever are and you hit
them with a rap on Medicare for all or
whatever and they go I agree with you it
sounds great I'm on board
I'm voting for the right candidate
awesome you don't even need to have a
conversation but certainly when you go
to the Republican base um you you know
they've been listening to fox news all
day they're gonna hit you with them some
insane
 and alright no and so how do you
respond to that well I think in some
cases it's not even worth it but you
know I'm just saying like the reality is
is that race has been the trip wire that
has ruined those cross-class coalitions
it doesn't mean they aren't possible
shouldn't be fatalistic about it but
race has always been the weapon white
supremacy has always been the weapon of
basically getting people to vote against
their class interest and you know I
don't think you can't just get there by
bypassing it that seems just evidentiary
clear
well I to clarify what I was saying I
wasn't saying that like she had this
picture of your Nation of Islam Obama
saying go for me because I'm black but
rather um a lot of the people in the
periphery of the Obama campaign like
you're Jesse Jackson's and your reverend
wright's of the world but Jesse Jackson
disease they didn't but they didn't
explicitly say that but I think when you
have a lot of these things kind of being
said about how important it is to vote
president I got that I got it just yeah
we're running tight I gotta say when it
comes to that if and no offense to your
mother
but like if you know if you're freaked
out by somebody noting an important
historical breakthrough like that and
you perceive that as some like threat to
you I got nothing for you that's just
nuts I'm sorry that's insane I just you
know what I mean like a name and it
doesn't mean that I write individuals
off it doesn't mean that you can't do
work it doesn't mean any of that but if
somebody is actually triggered and
freaked out because somebody made a note
about the historical breakthrough of
that and people appreciating that I mean
that's just ridiculous I think the only
answer is stride an anti-racism and wait
for them to feel alienated from you
because
Savan over it is not acceptable for
things like that people have racist
attitudes this is the reality in America
right like racism is really ingrained
into this
you can't just you and this isn't you
know I understand like getting along to
get along with family but when it comes
to those sorts of racism like those
sorts of racist ideas which is what that
is you can there's no way to you can you
there's no way to go around it you have
to call it for what it and it's just
delusional and I'm not I'm not gonna say
you know I'm not gonna say what you do
or don't say to your mom but like again
yeah if that's the example cuz I you
know I might be more willing to be like
look you know like okay I'll use an
example for my family right I know that
my grandmother not to put her out does
not have and in always by any stretch of
the imagination enlightened attitudes
about race okay but she's Democrat and
she voted for Obama and she thought he
was a good president and my point being
is that her
whatever her stuff was did not show up
in a way that was real and by the way
even she was able to say you know what
her reaction to to African Americans
being excited about Obama was like oh
that's cool I look forward to when we
get that as Jewish people not like oh
how do they say I mean because if your
reaction to that is I mean again that
just what Matt said like that's it's
racist
it's not about nationality of what they
say it's about something else yeah and
you can try to address that underline
thing by by showing by modeling anti
racism but you you buy but by appealing
to it on those on her terms which are
terms um that they're not logical
they're not you know right like these
are just she's putting a some words to a
feeling she's feeling she's
uncomfortable about it and it is and
look we all have especially wouldn't we
come from a place like North Dakota we
all have these people in our family but
there's no way you can avoid what that
is its its racial secure it is its
racial prejudice and security and it's
not gonna be rationally dealt with it's
got to be a broader moral evolution and
and Paul's and all young people need to
feel frankly like as Matt also was
alluding to like at some point that just
test that type of comment just has to be
like like you know spitting in the
kitchen
just like uncouth socially discredited
it's pathetic yeah but I was just gonna
say but I I think what I'm really trying
to get at here is that all although like
yeah you can't deal with that on their
own terms I think by framing a lot of
issues and what I guess you guys would
call like a more class centric way I
think that is helpful um for example
affirmative action right like the idea
is like help under proved under
privileged people and I think you could
just do that through strictly speaking a
class lens because if you think about
here's sorry just really tight-knit I
just got to say look I'm open to I
definitely think there should be a
significant class basis of affirmative
action in addition to race but I
actually I I think if you read Walter
Bendre Michael's work there's actually
some very cogent criticisms from a
socialist perspective of of those
programs as specifically the university
situations which is highly specific but
that being said more broadly from a
political persuasion point of view the
same people that are motivated and
animated by a racial and racist anxiety
that would lead them to obsess about
affirmative action which is almost never
going to have any impact on their lives
ever they are gonna be just as opposed
to class-based affirmative action
because class-based affirmative action
is also going to have those some of
those same implications and I just got
to tell you man like I think in general
there's a broader case you can make
which by the way applies to pull any of
people of color that the Democratic
Party has sold out working people of all
backgrounds and that needs to be changed
and address to build a motivated base
but there are a minuscule amount of
people that are motivated by racism that
are gonna flip just because of class
appeals now it doesn't mean that class
politics shouldn't rule today but I'm
but but and it might mean that in some
cases some people are you know get a
little bit off on a better foot but at
the same time we need to be
uncompromising Lee in
I didn't Lee I would just say
anti-discrimination you can make it
really simple and those conspiratorial
and diluted attitudes are not gonna be
overcome by sneaking it you know in a
different way doesn't mean that we talk
about race in some type of college way
when we're on the campaign trail yeah
it's not helpful to like instill in
people that they are white people right
because the whole problem the whole
point is whiteness is artificial all
racial identity right yeah all of it is
but there is a difference between the
dealing list and ameliorating of the
social ill of discrimination which is
real prevalent and all pervasive and
then the other social ill if just
made-up essentialist identities and
what's amazing of course and what people
who have a white identity ascribed and
given to them we get to think that our
default is the baseline and that's why
we could say something as delusional and
as insane as oh they're saying it's the
first black president and that's just it
to me when you know in fact even saying
that is pure delusion and identity
politics that's the person who votes for
DeSantis a overt racist over a you know
a much better and more appealing
campaigner by any objective measure
because in their words things get more
racial when there's black leadership
that's identity politics that's
poisonous identity polish it's a
projection and pure projection and and
we're gonna need to cut through that
bolt in order to win and ethically and
there's no condition there's no
contradiction happening that in class
but the people that are really voting
the people that are really rooted in
that they're gonna bring it up one way
sooner or later it's not gonna be us cuz
I'm perfectly I'm perfectly tranquil
about going to a place and saying and
emphasizing labor healthcare jobs
whatever and if people are on board with
that that's great but they're gonna not
necessarily they're gonna throw a whole
bunch of this because that's
what they've been inculcated with and
then you got to deal with it head-on
thanks for the call man appreciate it
sorry we basically just spent 10 minutes
dunking on the guys mom but what can you
say
Winnipeg Greg caller what you don't
understand about your what don't you
understand about your mom has canceled
the canceled your mom oh yeah your bob
our contagious chameleon with all
progressive energy who will take to
replace the leadership in the Democratic
Party that I don't know Josh from
Chicago do as de Blasio not realize he
got cooked by Cuomo no you know what the
Blasio is all in on this the Blasio
JB what do you do with California design
it into seven zones after DC and Puerto
Rico are made States in January I know a
lot of people aren't gonna like that I
have no response to that
I don't care yeah a squared mic the
bully wave keeps coming but sandy will
not lift Gilliam still encouraging what
we're seeing in Florida and Georgia but
it's just disgraceful what's happening
the Lula I'm not convinced that lava
jato was was that was what pushed the
millennial generation who was lifted by
Lula's policies in our place it reject
him but I need to realist in your
interviews on Brazil's situation again
where are you where are you gone from
Atlanta no it wasn't the youth but there
but actually there's a really
interesting disturbing thing here of
basically a middle class driving this
right-wing backlash that's happening
across Latin America and a lot of that
middle class was created by pink tide
governments so yeah there is something
very weird about it that sort of
happened with a quote-unquote white
people here and you could say indeed
where is done from Atlanta what are some
of the flaws you see in Kenzi and
economics and what ideas do you have for
keeping NYC rent low in light of Amazon
well public housing I would go for
universal public housing and rent
control Kenzi and economics I you know I
believe in economic democracy so I want
to see more worker power over their own
lives and fates but as a relative choice
kansian ism is much better than what's
on top okay let me take all right guys
we're definitely not we're gonna take
one more really quick call and then two
more I am so then we're out of here
you're calling from a 6 7 8 area code
who are you where you're calling from
is it me this is you what's up hello
hello last holiday writer Josh hey Josh
what's up with some hi this is Josh from
Georgia no I'm Chris I'm just calling
about the what seems like an attempt to
oust Pelosi from within the caucus from
these land interests Tim Ryan and Marcia
fudge and Seth Moulton you know it just
seems to me like it just seems to me
like these are this is like the people
even to the further to the center than
Pelosi or like they see the tide coming
and the Pelosi super unpopular right
among like both conservatives and like
the left and they kind of it just feels
like they want to get rid of her and get
like a less polarizing figure in so that
when the left
eventually tries to challenge whoever is
the speaker or Minority Leader at the
time has less of a solid footing and
it's like I want you know I want Barbara
Lee to be speaker obviously but that's
not happening this cycle it appears and
so could be write me better that she
hang on for a little while as we start
to put into place like a serious
progressive pipeline that's a fair point
Josh
I appreciate that all I'll just make one
point on that like I whatever this
transition she's planning like she
should articulate it quick more quickly
from for my taste
if she continues with this Pago it
doesn't I don't care that what her
distinction is between the new Democrats
I don't it doesn't matter the big that
and that is the big thing and I have to
say Ryan specifically I'm not usually
excited about other than our shared
mindfulness devotion but I will say Ryan
at least on certain issues like with
jobs and labor and trade is moving more
in that direction we need to go in and I
don't hear him saying Pago and I think
you're right when Nancy Pelosi does that
the calculation really changes all right
lb Stacey Abrams pushing hard to get
another election she ain't backing down
and Democrats should possibly consider a
speaker of the house or aggressiveness
is what we need right now
I don't I don't know about that yeah I
mean it would be great I don't can
somebody who isn't in the house be
Speaker of the House oh really
yep anybody could well NATO can be
Speaker I would go with Stacey Abrams if
oh I love that idea
I didn't know that that's an awesome
idea recall her with racist mom try to
reach her by the beginning with
historical oppression of black people
and then show how black people are still
disadvantaged in ways today with fax
people act in good faith who aren't too
far gone can be persuaded if they are
educated as long as they have the
ability to feel empathy they can be
fixed by healing their ignorance I do
think that's possible at times and we
shouldn't be as cynical maybe about that
as we are but it's a tough road Chris
hard been listening at Mar for a few
months now thanks for saving me from the
pot save bros and the final item of the
day J tingle Roberts Michael's a genius
but he actually really went on the
Howard Stern Show and said the words
Dennis Miller is very funny we are gonna
be back Monday thanks everybody
[Music]
to get to where I want
no sir
I'm going
got
[Music]
feel any better yeah no ticket
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option will get paid
[Music]
Desmond
laughs we tried
[Music]
