[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report next up on the program ladies and
gentlemen I'd like to welcome back to
the program john benjamin author of the
book it's a book failure is an option
welcome to the program John thank you so
much Sam so John is it okay if I drink
tea sure the whole time yeah without is
it not talk just drink tea as you know
John your book failure is an option Roja
now who out cane paperback yep
originally it was written in a heart
cover form prior to that it was hard not
hard and that hardcover came out when
was that about a year ago I think the I
was about a year ago and prior to that
it was written in the form of a sitcom
script for AMC television that I had
actually written no that was completely
unrelated to the book just
coincidentally the name of your book
have you never heard the expression
failure is not an option
ah well I mean prior to my writing a
script about I think anybody ever used
the expression failures is an option
prior to your use of it for your failed
sitcom well prior to that the only time
I had seen it before then was in regards
to just about before before we resolved
that yeah I think that what you just
said was its complete fabrication or not
and fallacy and not true I didn't steal
it from you I didn't say you stole it
it's interesting that you would say that
you stole it because I didn't say these
I'm not here to be prosecuted for a
crime I didn't commit and I don't like
your tone and I
I think it's not fair and if I I don't I
thought you were this was going to be a
friendly proper interview a proper
podcast on a proper set with proper
microphones and right now I feel like I
am being attacked and I don't need to
participate in this type of discourse so
thank you very much and that's I don't
I'm not leaving nobody's there
thank you so much you're so we are not
done very welcome let's talk about this
book failure is an option yeah now we
have in it you're in the book
well that was gonna actually that was
actually gonna come up because we had
you on the program
and by we really the consortium the
consortium had you on this program I
don't know when it was maybe it was a
year ago maybe it was when probably when
the book came the hardcover version of
the book came out right and I will
concede that I had not read it yet
because I assume like most of the guests
you have on you don't do a proper
preparation well in your instance I was
not in any way found the material
compelling enough when is the last time
you had a guest on where that wrote a
book where you read the book the whole
book I mean you don't have to read a
whole book cover to cover conduct and
interviewing I'll grant you that right
he probably should skim well I didn't
I'm gonna concede now that I didn't even
skim your book I didn't even see the
title frankly I just read it off of
piece of paper that somebody gave me
subsequent to that after the interview I
accidentally listened to it
I'm not by my own accord but I was with
someone else who was driving in a car
for an extended period of time we
listened to the book who Steve Steve guy
named Steve as a friend of yours or is
he professional acquaintance
professional acquaintance where did you
meet Steve at a store
I met him in a store yeah
you hadn't known him before no I had not
like a grocery store or like there was
just a typical retail store like a Home
Depot sure worked there part-time but
you didn't know that at the time no he
wasn't wearing like a vast that said
Steve Home Depot he actually had a
nametag good yeah it was not if I
remember correctly it was not pegged to
any type of specific outlet all right
but that's not the point the point is I
listened to your book and I found it
interesting a lot of the things actually
sounded very familiar to me
I bet it was like we've shared a lot of
stories there was a lot of stories in
there we've that I recognized in fact
there were a lot of stories that I was a
part of mm-hmm but oddly my name only
came up once in a very ancillary way but
there was at least two or three stories
where I was literally the other person
involved that you did not mention my
name I think probably you're referring
to the one were the kid I'm referring to
multiple aspects of the book okay
I'll tell you the one that I assume
you're referring to the kid who tried to
beat me up for a year um well that I
don't really remember in junior high
school the bully the bully
I didn't even die maybe I refer to him
as the bully or the that's or
the fat kid right that's possible I
didn't name you by name but I think like
any number one of those yeah well let's
go through some of these chapters
because off the top of my head and then
the other one would be the the midnight
pajama Jam story uh well okay all right
so I'm glad named yeah exactly I was
named in the midnight pajama Jam for a
performance piece
that I did with my cats yes but I
mentioned you like I have say I'll give
myself a ton of credit for mentioning
you in a good light whereas I did not
mention you in any of the other stories
which would have painted you in a bad
light because you are all you were
always you would have been the one in
the story that was always mean to me oh
that's interesting that you say that
because I'd like to go through and I
don't understand how you did these
chapter titles they seem completely
unhelpful in terms of how I failed it
pretty much everything as a kid though I
don't know I guess I'm I just don't have
the right thing here I don't well
reading it wrong then you showed a
correct good example if I were to me
always just now well I guess my point is
is that wow there's a lot of failure as
an option books what you really when I'm
looking this up here and it's
unbelievable there's one written by
Phillip Vance on two events i oh there's
another one about Mission Control
oh no that's failures that would be
problematic but that's probably true
right well I mean for instance the story
of the script you wrote in space program
the script you wrote with your friend oh
yeah yeah yeah that was a great story
yeah that was good yeah that was a great
story but you were only like
peripherally involved
I was the co-writer of the script that's
true he probably helped I probably did
most of I think I pitched it and when's
my idea you know no it was my idea no no
I specifically know where I got that
idea it was from going down with Mark
Morris to his grandmother's house in
Boynton Beach oh the show might have
been your idea but the story was my idea
oh yes the story was your idea but I was
there the entire time why don't you tell
people just briefly what we're talking
the summary of the story was that you
and I you probably got a script deal to
write a sitcom script you I don't think
you came up with the idea no I did come
up with the idea I really I think we
probably pitched it together
which was a story about Conan O'Brien's
company yep - was about two young guys
who down in their luck right unemployed
friends who visit their grandmother one
of them others decide that they could
live cheaply in the gated community in
which their grandmother the retirement
home right early retirement I called it
and and then and after that shows I
think have been made of course though
has been made premise of course and the
story in my book was you and I well when
not you and I the story is you might
find some nameless my friends enjoy
right right right
really right my friends a right
something my friend and I went down to
Florida right to to my brother's father
and mothers gated community right it's
interesting to me that you get so
specific about brother-in-law because
that's a specific person as opposed to
the way that I was addressed in that
which is just like from another guy no
random guy did I say friend might've
maybe I'll pull it up okay
I bet it says like who knows doesn't say
like a guy I went does not say a guy and
I went to Florida together
alright well fair enough keep going with
this it probably says a friend okay is
probably it proper terminology just like
it it really wasn't just I wasn't going
as a friend I was it was a professional
I mean you're the whole story is about a
professional story right it's like you
were commissioned it wasn't like you
were commissioned to do a script and you
brought along a friend I well it was I
probably said my friend and I were
writing a script I didn't name you right
right and then what happened what
happened in the story maybe it was very
just peripheral that I was involved in
it but good let's see what the rest of
the so then this story was we went down
and when we met the parents my friend
and I when we met them
my friend I had an idea that I proposed
to my friend because my brother-in-law's
father nice Jewish man wrote was telling
us stories about how he wrote the annual
play that was put on by the community
yeah
and they were like musicals or parodies
like you know like I'm trying to think
of what they were there was little
examples yeah you know it was like
Jewish jokes right a pun play spawn in
that like I'm trying to think about
something from like Oklahoma or
something like that like oh well there
would be yeah right right
matzo ball soup right Mutz guys and
matzo ball soup
right exactly all right that's not an
example all right so he so he when I
think we were out to China and he would
have been like Franny or something like
that anyways good there's examples in
the book I think right I remember
because he sent them to me mm-hmm
I have his work like I have he's passed
away and I have I have his place know I
know so it was yeah he went we went out
to eat with him at Chinese food buffet
and I I think proposed the idea at the
buffet buffet I remembered you saying we
should instead of writing it ourselves
pay out of a portion of our money the
guy the brother-in-law's father to write
the whole script and then turn it in and
then turn it in as a joke as our work
but as a joke yeah and because we went
on to write the script we did well we'd
wrote after he wrote it
well we wrote it simultaneously we
handed in the oh did we
yes I forgot that in this go well yeah
you also forgot to member the friends I
remember the front right was just
general friend it was you I mean it's
just weird to read these stories
and then you've recorded the phone call
we had with with David Kissinger that's
right son Henry Kissinger that's correct
head of conan o'brien's production
company who had to give us notes on that
old jewish man i think and i just
remember them saying we feel like you
wrote what you thought would be funny to
us and what we to do right what you
think is funny to you and we were like
it was it was like 65 or 70 pages I
remember and 12 12 pages of it was
pulled like I think directly from a
judge
Yiddish joke book like so he wrote like
that was in the but in the story as well
he wrote like no there was incredible
details right it was like all the
characters in the room and then like
Harold enters and then a joke book joke
right by one character then next
character Stewart joke book joke right I
mean it was amazing to me that you could
actually name the characters in the
script that he wrote but not the other
guys were made and I'm just assuming
Harold and Stewart those were not the
characters I'm sure I understand but I
was like being Ortiz I mean it was just
weird to hear that as I'm with Steve in
the car and have to go oh that's me and
he's like where did you where were you
and Steve going driving somewhere I
don't remember
probably a long trip how do you often
travel with him no that was it that was
the last time it was so uncomfortable
when I had to say like oh and that's me
so you listen to my book on tape with
Steve yeah yeah I did it was awkward it
was just awkward and I just thought
here's what did what did Steve say
because I he said this is awkward I
don't know I don't know
he said Jim you were like this is me
that the that story that's me
I'm not even named
I didn't I didn't get that exercised and
then what what's theirs before I was
Steve Madden holder be like why why you
so worked up you gonna let me answer
your question what if I was Steve I'd be
like I'm driving I can't like what makes
you think Steve and you're like what the
 the stories about me I'm in this
storm I did not even named okay you got
a turn you go you just get it first of
all and then Steve's trying to drive
listen
who said Steve was driving you said you
were on a trip with Steve crimes say he
was driving you were driving
we switched off because frankly by the
third or fourth time in the book when
that happened in separate stories other
stories I became a little distressed yes
and by the time the midnight pajama Jam
came along you were your name where I
mentioned for like as he's like it's a
subsidiary it's a completely like why in
that story hmm you could have just said
oh and there was some guy who had cabs
as opposed to in the story where I'm
there and like the entire thing hmm I
mean it would have been awkward like so
well Steve said this is awkward because
why would he name you in that one but
not these other ones and then that's the
last time that Steve and I hung out so
you mean do you think that the but here
is my question
wait let me do you think that Steve was
taken aback by the way he reacted or do
you think that now you never talked
because I'm saying do you think Steve
felt like I thought I was lying no I'm
saying that do you feel like Steve felt
like I don't like this guy or I don't
like trust this guy he's he's not the
person I met at the store and now he's
like all of a sudden I'm we're listening
to an audio book and he's yelling about
how I'm in it and Steve is like how did
you even tell him that you knew me Steve
the fighting would on my audio book
Steve by the end
I didn't put on the audiobook she put it
on yeah
that even makes it worse well it was
super uncomfortable because yeah because
if I were Steve Steve was like this
doesn't this doesn't make sense why
would he name you here and not the other
places I think you're lying about the
other places that's my whole point
yeah John here's my question mm-hmm the
paperback is out hmm did you correct
that did I correct did I Nate like yes
did you go back realize that it was a
mistake
and fix it no not in the way that you
assumed I did take redact your name from
the midnight pajama sham story so I took
out the one mention of you that was in
the book because I felt like I don't
know maybe you were right when you were
with Steve but I didn't even know it I
just well I might just took out your
amount of spite because I didn't even
want you mentioned well I think in many
respects that would have been easier to
deal with because then I would have been
he probably would have been like oh well
that guy's not gonna mention you anyways
that's weird
he's a weird guy as opposed to like I
don't know if I believe you why would he
mention you here and not in the other
places well I mean all I can tell you is
that you're probably gonna really enjoy
my next book which is entitled Sam cedar
is a complete really that's you
so that was my next question
what's next for you well there you go I
mean oh there will be tons of stories
about you
and and who you are and how I know you
you already wrote them you wrote them in
the first book you just didn't name me
series gonna basically rewrite besson
the stories will be repeated with you
named all right fair enough now let me
ask you this John some people have asked
this question have you gotten in trouble
for some of the things that you revealed
in that book have any of the people some
of whom I dunno have they
in any way come back to you and said hey
legally well legally or he's nothing
socially look that was I was worried
about it well I mean at one point you I
was a little bit worried about a couple
things well with the things you were
worried about I there was a story about
a threesome I remember that story I
didn't want to mention who was Ana I D I
know I mean I was in it right but you
were actually a part of that story - I
did not name you you did not you were
not in the threesome I was not in the
threesome I do remember you are almost
as much in the threesome as I was to the
extent that I then I think I came and
told you about it do you thing it the
funnier I do remember you actually left
the threesome - to tell you that I'm in
the middle of the three right now I do
remember going like what are you what
well for the four people listening or
watching that the school we with the
college you might see was pretty small
yes so you could have a threesome in one
dorm and quickly run across the quad
again it could still be going over your
front and alert your friend and come
back yeah and continue yeah particularly
based which is actually what happened
particularly based upon the amount of
involvement but hmm people haven't read
this yeah it's much better just to watch
your appearance on Colbert to talk about
it that's virtual writing them and most
people who read the book was said the
same thing said the Colby says like I
like I bought the book based on The
Colbert appearance and then I as I go I
didn't really like their book nope
really people did not say that I know
some people but now what what do you
prefer prefer do you prefer writing it
or voicing it the book yeah I didn't
enjoy writing it but and voicing it was
not that fun either
so look well like if you if I like it's
it's hard to read your own stuff if like
you don't like it
right and there was no way out of I
tried to get out of reading it I think
but it made no sense because I'm like oh
like predominantly known for what I read
a reading aloud what do you mean like
for my voice work what I'll tell you
about it later
it sounds like something that you would
have pitched to them to have hired
someone else to pretend they were you
reading it that would have yes really I
pitched a couple ideas like an old lady
right up you know a seven-year-old or
something yeah I'm like I'm almost
shocked and I think it's like they
probably got down to like it's in your
contract that you have to read it
because it's the only reason we hired
you to write it hey I can't help but
think that you probably like we didn't
even care what you wrote it's just like
you've just read it whatever you want
that would have been nonsense and it
might have been better
well let's talk about your voice work
John my understanding is that there is a
Bob you for those people who don't know
you are the voice of Archer on the
program Archer
yo you're also the voice of Bob Dobbs
Bob's Burgers which are on we well on
occasion yeah my understanding is that
there is a movie that has been announced
it'll be released in 2020 am i a part of
that I mean I haven't heard your name
brought up yet as far as casting goes
it's not really my purview
I assume you could do what you normally
would do and inappropriately reach out
to people well I think that's in part
one yeah and like force yourself on them
in the way that you did sometimes do for
a lot of things well I I feel like
that's what I'm doing at this moment you
want me to reach out for you
well I'm reaching out to you to put some
pressure on I'm and the idea that the
star of the show I would think I have no
influence on bringing back in
extremely popular character who was in
the pilot episode it's almost hard to
believe no I mean I'm not saying I don't
have a lot of influence in casting
decisions I probably if I if I wanted to
I could probably go directly to the
creator of the show and bring up your
name right and say remember that
character from season 1 or whatever well
it wasn't just season 1 I think you'll
find it was not just in season 1 yeah
and I maybe I could I could definitely
do that
and I have done that with other people
like frequently they have said like oh
you should hire her and in in on every
occasion where I have done that it has
happened good yeah
I just don't know whether I'm gonna do
that yeah all right fair enough
let me ask you this John you've been on
Archer for what now eight years nine
years I did just think about it and no
I'm not gonna do that all right
I don't think I'm gonna contact you
creator about it well you know what you
don't need to make a decision right now
well so you can just think about it a
little bit more okay I mean I think I
think I just did but and I think like we
thought about it but I'm saying you
could think of course I could rethink it
I'm not saying rethink it I would just
say don't even complete the no like I
said I you brought it up I thought about
it I said I declined and then you said
to rethink rethink it and I'm like well
let's just table that for now she'll
that come back to it later at a
different time and that would be a big
opportunity for you I mean probably what
it probably would John you've been on
Archer now for how long
ten years ten years and how long you've
been on Bob's Burgers about ten years I
think are you gonna do anything new or
anything that's in any way challenging I
mean just as a I don't know if you're
likely is like let me finish my question
as a as a as a as an actor as an artist
do you ever feel like I'm just resting
on my laurels cuz I've been doing the
same thing for so long and I just show
up and talking to you know a microphone
and and seems somewhat ironic based on
you being here but what do you mean let
me just what you're doing but I don't
know like I would say I would say no I
still enjoy it as much as I did at the
very beginning and so no new channel I
don't know whether I would have know
whether don't you emotion you go up to
like President Barack Obama in year 7
and say do you still enjoy doing this
thing that you're doing I think it's a
valid gonna just maybe just stop no well
I mean he has two terms you've actually
gone beyond that well and I'm just
asking that's an art I do but did you
not understand the analogy as an artist
do you miss having anything that's
challenging or new would you go approach
Pablo Picasso and say like are you still
gonna do the painting thing well I think
before the sculpture thing that you're
doing or maybe you want to make a movie
or branch out or do something else well
I mean even just do a different
character I mean for god sakes I play
several characters on the show um well
you know there's no reason to get
defensive I'm fine I'm fine I mean I did
rethink that thing we were talking about
earlier weekend and I'm gonna actually
double down and say that no definitely
not going to contact the creator of the
show to help you well like I say we have
a lot of time John you don't need to
well that's like twice now that I've
rethought it and I feel like that's like
probably like is failure is an option is
that available widely or is it is it is
it is it just being put out in a narrow
narrow situation I don't know much about
it mm-hmm I think it's in Barnes & Noble
are you familiar
I didn't to be honest with you I did not
know that they were still around oh they
are okay there's still a
brick-and-mortar Barnes and Nobles I
believe I bet you can get it online on
Amazon interesting or one of your
inaudible mm-hmm it's a book version
mm-hmm
I don't know where else you can get it
John why no YouTube channel for you you
have a lot of YouTube videos around I
went back the other day and I watched
baby pranks no really
yeah that's still on YouTube it's still
on YouTube but I don't think you know
you well I would be like I would have to
like I make new content and that's
that's I admire that was sort of my
point
well I'm like I would say one day every
two weeks doing the Bob character I am
also one day every two months doing the
archer character and that must get
exhausting so where you fit in time to
do a YouTube channel right I mean it's
something that you told me to do a long
time ago I never do it right but all
those videos are very old and I haven't
necessarily made new ones they're all in
four by three really yeah you can thank
Bill buck endorphins well I mean who
knew where things were going what is the
new format the new format is three by
five basically or what is the new format
seven by I can't remember
Nate by two a six by eight by I don't
know
hey bye if I do if I tense I mean like
what would I do
1200 honestly what would I do like a
YouTube channel would have to be like
what YouTube is now which is like what
you do you know just like no filler
filler right well like just as someone
talking for an hour it's like what my
kid watches okay I mean I could do that
I could like play a video game well
there's a lot of people who do that
Matt Matt wants to do that you do that
I'm looking to get into it in the future
as in like shoot yourself on in an inset
box playing video game yep yeah my kid
would watch it yeah it's great
anything else interesting John going on
with you is there a park around here
that has a rhinoceros sculpture maybe I
heard there was it's interesting
interesting question
anything else live performances where
people can see you is there a weapon
Tevan have a website do you know what do
you mean I have a job I mean I have a
job I don't need a website I have a job
well do you perform live do their places
people could use my postman and say like
you have a website a lot of postman do
do you go to your the guy in your
building the super and say like you have
a website I can take a look at it well I
mean here's a job he's doing something I
talked to a lot of performers and
comedian types hmm they all have
websites John okay yeah I'm not doing it
I'm not doing it just because you said
so and am i doing it just because they
do alright well there you have it
John Benjamin stuck in the past ladies
and gentlemen refusing to move into the
future nevertheless he put out a
paperback book and an audio version I
imagine there's a Kindle version does
that bother you
why oh because it's technology it's yeah
advanced technologies yeah I mean I
don't enjoy reading on a Kindle I'm I
don't have a Kindle but I don't enjoy
reading on my phone or my computer if
that's what you're getting at
No so failure is an option they
re-released it does in that way cut
against a little bit about the premise
of the book John lastly lastly I mean
I'm not sure it's a total success but
they did make it a paperback so perhaps
a sequel moderate success is also an
option that's just a
success is not an option now moderate
success is an option right or success is
an option your success is an option yeah
all right well I mean feel free to take
that it's not like you needed my
permission anyways well feel free to
read rhe pitch that show that didn't go
that you still probably have called
failure is an option because no because
they they passed on it well so feel free
to try so in comedy that's not my fault
so I mean I don't foresee you being on
Bob's Burgers anytime soon
great well I've got a lot of other
things to do in fact we're gonna have to
move on with this show so thanks for
helping me see yourself out definitely
right now hmm
I can't get up because I went poopoo and
my pants quick break we right back after
this
