[Music]
for 2/3 area code hey this is Bobby from
Tennessee how are you doing good how you
doing Bobby what's on your minds
hey I'm doing alright first I just
wanted to make an observation that all
the libertarians they call you and you
start making fits to them their cell
phone suddenly get out oh yes we've
noticed yeah over time yeah so hey
mostly man I just want to ask you what
you think about this whole USS John
McCain thing like I mean I was in the
Navy I was a corpsman in the Navy and I
mean my personal opinion is that
whatever officer signed off on that
thought that that was an okay thing to
do about work but that's just not in me
and I guess well I mean and let me ask
you this how like how far up from your
experience because I've had
conversations with with my friend Larry
who was also in the Navy and Larry was
he texted me like first thing this
morning
Larry's a little bit Larry's a little
bit wants to be very very accurate let's
put it that way
and Larry texted me first thing this
morning goes for the record that story
originally reported that ship McCain was
a carrier it was not and no and Larry
said he should have caught that because
only carriers carries only have name of
presidents but this is what Larry said I
want to get your take on this since you
you or Sailor yourself the reality is
the very idea of moving a vessel is
insane these are not pleasure craft and
getting underway for any reason on any
Navy vessel is an operation for security
personnel and operations money requires
orders top-level Pentagon it's not the
Coast Guard or a whale watch and it was
reported originally that they moved the
the vessel now I don't know if they
actually did move it but from your
perspective if they're gonna move a
vessel like that how far up the chain
when the Acting Secretary of Defense
says he didn't know about how far up the
chain would that have to go
oh man I don't know anymore now I wasn't
a Bluewater sailor I was a hospital
corpsman and there aren't that many
corpsman on ships or anything we mostly
go out with Marines and stuff like that
but as far as like movements go like it
has to go pretty high up on the chain I
bet you think it was somebody at the
Pentagon I mean like well that's not a
regional thing you know when the skipper
and self or herself can't decide to move
a warship like that I don't think but
yeah I know it's a it's pretty sad man
it's pretty sad what the military's come
to I mean look like I was kind of a
black sheep being in the military you
know I'm an atheist from the south and
progressive you know and I was
surrounded by a lot of you know no III
2012 I got it in 2012 yeah yeah not 80s
yeah I got I got preached at a whole lot
while I was in there but but it's
changing really a whole lot and I think
it's changing for the better because Jim
Z's coming in and these are some real
skeptical people and I mean yeah but
yeah I mean I just wanted to call and
talk about the John McCain and one of
the thing about that guy earlier who was
saying that the Republican Party might
split man I like dude I live in rural
Tennessee like these people love Trump
like I mean and the only thing that they
that unites them more than being a
Republican is their hatred of Democrats
or liberals it doesn't matter what
candidate they trot out they're gonna
vote against the Democrats it's just
gonna happen you know what do you think
what do you think contributes to that I
mean aside from you know the
obnoxiousness of some of us and the the
condescending I mean do you is it do you
think the doubt that the Liberal
Democrat whatever they call it is a
is a surrogate for a rural urban divide
you know I'll give you my take on me all
right yeah wait can I cuss on this show
cuz I said I was a sailor I'm trying my
best to my mind well you can cuss like a
sailor okay cool
so he thinks Mira going to man a
whole bunch of factories and everything
I moved off they've outsourced so
they're all the jobs all the positions
and everything and it's getting worse or
openoffice even though these morons okay
let's see and then and so whenever they
see things like you know like say black
lives matter they feel like they're
being left out you know because there
used to be in the forefront of
everything and you couple that with like
especially my area in private sentencing
there are more church seats than there
are people in this county I'm not
 you and and a lot of politics
get preached around here I mean there's
a whole lot of you know like wool I mean
look if you vote for Obama you're voting
in the Antichrist you know I was raised
Southern Baptist I used to be a jealous
racist piece of before I go in the
Navy and got out and saw the real world
and had an awakening and then and that's
the third thing I think it ties into it
is how many people around here haven't
even really left the counting and their
idea of a vacation is going up the
Dollywood and staying in there and the
cabin up in the mountains so these
people don't have any real exposure
they're really insulated and things have
gone to and then they turn to Fox
News and the and Fox News says the
Democrats know and they just believe it
I really think it's as simple as that
well I mean that's not that simple
actually I mean there's like you're
talking about sort of like three
different I mean but I think that I mean
that sounds that makes sense to me I
mean some a combination of material
you know diminishing material of things
in their lives diminishing sense of
social importance and a sort of an
insulation from any outside ideas that
that could enrich Erichs both the you
know they could be exposed to and easy
targets and I would say a guide a guide
essentially who is saying like here's
the answer for your problems I mean this
is you know that's pretty age-old
there's a reason why you know shows like
this people are interested people want
to have a voice that they feel they can
trust that will tell them what the
problem is and what the solution is and
sometimes people turn to religion for
that sometimes people turn to you know
celebrities for that sometimes they turn
to you know books or other sources and
you know that I think the the more
sophisticated people are the more
sources they will turn to so they get a
better sense of like playing these
different things off but if you only
have one big source that source is going
to be basically like this way folks walk
this way and this is the answer can I
ask you a question how absolutely ma'am
how did you come around to being an
atheist and a skeptic well it started
around my senior year of high school I
joined the military pretty soon after
high school and once there was 9/11 and
all that you know patriotism stuff and I
was friends with some more we used to
play paintball law and he's a really
good guy and they're really there the
family was really cool and I invited him
to go to church with me one time and he
said oh no you know we don't believe in
God and I like threw me for a loop
because as far as I was aware all iciest
were like liberal pedophiles that want
to you know sacrifice babies to Satan or
whatever
and and then so that kind of planted the
seed and then I was in Guantanamo Bay
during the hunger strike riots and I
decided to read the Bible from front to
back and I realize it didn't make any
 sense at all
and that's when I stumbled upon the
Atheist experience with you know Matt
Dillahunty and Jim peoples and then that
crowd and that was really what kind of
got me started going down that road and
then I bought some see Christopher
Hitchens books I started out with
Hitchens and I came out as an atheist
when I was stationed in Okinawa to my
family you know although the opposite
side of the world so it seemed like the
the opportune time to actually say hey I
really don't believe this and by
the way you can't come harass me about
it cuz I'm in Japan so yeah that's
that's how that got started
wow that's so interesting because I feel
like there is an opinion on the left
that there's really nothing we can do to
change people's religious orientation
specifically when we're talking about
like the kind of political Christianity
that rules a lot of this country and
like people say oh it's it's the base
versus the superstructure you know if
you want to change the culture you need
to change the material economic basis
that's driving the culture and I just
don't think that it's that simple
ever like I think we can do work the
what we we need more people to go into
the Navy it apparently it seems like and
get away from their families yeah well
you know the religious stuff is on it's
 really it's a hollow shell I
talk to people about Scripture around
here and and they don't know like you
can you can say things that aren't
biblical you know well god only helps
those who help themselves and they'll go
Oh bless your heart you know I'm not the
Bible or whatever and if I put that name
in the Bible and there's a whole lot of
that around here like I mean they only
know what the preacher reads to them and
even then half at the time they aren't
paying attention
and then they go out they know it's real
convenient that God wants them to hate
who they already hate you know it's real
convenient like that but I think
exposure a lot of an education the
education system out there
well alright well Bobby I will say this
this is what I this is my suggestion I
think that oh this could go a long way
if that's the case just remind everybody
all those religious folks that as the
Bible says from each according to his
ability to each according to his needs
and as the Bible says and see if that
gets some traction I'm getting ready to
get the hell out of here
I'm gonna head out to org and I'm all
 up in the head from being
deployed and I want to go to Oregon
where cannabis is legal because you know
it's not the end-all be-all cure like a
lot of people say but it does really
help with anxiety so so I'm getting the
hell up out of here the earliest
opportunity
alright well and if you go to a state
where it's legal you can actually have
like a doctor who specializes in
treating people with cannabis oh hell
yeah I know I'm all about that man well
you know I hope that you have a good
recovery and I really appreciate your
calling in and sharing this with us yeah
hey thanks for thanks for taking the
call if I get another wild hair at my
house I might give you another call
alright great well we're here we were
just like a like a like a daily
barbershop for hairs up your asses
reminds me of in the Bible it says money
is alienated essence of man's labor in
life and alien essence dominates him as
he worships it oh yeah that's a sweet
passage it's one of my favorite we used
to sing that when I went to
