[Music]
Wanaka so the the reporting that's
coming out of the White House is that
apparently Donald Trump is incredibly is
livid that his war on immigrants his
terrorism of the immigrant community is
not vicious enough and he's even
floating things like completely shutting
down the border he's very upset about
this border wall right so I don't know
about all of the man's weirdness and
oddities and fixations
and his obvious bigotry and obviously
this is a huge advantage for you know
the ever disturbing Stephen Miller which
we'll get to in a minute but I think you
know well let's just run through this
quickly do we have sound of Trump let's
let's I just want to read actually a
little bit from two reports so one is
from the LA Times which is that a judge
has blocked Trump's policy of forcing
asylum seekers to remain in Mexico so
basically what this means is that the
Trump administration is telling people
because you know how they frame always
they say people go through the process
do it legally do it in the appropriate
manner all of this crap these are people
who are doing it precisely in the legal
manner they're going there they're
applying for asylum then they're getting
shot out of the country back to Mexico
and complete you know contradiction to
the law and a judge Richard C born in
San Francisco has agreed with a request
from civil liberties groups to halt the
practice while their lawsuits move
forward his decision to put on hold
until Friday to give US officials the
chance to appeal and so that's and of
course they will appeal it but I just
want to give you a sense of what's
happening there
then there's Trump is set to force out
and purge top hat homeland security
officials from near Times
president Trump moved to clear the
senior ranks the homeland security of
Monday a day after forcing the
resignation of its secretary Kirsten
Nielsen as he accelerated the purge of
the nation's immigration and security
the White House announced the departure
of Randolph Ellis the director of the
Secret Service who had fallen out of the
behave of a favor with the president
even before a security breach at his
Morrow Lago Club that the agency
effectively blamed on mr. Trump's
employees government officials who work
not were asked not to be identified
discussing personnel changes before they
were announced said that at least two to
four high-ranking officials associated
affiliated with Miss Nielsen were
expected to be leaving soon hollowing
out the top echelon of the department
managing border security presidential
safety counterterrorism natural
disasters customs and other manners now
just we'll get to the sound in a second
but this comes on the heels of and we've
already know that the family separation
policy the damage that it's inflicted on
families the terrorism of those
kidnappings are still playing out in the
sense that children have not been
reunited with their parents they're
still separate from their families
because of this horrific obscenity that
they stopped well now and this again is
from the New York Times Trump signals
even fiercer immigration agenda with
possible return of family separations
president Trump's purge of the nation's
top homeland security officials is a
sign that he's preparing to unleash an
even fiercer assault on immigration
including a possible return of his
controversial decision last summer to
separate migrant children from their
parents again let's be clear kidnap
children from their parents current and
former administration officials said on
Monday mr. Trump shook up the ranks of
his top immigration officials after
spending months demanding that they take
tougher action to stop a surge in
migrant families at the border and
seething at what he considers to be
their overly overly legalistic refusal
to do what he said was necessary this is
also the other major political reality
is that the Trump economic populism scam
is done so Bernie's been running very
effective ads actually reminding a
people of Trump's lies on universal
health care of safeguarding Medicare and
Social Security and while we can debate
endlessly what role has economic
populism played in win
2016 election there's no doubt that it
played at least a small but significant
role in geographically pivotal States
that's undeniable just as it's
undeniable that a vast majority of
people who voted for him were motivated
by the white nationalist message but
with that economic populism done sure
he'll lie and he'll spin but that's not
gonna be his bailiwick it has to be all
a hundred percent in this white
nationalism yeah God and like just to
give you some idea of what it means when
they send asylum seekers back to Mexico
we actually our producer Andy
interviewed a guy on the anti Fattah who
was seeking asylum because back in
Honduras the his dad was tortured and
killed because he was going to testify
on the connection between the police and
organized crime when they told him if he
didn't they told him that he would he
and the rest of his family would be next
and he needed to keep his mouth shut so
he fled he applied for asylum just the
way you're supposed to from Tijuana they
called his number last week he was held
in the US for a few days and then they
sent him back at which point he had quit
his job to go to the US he had a
low-paying job in Tijuana and now he has
nothing he has no money to live on his
living situation is tenuous like this is
what it does to people's lives
absolutely and this is Donald Trump
saying that the our country is full
you're gonna hear this more and more and
more this is gonna be one of the most
barbarous overtly fascistic campaigns I
mean it's gonna be more so than 2016
it's a colossal surge and it's
overwhelming our immigration system and
we can't let that happen
so as I say and this is our new
statement the system is full can't take
you anymore
whether it's asylum whether it's
anything you want it's illegal
immigration can't take you anymore we
can't take you our country is full our
area is full the sector is full
can't take you anymore I'm sorry can't
happen so
around that's the way it is so look and
the argument against this we could say
all day that in fact there is not
migration has stabilized tirely over the
last several years I believe it's
actually at a net negative at the very
least even out that the amount of asylum
seekers that we take from anywhere in
the world is incredibly small even under
less authoritarian and bigoted
administrations but that's not the point
I mean the point is this is pure racism
this is pure xenophobia this is pure
fear-mongering so you need to argue it
on the merits and you need to have an
answer to it and it needs to mean
substantively abolishing ice as an
example I'm afraid and I don't I'm
really but you know people can say their
piece I'm not really particularly
interested in having this argument at
the moment but I think that we need to
look is my goal politically at some
point open borders yeah absolutely no
doubt the immediate use of that
terminology is not as effective as
things like demilitarizing the border
because that is an actual within the
real-world policy option right now and
when you get specific like that that is
how you can both aim at Trump and force
Democratic candidates to have much more
specifically filled out and clear
immigration agendas and I know I'm
speaking indirectly here but that's
honestly like my stance on Sanders I
want him and all of the candidates to
move left word on immigration in some
respects and take this on in a very
aggressive way because it's
fundamentally important and that is not
going to happen through our more utopian
discourse on open borders which again
I'll say for a second time I am NOT
opposed to that is part of a longer-term
project in the short term right now the
question is do you demilitarize do you
abolish ice
do you recall donate the United States
with international law on things like
asylum and do you fundamentally reframe
the parameters of this conversation so
that it is one of humanity versus
exploitation race and capital that is
the question and if you frame it
correctly
then you can actually both attack Trump
and move the party in a more substantive
direction because even the ones that
have signified in the right way on this
the specifics of their things like
abolish ice plans are very they're not
they're threadbare they're they're
talking about renaming an agency in some
cases we need to be much more specific
about demilitarizing the border and
supporting Mexico in doing the same
process and then more broadly if you
want to stop this you start supporting
you know sweatshop economies and
right-wing governments in Central
America because we're part of that same
chain that Jaime talked about before yes
so I mostly agree with you however I do
think Bernie needs to frame it
differently what he said kind of played
into the right wing talking point that
immigration is bad for US workers and
would force the u.s. to impose some sort
of austerity which is just not true like
I think we all need to do a good job and
I think we have a lot of work to do
judging from my mentions on Twitter
right now connecting in people's minds
the fact that quote-unquote open borders
or immigration of workers it's not a
neoliberal Koch brothers idea we already
have open borders for capital we already
have open borders for the wealthy and
it's not a coincidence as daniel denver
noted in an excellent twitter thread
that the criminalization of migration
and beefing up of quote unquote border
security coincided with predatory trade
deals like nafta that enabled US
corporations to exploit workers abroad
as well as exploit workers here because
when you're criminalized when you're
undocumented it's much harder to
organize and form a union with your
fellow workers yeah i mostly Rueda i
mean i i think more broadly for people
in like twitter spaces and other things
you got to be very conscious that as an
example over eighty percent of americans
pose open borders so I'm interested in
though on the other hand picking off the
types of issues and conversations that
really could get to the heart of the
human rights and basic dignity crisis at
the border and that also includes
decoupling and debunking myths like
immigration is bad you know here's the
thing that's so amazing to me if you
want to know what Labor's position on
immigration is it's really simple you
can go to the afl-cio website which is
hardly like the most radical you know
Union in the world but it's a venerable
and honorable big union that represents
millions of people and they are a
hundred percent on board with solidarity
and rights work in those countries and
also robust for real immigration reform
here it is
support pathway to citizenship this is
the ACL u--'s sort of main point here so
there is also just like as a matter of
practicality there isn't but yeah and I
think the rhetoric also could change and
I understand that open borders is often
a boogeyman used to scare people because
yes most Americans oppose it if you put
it in those terms but also most
Americans are in favor of immigration no
no absolutely look Bernie's got to fight
those fights and but he also has to
reject certain premises that are really
problematic about immigration and the
economy and he just needs to needs to
find a way he doesn't have to say yeah
I'm for open borders but he's to find a
way to put it in his words that rejects
the premises of those sorts of questions
I I agree with that and I also I'm gonna
still continue largely to give him the
benefit of the doubt because most of his
career obsess suggests that we should
give him the benefit of the doubt and I
just I get you know there are times
where it's like guys he's running for
president United States he's not running
to be like a study group leader at you
know a TSA meeting like this is a little
bit of a different job and sometimes
he's not gonna echo your talking points
now that being said I totally agree that
he should have framed it
differently and I think he will
