[Music]
impeachment has apparently caused a
major rift not just on Kowalski's
Facebook page those Kowalski from
Nebraska but also at Fox News Gabe
Sherman reports in I think it's where's
him Vanity Fair that this morning
September 26th
excuse me yesterday morning Thursday
morning Sean Hannity told friends that
the whistleblowers allegations are quote
really bad person briefed on Hannity's
conversations told me now Sean Hannity
we may be dealing with a scorned lover
type of situation because Trump has been
listening to Tucker Carlson a little bit
more than Hannity particularly I think
on the whole Bolton thing and so there
could be a little bit of this going on
but according to a Fox staffer that told
a Gabe Sherman the management its
management bedlam this massive thing
happened and no one knows how to cover
it here is a schism that made its way on
to television just the other night here
is Tucker Carlson sitting down with Jodi
Genova who is a former Trump lawyer he
looks like one yep
that guy definitely has the look of a
former and or coupler referring to an
appearance that Judge Napolitano made on
Fox earlier the day before and here I'll
let Tucker walk us through this
yesterday Judge Andrew Napolitano who is
a legal analyst at Fox and a very nice
guy will say I've always liked him when
I'm one of our daytime shows and
declared that the president's phone call
with the head of Ukraine was a crime
here's what he said it is a crime for
the president to solicit
for his campaign from a foreign
government so that would be at what that
to which the president has admitted is
in and of itself yes now no just I want
to remind you do you all remember the
James O'Keefe sting where they had a
video of someone who purported to be
from Canada in line buying some Hillary
Clinton merchandise at a campaign event
and as soon as the Canadian bought the
merchandise they cut a video showing how
she was taking foreign money and it's
illicit oh yeah is that an O'Keefe thing
yeah okay and they thought like we have
a huge crime here and it was like you
know I don't know like a sixteen dollar
hat or something it was $30 hat and hey
could I get a t-shirt sure there you go
whatever 15 bucks technically speaking
global cuz I think it was a crime now
the campaign actively soliciting
services in kind from a foreign
government is illicit it is a breach of
election laws I would imagine it's also
rather unseemly but it is illegal
good yes
so we definitely go back a little bit
sorry real pakka's campaign from a
foreign government so that would be what
that to which the president has admitted
is in and of itself a crime yes so that
definitely got our attention of course
it's crime and so I asked you because
you prosecuted a lot of crimes and last
year I asked you as Trump's former legal
defense attorney is that a crime I
didn't see it here's what you said well
I think Judge Napolitano is a fool and I
think what he said today is foolish no
it is not a crime let me underscore
emphatically that nothing that the
president said on that call or what we
think he said on that call constitutes a
crime and even if he had said you're not
gonna get the money it would not be a
crime well apparently our daytime host
who owes did Judge Napolitano was
watching last night and was outraged by
what you said and quite ironically
called you partisan here's what he said
a partisan guest who supports President
Trump was asked about Judge Napolitano
'he's legal assessment and when he was
asked he said unchallenged Judge
Napolitano is a fool attacking our
colleague who's here to offer legal
assessments on our air in our work home
is repugnant repugnant not clear if that
was you or me but someone's repugnant
and here's what finally last soundbite
here's how Judge Napolitano responded a
lot of legal authority and I join it on
the other side and the other side
basically says anything that helps the
campaign whether it's cash or emails or
or smearing your opponent is a thing of
value and therefore requesting it as a
crime yes
now unlike maybe some day side hoes I'm
not very partisan and it was a sincere
question is it a crime or not
so given everything that's happened in
the last 24 hours I just want to throw
it to you again was it a crime or not
absolutely not now let me sort of
educate Judge Napolitano the President
of the United States is the executive
branch under Article two
he is the chief law enforcement officer
of the United States he can ask anyone a
citizen a foreign leader a question he
can make a suggestion about an
investigation because he runs them and
by the way in the latest set to with the
whistleblower the office of legal
counsel has said that requesting
information from a foreign government is
not a thing of value and is not a
foreign contribution I really I must say
this I've been a US attorney and
independent counsel an investigative
counsel on Capitol Hill in the house and
the Senate Judge Napolitano has never
been a US Attorney he's never been a
federal prosecutor
he has never conducted a federal grand
jury I have done all of those things I
if he wants to have an opinion that's
fine I am NOT a paid Fox contributor I
am a guest of Fox Network I come on when
they asked me so and and I am told
please whatever you do tell the truth
don't make things up don't cover it so
what I say I believe and of course as a
matter of law I know what I'm talking
about in the law I try to be truthful I
was very truthful last night what is he
so originally about her style for the
Paula tano didn't call me an idiot
Donald Trump does not run the Ukrainian
investigation Donald Trump is not the
exam he president the notion that he can
do ask anything in that the Justice
Department that quashed the
investigation that's what he's talking
about he is citing the cover-up as
justification as to why it's not a law
why it's not illegal the idea that they
that he would hold up this money and
just I'm just asking for information
information that is made up and in fact
if I don't get it
what you're not getting a money it's a
nice bit of aid you got here it should
be ashamed if something happened to it
that's not illegal Judge Paul Tana is an
absolute idiot hey you shouldn't respond
to me calling him an idiot
that exchange went like Brendan if I
said hey you know what no offense Sam
but Brendan he shouldn't do the
packets and brother came in it's like
you know I'm just doing my job but in
the facts ago it's too bad Michael feels
that way I've got a lot of experience so
I come back I'm like how dare you you
are an idiot and you didn't acknowledge
it he put back its together for years
it's so trigger did the second segment
of Judge Napolitano like he's not gonna
just take that lying down but he wasn't
escalating it and did that guy freaks
out I really like the idea of like
someone in real America just tuning in
to Fox News the past few days and it's
basically three Italian lawyers from New
York New Jersey just like going at each
other country lawyer country attorneys
this is a friggin extended argument
spilling out of sparks steakhouse we're
all country attorney it literally are
going from Midtown steak houses and
pasta joints in town cars to Fox then
out to various suburbs in either Jersey
or Long Island carrying on an extended
argument about just how permissively
criminal the criminal real estate
developer president can be yeah the
other funny part was when Tucker Carlson
said he's not partisan right
