[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome back to the program
the writer at-large New York magazine
author of all the single ladies and now
the equally as New York Times
bestselling good and mad the
revolutionary power of women's anger
Rebecca tracer welcome to the program
Rebecca thanks for having me back Sam
all right so let's let's just you know I
I'm struck by well right let's start
with just how how you decided to write a
book about anger because in in many
respects well I don't wanna say all
respect but in many respects you're sort
of I guess personal journey with this
issue is mirrored in the country
contemporaneously all around us yeah I
mean I think that one of the things that
is true about my professional work
that's been going on now for you know 15
years I've been a feminist journalist
for 15 years and anger has always
undergirded my work I write about
gendered and racial and economic
inequality I write about progressive
politics I write about the women's
movement and as many iterations and you
wouldn't do that work if you weren't
angry so it's not as though that is new
but one of the things you know that you
asked how I came to write this book one
of the things that became clear to me is
I I have also in my work as a journalist
sort of tried not to lead with anger
because I know that women's anger I know
from the history of how women's
movements are our caricature I our
caricatured and characterized how
progressive movements and women within
them are caricatured as troublemakers as
disruptive as hysterical as illegitimate
as particularly for women of color as
threatening and militant how progressive
just disruptiveness as characterizes mob
like right we see a lot of examples of
that right now and because of all that
all those all those messages
that in fact have been internalized over
my you know 43 years on this earth I
have taken care to not make anger my the
primary register with which I express
myself I have taken care in my writing
to sort of make anger easier my anger
the anger that necessarily undergirds
the kind of work that I do more
palatable to you know to be funny and
light-hearted and cheeky and ironic and
and I haven't wanted to look too hard at
either the anger that I cover I haven't
wanted to portray some of the people and
figures that I cover is angry or present
myself as angry because I know that for
women and for lots of kinds of
marginalized vulnerable people anger
becomes a liability anger undermines
your message and in the wake of the 2016
election there was so much anger
bubbling and I I found it hard the way I
put it in my own head was it was hard
for me to think straight because I was
so angry and it was like seeing the
anger not as a clarifying or instructive
force or reaction but as an obstructive
one as something that clouded my
thinking and you know it was in a
personal conversation I had with my
husband where I sort of expressed just
that thought like you know I'm - I don't
know I'm trying to figure out what my
next what my next set of
responsibilities is as a writer as a
white feminist as a you know somebody
looking at progressive politics what's
my work going forward but I can't think
clearly cuz I'm so angry my husband sort
of said in passing well maybe you should
write about anger and it was just this
you know bear suggestion that I was like
oh my god what if I look directly at the
anger the thing that we're supposed to
sort of cover over or put to the side or
not stare directly at that undergirded
that was the that was the thing that led
me to write this book and it was
incredibly revelatory and freeing and I
learned a lot because I learned about
how the degree to which we're all
discouraged from considering anger as
its Oh as politically consequential as
potent force in social and political
movements when in fact it always has
been and so it was really the the
process of writing the book was like
lifting a curtain on a thing we've been
you know we hadn't we've been trying to
take care not to look directly at or
deal directly in
for so long and it was I've learned so
much just by the act of sort of taking
the anger not not just my own and not
about my anger but the anger of women
who have preceded me and who have been
angry long long before I ever made it to
this earth of taking that anger
seriously and looking at what it's
wrought the way it's changed laws
customs protections how it has been the
propellant force behind so many social
movements it's been incredibly
surprising and I've learned so much all
right okay how much all right because I
feel like I have like now like eight
questions I want to ask simultaneously
but I know that's not fair I think I
just answered yes but there's but
there's but I mean there okay so let's
just I want to just keep it sort of
somewhat a sort of like a personal then
I want to get to that sort of the more
of the the role of anger in the context
of progress for women and and then we'll
get into sort of how the you know anger
is received you know and express
differently obviously between men and
women and and and differently situated
women but that quality of being aware
and I feel like I feel like every woman
must to some degree or another have an
awareness that there is a danger in
expressing anger in a way that's not
dangerous for men and to what extent do
you think the election of Trump as an
inciting event like sort of raised
people's consciousness to how much they
were suppressing or or simply said like
you know what I'm done I'm done with
this suppressing I think it was a
combination of factors I think that the
excuse me I think that the shock of it
and by shock of it I mean like I was I
was somebody who covered Hillary
Clinton's campaign I was not shocked
that Hillary Clinton lost the presidency
simultaneously if this makes any sense I
was shocked that Donald Trump won right
socked into almost a point of paralysis
it's like the reality settling in of the
fact I was not I was I was not
is that Hillary Clinton didn't win but
the fact that the man who did win is the
president with a sort of it was a shock
to the system right and I and I think
I'm not alone in those things even
though it seems like they don't make
sense well the idea is that he should
have been disqualified because of who he
was in some way obviously not there's no
official to step in and say you're
disqualified but the the country should
have disqualified the guy regardless of
any of the shortcomings that Clinton may
have had as a candidate right so here's
what there are two things well there are
million things but a couple things stand
out about what happened in the wake of
that election one is that it was such a
shock for so many people and there were
you know I cover women in politics I
wrote about Hillary Clinton for a long
time that to some degree explains why I
wasn't surprised that she lost right
yeah for a lot of people who don't you
know who aren't looking at the history
of women in politics who aren't looking
closely at Hillary Clinton in her
campaign in the way that I was for
really almost a decade I think that her
loss was a shock there was the
expectation and in part this this ties
to the next thing I'm going to say it's
born out of a pernicious set of lies
that Americans like to tell themselves
all the time throughout our history
which is that the inequities on which
this country was built or have been
rectified
they've been addressed they've been
fixed the great lie that has told people
who from the start in this country have
been have been rendered marginal or who
have been subjugated or oppressed in
some way is that it's been fixed now
that the inequities are in our path and
we saw an example of that during the
Obama administration when the notion
that Barack Obama had been elected
president somehow supplied this and and
and grounded amidst that racism was a
thing of our past but in fact we know
that of course it's not I mean of course
it's not but there was a way in which
you could say well look you know a black
man is president like how you know you
know that anything is possible this is
not racism and we solved it the civil
rights movement solve it the evolution
wasn't solved it Barack Obama solve it
what's done the Supreme Court the
Supreme Court basically said that and
again they're gutting of the Voting
Rights Act that's exactly right that's
exactly right that is what they said
this is no longer a problem that plagues
us we no longer need these protection
okay now that is part of
the same thing happens around gender the
same thing and we've heard it we're
bathed in it right there are more women
at college campuses than there are men
in fact there's the boy crisis in
education there's you know who is like
we've saw this too twice we've had an
inevitable presidential candidate who
was a woman that won both times I don't
know if you heard she was inevitable
it's weird that she hasn't been
president yet because she was totally
inevitable this is a done deal and in
fact part of why people assume that
Hillary Clinton was going to win is
because of all the sort of structural
stuff that had historically kept women
from the presidency or even the
nomination from a major party for the
presidency stuff like they didn't have
the support of their party they didn't
have the fundraising capabilities that
their male peers had you know Hillary
couldn't anticipated all those things
that had kept shirley chisholm for
winning a nomination at 72 shirley
chisholm who had neither the
full-throated support of her white
feminist allies in the movement her
activist allies or the congressional
black caucus her colleagues in the House
of Representatives she talked about that
that she didn't have the sort of
structural institution support
institutional support she didn't have
the fundraising money in 1987 Pat
Schroeder a representative Pat Schroeder
tried to try to the thought about
running for president she couldn't raise
the money and she didn't have the
support of her party these were part of
the structural impediments that had been
in women's ways Hillary Clinton wanted
to be President she tried twice she knew
what the impediments were she gained the
system she's like I'm gonna do this I'm
gonna get the support of my party and
I'm gonna get the fundraising money well
that made her appear to be part of the
establishment which she is it's not just
an appearance and sort of took away the
notion that she everybody was like oh it
they there was a sense that there were
that she was a woman because she was the
establishment candidate she was what was
coming in with more power than anybody
else right and that of course wound up
working against her in 2016 but all of
that is found in all the beliefs to be
able to say that a woman candidate for
president is inevitable and people did
say this about Hillary in 2008 and they
said it again in 2016 it is it functions
alongside that sort of Supreme Court
like we can gut the Voting Rights Act it
we could never say in this country it is
utterly dishonest to ever suggest that a
cut that a nation that has never had a
woman president that has until 2016
never had a woman nominated by me
your party for the presidency that has
never had a woman vice president that a
woman would inevitably become the
president that is a lie and it's part of
a far more pernicious lie that is
attached to all this
look post-feminist thought there was an
anti-feminist background in the eighties
and nineties that undergirded this
there's no longer anything for for women
to be angry about this was especially
true for white middle-class women who of
course did many of the benefits of the
civil rights and women's movements of
the 1960s and 70s and did reap the
benefits of affirmative action at higher
rates than almost anybody else and did
have all kinds of educated middle-class
white women who got all kinds of rights
and protects protections and extended to
them and those were a lot of the women
who sort of swallowed this notion that
there was no longer if they were angry
about what they perceived to be sexism
or misogyny unequal power in the world
that anger was probably illegitimate
because it's not true
right that is the lie we solved it women
have women are there more women on
college campuses there's inevitable
woman president things are fine for
women now what current winning the
presidency did and it's not just this it
was also it was exposed that even the
women who basically won white patriarchy
even Hillary Clinton wealthy woman who
had gained out the system who had gotten
institutional support who is wildly
qualified to be president could still be
beaten by this cartoon character of
juvenile and confidence and racism and
xenophobia and sexism that made
undeniable that women had something to
be mad about right and it's in the same
way you saw a similar thing happen
around the hashtag meet you movement in
the fall of 2017 when many of the most
prominent complainants about sexual
assault and harassment were not only
middle class white women but extremely
wealthy white actresses who lodged some
of this who told some of the first
stories about Harvey Weinstein these
were women who you know would have been
told like what if they're rich they have
power in Hollywood they're you know they
have every advantage and every privilege
and yet they could still tell stories
about how the arc of their career was
fundamentally shaped by assault about
how they had experienced the the you
know in many cases physical violence
sexual violence or you know harassment
how they had been sidelined how
they had had less power in a situation a
lot of this made people aware of and
better able to give voice to the fury
that they felt and have things to pin it
on the famous trip Christine Baazi Ford
a middle-class white woman advanced
degree you know it was evidence there's
evidence out there that it's not
everything is not equal that there are
still power imbalances and that is it's
a period a window in which we are
there's ample evidence to correct the
pernicious lie that America tells itself
over and over again which is the
inequity as a thing of its structural
systemic inequity is a thing of its past
but what that means is that it's brought
a lot of middle-class white women to
anger in a way that they haven't been
before and that is a population that is
sort of newly awakened to its anger and
it stems from the shock of seeing
Hillary Clinton lose the presidency and
also the realization that okay now I can
point to certain things and say I wait I
have every reason to be mad you can't
tell me that my anger is illegitimate I
mean in the the pernicious nosov that
lie it seems to me is even greater or
was even greater than the lie that we
tell ourselves about race because it it
it almost didn't even have to be
articulated you know I mean like the I
feel like there was you know the Supreme
Court he's gonna make an argument like
we don't have racism anymore because
they have to almost it was almost the
the notion that there was not this sort
of deep misogyny in the you know
interwoven into our American psyche it
was almost as if that argument didn't
even have to be made it was so accepted
that it wasn't there on somewhat there
are different there are things about a
gender power imbalance that are very
particular to the nature of the fact
that you know women are an oppressed
majority it's a very unusual structural
reality right there are more women than
there are men and yet there they are
women are subjugated in a press and
offered less economically socially
sexually professionally in the public
sphere
and that creates a number of crazy
dynamics including that every woman has
men in her life and every man has women
in his life and that means when you win
you and that's one of the reasons that
it is the women's women is explosive it
is combustible it is always precarious
and it really only cohere sort of you
look at the historical story only about
every 50 years it's very hard to
converge around a movement that wants to
challenge gendered power imbalances and
that's because the nature of gender
relationships which are familial social
sexual romantic you know within a
community means that if you challenge
those gender imbalances you are
disrupting intimate personal
relationship and that is different from
other kinds of social and even identity
politics disruptions within power
structures because it means it means
fighting a battle that might have
consequences in your bed at your kitchen
table at your Thanksgiving dinners right
it's it's it's changing dynamics of
romantic and marital partnerships it's
changing dynamics within the offices in
which you work and that is a it's a it
makes things it's hard to get people to
have that fight because it disrupts the
day leanness of their lives it's a it's
a is it the it's a it's both it seems
the the stakes and the constraints so I
mean it's both like the price that you
could pay but also just structurally
there's not even the room to take a step
back and assess because it's so it's all
kinds of things these are these are
intimate relationships or the people we
love you know it's one of the reasons
that the conversation around sexual
harassment you know there have been so
many iterations of this you know this
has been a building awareness starting
in the mid 70s when women began filing
some of the first sexual harassment our
foods many of them were women of color
who were borrowing from civil rights law
to you know and sort of using the thing
that they had learned you know via
fighting for for legal protections
around race and applying them to the
treatment that they were getting within
offices and that led to the sort of
naming of a behavior that was it came in
the 1970s to be called sexual harassment
worked its way up to the Supreme Court
in 1986 there's a Supreme Court decision
that banned sexual harassment under
Title 7 of the Civil Rights Act then in
91 you have any to Hill describing the
sexual harassment she experienced while
working with Clarence Thomas and of
course does not stop his ascent to the
Supreme Court in fact his place on the
Supreme Court leads to and is part of
the gutting of the Voting Rights Act and
which indirectly leads to or directly
leads to the election of Donald Trump
right you can draw a direct line between
all of this stuff but it is also true
that Anita Hills testimony also leads to
a record you know year the next year the
year the first year of the woman in
which a record number of women are
elected to office it leads to a broader
conversation around sexual harassment um
but when you talk about these things one
of the reasons it takes so long is
because it means changing behaviors like
they're so many we are intimately
dependent on and connected to some of
the I write in the book that it means
the bad guys are in many cases also our
good guys right they are our colleagues
and our friends and our boyfriends and
our husbands and our fathers and our
sons and that's why you can hear this
language of intimate reliance and
intimate loyalty for example in the push
back against taps after the Cavanagh
hearings when you heard so many women
deployed actually on behalf of white
patriarchal power saying well our sons
are vulnerable this is done what Donald
Trump says it's a very scary time for
young men the notion of maternity we
have to protect our boys it's that's the
kind of those are the kinds of
relationships that are thrown into
disarray when you have a mass
conversation and desire to revise the
rules of the game that a lot of people
are deep into their lives having already
played right and so you know that that
makes these things really complicated
because if you change the rules mid-game
some people who you love and who you're
attached to you're dependent on either
whether it's emotionally or economically
because they're the breadwinners or
they're your bosses or they're your
mentors gave you your you know
and they may have behaved in ways that
you can intellectually acknowledge are
bad but there are real perils in cost
emotional professional and political to
to saying look the you violated these
rules that we're now going to be
enforcing and you've got a base
repercussion for them these are
complicated challenges to to make
because there are costs that wind up
being personal the disruption of
marriage as I write in my book about how
some of the women's activism that we've
seen erupt over the past two years women
who previously not been politically
active who'd been perhaps voted Democrat
but mostly have been kind of
sleepwalking kind of you know passive in
their political investments and are now
devoting their every hour to activism to
electing candidates to participating in
teacher strikes and and labor disputes
those women often tell they're talking
increasingly about their marriages
ending about divorce because the terms
in which they'd entered their marriage
you know had changed they were now
different people there they want
different things from their partnerships
and from the way that they organize
their lives and marriages are ending and
we know that that was used against the
second-ranked women's movement because
it did change assumptions about who was
permitted what kinds of opportunities
and who you know who should have what
kind of power within within our most
intimate relationships and the divorce
rate spiked 20 1970s all right man and
anti-feminists used it against them and
say look I'm gonna take marriage they
ended all these marriages in the
seventies
these are really complicated changes to
try to make because I mean like you say
it's on both ends I mean Brett Kavanaugh
was up there he was very angry because
he was raised in such a way that I I was
allowed to do that as a kid and that was
that was the group that was the that was
the agreement that I made when I got
born that I will you know as long as I
keep it back in the you know at college
and maybe you know my youthful
indiscretions then I could go on and do
this and I get I get a gimme and you're
trying to tell you like they're right
that I'm not allowed to be angry and my
love of beer I mean it's that was that
was at the time that's kind of code that
was kind of cut
he wasn't actually he wasn't copping to
the thing he was actually being accused
of which is assault of a woman but he
was that's a great I mean in fact the
beer thing and the sort of defense of a
certain kind of socialize that he had
that we know is quite closely connected
to the kinds of allegations that were
made against him it was a sort of like
this is how I live my life I had my
calendars like my dad and I love beer
and I you know squee or whatever his
name was
when we go to this course we all know
this is the rule we all get the Mulligan
and you're telling me that Mulligan
doesn't count anymore and right that
Mulligan of course was built upon the
the oppression and suppression and the
physical violence against women and and
and and he felt like wow but I but I
didn't do it since then theoretically
and you know that type of probably I
mean I'm giving maybe the benefit of
doubt but all right so I wanted to
circle back though because the the this
was
