[Music]
we need to talk about what's going on at
the border the and this has been you
know like this has been since day one of
this administration it was quite clear
that immigrants and would-be immigrants
and specifically specifically from
Central America in particular but also
you know foe places like the Caribbean
in in Africa Syria I guess refugees
we're going to be the ones who pay the
price the most for the Trump
administration but this is the way that
all oppressive regimes start they go
towards the weakest members of society
the ones who have the least political
power the gypsies the Jews the
homosexuals I mean that's sort of like
the way that these things go the
immigrants and so in many respects
they're the Canaries in the coal mine
but really they're also just like
they're the people in the coal mine to a
the human the UN Human Rights what do
they call I want to say rack and
raconteur but I'm not a hundred percent
sure with a epaulette repertoire the
bash al a what is it no passionately
Michelle Bachelet surname it is the
Michelle Bachelet she's the Human Rights
chief I guess they call it that you used
to have a different name for is appalled
according to her office Monday
at the notion as she says as a
pediatrician but also as a mother and a
former head of state I'm deeply shocked
that children are forced to sleep on the
floor in an overcrowded facilities
without access to adequate health care
of food with poor sanitation conditions
in a statement released by the UN New
York Times on Saturday had an extended
look at the migrant detention center
so-called migrant detention center in
Clint Texas apparently after
interviewing dozens of people the the
men and women who worked there were
grappling with the stuff of nightmares
outbreaks of scabies shingles and
chickenpox were spreading among the
hundreds of children who being held in
cramped cells agents said the stench of
the children's dirty clothing was so
strong it spread to the agents own
clothing people in town would scrunch
their noses when they left work the
children cried constantly one girl
seemed likely enough to try to kill
herself that the agents made her sleep
on a cot in front of them so they could
watch her as they were processing new
arrivals some Border Patrol agents spoke
about how dehumanizing it was they
mentioned that the Border Patrol leaders
including Aaron Hall the outspoken chief
patrol agent of the agency's El Paso
sector have disputed descriptions of
degrading conditions inside clint and
other migrant detention sites around el
paso but a review of the operations of
the clint stationed near el paso's
eastern edge show that the agency's
leadership knew for months that some
children had no beds to sleep on no way
to clean themselves and sometimes when
hungry its own agents had raised the
alarm
and found themselves having to
accommodate even more arrivals the piece
goes on from there there's some very
heartbreaking stories of individual kids
and their parents you should check it
out it's disgusting
and I don't know that it's really
frankly anything other than the plan
that the Trump administration has here
is Donald Trump claiming he's seen this
place's and they're great but here's the
thing when people come in illegally and
then it's crowded and I've seen some of
those places and they are run
beautifully they're clean they're good
they do a great job covering that no
they do a great job they're crowded
because the Democrats will not give us
any relief from these look folks we have
loopholes that are so bad we have asylum
that's so bad so these places are many
of them not all of them but many of them
they're incredible they're really
well-run I'll tell you what and I said
it yesterday border patrol did not train
to be doctors and nurses and
that's not what they trained to be they
trained to be Border Patrol and that's
what they're doing and they're doing a
phenomenal job because of the country
because we're doing so well as the
country we never we've never done this
well yeah there we go
I mean we don't need to hear more so
this is where we're at
bad enough should be people for people
to abandon the Republican Party but it
won't be it won't be that's just I mean
I mean while the FBI and dice apparently
are using States driver's license
databases and going through using facial
recognition software without any
knowledge or consent obviously if people
thank you Silicon Valley for that yeah I
could be Palantir specifically but
regardless I mean it's unclear what
they're looking for in those things I
guess maybe they just scan through to
try and find out individuals I've heard
stuff about the DEA doing this stuff to
a while back I'm not sure what ice has
to do with it but there you go and then
lastly you recall the other day we
talked about the story that ProPublica
broke about a facebook group where
former Customs and Border Protection
officers current ones some supervisors
anyways they haven't be able to identify
all of them but 9,500 people who refer
to themselves as all being part of the
family
20,000 Customs and Border Protection
officers in the country and
all sorts of horrific things being put
up there acts of violence towards
immigrants depictions of aoc basically
being sexually assaulted by the
president claims of threats to assault
Kazuo Cortez complete disregard for the
life of the immigrants who have died but
just a horrific talk about a red flag
Exhibit A and why this organization is
so putrid but with that said could be a
few bad apples right you can't can't
blame the organization for a few bad
apples that are just joining these
groups it's not like the organization
knew about it and condoned it although
it's exactly like that
exactly customs and uh things from the
Washington Post a Politico excuse me
Customs and Border Protection officials
have been aware for up to three years
that a secret Facebook group for current
and former Border Patrol agents was
posting offensive messages far longer
than previously reported
we should tell you that the group was
established three years ago border
patrol leadership knew about photos
posted to the group as far back as 2016
when agents reported them it's according
to a current homeland security official
the images several of which were
provided to Politico show agents
engaging in conduct that includes stim
assimilating sex acts and taking selfies
while defecating former DHS officials
said he was aware of the Facebook group
during the past year neither official
knew of any serious punishment ever
leveled at members of the Facebook group
that's called condoning it folks that's
called condoning it top Homeland
Security Department officials including
DHS Secretary Kevin McLean and border
patrol chief Carla Provost denounced
these posts as we can pledge to hold any
culpable agents accountable
[Music]
this is an organization that you got to
start over you don't build it in this
fashion but this remember these this is
an outfit basically that has been
weaponized and militarized only for 50
well 17 years 2002 right after September
11th its weaponized from the beginning
it's focused on war on terrorism but the
point is is like 17 years later the this
thing which was corrosive from the
beginning it is now
woven into the fabric of this agency
you've got to get rid of it
total housecleaning total bring it back
and hopefully in the context of what we
heard from the presidential candidates
the other day bring it back as an agency
that's dedicated towards assuring the
safety of Americans rather than the
policing of potential immigrants so it's
one thing to say like yeah let me see
your passport
it's nothing wrong people up put them in
steel hangers essentially lastly an
update on a story that Ronald Reagan
told us I don't know a couple months ago
that and I was he saying that I that one
of his clients was involved I can't
remember but I think so
former ice chief counsel this is it this
is a this is an attorney and a officer
of the court as they call him
gets four years in prison for stealing
immigrants identities I'm sure we're
gonna hear a lot about that as we talk
about like all the dangers that come
from immigrants they tempt people into
crime exactly he was an officer of the
court and then he got tempted into crime
I mean it's a really great tragedy well
it's like you think about you know Trump
can't hire lawyers that don't see him
just on the face of them corrupt but
it's not just a trump problem Isis chief
counsel with Steve occurrence identities
I mean is is a structurally unacceptable
organization so horrific about the
mission of this agency that it is like
this is the type of people who are who
are joining it and it doesn't need to
exist like when we talk about policing
organ is it like police right I one of
the reasons I don't go for those sort of
like yeah man just like get rid of the
cop stuff is because like look anything
short of a complete utopia in fact
actually almost certainly in a utopia
you're gonna need something that
functionally corresponds to police the
question is is radically changing the
police but this is an organization that
does not need to exist there is nothing
even with a border and as you said it
checks people's passports it does
whatever we still have a border there's
nothing structurally necessary about
this thing existing period but I mean
how would you steal immigrants identity
rights well I'm actually you know for a
fact you could you know I'm sure just by
checking people's passports and stuff
you could get relevant info right that's
true I think you could still do ID theft
just not child toilet drinking just a
photocopy machine until the baby out
with the bath that don't forget the
that's one of the early episodes of
narcos when they fly to Columbia they
didn't get detained they just took
photocopies of the passport and send it
to the cartel and I think if Columbia
could figure that out in the late 80s
the United States and 2019 can as well
alright lastly let's and the first half
of the show with a clip of
Donald Trump and his July 4th
oh really quick I'm sorry did you get
the I am oh yes big news and yeah
presidential race wall well all's well
all's well that ends well well I guess I
guess I'll well drop he took his one
moment in the national spotlight to make
diaper jokes and make Joe Biden seem
sympathetic but we're constantly telling
him that he was gonna dice respect to
swallow yeah it's better than
Hickenlooper no Hickenlooper is still
there Hickenlooper is Hickenlooper is
totally the guy in the movie that seems
kind of sedate and bland but you're like
oh that guy's a psycho like everybody's
gonna drop out all of us gonna
everybody's gonna quit his campaign he's
good but I don't care
oh fly around drinking frack water and
ranting about socialism is a that guy's
deranged guys who don't necessarily have
a future in politics or the ones that
they're just gonna hit run for Senate
yeah no problem
this is self-created oblivion alright so
a dog
