[Music]
yang Yang was silenced riot all right
let's uh let's look at something else
whoa this right the microphone was
actually cut I mean we can analyze that
I'm it let's do it let's lit this is
Marianne skies okay so this guy is a ubi
the the Twitter he is a ubi a guy and
here is need to go home soon yeah
here is the ping pong ball where I just
started talking talking all the sudden
legs over the convo it's like I was
talking like all right so he's claiming
a yang is claiming that he know we have
proof now yeah his mic was shut down
this of course happens we hear this
quite a bit on this program people say
you turn down my mic I think Michael
Tracy said that Sargon also said we
don't we know we do have the ability to
do that but we don't like what happens
when you're talking with somebody over
Skype there's but we were talking to
Michael Tracy on the phone I was just
yellow he was Sam was just you were
literally cutting him off I was saying
shut up yeah you weren't using a button
did you stop talking we expose them for
the fraud that he is
[Applause]
both their perspectives
I heard you not blame the microphone
yeah that is not the microphones you
lack of assertiveness yeah you have to
talk until there are force to put your
microphone up because you're controlling
he was talking but you need to talk
through you need to talk through it I
mean look Christian Gillibrand did that
several times and said nothing she
commandeered the floor and delivered
zero value so you just gotta be
belligerent listen folks we all know how
much the media likes Bernie Sanders and
wouldn't cut off his mic so they're
going after Andrew yang you know that
was great though it's like it's like if
I tried he's got no one but himself to
blame because yes if you look at the
time the amount of minutes everyone
spoke even like Bill DeBlasio and Tim
Ryan each spoke for like four and a half
minutes and you yang spoke for Bill
DeBlasio how to get the people off his
bike if there's a sad man like if you're
that far down and like you're on TV for
two hours and can't talk for more than
two and half minutes but we're not spoke
at the very least for four and a half
minutes like come on your fault if you
have a world-changing idea you should
