so Scott what I want to do is obviously
look back on this Supreme Court term
that is now ended and see note the
obviously the the important cases that
have an impact right now and also look
into some of those cases that may not
have massive impact at the moment but
appear to head down a trajectory I guess
we should probably take the most recent
decisions first and that of course would
be two cases that came down just last
week one is the Department of Commerce
versus New York this dealt with the
census question on immigration or I
should say immigration status or
citizenship status and the other was a
series of cases ruchi overseas common
cause which was rolled into another case
Benna sec versus Lamone which were the
gerrymandering cases let's start with
the good news and then we'll just get
darker as we go on and that seems to me
to come from the the census case right
so it's kind of remarkable in that you
know after oral arguments most people
were very pessimistic about you know the
you know the Department of Justice
commerce had tried to add a question
about citizenship to the census even
though the Census Department you know
had evidence that this would
substantially reduce participation of
minority communities especially people
of Latino descent and certainly after
oral argument it didn't look good one
interesting thing that happened is that
the estranged daughter of the architect
of this question basically will found a
thumb drive with a bunch of his emails
that were brought it to the attention of
the lower courts that you know we're
basically The Smoking Gun that you know
literally you know you know we're let's
do this because it'll suppress the
counting of racial minorities which
means what federal funding was federal
representation and would I provide
information that would allow for even
more
Greta's gerrymandering has we'll get to
next time and let me just say let me
just say you're not you're not you're
not you're not being metaphorical and
you're barely paraphrasing I mean I
think the words were it would
strengthened it would empower non-white
Latinos and Republicans I think was like
directly from that report and modeling
that he did yeah it was like yeah I'm
not even exaggerating I guess he was
really saying quiet parts loud and
what's even more ridiculous is that the
stated reason that the Commerce
Department gave for making the change is
that it would help the Trump
administration enforce the Voting Rights
Act you know the irony being not only
that the Roberts Court has got at the
Voting Rights Act but literally the
Trump administration has not filed a
single lawsuit to enforce the point
attack since coming into power um and
you know obviously Roberts couldn't cite
that that you know evidence but it seems
likely particularly given the decided no
he was he was much more generous to the
Trump administration was really
warranted you know what addition to the
impermissible motives really the
regulation was just incompetent Lee put
forward and the lower courts just gave
very careful persuasive evidence that it
violated the Administrative Procedures
Act and Roberts you know didn't buy any
of those arguments oh he's bending over
backwards to be 50 him to defer the
Trump administration but he basically
just had to conclude like the the
explanations offered by Ross and the
evidence are just too inconsistent like
it's just you know like more or lots of
just don't lie this egregiously you know
you're making me look bad so you know
now what was interesting is that yo
Roberts is Jones so you know Breyer for
the for the three of the Liberals ruined
opinion that said you arguing you know
the question is inherently bad the way
was put forward in a way that wouldn't
have given you know any practical time
for it to be on the census Roberts you
know just said you should go back to the
lower courts more or less inviting the
Department of Commerce to come up with
something that didn't embarrass them
quite as much but in the interim lawyers
the Department of Justice I've suggested
that the census will go forward without
the question and I would suspect that
what boy and
of course Trump today came out and said
fake news but I think what the actual
lawyers are saying is that you know you
don't want that smoking gun evidence you
know now lower courts can consider the
Hat and Joe basically that I think
lawyers Department of Justice just want
this all to go away so they don't make
arguments though you know well I
actually eat them down the road I Scott
I gotta tell you I think it gets worse
than that too because yesterday Donald
Trump in being asked by the press about
that question at some type of like
conference they were having at the White
House when he when he was asked that
question he immediately went into the
problems that we have with immigrants in
this country and that to me also like if
the answer is it's the Voting Rights Act
or if the answer is we needed to perform
these and that functions Donald Trump
again blew it for them because he he
went out and said no it's something
totally different not what we offered
the court the first time and not
something that we could ever defend in
court which is that we don't like
immigrants in this country we shouldn't
be counting them anyways well the
Constitution so I think that had as much
to do with the Justice Department saying
oh now we have it's impossible for us to
make this argument but it is amazing
what it took because this couldn't have
been I mean literally if Wilbur Ross had
called up John Roberts or had you know
showed up on his front lawn of his house
and said I lied I don't know that it
could have been more explicit then
frankly that so that's the good news
that the the we know at least have a
sense of how blatant things have to be
for the court to do the right thing
let's get into the less good news let's
talk about the gerrymandering this is
this is pretty devastating for democracy
isn't it I mean do you think there's and
maybe there's a competition as to what's
going to resonate more this decision or
the others will talk about in a moment
but tell us the import of these
gerrymandering cases
it's bad so obviously you know the the
court here had to consider a couple you
know gerrymander by Democrats in
Maryland that wasn't that you know
transform the 6-2 House Majority to
seven to one and a more serious of North
Carolina gerrymander who essentially
what the the court did was hold that
gerrymandering was a political question
and for the non-common people out there
that means that it's a question that the
courts just cannot consider now one
important thing here is that even
Roberts was not willing to claim that
these elections were consistent with the
first and Fourteenth Amendment so
Roberts could have ruled these
gerrymanders our constitutional he
didn't do that he just said that the
courts cannot remedy these things and
it's important remember what's going on
here in the Wisconsin State House right
now the last in 2008 18 Republicans got
45% of the votes and 64% of the seats so
you know Democrats won the popular vote
by 8 points and we're you know got less
than 40% of the seats of the velociter
that's an unbreakable gerrymander you
know this isn't like an old time you
know the gerrymander gives you a
marginal advantage or it protects a
couple of accumbens I mean this is
entrenching rule by one party even if
they lose decisively and one real danger
of this is that you know when Kennedy
was on the court during his Hamlet
routine you know Republicans had to
worry that you know they could go too
far that they could pass the gerrymander
because Kennedy to say I I can't stomach
sort of like what happened to Robert's
son skit you know with now that that
Roberts has said you know I don't care
you literally a party can permanently
entrench itself even if it loses
elections by double digits that's fine
you know they have no reason not to
engage Indian Wisconsin type
gerrymandering which modern computer
models make very possible and it's also
worth noting that his decision is just
incredibly specious you know his
argument on the one hand he argues you
know there's no way to possibly come up
with judicial standards to apply this
and then he says well don't worry state
courts can take care of it
but if Kagan says that you know you're
literally saying the courts can't
what courts are already doing you know
pencil Pennsylvania courts threw up a
fair map it didn't you know it basically
represented it actually so still
slightly over-represented Republicans
but Joe was much more fair you know that
and this is the same thing we went
through in the 50s that conservatives on
the court said you can't have you know
one person one boat you can't have fair
districts there's no standards of what
work well the Warren Court did that it
worked out fine it was popular there's
no problem you know so it's just
nonsense to say that you couldn't come
up with standards that would that would
limit the practice but obviously Roberts
chose not to and the fact that you know
gerrymandering on balance you know
greatly favors Republicans is not a
coincidence here so we have that case
and it's let me just before we well I
guess we got to take a break when we
come back I want to just ask you one
more thing about the gerrymandering and
that is what we now know about the
viability of independent commissions
drawing districts and then I want to
talk about a couple of cases that will
have to do with the ability of
regulatory agencies to function more or
less in the future under the auspices of
this Roberts Court I'm Sam cedar there's
a ring of fire radio we'll be right back
with Scott and Lou
