Donald Trump gets numbers that you and I
do not get and he gets them from
Republicans and they tend to I think you
know they're trying to manage his
expectations and they're trying to get
him out in front of hit things and look
they certainly thought that Donald Trump
was gonna lose in 2016 it wasn't there
was nobody coming to him at noon or the
night before the election saying like
you got this boss so I don't know make
of this what you will but here is Donald
Trump being interviewed by Sinclair
media this is a his favorite non Fox
owner operated quasi network across the
country and he's asked if he regrets
anything which is now also just remember
like this is like literally the you
remembered you ever see the happy days
where the Fonz couldn't say that he was
wrong do you know what I'm talking about
he would say a rumor and it's so so dumb
I'm so dumb right but it's good if
you're 10 you're 10 that's sort of funny
when you're older you start it's a
little bit ridiculous okay except for
our president does that and he doesn't
do it with just like not being able to
pronounce words but he does it in like
he'll take two or three words to do that
talk to me about this is something that
I asked her predecessor about during his
term I asked President Obama supposed to
get the same thing is there anything as
you look back in your first almost two
years think you regret that you wish on
you then you could just take back and
redo well there would be certain things
I'm not sure I want to reveal all of
them but I would say tone I would like
to have a much softer tone I feel to a
certain extent I have no choice but
maybe I do and maybe I could have been
softer from that standpoint but I want
to get things done we've had tremendous
victories on trade we've had tremendous
victories on so many different things on
our military you look at what we've done
with rebuilding the Millett
Terry but I would say if there's
anything I think tone would be perhaps
something I'm not sure that if I did
that maybe I'd be swamped okay you know
swamped meaning with the other said
because I wouldn't say that tons been so
nice either
but that would be something I would say
that I'll be working on but I swapped
meeting with the other side do it I mean
because they would take advantage of me
I made a mistake about tone but it's
probably not my fault you know it's
probably wouldn't be and even if I did
it differently it would be their fault
because everybody is unfair to me but
perhaps I don't know and I'm also gonna
sort of awkwardly turn in my body right
now I mean like like you mentioned 10
year old he does look like he's at some
function that he was maybe a things
today something I did wrong it was a the
amount of conditional statements in
there there the proof is in the pudding
what happens tomorrow
I got flashbacks to grammar like you
underline the conditional statements
like I'm gonna see if we can go through
this just quickly again
no I what I like though is I like how
the conditional statements conditional
statements this is something that I
asked her predecessor about during his
term I asked President Obama's laws get
the same thing is there anything as you
look back in your first almost two years
think you regret that you wish on you
then you could just think back and redo
well there would be certain things I'm
not sure I want to reveal all of them
but I would say tone I would like to
have a much softer tone I feel to a
certain extent I have no choice
but maybe I do and maybe I could have
been softer from that standpoint but I
want to get things done we've had
tremendous victories on trade we've had
tremendous victories on so many
different things what I wouldn't have to
do another military you look at what
we've done with rebuilding the military
but I would say if there's perhaps
something I'm not sure that if I did
that maybe I'd be swamped
meaning with the other said because I
wouldn't say that that would be
something I would say that I'll be
working on well I counted 12 yeah it's
like when they ask you in a job
interview what your biggest fault is and
you're like too much of a perfection my
problem is I worked way too hard and I
just can't let it project go until it's
absolutely perfect so sometimes people
have a difficult time working with me
because I just won't sleep I won't stop
until everything is absolutely right not
enough me time I give too much I'm too
much cash in it about making America
great again the problem with me as I
just simply won't stop until everybody
gets a great parking deal
