[Music]
all right with this piece of sound this
woman Rachel Campos Duffy I'm totally
unfamiliar with her my understanding is
that she's part of some horrible couple
that got their start on reality
television and now they promote you know
extremist propaganda and her husband's
in Congress is that true so this is and
this has been a problem for
right-wingers for a very long time
because whether you're ein Rand or
whether you're the Fox and Friends couch
or whether you're you know obviously
Mitch McConnell or Donald Trump or the
Koch brothers a Paul Ryan or whoever you
are there to valorize wealth at the
expense of all other not only human
values which is literally human
attributes there's nothing else to
concern yourself with in life and
certainly nothing else to respect and I
think human nature's a complex thing
it's not as if were born angels and then
sort of corrupted by society but we're
also not born monsters so human beings
are complex and one of the ways that
we've managed intergenerationally and I
kind of feel like Jordan Peterson now
but I think it is actually true is that
we do especially the kids we tell
stories where we try to instill and
shape values and ways of responding to
the world so conservatives have a hard
time because a lot of children's stories
emphasize things like not being a prick
and if you're Rachel Campos Duffy and
the Wow I'm just looking at them in a
freeze-frame just the the ever
effervescent Fox and Friends couch this
not only is a problem for your sort of
the spiritual death you're promoting
across the world in terms of valorising
wealth at all
all costs at all times it really is
borderline communist conspiracy Rachel
let's ask you a little bit of
the top ad and the headline on fox news
is fighting socialism starts with a
little red hand what are you talking
about there well the topic is really
that if you're not talking to your kids
about socialism and this is the battle
in our country right now free enterprise
and capitalism versus socialism that's
the battle and if you're not talking to
your kids about it somebody is and it's
not just in the textbooks and the
curriculums at your kids school these
messages and them I call them the
merchants of socialism out there in the
culture they start very young are
cartoons denigrate competition there are
all kinds of children's books out there
look at the movies I mean when's the
last time you saw a successful
entrepreneur not be the villain in a
movie for your kid isn't Ironman yeah
yeah first of all regular Ironman is
literally an arms dealer but I think
what this goes back to and this movies
already really pretty old at this point
was the lego movie that came out several
years ago and the villain in the lego
movie is a soulless CEO who legitimately
looks like rip mit romney like I have no
doubt like there was a Romney in the
storyboard so they're still feeling very
sore over that in in a movie for your
kids or even for adults so there are
lots of several message out messages out
there promoting socialism but the good
news for parents is that we are our
first and most influential teachers for
our children so we have more influence
than they do but we have to have these
conversations and we have to start early
and I say one of the best books to start
with is the little red hat it's the
ultimate book about hard work and
personal responsibility deferred
gratification all the things that it
takes to really achieve the American
dream in America what do you tell your
kids about socialism because I know you
have some older kids you have eight
children and I know some of them are in
high school what do you teach them Jesus
well the first thing you want to do is
listen to them because they're getting a
lot of these messages and you know in
class discussions in their textbooks but
I say
Aynsley you've got to use all the time
you have in the car dinner time if you
have a small business bring your kids to
to the to your work and show them what
you do and how business works tax
preparation time tell them how many
months a year you work to give money to
the government before you actually get
to keep a dollar of it a lot of times
kids don't know these things tell them
about how how if you are even a middle
income or upper middle income business
owner you're paying a not insignificant
portion of your income in taxes because
there are people that are millionaires
and billionaires and global corporations
that are literally paying nothing maybe
you could tell them that but I'm sure
you'd prefer to exhaust your kids with
repeating the Little Red Hen over and
over again you matter these poor kids
are in the car and their parents start
like blabbing at them about Venezuela
and like trying to like dis instill
basic human empathy like you see a
homeless person and the kid has like the
appropriate moral response to be worried
I'm sure this person has totally messed
up their lives that person could have
worked hard that worked harder and and
if you're worried about them you know
it's a liberal who gave them a housing
voucher that's why they're homeless you
want to read The Little Red Hen again
this is also another thing I'm sure that
would really upset them and this is of
course the classic PBS children's
cartoon Barney this is an example of
really kind of a prototypical communist
society and kids having a pretty good
time
[Music]
now did she charge Brian yeah I was
gonna say now that she say thank you
Barney please write me five stars
that'll be $10 now I need to go to my
janitorial job at the school in order to
earn my keep because again that
literally is the Dickensian dystopia
that these people on Fox News want for
all non oligarch children they want to
eat them out of life so that ever ever
shrinking margins can go to ever fewer
fewer people disgusting just gusting
those other kids what you need to do is
like that classic Eddie Murphy routine
where Eddie said we should have cut this
but the right answer according to Rachel
compost as I and Duffy as I understand
it and Fox and Friends is and Eddie did
a great routine where when the ice-cream
truck came there was always one kid that
couldn't afford ice cream and all the
other kids circled around him with their
cones and said he can't afford it he
can't afford it because his father is an
alcoholic Eddie's on the welfare he's on
the welfare that's what kids should be
doing and learning according to Fox and
Friends and Rachael Duff Campos Duffy
but this is the Bernie
Barney Bernie world right here 52% of
American Millennials would like to live
in a socialist or communist America yes
yes indeed cheer so it's good so
basically like these kids learning like
the most basics of moral development is
a strategic threat to these people's
goal to return to some type of fusion of
like you know sort of Blade Runner meets
the 17th century yes indeed
yes indeed his exactly wait'll she see
what's in wait till she sees what's in
the Bible Jesus was legitimately like
like all holy books you can read
whatever you want into it but really one
area where there is not super a lot of
room for interpretation is Jesus on
wealth policies he had a lot of message
discipline and seeing her with her army
of budding conservatives just makes me
you want to have an army of red diaper
babies to fight them your kids our kids
might turn out cool though
I hope so because I worry about kids
adopted into families like that that
it's concerning to me a little bit
