[Music]
let's uh let's go back to what's
happening with migration briefly so what
this means in terms of the Trump
administration is that Stephen Miller is
empowered and he's definitely like the
cockroach of this regime an incredibly
resilient and effective and obviously
has this you know six and biotic
relationship the Trump and knows how to
play to all of his worst tendencies and
is his worst and most obscene grotesque
tendencies so what does this lead to it
leads to Ilan Omar the best member of
Congress the one with the most courage
and clarity and basic conviction and
willingness to say things as they are
girlboss she's definitely um Somalia
boss girl boss Ilan Omar refugee bus or
refugee bus Ilyn Omar says the absolute
obvious about Stephen Miller Stephen
Miller's a white nationalist the fact
that he still has an influence on policy
and political reports is an outrage of
course Don jr. you know the big you know
the idiot trying to get his dad's
approval quote tweets this now again
this is within days of somebody being
arrested for planning to assassinate
alone Omar and we should be remembering
you know that the incitement against her
by these people as as obscene as the
fact that her own Democratic leadership
has not fully had her back in this
environment as well Don jr. says I seat
at the head of the thermicon fan club at
Elan Omar took a break from spewing her
usual anti-semitic bigotry today to
accuse a Jewish man of being a white
nationalist because apparently she has
no shame ironically this is like just
pure dumb token identity politics and is
a great example of using identity to
evade from substance in fact Steven
Miller is widely recognized as being a
white nationalist including even by
appalled and horrified members of his
own family and so this leads to this
follow-up Joel really just I
mean God Steven Miller Joe in
one segment God
is Joel Pollak right Stephen Miller is a
Jew an American Jew and a patriot not a
quote/unquote white nationalist I don't
believe you should be calling a Jew
anything miss Omar
okay so this is and you know I have to
say not to dress him don't respond to
him but I just have to say like if you
are concerned about people not taking
the the stain and threat of
anti-semitism seriously point your
finger at these no one has
done more to turn something that is so
toxic and pernicious in a world that has
led to the murder of millions and
millions of Jewish people into a border
lying joke than a Joe Pollak or a Don
jr. it's disgusting and Rep mark Pocan
from Wisconsin points out the pretty
obvious or you know raises the pretty
obvious question here
last year I called Stephen Miller white
nationalists but Rep Lee's Elden and
Donald Trump jr. Lee Zeldin also got
into this never accused me of
anti-semitism rather than attacking at
Ilan Omar why don't they stand up to
white nationalism and presidents and
president Trump support for quote
unquote very fine people well I think we
all know the answer to that because I'm
gonna do an omnibus they're all white
nationalists well speaking I think we
have the the sheriff of white
nationalism Richard Spencer weighed in
on this in a Vanity Fair profile of
Miller from 2017 Spencer says he first
became aware of Miller at Duke after the
start of the lacrosse scandal he
certainly understood the media and how
to get his message out there Spencer
says I could only be impressed the two
met at the U at the Duke Conservative
Union in 2006 but that's a great place
being a few years older and graduate
school Spencer says he mentored Miller
but I do think that Stephen probably
would have ended up more exactly more or
less worried as today whether he had met
me or not he's his own man he's a strong
American nationalist you could say
American nationalist it responses has
certainly not a white nationalist but he
is an American nationalists and Civic
nationalist or a public nationalist
Spencer praises Miller for having had
the guts to support the lacrosse players
when it was unpopular to do so it was
racial politics at its heart and
whenever you touch on that case you're
playing with fire so
so is an as Richard Spencer we call him
an anti-semite oh wait I think we are
actually in fact you're calling from a
five three Oh area code who are you
where you calling from
