I want to also play this clip this was
important you know Kamala Harris has an
incredibly disturbing prosecutorial
record that's just the bottom line
anybody who cares about redemption
restoration racism criminal justice over
incarceration in general policing
prosecutorial conduct the use and
rhetoric of crime and policies that
jeopardize so many lives as a political
tool have to be horrified by Camille
Harris's record if we're being real and
I've always acknowledged the Comal
Harris has a lot of political talent
it's great watching her interrogate
members of the Republican administration
it's great watching her interrogate Joe
Biden but if you combine the doublespeak
lack of clarity on Medicare for all the
Inc oh here another plan waiting 10
years to phase in which will cost lives
the totally standard-issue approach to
any number of foreign policy and
corporate issues and there's something
just so profoundly disturbing
specifically about the criminal justice
issues and Tulsi Gabbard who as we
always talk about certainly has plenty
of her own problems was the one to do it
she's clearly choosing to attack Harris
and go easy on Biden there's a
calculation there she's making I do want
to say though the fact that calmly
Harris that all she's got is Tulsi is
the one who met with Assad trash I will
critique how Tulsi met with Assad I will
critique not acknowledging that Assad is
a butcher and a war criminal and all the
rest of it but this tactic of you have
completely laid me the rights and all
I've got is that talking point and
incidentally I'm an uncritical supporter
of all sorts of abuses in the Middle
East get out of here nonsense Tulsi
Gabbard did a great job with this
senator Harris says she's proud of her
record as a prosecutor and that she'll
be a prosecutor
but I'm deeply concerned about this
record there are too many examples to
cite but she put over 1500 people in
jail for marijuana violations and then
laughed about it when she was asked if
she ever smoked marijuana she blocked
everything freed an innocent man from
death row until the courts forced her to
do so
she kept people in prison beyond their
sentences to use them as cheap labor for
the state of California and she fought
to keep the bail system in place that
impacts poor people in the worst kind of
way Thank You congresswoman senator
Harris your response as the elected
Attorney General California I did the
work of significantly reforming the
criminal justice system of a state of 40
million people which became a national
model for the work that needs to be done
and I am proud of that work and I am
proud of making a decision to not just
give fancy speeches or being a
legislative body and give speeches on
the floor but actually doing the work of
being in the position to jail people to
jail people that's the record that is
the actual record there were some
minimal reforms that she supported well
late in the game she even was to the
right of some of the national moves the
Obama administration on drug policy this
is one of the reasons what you know why
I roll my eyes at the rhetoric of get
things done and do the work and have a
plan is because that's how it's used I
mean she just had all of the travesties
of her criminal justice record clearly
laid out for her and then she came back
with I do the work and of course the
first answer is yeah I mean okay first
day of course I mean look it's ludicrous
you're a politician every politician
gives speeches so that's just silly we
can dismiss that but then I think tulsi
gabbard just explained the work you do
and it was harmful in a profound that
systemic way to tens of thousands of
lives and I was the Attorney General's
not an answer to that so you know this
is very
very disturbing and you know we have two
candidates in particular all of them
have bad records in various aspects even
Bernie Sanders voted for the 94 crime
bill but again in terms of reality he at
the time did talk about incarceration
rates and imprisonment Joe Biden bragged
about it Joe Biden was propagandizing
and fear-mongering to put people in jail
for decades and Kamala Harris did it as
an AG so you have two candidates who are
not only behind the curve one was a
national creator of the problem and the
other was a prime enforcer of the
problem in all of her life at positions
I just that just simply can't be ignored
