a little bit difficult to know exactly
what's what's happening it's frankly
it's a little bit difficult to
understand what's been what's been
happening never mind what's going to
happen in the future you know what
happened yesterday is a little bit
tricky to understand certainly that's
the case with what happened on Monday
when we were all anticipating Michael
Flynn going in
he had a plea deal with the Muller team
he had given them 19 separate interviews
who knows how many hours of information
which is an extraordinary amount on
three different investigations the
Muller prosecutors said we are satisfied
this guy has given us a lot of
cooperation we recommend no jail time
despite the fact that he you know had
multiple criminal offences and then
Flynn in what and you tell me if I've
got this right if I'm characterizing
this correctly Flynn tries to sort of
play some type of double game where he
wants to pretend like he didn't really
do anything wrong and he's being defiant
because he wants to maintain his right
wing celebrity in some fashion and then
goes in and says yeah but I'm guilty too
the judge as if he's doing it
reluctantly the judge sort of sees this
out there because Flynn has leaked some
stuff from ostensibly from the
investigation and from the interview
that Michael Flynn had had at the
beginning of the week we just heard all
sorts of outraged by the write that like
they took Michael Flynn in there and
didn't say like don't lie to the FBI you
could get in trouble and as if like you
know they were saying this when it came
to regard to like Martha Stewart or
anybody else has ever lied to the FBI or
Bill Clinton for that matter and so the
judge says hey you know there's
something fishy going on here I want to
read the entire after a report of the
interview and I want to see the whole
report
I want to know exactly what's going on
here the judge reads it and is like holy
cow I can't believe this you did all
this stuff I'm gonna send you to jail
unless you tell me that you've done
something you know to mitigate this more
than I see here in this report I mean if
I characterize not correctly you have
and it was an astonishing thing I think
you know everyone expected I think what
you know look they were asking for no
jail time that both sides the
prosecution and the defense there was no
question there that you know everybody
felt like this was a done deal that
Flynn Hilton by the way his sentencing
had been postponed in numerous times
over the past year and some months so it
you know wasn't as if the prosecution
had just rushed into anything a today 19
interviews they had with him so the
assumption was that this was a done deal
and Flynn was going to do it now when
when he stuck this stupid thing into his
sentencing memorandum where he said well
you know we have to say that that it was
you know we weren't informed you know I
wasn't he wasn't informed of hidden oh
that that the there was again illegal to
lie to the FBI you know he kind of dug
his own grave here because how was not I
think what they thought was and I get a
lot of this from the great Marcy wheeler
who followed the courtroom of Emmett
Sullivan the judge in this case for
years because he handles a lot of these
you know national security issues and
foreign policy issues and the kind of
things that she covers so she knew who
he was and when they made this the right
was very excited you know they had
Jeanine Pirro out there saying this is a
judge who was you know skeptical of
prosecution he does so much angrily yes
so much integrity he will see this and
he will you know he is not going to be
duped by the government and blah blah
blah he had the Wall Street Journal
saying the same sorts of things I mean
it was astonishing the great civil
libertarians on the right suddenly you
know extolling the virtues of Emmett
Sullivan but you know it is true that is
his reputation he is a top government
skeptic I mean he is one of the few in
the federal judiciary who really takes
that part of his job very seriously
he will often challenge the prosecution
or challenge the Department of Justice
challenged the government generally
speaking over abuse of power I mean this
is a normal thing for him to do but what
the right doesn't understand about abuse
of power is that when you look at this
case as opposed to your average
run-of-the-mill prosecutorial misconduct
that you might see the abuse of power
is happening from the defendants in the
case and so when Emmett Sullivan went
and looked at all this you know he is a
man of integrity he does do those
challenges he looked at the evidence
went oh my god we had a national
security adviser and possibly a
president who grossly abused her power
if not the prosecute the prosecutors who
caught them that are in error it's the
people who did it and if the prosecutors
made any mistake in this it was that
they let him off too easy nothing that
was the assumption from the person
coming from that you know perspective of
a person looking at government abuse he
saw it all right
and it was on the part of these people
like Michael Flynn and God knows whoever
else is mentioned in all those documents
that he saw that we haven't seen that
were redacted and there's even an ex
parte submission by the prosecutors that
nobody seen except for him that you know
and he came out swinging he was
astonished he said you know this is it
looks like you sold out the country he
brought up the treason word I mean it
was really something and coming from
this guy you know I mean yes he you know
he's he's an ego he's a federal judge
they all are so there's that but but his
he's a very sober yeah he's a very sober
guy all right well listen we just got
about a minute left here so and and we
should be clear about this aspect of it
that judge is the only person as far as
we know who has seen at least you know
one part one one full sort of like
narrative through-line right like you
know this is like you know like a like
you know the a line or the B line of
this story
and he's he is seen the the he has seen
one full through narrative line there
may be multiple others and I think there
are and he's the only one who's seen it
outside of the Muller investigation or
at least he's the only one who's been
able to even like reflect them on it
publicly and he was shocked he was he
was shocked right like he was just
saying like you you gotta go I don't
know what you can do to mitigate this
but you need to go away if we go out
that what that is or I'm gonna send you
to jail today
and like it's only because you were a
general and you have 33 years that I'm
giving you this opportunity to figure
out something but I and he was like I
don't know what it's gonna be but you
better figure out something because I'm
gonna send you to jail
alright well listen we need to take a
quick break Heather if you'll join me in
the final hour let's talk about this and
the question are we pulling out of Syria
I'm Sam cedar there's a ring of fire
radio
