so bill let's just start with there's
there's two different dynamics that are
happening here in terms of the safety of
the Boeing 737 max there is the the
story of the and this is basically like
many sort of product safety stories this
is a story of choices and this is a
story of incentives that inform those
choices so let's start with the
incentives and then we will talk about
the choices that were made the
incentives that you talk about in your
piece about that that Boeing face is
something that you and I have talked to
talked about in the past and that is and
so I want to keep this general and then
we can get closer to to Boeing but that
is that in the early 80s there was a
series of changes having to do with the
our tax code and what monies was sort of
taxed at a more favorable rate than
other monies and also a decision by the
SEC as to changing the law essentially
that at one point what used to be
criminal stock manipulation was now just
simply a strategy to theoretically give
back to shareholders just tell us about
those two dynamics so that we know the
general climate in which created these
incentives for Boeing executives yeah so
so yeah in 1982 under what is known as a
rule 10 B 18 the SEC basically gave
companies what we call a license to loot
they could just pump all this money out
of their companies not just in the form
of dividends which which you know done
in moderation and consistent with
company investing
and in the future paying its workers etc
are legitimate but stock buybacks which
are done as open market repurchases I
would argue our illegitimate and
although they were never illegal prior
to nineteen eighty two on the scale that
they're being done anywhere near the
scale they're being done now the sec
could have charged all these companies
with manipulation of the stock price and
that's what they're doing with open
market repurchases so that's been going
on on a large scale since the mid-1980s
and companies more and more embraced
that practice as part of an ideology
that started getting widely articulated
in the mid 1980s and was related to
these changes at the sec which is
basically let the money flow through
financial markets and it'll end up
somewhere where you know it'll you'll
you'll be getting the productivity out
of its shareholders a notion that you're
maximizing shareholder value that look
legitimize basically this practice of
just pumping out money to shareholders
and by the ways it's not giving anything
back to the shareholders because the
shareholders don't give the company
anything they just buy and sell shares
so capital Apple which is done two
hundred seventy three billion of
buybacks since ninety two thousand
thirteen they call it their capital
return program but they're not returning
anything to anybody who ever gave them
anything they're just giving money to
people buy and sell shares in this case
is just selling shares so that's the
basic context and the related to that
there was a increasing use of stock
based pay for executives in the form of
stock options and stock awards that gave
executives higher pay when the stock
price went up and they cashed in their
options or rewards and that was really
totally behind the explosion of CEO pay
that and
top executive pay more generally that we
see from the 1980s there's a lot of
people who write on this who think that
it it started when Bill Clinton had a a
silly proposal to tax executive pay over
salaries over a million dollars and that
led them to use more stock options the
stock Awards but that's not correct it
really started in the 1980s as basically
the whole world was shifting to this
crazy notion that companies should be
run to maximize the value of the people
who matter least that is the
shareholders and then provide about the
workers and forgot about us as taxpayers
who helped support these companies so
bill so let me just if I could so we
basically have a two-step dance here one
is we adopt this this sort of
ideological perspective which is
shareholder value is why companies exist
for shareholder value this is something
now that I think we just accept as you
know in the same way that we do gravity
but that's not necessarily that that's
just simply a political choice that we
make and then the second step is we make
the the top executives of the of the of
the corporation and maybe the Board of
Directors on some level too we make em
some of them the the shareholders who
also control the levers so when we talk
about shareholder value we have
basically created it seems in our
corporations almost a cottage industry
right that doesn't necessarily rely on
what the company does but rather relies
on what the shares does I mean this is
the functional equivalent of a you and I
playing blackjack and me having a
stalking horse who's doing side bets
based upon whether I throw you know the
low card out or whatever it is and so
that's what I start are looking at or
looking at my cards right now and
signaling to you I mean that's basically
it's not yes rigged and of course the
executive
no 1s it's even worse than that because
the executives know when these open
market repurchases are being done but we
don't know so there's all kinds of
insider trading around this this issue
which was made easier by changes in the
SEC rules that allowed executives to
cash in their options as soon as they
exercise in which they couldn't do
before 1991 there's a whole host of
things that were structured to turn the
people are supposed to be managing
companies on which we rely for massive
amounts of employment really the core of
employment in the US economy turning
into what we call predatory value
extractors basically and it's done under
an ideology that says that oh no this is
all creating value but once you
recognize that the value is created by
the you know let's say company like
Boeing those engineers who go to work
and create the plane to the future and
hopefully they're your save planes or
buy government subsidies and then Boeing
as a company goes back to 2019 16 and
wouldn't be it wouldn't exist but for
government subsidies and connection to
the military and various there was an
article in The New York Times so it was
quite good about the export-import bank
being called Boeing's Bank right
government subsidies you know you could
go on and on historically about this and
and but care holders are just buying as
you know selling shares if you're I have
some money yeah we want to risk we can
just buy the sell shares and sell the
 right I know more than I when I bet
on the Red Sox to beat the Yankees that
I have helped the Red Sox win at that
point now yeah alright so right okay so
with that said we have just a minute
left in this segment just set up the
dynamic well now that we know that that
the CEOs have a vested interest in their
stock price how does this relate to
Boeing yeah so Boeing first of all
became what we call financialized around
1997 and it merged with McDonnell
Douglas and which actually was doing
many military contracting and those
people became the top executives and
then they were really just one to grab
all the money yeah
anyway that that was a that was before
anybody was thinking about 737 max but
of course the the only responsibility of
fundamental responsibilities yeah
arguing the article of these executives
produce a safe plane if they can't
produce a safe plane then they shouldn't
be there and that that that's
fundamental and there are only two
companies in the world that right now
can produce the kind of planes that
Boeing is producing and that's Airbus
and Boeing and so if they produce a safe
plane then they're going to make a get
revenues they're going to sell those
planes and it was clear in about the mid
nineteen mid mid 2000 of 2004 2005 that
there was a Newton a new plane that was
needed a narrow body a mid-range plane
what they call the workhorse of the
industry which had been the 737 series
they're integrated well let me stop you
there so we have this need for new plane
let's take a break when we come back
let's talk about how the way that the
Boeing executives are incentivized
created a plane that was not as safe as
it should have been we got to take a
quick break
I'm Sam cedar we'll be right back and
ring of fire radio
