with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in the conference rooms of any
ELISA
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday December 17th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Andrew del Blanco professor of history
at Columbia University author of the war
before the war fugitive slaves and the
struggle for america's soul from the
revolution to the civil war also on the
program today Steven Miller says Trump a
hair's breadth away from shutting down
the government over the wall meanwhile a
federal judge in Texas rules the
Affordable Care Act unconstitutional
what happens next will tell you today
Ryan's inky's forced to a fast getaway
from the Interior Department with the
cops on his trail
meanwhile Scott Walker signs the
Wisconsin bill stripping the encumbered
democratic government a governor of his
power and maybe next may be named the
next corrupt Secretary of the Interior
following Dinky's getaway
and speaking of getaway Paul Ryan's last
push to prove he's a horrible human
being
wants to provide additional visas for
the Irish
[Music]
lastly California moves up its primary
it will change everything in the
Democratic Party we will tell you why
and lastly walk away he top all this and
more got a stop to a majority report
seriously that's too much so many walk
away people don't even know what I'm
talking about most exposure they've ever
gotten so quickly let me say this over
the weekend I couldn't help myself I you
know I think I mentioned at the end of
the last week we got a request from a
guy we had made a 10-minute video
approximately ten minute video as you
know we do about 15 hours a week of
programming here maybe a little bit less
about 15 hours maybe a little bit less
and some as members some is uh you know
for YouTube some is for for the the free
audio show etc etc and several months
ago we did ten minutes on this guy
brendan stark oh I'm sorry Brian didn't
starka I thought it was strike huh
some guy who claims to have trademark
the hashtag walk away and it started the
walk away movement which of course which
you always do is you start with
trademarking the name of it that's how
you know it's a real organic first go to
the Patent Office and he and we did a
video and I'm gonna be totally upfront
about this we just basically mocked his
the video that he made and said that
this guy is running a grift and he
became very upset about it apparently
and three four months later after the
Democrats won their biggest win in terms
of votes in a midterm election ever by
percentage and by actual votes ever
he's still trying to to say that the
walkway movement is really working well
and it's huge and it's changing
everything and so he contacted us on
Twitter and he was very upset that we
were ignoring his request to respond and
so you know he's a struggling actor or I
thought he was struggling he's doing
quite well now apparently but that's
going according to plan
yes exactly I so I said okay I'll I'll
I'll record come on your show and and
address it and let me just say this I
try what you've heard every interview
I've done this show or maybe you haven't
but what you know when I invite somebody
I try and be as respectful as I can I
try not to be mean to anybody usually
and unfortunately this weekend I was I
was a little bit mean to him I mean I
wasn't you know I didn't beat him up I
mean who was all on the computer but I
was i did not use euphemisms for what I
sort of felt about what he was doing and
it was not even build a certain
character defect yet
III reality yes I was I was extremely
sorry too straight forward for 90
minutes and then also sometimes smug and
condescending and then also sometimes
like I don't say disingenuous but so now
look Cathy you were genuinely
disingenuous I don't know if he's gonna
put it up I I suspect he is but I
haven't seen it and don't even bother
looking for it because eventually you
all get to see it but in the meantime
we're going to include it for our for
folks who donate through patreon and for
our members so if you remember or you're
on patreon you will get this in your
feed as soon as we get it uploaded I can
tell you that if you're skeptical of the
entertainment value of this everybody in
the office was was pretty enjoyed it I
think more than they possibly
anticipated so true it really exceeded
expectations in terms of how funny it
was
is extremely funny I I did not break
character once it was one moment at the
end I think where Michael picked up on
like he realized like I responded to
something and then I realize like oh
wait I could I could do this in a
funnier way so you could you can see my
thought prize he's sort of like a part
of like I built in they sort of the
behind the scene it was like coming to
watch us do prep yeah and you know what
that guy is delusional enough to think
that he won that debate so it'll
probably post it I think I oh yeah no I
think he's marking yeah that Matt was
texting me is like I don't know if I can
keep working this isn't good for Sam guy
this is bad for Sam this is gonna hurt
all of us what Sam looks I had no idea
Sam I'm so smug hey folks so if you want
to join the majority report and now's
the time to do it join the majority
report com sign up and you will you will
get this if you sign up in the next day
or so because we're going to probably
release it tomorrow this is where also
I've been saying buy tickets to our live
show for Brooklyn pod fest at the Bell
House January 13th too late they're sold
out however I got an email today from a
listener I have two tickets for the live
show I can't use if you send a dress
I will snail mail a hard copy to
deserving recipients gratis if you are a
self-determined deserving recipient send
us an email we will take the first one
we get at majority reporters at
gmail.com calm and but if the subject
line has to be very specific it has to
say to the numeral two not those words
to the numeral two free tickets send
your address and we will pass it on also
one of today's sponsors is privacy comm
slash majority privacy calm is a totally
free service it lets you buy anything
online without having to give out your
credit card number and it lets you
prevent come
from overcharging you here's how it
works you take just a couple minutes you
link your bank account to privacy calm
account then you're able to create a
virtual credit card numbers which are
linked to your bank account you can
create as many virtual cards as you want
you can delete them and freeze them and
unfreeze them and you can set limits on
each card it's great for signing up for
free trials because you can just create
a virtual card once and delete it
knowing you'll never be charged once the
trial is over it protects you when
companies get hacked in people's
information stolen because you're not
going to give out your real credit card
number each card is locked to a merchant
so you're totally protected against
fraud and unauthorized use of your card
privacy coms mobile app and desktop
browser extension make it incredibly
easy to manage your wallet of virtual
cards and allow you to autofill your
virtual credit card number at the click
of a button when you're shopping online
there are countless different advantages
using a service like this to pay your
bills and buy things online you can find
out more and I will say this I haven't
quite figured out if I can swing this
but some of us have elderly parents
sometimes they get caught in fishing
expeditions I haven't quite worked this
out yet so I don't know you have to
noodle around with it but this is a
perfect so this sounds like it could be
a perfect solution if there's a way I
can manage it for my parents I'm gonna
get too specific from a distance but you
can find out more and get a hundred
percent free and unlimited access by
going to privacy comm slash majority I
put a link underneath this video if
you're watching on YouTube I put a link
in the podcast description check it out
also one of today's sponsors is skill
share and the first 500 people and I
cannot guarantee that this is going to
be available for much longer because I
have a feeling we have more we're very
close to that sometimes I say 500 people
and they're like if you 600 show up
they'll do it but you go to a skill
share at SK l dot s h slash majority
you're gonna get two whole months of
totally free access to skill shares
entire library
super quality online courses and
tutorials Skillshare is a vibrant online
learning community offers courses on
everything from design to video editing
to photography the business technology
cooking meditation everything in between
there are skill Sherriff's courses for
everybody you'll have no problem finding
courses that's gonna be useful for you
both from like a business standpoint
from a personal standpoint whether you
want to sharpen your skills on something
you already love doing or you want to
learn how to do something totally new
Skillshare has you covered
they of course is for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
languages photoshop you name it I've
been checking out some of the cooking
classes particularly the knife use I
know that people are like what that
seems very but I'm not gonna go out and
I'm not gonna go to a Learning Annex
course to learn how to do a knife skill
but you pick up tips it's very helpful
like I say I'm also gonna learn some
basic counting going forward maybe some
photoshop skills I just think of
everything you're gonna have at your
fingertips for two whole months that's
sk l dot s h slash majority sk l dot s h
slash majority i put a link underneath
this video and in the podcast
description check it all out
alright so the trump administration is
sending out the best that they have to
offer to defend them against the the
sort of the the latest revelations and
you know michael cohen headed to jail
and really i mean at this point if
donald trump was not in office they
would go and arrest him
i mean that's just the reality and it's
clear that the southern district of new
york who pressed these charges against
michael cohen know that you cannot
indict a sitting
and so I think they're just gonna go
after the whole family on those narrow
charges that are around the Trump
business dealings but here is Rudy
Giuliani fresh off of what making
millions of dollars from who was it now
like some oppressive regime consulted
all across the globe but particularly he
worked with us right in America no but
just recently I feel like there was an
African I can't remember what Oreo Ghana
I'm not sure ain't Guinea I'm not sure
somebody any there was a great show on
this program about specifically his work
to enhance police violence in Latin
America you can enhance police violence
why wouldn't you but here's Rudy
Giuliani going out God knows how much
money he thinks he's gonna make or
really it's the only way he gets on
television which ups his value with the
other clients I mean going out and
defending Donald Trump may not
ultimately pay him anything because
Donald Trump doesn't pay his bills but
what it does do is it signals to tyrants
in third world nations I'm your guy I
mean the amount of money he's probably
made off of that already is i I think
would blow the doors off of evolved I
think we would all be blown away but
here he is erratically
defending Dondre I don't believe so but
again
if Roger stone gave anybody heads-up
about WikiLeaks leaks
that's not a crime it would be like
giving them heads up that the times are
gonna print something once the crime is
why this thing is so weird strange the
crime is conspiracy to hack collusion is
not a crime
doesn't exist I ran that office hold on
for one second we should I should tell
you this is a compilation of his time on
on ABC's this week collusion is not a
crime there is no crime collusion there
is a crime conspiracy to defraud the
United States by conspiring with other
people to break any one or other laws or
you know whether it's disclosure or
whatnot and we've gone over this you can
go back and listen to anything that
we've done with Marcy wheeler she
explains that but go ahead I know what
they do you know how the southern
district is run you know exactly how the
southern district is no I don't know so
the district says you can get out of
jail if you do this he's got three years
now there's a real motivation to sting
like crazy you've got to do a lot of
singing to get out of the three years
and he will say whatever he has to say
he's changed his story four or five
times so it's the president president is
not under oath did Donald Trump know
that Michael Kohn was pursuing the Trump
Tower in Moscow into the summer of 2016
according to the answer that he gave it
would have covered all the way up to
November of covered earlier to November
2016 said he had conversations with him
about president I this they know earlier
they had said those conversations
stopped in January 2016 I don't mean the
date I mean until you actually sit down
and answer the questions and you go back
and you look at the papers and you look
at the the trail you're not gonna know
what happened that's why that's why I
was you know prepare for those answer
them wait why you can't ask me about
dates when I have inside here and like
prepared which lie I'm going to tell
about it let alone asking somebody who
didn't finish law school about dates
exactly it's just unseemly it's unseemly
I remember when Giuliani was
mafia cases and he and they would play
mr. Giuliani never with the law school
I'm sorry okay I know about the yeah
which dates we thought is a lot of dates
a lot of dates on a day how many with
the dates why he's so up on top of the
dates a good good feel mr. Juliana you
never prosecute anybody who lied to
federal officials when he was a US
Attorney was he in the Southern District
I know he was a USA I can't I can't
reveal it this tricked you
in Southern District the one that was
reading Breitbart like during the 2016
campaign
no that's the FBI I think the FBI in the
New York FBI office there are multiple
jurisdictions for US attorneys in New
York State because it's big most most
states have maybe one US Attorney's
Office yeah but he rescued us from all
that unlawful dancing so that's right
it'd be too hard on that's right we
there was a lot of victories there that
Rudy Giuliani we you don't see people
cleaning windshields anymore because of
Rudy so meanwhile at over at morning
with Maria on is this Fox Business yes a
Maria Bartiromo
when she is not genuflecting to power
she is pretending that she doesn't that
she actually knows what she's talking
about
and the resident buzzkill Judge
Napolitano was sent on morning with
Maria you'll recall last seen on Fox and
Friends basically making Steve Doocy and
Brian Kilmeade cry while Ashley Ainsley
is that her name Ainsley Aaron's Lea
Earhart Ashley a fleet goddammit Ainsley
Earhardt
didn't know necessarily what was going
on I'm not sure Ducey knew it was going
on either but kilmeade clearly was upset
and here is a Judge Napolitano to
basically tell Maria Bartiromo
ya know 92nd Street Y I think was
damning just what do you think he says
oh we did it this way with Michael Flynn
but we couldn't have gotten away with
doing it that guy's posit what what
she's talking about is Comey I think he
was at the 92nd Y doing an interview and
he was explaining how it is that they
got in to sit down with Michael Flynn in
the Situation Room and he said you know
what the procedures and other
administration's would have blockaded us
but nobody stopped us and you know I Got
News for you
police officers of all stripes they will
go and do stuff that's not illegal but
if you don't exercise your rights to say
like they'll come and they'll say you
know can we open up your trunk and look
at it and if they have no probable cause
all they need is for you to say yes and
even if you think like oh I have to say
yes but you don't they'll go and open it
up and that's perfectly legal now every
single person on this set knows that not
this set but on that set with Maria
Bartiromo if there was ever a story of
like oh the police came over and just by
random said hey can we look in your
trunk and there was a body in there or
there was ten kilos of coke or whatever
it was and the driver said you know what
I didn't know I could say no no one on
that panel would be like can you believe
the overreach by the police it'd be a
good game though you could just say yes
look in the trunk and then the cops look
and they see the body and they're like
well I
you weren't technically supposed to do
that so well yes you entrap me yeah that
that that no no even if you say yes yes
because you're taking I am just shot
down and the big complaint is that the
FBI agents were friendly and he didn't
know because they were being so friendly
that they were like there for a reason
they just thought like oh they came to
visit me just to shoot the crap in my
fantasy life they in try
flin the same way they do like
vulnerable Middle Eastern teenagers like
with like there's a lot of money in
kidnapping this Turkey
right cleric right want to do it want it
in the face hair braid scheme they don't
pretend like they're FBI agents anyways
here's here's a third we couldn't have
gotten away with doing it that way in
more organized administration I figured
because of they were so disorganized let
me just send a few agents over there it
is almost the way you want your FBI I
agree but it is almost inconceivable
that FBI agents would be roaming the
halls of the West Wing what the hell are
they doing there they should have been
asked to leave if they didn't have a
search warrant they had no business
there hey Mike can we talk to you we
want to ask you a question we already
know the answer right and then it ends
up in an indictment which is why the
journal called it entrapment like
there's actually about that I saw your
interview with general Mukasey
in my opinion he's absolutely correct
though they trapped him it is not
entrapment entrapment is when you resist
your resist you resist and they push and
they push and they push but they did
trap him I yeah I did agree so in other
words they did something that has an
actual legal meaning and is a defense
entrapment no they didn't entrap them
they they they sort of just like sort of
tricked him a little bit like they used
police techniques right that's what I
meant they use police techniques so
basically yes Michael Flynn lied and
they all want us to feel sympathy for
this guy because there was no way he
could have known that these FBI agents
were we're going to hold him to the
truth I wonder what JSOC units did in
Iraq and Afghanistan was that entrapment
right exactly the out of here all
right we got to take quick break when we
come back Andrew Delbanco on his book
the war before the war fugitive slaves
in the struggle for America's soul from
the revolution to Civil War
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
American Studies at Columbia University
Andrew Delbanco the author of the war
before the war fugitive slaves and the
struggle for america's soul from the
revolution to the Civil War welcome to
the program professor thanks Sam glad to
be here um let's start with the I guess
maybe the well the seeds of this of this
war before the war I guess predate the
Constitution but not necessarily as a
within the context of a specifically of
a nation but let's talk about the the
three non mentions of slavery I guess in
the Constitution that that set up this
dynamic that end up coming to a head
eighty years later I guess 90 years
later right well I think you know the
start sort of starting point of the
story I try to tell is that we have to
not be squeamish about the fact that we
were basically two countries when the u
s-- delegates showed up in philadelphia
to try to forge a new nation in 1787 and
the constitution is therefore a very
tricky in some ways opaque document on
the subject of slavery because for one
half of a country slavery was the
bedrock of the economy and the culture
white people really couldn't imagine a
society that didn't sustain slavery and
in the other half of the country slavery
was becoming a marginal and peripheral
and was pretty evidently heading toward
extinction that doesn't necessarily mean
as some people might like to think that
all the folks up north were farsighted
and moral and sympathetic and concerned
about the rights of black people I think
it had more to do with the climate and
the economy and the way history work but
in any case there were really two
countries
kento can yeah we just I just want to
stop there for a moment because I don't
know if this is you know I don't feel
like people appreciate this enough and
there really isn't I mean a huge amount
of scholarship it seems like on though
like how distinct these entities were
and and just to add your point about the
it wasn't that the north was necessarily
progressive when it came to the rights
of blacks but there was a difference
between being you you could very much be
a an abolitionist and a segregationist
simultaneously probably at that point
most were but but but tell us like what
can you can you just tease out a little
bit more about the differences in those
societies yeah no absolutely well I
think you're quite right look a lot of
historians would raise their eyebrows at
what I just said and they would point
out correctly that the whole country was
already economically interconnected and
as the 19th century went on the northern
banks were financing the plantations
with the coming of the Industrial
Revolution people in New England were
you know there were factories weaving
slave slave grown cotton into textiles
for domestic and foreign consumption so
there's no I'm not I'm not making the
case that northerners were not
implicated in the reality of slavery
they certainly were but at the same time
you know it was one thing to be an
abolitionist say in Massachusetts or New
Hampshire where by the middle of the
19th century the number of black people
of course there were no slaves by the
middle of the 19th century in those
states but black people were an
extremely tiny portion of the population
whereas in states from Virginia down to
South Carolina and Mississippi in some
cases black people were the majority of
the population so there is no there's no
way I think to to blink the fact to
evade the fact that in terms of race
relations and the presence of slavery as
an everyday reality these were what I'm
calling
to different countries now if you want
to go back to the question you asked
about the Constitution yes please it's
it's it's very notable and many people
have noted it that the word slavery does
not appear in the Constitution it
doesn't appear either slave or slavery
does not appear in the Constitution
until the passage of the 13th amendment
after the Civil War which was designed
to abolish and eradicate slavery once
and for all one of the great ironies of
our history but slavery is there
nevertheless it's there you mentioned
three places it's there in the clause
that authorizes the Congress after a 20
year waiting period which was a sort of
compromise deal that they struck to
regulate the importation of such persons
as states may wish to imports everybody
knew that what that meant was the
International slave trade could be
prohibited after 20 years if the
Congress so chose and it should be said
by the way and scholars profoundly
informed as W EB Du Bois believed that
most of the delegates at the
Constitution thought that by pointing
toward the end of the International
slave trade they were taking the first
step toward the eradication of slavery
itself they turned out to be wrong about
that for reasons we can discuss and the
second place in the Constitution where
slavery is not mentioned but is intended
is of course the notorious three-fifths
clause where the southern states won the
the right if that's the word to count
three-fifths of what they called other
persons for purpose of apportioning
representatives in the new Congress now
this is a tricky historical matter a lot
of people believe that that somehow
meant that slave owners regarded black
people as equivalent to three-fifths of
a white person in fact that has it
backwards slave owners would have liked
to count slaves as full persons for the
purpose of
Sherman because then they would have had
more representatives in Congress and
more political power in the new federal
government
it was northerners who didn't want to
see slaves counted for that for that
purpose so the three-fifths compromise
was a sort of splitting the difference
in terms of political power and to be
clear on that - it's the the the you
have a whole segment of your population
which have essentially no rights under
the Constitution and they would and no
benefits from from a from a federal
perspective or or I would probably
imagine him from a state perspective
right and and so there was from from the
South's perspective it's like we can Pat
our numbers essentially right all right
and the North was you can't get those
resources without having actual citizens
well they're not many Northerners in the
late 18th century went that far to say
exactly that but your implication is
right so white Southerners wanted to
count black people when it was in their
interest to count them for their
augmenting their political power but
they didn't want to count them as
persons when it came to questions of
what were their rights if they were
charged with a with a crime did they
have any right to participate in any way
in the political process or any right to
be regarded as anything like the equal
of a white person in in society that's
apt that's absolutely right and it's
it's one of the I mean as a sort of
literary type person I'm interested in
the way in which people have the
capacity to deceive themselves and the
way in which we live with contradictions
in our lives if you look at that
document and you see how they use the
word persons to refer to slaves you get
somewhere close to the inner
contradiction of southern society
because people like Jefferson would it
wasn't directly involved in drafting the
Constitution but James Madison certainly
was they understood that black people
were persons they under
perfectly well that the slave system was
an effort to subjugate and reduce human
beings to the status of property and
that it was completely at odds with all
the ideals that were articulated in a
declaration of independence and yet the
political reality the social reality was
that recognizing black people as persons
in the late eighteenth century was just
not something that was going to happen
because slavery was too deeply rooted in
the southern economy and if you wanted
to maintain one country I mean that's
that's right the that's right the bottom
the point of your book on some in some
respects right but we were talking about
the the third mention of slavery because
we will get to that dynamic in a moment
for the third section me excuse me the
third mention of slavery is in article 4
you know the I think we the you know
this article comes up in things like the
ACA case or you know this is where our
basically you're on the Commerce Clause
right yeah well the article you're
referring to has come to be known as the
Fugitive Slave Clause and that's where
the story that I try to tell in this
book really really begins it was quite
clear I think clear both the northerners
and southerners that if they were going
to stitch together when I'm calling two
countries into one they had to address
the question of what would be done about
human enslaved human beings who wish to
flee from slavery and pursue the
possibility of freedom that meant taking
themselves physically from a state where
slavery was legal to a state where it
was not legal and that raised raised all
kinds of difficult questions as to how
you would arbitrate that situation so
they wrote into the Constitution what I
what I call a kind of intra national
extradition treaty sort of words that
suggested and I don't have it right in
front of me
to paraphrase persons owing service or
labor in one state cannot escape that
obligation by seeking refuge in another
state but must be returned to the party
to whom service or labor is due that's
pretty close to the exact words and what
you can hear in that I think is that
it's a sort of legalistic language and
it's in the passive mode that is must be
returned but it doesn't say anything
about who's gonna do the returning you
know I mean who's going to enforce this
clause is it going to be the local
police department in Haverhill
Massachusetts if some slave owner from
from Maryland says shows up and says hey
that guy working in your factory
actually belongs to me is it going to be
the state authority or is it going to be
the federal authority which was very
weak at the beginning of the Republic so
they put it in that Constitution they it
was the first vivid example of as it
were punting on the issue kicking the
can down the road postponing the
reckoning that would have to be made
with slavery in this divided country and
the story that I tried to tell in my
book is how this became a more and more
intense and irresolvable human problem
for those who fled and for those who
were fearful of fleeing because they
knew they would be returned if
authorities could find them a political
problem as the border between the slave
states and the free states became longer
and more porous as the nation expanded
westward
we weren't talking just about slaves
fleeing from Maryland and Virginia to
Pennsylvania but from say Kentucky to
Ohio and a legal problem what would be
the position of the courts when an
accused fugitive was brought into court
on the grounds that the Constitution
authorized slave owners to recover
recover there as they said absconded
they used all kinds of euphemisms to
describe slaves who had fled absconded
human property
and it's my contention in this book that
first of all it's a story through which
I believe and I tried very hard to make
it possible for readers to do this I
believe one can see the horror of
slavery in a particularly vivid way when
one comes to Turner tries to come to
terms with what it meant to be born into
slavery and to have the courage to take
the risk to seek freedom but I also
argue in the book that you could see
this problem as the fuse that led
eventually to the civil war yeah lots of
reasons its of course but I think this
is an important one
yeah and that's and that's fascinating
and I want to talk about the sort of the
statutory completion I guess of that
article for and we I should just add to
what I find really interesting about
that clause is you can you can really
see the bones of of how they were
negotiating right like a like it sticks
out from this in a way and you can see
that it is a compromise and we'll talk
about that the other compromise coming
down coming down the road but what also
strikes me is that clause it says no
person I happen to have in from me no
person held to service or labor in one
state under laws thereof escaping into
another shall in consequence of any law
or regulation there and so New York
State not only not only from the
perspective prohibit there's a
prohibition against a state or basically
a nullifying of any state law that would
protect these people like you cannot you
cannot pass a law that if you come into
New York State you are now you know a
free you are discharged from your your
responsibilities as a slave I guess is
basically that it's saying that's
exactly right and I'm suspecting maybe
you spent some time in law school just
one year just one you know okay so I got
that right but no you're exactly right
and you know one of the stories I tell
in the book that really jumped out at me
when I first read it there's this
character named Pierce Butler who was
one of the delegates from South Carolina
Constitutional Convention and he's in
Philadelphia in the 1790s where the
Congress met now Pennsylvania had passed
a law that was precisely of the type
that you just described in as early as
1788 passed a law that said no per
person enslaved in another state brought
to Pennsylvania who has been in
residence for more than six months it
can continue to be regarded as a slave
but that person under Pennsylvania law
is now a free person and it
one-side light on that is that none
other than George Washington himself
consulted the Attorney General and got
some private advice and said look if
you're in Philly with your slaves send
them back to Mount Vernon after maybe
five months and a couple of weeks and
bring back bring some others to help you
out and then you can bring the first
contingent back because you will have
the Cuba calendar starts over again
the clock starts over again I'm not
making that out it's like we're doing
your visa most if you're from a
different country yeah that's that's
right anyway so Pierce Butler is in
Philadelphia and some members of the
Pennsylvania abolition Society show up
at his door one day and they say listen
we happen to know that you've got a
slave living with you young man's name
was Ben he's been here but longer than
six months so we're here to tell you
that he's now a free man and Pierce
Butler says something very close to I'm
a citizen of South Carolina
what have the laws of Pennsylvania got
to do with me and they're in a nutshell
is the problem that you were just
pointing to and and as you I'm sure know
during the course of the early 19th
century more and more northern states
passed what they called personal liberty
laws that had various implications that
enslaved people would be emancipated by
the clock or by other means and so the
collision but among the states between
the slave states and the free states
just got closer and closer and more and
more intense over this issue of whether
slavery was a national right enshrined
in the Constitution I mean this is what
you know the slave owners by the 1850s
were saying there are all these federal
territories who
is the federal government to tell us
that we can't take our slaves there in
the Constitution our property rights are
protected so slavery is a national
phenomenon just because you don't want
it in your state doesn't mean that we
can't bring our enslaved person to to
your state and do whatever we like with
him for however long we want and that
became the issue that provoked the rise
ironically enough of the Republican
Party in the 1850s and led to the
election of Abraham Lincoln okay and so
as we as we move toward that time as we
move through time these sort of these
two I guess cultures if you will begin
to have more and more conflict around
this this point in in in in federal
territories I also imagine at one point
someone looks at at that at that section
three or I should say Section 2 Clause 3
and starts to question like well there's
nowhere in the Constitution that
specifies what held to service what
constitutes legitimate held to service
like you know if you're quite sure
actually it's like it's not like people
were signing contracts with slaves so
that's a very good another great point
in fact Frederick Douglass himself who
was a pretty sharp guy and no he didn't
go to law school he had a good legal
mind
he wrote a pamphlet in 1860 and it was
all about that word do d ue in that
cause the person or party to whom
service or labor is due and Frederick
Douglass makes the whole case is you
know what service or labor isn't due to
anybody because slavery is an
illegitimate institution so I'm reading
this and I don't see anybody to whom
service or labor or my service or
laborers do you know so he tried to pull
the rug out from under the under the
clause that way it was a little bit of a
fancy legal argument that didn't win
many converts but it was an interesting
point of view so all right so so walk us
up what is the next in terms of the the
next big sort of like institutional
reaction to that confi
and by that I mean is it is it the
Fugitive Slave laws is there a
particular one which is they sort of the
most prominent milestone on and route to
to where we get to I guess the the
ultimate conflict being that the Civil
War because I know at one point because
you mentioned that and in the past we've
interviewed spend bekaert and in others
who have occurred who have who have
written about the implications of cotton
and particularly the North's certain
northern benefit an economy that was
built on that but there's a dynamic that
you talked about in the book that is not
unlike you know today when I go to you
know the children's store and I like
this is shirts only six dollars that's
great that's because I don't see the
slave labor that's involved in it but
there are institutions there are
institutional responses to this conflict
that begin to make the north more
acutely aware and in fact you know this
dynamic cuts across a lot of different
issues I mean even climate change people
are saying like when we start seeing
this stuff a little more often like the
wildfires we're going to understand
what's going on there's a dynamic that
takes place there between these two
cultures in terms of slavery right well
absolutely there's a lot packed into
into what you just said so let me try to
unpack it a little bit I mean there are
a lot of factors of course I mean
history is nothing if not complicated
that lead to the growing intensity of
the collision between these two cultures
the rise of abolitionism and the north
and there are many ways to understand
that and as you pointed out some
abolitionists were very farsighted and
and believed not only in the abolition
of slavery but in the assertion of equal
rights for black and white people living
in a in a biracial society on equal
terms other abolitionists were against
slavery because they didn't want black
people in their neighborhood they they
didn't want slave owners to be able to
bring their slaves to the federal
territories and and put them to work in
competition with immigrant labor some of
the recent immigrants
to America in the 1840s 1850s Irish
immigrants in particular to Boston in
New York were very filled with racial
animus toward black people and regarded
them as competitors for the jobs and the
factories that they were trying to hold
down so it's a complicated it's a
complicated story but to pick up on the
point you made about you know the
analogy with today going into the the
big box store and buying a $6 t-shirt
and not thinking too hard about where it
comes from the Fugitive Slave Law of
1850 which is the heart of the story I
tell was an attempt by the Congress to
solve this problem once and for all to
put teeth into that
toothless clause of the Constitution and
it was a merciless law it denied the
right of habeas corpus to any accused
fugitive that is the basic right of the
anglo-american legal tradition to
contest the legality of one's detention
and open court it denied the right to a
jury trial there was no right to testify
in your own defense it made it a federal
crime for any citizen in the north to
Harbor or assist a fugitive and it
enlarged didn't quite create but it
enlarged a category called federal
commissioners and gave these folks who
could be the local justice of the peace
or the local sheriff the full authority
of a judge to hold a hearing make a
determination whether this person would
did in fact belong to the plaintiff who
had come to bring him or her back and
then send him back without any semblance
of due process so when this law was
passed in 1850 which was passed with the
idea that it would hold the nation
together that it would keep that
stitching from from unraveling it had
exactly the opposite effect
you know if ever there was a law of
unintended consequences that that was it
because what it did and here's to your
point it made it clear finally and
completely that northerners could not
pretend that so that slavery was
somebody else's problem slavery was not
a southerner
to slavery in this sense was a national
institution and now they were implicated
in it directly if a person who had lived
in Boston for five minutes or five years
or ten or fifteen years was pursued and
identified as formerly a slave in
another state that person was put into
into Chains taken to the local jail
house and under the judgment of some
low-level bureaucrat put on a boat and
and sent back to Georgia or Virginia or
wherever in front of your eyes that made
it harder to look away and Emerson Ralph
Waldo Emerson was kind of slow in coming
to the active engagement in the
anti-slavery movement put it this way he
said when when he talked about New
Englanders putting sugar in their tea or
eating their their desert pastries no
one tasted blood in the treats no one
tasted blood in the treats
but the Fugitive Slave Law suddenly you
know we kind of it woke it woke them up
in a sensory way that slavery was
actually right here in our back yard and
we're involved and we have to come to
terms with our future with respect to
slavery what are we going to do about
this situation there's there's a I mean
it's not a direct parallel but I think
there is an obvious parallel today when
you read stories coming from around the
country of yeah I was in favor of what
ice was doing until you know Paul
Gonzales who has had a drycleaners down
the street for 25 years all of a sudden
gets deported and leaves his entire
family I think that's exactly right I
mean I I spend some time in upstate New
York and you drive around and you see
all the young men and some can sometimes
young women working in the gardens of
the well-to-do folks or working in the
back of the restaurant and you know
perfectly well that great many of them
are undocumented immigrants and it
causes
it will turn out to be a productive
confusion in the minds of some folks it
causes confusion in the minds of let's
say old-line republicans who find that
our present administration is is
characterizing all these people as
dangerous menacing criminals and so on
and so forth when the reality is that
the local economy depends on them and
they're living side by side with us as
neighbors and it's an inexact analogy
with what happened in 1850 but there are
some elements in common
wait I mean just describe to us or
explain to us because it may seem
obvious in some respects but it but it
but it but it strikes me as maybe not so
obvious particularly at that time why
was maintaining a unified country so
crucial well it's another great question
and one part one way to start answering
it is to say it wasn't so crucial in the
minds of many Americans in the middle of
the 19th century including abolitionists
I mean we think some abolitionist we
think of secession as a southern
phenomenon and it was indeed the
Southerners who acted on it but there
was a sentiment for secession in the
north as well Wendell Phillips one of
the leading radical abolitionists was
given a speech in New Bedford mass when
he got a telegraph bulletin which turned
out to be a couple days too early but
nevertheless that fort sumpter had been
fired on and he gets impromptu he gets
up on the on the stage and says listen
um these people have every right that
has to have as much right to pull out of
this union as we did out of the British
Empire in 1776 he says mr. Lincoln has
no right to a soldier in Fort Sumter let
them go now one reason that people like
Frederick Douglass and Lincoln himself
were adamant about the preservation of
the Union was because there was a very
real possibility that if the south
had been allowed to go peacefully which
might have happened in 1850 because at
that point it was much less sentiment in
the north to take military action if the
South had been allowed to go peacefully
there was strong sentiment in the South
to create a to expand a slave based
Empire by going deeper into Mexico than
we had gone after the Mexican War going
into the Caribbean and necks in Cuba
that in fact the secession of the South
what could have been good news for
slavery now the historians will argue
about that it's one of those
counterfactual questions we'll never
know but it was certainly a sentiment in
the air and Lincoln was very complex
figure in this story always believed
that the destiny of the Union was the
extirpation of slavery that the Union
that the growth and expansion of the
Union would mean that slavery one way or
another would have to go out of
existence so although it is true and
many historians will say this I say it
too to some degree in the book now when
the Civil War began it was much more a
war to preserve the Union than a war to
destroy slavery those two motives or
those two missions were very close
together in the minds of a lot of
unionists including including Lincoln
and okay well okay so but that doesn't
necessarily answer the question I mean
it so it's a counterfactual that not
only would slavery have not died out
with you know over a at least of a
projectable period of time had we had
the the country split in half in 1850
that there's every reason to believe
that it the the the institution of
slavery would have been exported through
I guess what we could call like colonial
imperialist desires of the south all
right they'll go they'll get more
resources and they're going to they're
going to need more slaves to to harvest
those resources
we don't know about that but there's
there's a you're telling us that there's
evidence to suggest that would have
happened and I get the the dynamic that
there was a strong belief that we are
not going to be able to have one country
without the there's just not room enough
in this one country for one country and
slavery as an institution those two
things cannot coexist
um that's of course what Lincoln said
right well how house divided cannot
stand but what but what but what was the
urgency to maintain one country was it
just Lincoln is saying I don't want to
be President the president who lost half
the country type of thing I mean or well
that's a that's an interesting you know
there's some parallels between Lincoln
and Churchill in some ways and that's
sort of what Churchill said right I
didn't become Prime Minister to preside
over the disintegration of the British
Empire right and and and there is I mean
this is all your questions are
complicated which is why they're good
questions
there is a Alexander Stephens who was a
sort of a friend of Lincoln he was a
congressman from Georgia and they were
on the same side during the Mexican War
that is they were against it and then
Stevens became vice president of the
Confederacy and Stevens rode after the
war for mr. Lincoln his devotion to the
Union rose to the sublimity of religious
mysticism I think that was a good
insight there was a kind of quasi
theistic commitment on Lincoln's part to
the idea of the Union that the manifest
destiny after all that of the American
exceptionalism and and you hear that in
his great greatest speeches right that
the last best hope of Earth at
Gettysburg we've proven that a
government of the people by the people
for the people shall not perish from the
earth he really did believe that the
American experiment in self-rule was
critical for human progress now we know
in our own time that people with certain
kinds of ID
Yul's can and can count Ihnen sore go to
war in order to prosecute those ideals
and maybe that's not the best basis for
going to war and maybe that's the best
basis for making policy but that that
was there in lincoln's mine and that
lincoln was representing a significant
sentiment in the nation i have no doubt
and then of course there are also raw
hard material reasons I mean the
American economy was already very
interconnected they trade the waterways
and the emerging railroads it would have
been a weaker nation with a weaker
economy if it had been sundered and - so
there were all kinds of reasons for
people to be in favor of Union from
highly idealistic to the almost
messianic to the hey it's good for
business to preserve the Union so all of
these points came together and and one
of the points I really try to drive home
and I think all historians should should
try to drive home is that people were
not clear in their own minds of why they
fought what they fought they had certain
inherited points of view and very few
relatively few changed their minds in a
fundamental way they couldn't read the
future they didn't know what would
happen next
nobody had any clue what the scale of
the carnage of the civil war going to be
so we can stand back and we can and we
can ask a lot of critical questions
about them and that's what we should be
doing but I do try in this book to
convey the sense of bewilderment and
confusion and anxiety that set everybody
from the slave owners to the most
committed abolitionists as they were
trying to figure out a way forward
toward the world that they believed
should come into being it's conceivable
I mean if someone could come to Lincoln
and say look I hope you think this is a
good idea to maintain this Union because
you know six hundred thousand people are
gonna die to do so he would have been
like
not well not not the cost-benefit
analysis that I thought we were entering
I mean it's it's great or did he have
people around him that we're saying
maybe this is outside of your portfolio
but I mean were there people around him
who gave him like an estimate like okay
just you know I understand this is
really important to you that we keep
this country together but this is the
cost that's gonna be associated with it
I mean he I don't know it seems to me
was really hard to conceive of that type
of carnage at that point it was
impossible to conceive of it because it
was on a totally different scale from
anything that anyone had ever
experienced and you know it's a cliche
but they say the generals are always
fighting the last war right you know
they were not anticipating a war with
mechanized armaments repeating rifles
that are kind of the ancestors of
today's automatic weapons and deadly
accurate artillery and and and fighting
on the scale that emerged in the Civil
War
I don't know that Lincoln had a war
council where they were making estimates
about casualties but I do know that
before the war really began and even
after Fort Sumter and before the First
Battle of Bull Run you get a lot of
congressmen and Senators standing up and
saying listen this is going to blow over
they're going to come to their senses in
a few months the seceded States will be
back and we'll be fine and we'll just be
back where we were
status quo ante you know slavery will be
part of the south and will be a union
again after Bull Run when this 30,000
strong Union Army was routed just south
of Washington and and the young boys
came in a full-fledged panic rushing
through the streets of stumbling
trudging barely able to walk in some
cases and that and the public came out
and a lot of them were secession to
sympathizers and saw this army in
complete chaos and disarray they woke up
to the reality and you gets fattiest
Stevens from Pennsylvania standing
up in the house and saying this is going
to be a long war they're going to be
many thousands of lives lost and we need
to dig in and this is our lot this is
our fate we have to prosecute this till
it's done and of course as the war went
on generals like grant and Sherman saw
that in some ways it was a war of
attrition it was a war of destruction
and you said 600,000 that used to be the
accepted number some historians now push
it up to 750,000 and if you add the
number of people who died after the war
and the number of people who were
mutilated psychologically as well as
physically it's almost impossible to
comprehend the scale of the war if you
translate it into today's terms it would
be like 30 or 40 million people Wow
something that's unbelievable and I
lastly had the the union said okay look
you guys go ahead god be with you we
will trade you know we'll have a border
and you'll be another country I mean and
I understand the idea that like you know
there would have been every reason to
believe at that point that the south is
their economic engine is built on
slavery and resource extraction that
they would have spent their money on
boats and in armaments and instead of
you know a war with the the north they
would have gone south to expand well as
a historian is there any way in that
counterfactual to sort of project like
the institution of slavery would it have
happened until essentially cotton had
run out or until sugar was replaced or
like like where what what would have
slowed that roll hello hello hello yeah
I'm still here
I'm sorry what would what would have
slowed that roll it had the South taken
their resources and gone south and and
taken over what do you have you're at
what you're asking me a question that's
how fun is the right word that's sort of
irresistible to think about but which is
of course unanswerable I can say that
the old-school historians used to say
that well the Civil War was a terrible
waste and tragedy because slavery was
burning itself out it was economically
unprofitable and so on
younger historians you mentioned send
Beckert is an excellent example have
taught us that slavery was extremely
profitable and that it and it had within
it a built-in impulse to expand it had
to expand in order to to survive because
the lands became infertile and new land
was necessary and and more slaves were
needed to cultivate the new lands so
there's no reason to believe that
slavery would have petered out anytime
soon if the war had had not had not
destroyed it I will say and you know I
say to my students I'm in the confusion
business I think I know what I believe
about certain basic moral and historical
questions I'm a huge admirer of Abraham
Lincoln and I think was every bit the
deep thinker and the great leader that
myth has made him out to be but there is
another point of view and when I gave a
talk in Washington not long after the
fall of the Iron Curtain as we used to
call it in the early 90s and I said some
really nice things about Lincoln and one
of the members of the audience came up
to me and said Lincoln was the greatest
war criminal in our history why why did
he have the right to force these people
to stay in the Union when they didn't
want to and he was thinking of the
analogy of the Soviet Union which had
tried to confine States within the
Soviet Union that didn't want to be part
of it and you know that's a that's a
challenging question it's it's a
difficult historical question and and if
we start thinking about analogies in our
own time when is it ok to compel people
to remain in the Union it rate it raises
all kinds of you know what's the
constitutional
self-defined as a perpetual document was
the union designed to be something that
could never be dissolved the founding
fathers actually kind of evaded that
question and didn't address it directly
well Lincoln answered it and with all of
our problems today I think most of the
time when people say well California
should secede or the you know the two
borders should become their own nation
and mostly people don't aren't serious
about that and most of us find it hard
to imagine that the United States will
break up but they found it hard to
imagine in the 1850s - so who knows the
book is the war before the war fugitive
slaves and the struggle for america's
soul from the revolution to the Civil
War Andrew Delbanco we will put a link
to the book at majority dot F M thank
you so much for your time today it's
fascinating stuff thank you it's been a
pleasure thank you all right folks
gonna head to the fun half wherein we
will take your phone calls we will take
your IMS just a reminder that that video
it's 90 minutes long it'll be audio
obviously for our audio members and we
will put a link to it in the at majority
dot F M in the members post and we
should get that we'll probably have that
up by tomorrow
we just need to just put a little
something at the beginning of it and we
will send it out to you if you if you
are a member it is 90 minutes long I let
me just ask you guys this because you've
seen this like do I need to apologize
for being mean not not to him I would
not apologize to him and maybe this is a
reveal but I don't want like any of our
audience to go like I didn't think Sam
was that mean well I've actually only
seen maybe the first five minutes of it
so Jamie from your perspective am i like
significantly meaner than you've seen me
maybe a little bit I suggest a warning I
was a I wasn't necessarily cantankerous
I but I just I don't want people to go
like oh I don't feel comfortable now
listening to the show going so it's
funny you weren't like yelling at him
you're just being glib which I was being
a little bit glib and I will say this I
have since after that doing it and you
know I got an email from a listener
after the fact saying you should ask him
about his gala reception at the Trump
Tower the Trump Hotel in Washington that
he charged 250 and 350 dollars a plate
for and you know it came up in our in
our in our conversation but I didn't
have time to really absorb it
and what I guess what I'm expressing is
that I think that guy's a little bit
more despicable than I gave him credit
for and if I had to do it over again I
would be meaner like originally I was
like ah the guy the poor guy you know
whatever he has a hope and a dream and
this and that and he's sort of a schmuck
but but now I'm a little bit more like
this guys it's not the right place right
time right idiot yeah now it's I'm a
little bit more like if I had to do that
over again like because then I was like
you know I asked him I said at the
beginning of the thing I said hey can I
get a copy of this and they were like
sure and they supposedly gave me
permission to record it on my end but it
didn't it didn't work now I'm also the
type of person who would never enter
into a conversation with someone like
that and assume that they would record
it on my behalf so I also had a backup
recording on my end it's just a slightly
different version of what they have
because you can actually see I don't
know how it is when they when they
present it if you can see who's waiting
in the wings but like you sometimes you
can hear the producer talking in the in
my ear and sometimes you can hear him I
think he's laughing
and I hope it's at it was at Brandt
Brandon or Brandt Brandon and I mean
really you're doing this guy a favor
because he is not cut out for this kind
of work
oh really you should tell the 350,000
dollars he's raised in in less than a
year his work healthily not not to
mention what he made on that gala I'm
like wait what did you do with that 300
grand because well God's not free and
then I'm like oh okay and then I
realized I wait no you make money off
the gala and then I called him on he
goes why so I'm smart and I was like
yeah yeah and then as that like it's
like it was like an hour and 20 minutes
into it I'm like you know I gotta get
going my sister's texting me and you
know I should go I've got stuff to do
and and so I did I wasn't I wasn't fully
engaged well some of the things he said
were too dumb for you to take seriously
yeah I mean some were like that's the
thing is that I really I went into it
with like I'm just not gonna you know
try and explain to him like I'm not
gonna have big policy arguments with
this guy
you're not gonna explain why Social
Security is actually solvent well I I
was I'm always prepared to do that I'm
prepared to do that with like you got at
the hardware store or you know like but
oh and after all that oh he got so upset
that you compared him to Milo he just
posted pictures of himself with Milo so
he just did yeah there you go
well there you go trying to get a little
that Stardust to rub off on him yeah
well I explained to him and and he he
did express that maybe we were or I was
being homophobic because of that
comparison but I explained why we made
that comparison and it wasn't it was not
necessarily for the reasons that I think
he thought that I would say to his face
but alright so you can become a member
and get this in your feed we're not
going to release it until tomorrow so if
you get a member by the time you hear
this
you'll be good by going to join the
majority report calm also this is the
last day that you can get 30% off of
just coffee I just sent a bunch of just
coffee to people I care about basically
as a way of of enticing them to get
hooked on the majority of or blend
that's the way I mean I'm copping to my
ulterior motives because once you get
somebody hooked and that but you can go
with no coupon go just go - just coffee
co-op 30% off tomorrow night is Michael
Brooks show you can find that on
patreon.com slash t MBS or on his
youtube channel t mb s but he's not here
to hype it so fine
but if you want to go see a live
majority report but our tickets are sold
out you can you can at the very least
you know downgrade and see the Vigo
Brooks show live in Brooklyn in February
information is on our website at
maggiore report radio.com it's fun to do
this when he's not here to say this
stuff cuz he doesn't yeah here's a
picture of it there it is the Michael
Brooks show live Friday February 1st
I'll be there folks Matt will be there
so I mean and maybe you know we may stop
by I don't know Michael might stop by I
might do my own VIP gathering out in
front of the venue for $125 per first I
think you should crash it like offset
crashed car DB show over the weekend I
saw I can't believe that was really
inappropriate a little bit a little bit
yeah
well if you don't do that in front of
like that's a bully
that's dangerous email behaved exactly
anyways
that's why Sam's gonna do it too Mike
I'm a I'm a we don't get up in the
middle of the show and go hey everybody
I'm doing a show right across the street
totally free but it's happening right
now
Jamie what's happening on the anti
Fattah I'm so glad you asked
so as regular listeners of the show know
by now last week was a very serious
episode on immigration where we kind of
take apart piece by piece some of the
faux pas pew list arguments being made
by people like Angela Nagel Tucker
Carlson and friends so this week we
decided to do something a little bit
more silly we had on Alex Patek of POD
damn America who is a very funny guy and
we talked about some union news we
talked about the Amazon warehouse
organizing we talked about the New York
magazine union and how Jonathan Chait is
a crybaby scabs
who opposed it we talked about how
Penthouse magazine is like all right now
and what other magazines are gonna
become some weird extreme political
formation in the near future to talk
about Teen Vogue we did yes but that's
the other thing right liked it
penthouse is all right Teen Vogue is
written by leftists pretty much so like
what's next
we'll see and then I think it's gonna be
a bonus but we we talked about a bad
liberal youtuber and her poor analysis
of films so check it out Matt uh yeah
literary hangover the democracy in
Chains episode is up also I did and
bradstreet over the weekend and she not
only was the first published poet of
America but the first political pundit
as well so we're gonna be up on Friday
maybe a bit early for members all right
folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the oh and we should
all say Kyle's with us today well way to
speak up Kyle all right six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty see you in
the fun half six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty see you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna boss says what
Your Honor Batman and the alpha males
are back
I am a total junk can we bring back DJ
Tanner
Lisa yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ Dan well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough
[Music]
the back
a lot of back
back
all lives matter have you tried doing an
impression on a college campus I think
that there's no reason why it reasonable
people across the divide can't all agree
with this psych
black
doesn't a little party you think that
America deserves to be taken over by
jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
for the bigger game plan it's my
birthday
that's birthday to meet you boy I have a
the alpha males to pay the price of
Class B around here like I am a total
 boy
we are back ladies and gentlemen it is
the it is fun half I of course neglected
to call into the phone system as is my
as is my way so we will I will do that
now
should we go is this just we just have a
picture that right that's not a video of
Scott Walker's Venn diagram oh yeah it's
just a picture Scott Walker the this guy
is just a horrible human being he just
signed a I can't even make sense of what
this Venn diagram is supposed to be now
Scott Walker just signed the law by the
that was passed by the Wisconsin
Assembly and Senate that essentially and
North Carolina had done this before
Republicans they are just incredibly
anti-democratic and and I mean there's
really no other way to put that and you
know I was I was starting to think about
the the debate I had with with Adam Koch
Esch who was a perfectly nice guy
and he was upset I watched one of his
follow-up videos and it was okay I mean
it wasn't you know wasn't terribly
dramatic but he was really upset that I
didn't have any first-order ethics that
shaped my perspective on what government
should function as and apparently the
the the idea that government should
provide as much benefit as
possible to as many people as possible
was was not sufficient for him I mean I
think it's it's sort of like a like a
religious fundamentalist saying like
okay well that doesn't that doesn't
count because it doesn't mention you
know like your perspective on on first
order doesn't count because it doesn't
mention God like well okay but I don't
believe in God and so you know I mean
I'm just using an analogy there but the
libertarian ethos this notion of freedom
and you know the non-aggression
principle really doesn't in any way the
words democracy small D democracy never
come up in what libertarians talk about
in at the end of the day if you go down
some of those roads and I and I've
rarely gone down those roads and I know
we don't live in a democracy we live in
a republic in this I get it but
theoretically when we talk about
American values democracy is supposedly
one of them I mean certainly we have
killed a lot of people around the world
in in an effort to make them more
democratic and as far as things we
celebrate his sport historically the
expansion of democracy is one of those
things ostensibly it's one of the things
that make us you know super special yeah
and the reason why I'm on the opposite
end of the political spectrum from out
of khopesh is I believe in more
democracy over the economy as well as
the political government and and I think
we all do here Jamie goes even further
down that road but you can really see
like you know a lot of times I'm seeing
all these like op eds now where people
like it the Republicans don't really
seem to care about democracy and if it
wasn't a hint that for decades they've
been talking about how they want less
people to vote and for at least a couple
of decades not quite a full-on two
decades there has been a
campaign to disenfranchise voters like a
an institutional campaign to do that I
think that came up in the early aughts
like we're going to impose a new set of
voting restrictions and I should say
conservatives you know we're doing this
from well at one point we don't even
count are our slaves as as humans we
want some goodies if we count them but
we're not gonna give them any rights
it's not really democracy and after that
in the Jim Crow era things like you know
a poll tax things like literacy
requirements to vote those are all
institutional anti-democratic mechanisms
that disenfranchise not just black
people but also poor people right I mean
a poll tax poor people of any and all
races and then you you come up into the
modern day where they start to have
these voter IDs and the you know even if
it's like we won't accept a college
student IDs will take your gun permit
that'll be fine and if you want a
driver's license that's okay but we just
we don't have DMV offices in your
neighborhood sorry about that it's going
to cost you another day or two s worth
of work if you don't get fired to
actually be registered to vote nevermind
to actually vote so there is a huge deep
abiding anti-democratic sentiment within
the conservative mind within the
libertarian mind within the Republican
Party and Scott Walker embodies all of
that it embraces all of that we saw it
in 2011 when he attacked public sector
unions there and the health care despite
the fact that nobody wanted him to do so
they didn't vote for him to do that we
see it amongst the Republican Party in
Michigan when they
applied and and they even though there
was a referendum against the emergency
manager law they overrode it and brought
you Flint the disaster that was Flint as
a function of that in North Carolina we
saw the same thing when the Democratic
governor was elected the Republican
House and Senate in the lame-duck
session
stripped away prior authority that that
Democratic governor had and and other
institutions to increase democracy and
here is Scott Walker has just signed a
bill doing the same thing and then comes
up with what purports to be a Venn
diagram and I for the life of me I can't
understand what it is now none of the
powers that he lists appointment
Authority administrative rules Authority
budget Authority veto Authority
line-item veto Authority executive order
Authority I I don't I don't think he
knows what a Venn diagram is a Venn
diagram is supposed to be here is a set
of rule of of attributes and where you
know that are in Group A and Group E an
event diagram merges those so that the
ones that are within these sort of what
do you call that shape like an overlap
like a an oval I guess an oval
sharp-edged oval those are where there's
overlap those those are powers that are
in both camps and I can't even make head
nor tail of what he's done here which is
probably effective because essentially
what it does it strips the Evers
administration of a huge amount of
thority in terms of redistricting and in
terms of appointing people and in terms
of the budget it's really horribly
anti-democratic
small D and it's disgusting and I I mean
one would imagine and they're set up
these anti-democratic measures are set
up to retain power and until Democrats
fully grasp this that that's what the
Republicans do and begin to emulate it
not in shrinking democracy but in
edifying democracy so good for the
Democrats and I hope they follow through
on this in announcing when they take
over that they're going to pass various
forms of voting rights federal voting
rights they should go further they
should re reestablish the section 5 of
the Voting Rights Act I mean on and on
and on but they need to go further with
this and obviously the Senate has to
follow up if they get the Senate back
with things like card check allowing for
more democracy in the context of giving
people the opportunity don't put up
false roadblocks in people's opportunity
to unionize give more protections for
voters create a motive voter
registration as a federal law that is
you know one of the things but these
things which will both a PHY Democrats
but all you need to do to to for
Democrats to edify their power is to
expand democracy because we see this
time and time again there we just went
through a midterm election where there
was 10 million 11 million more votes
cast for Democrats than Republicans now
granted you only saw that reflected in
the house you didn't see that reflected
in the the right way in terms of state
houses in Pennsylvania in Wisconsin in
Michigan in Ohio where you have intense
gerrymandering where Democrats win the
majority of the seats and win the
majority of the actual vote and then get
trounced when it comes to seats and what
consignee I won 56% of the vote and
they're the the numbers in the in the
Senate and the house or something like
65 to 35% represented by Republicans to
Democrats I mean anybody can tell that
there's a problem there and so if the
Democrats regained some type of
operational power they must pursue a
whole host of Democratic small D
measures because a that's a an important
value in a vacuum but be it also helps
them retain power against
anti-democratic forces here you have Ron
DeSantis saying that amendment four
which calls for the reinstating of
voting rights of 1.5 million ex-felons
in Florida and De Santis of course needs
to stop this from happening because he
believes it's going to hurt him at the
ballot box and so he comes up with this
idea that state lawmakers must approve a
an implementation bill that he signs as
opposed to just like there's no
implementation bill needed here the
executive can say hey all those people
on your voter list when you look them up
and it says can't vote ex-felon just
allow them to register period end of
story that's all that needs to happen he
could do that he has the executive
authority to do that he is slow walking
this and hoping that something goes
wrong and it's incredibly undemocratic
now the Democrats are have a new
gerrymandering plan in New Jersey and
they're trying basically to gerrymander
like the Republicans did
but it's not quite the same right like
they're putting up to a vote and I think
there's some major differences that
Beauchamp misses in this you're putting
it up yeah we should actually read it
more but but it's a problem regardless
of who does it but putting out but
having independent rewriting of
districts and all you need is to be
democratic and Democrats will win that's
just they there are more Democratic
voters than Republican ones that's just
an undisputed fact by people who would
vote for Democrats that they could vote
and that's true too but I can take you
know if I proportion portion different
parts of the country in such a way then
yes I can come up with areas where
there's more Republicans than not but
the reality is if done in a fair way and
fair by being just 50/50 proportioning
Democrats are gonna win the vast
majority of Elections yeah this is this
is a first principle right people should
be represented and democratically
represented in government and just
because expanding those rights gives you
partisan advantage doesn't mean you
shouldn't do it right and the fact that
any Democrats are either not doing
anything about this issue or actively
making it worse should say something
about how not all Democrats are the same
not all Democrats are good come okay
let's go to the phones you're calling
from a wait a second bear with me one
second
you're calling from a two one zero area
code who's this where you come from
hello yes it is who's this where you
come from
my name is Joshua Joshua from San
Antonio
what's in
hey I was just wondering what do you
think it's gonna happen a doctor to
Becca Dhaka Oh to Dhaka I don't know I
mean III don't know it's a really it's
it's in the it's a function of the
courts now but I suspect that a it may
be just more of the same until the
Democrats get in which I guess is you
know horrible in one respect but also
better than the alternative yeah earlier
in the year before the whole coven a
tobacco the the Supreme Court actually
rejected a motion to for daca in order
to get into the courts yeah and now the
Covenant in there I just checked there I
know this might be I took the darkest of
Reddit and the Justice Department is
actually put him through a motion that's
gonna challenge daca because it is
literally gonna take it to the Supreme
Court now yeah we'll see yeah
thank you I appreciate the call let's go
to this this is too funny so folks do we
have like what was the it wasn't Ron
Popeil
was it Ron Popeil who came up with this
do you not know who I'm talking about
Matt will you Google Ron Popeil spray-on
hair I think it was Ron Popeil who
marketed this at one point in show
business
do you will come across people who we're
gonna put this up first in show business
you come across people who have maybe
bald spots or maybe thinning hair on the
sides I know of some actually a major
nightly talk show host who the non news
fear although I'm imagining there's some
of this who
you know employ different types of like
spray ons to create a sense of density
in their hair this came this has been a
long-term I mean this products been
around for a long term a long time prior
to high definition TV when you could get
away with a lot of stuff and you know
sometimes the function of lighting
lighting and how close you are and this
and that and certainly entertainment
lighting is designed to be to be softer
now this is the product that's spray
paint basically your hair away it's not
paint it comes out sort of it's not a
pain it's basically a sticky powder and
you spray it on and they call the GL H
at the time and you know it more or less
effective pretty quick anyways but they
still use this and like I say I know of
a and I think if you were to go back and
look at some of the footage from this
guy five or six years ago you would see
he was balding then all of a sudden at
one point pretty lost low weight he was
no longer balding that's fine I mean
it's done it is a sign of vanity and
there's obviously some pressure to look
younger
on television and politico's are not
necessarily unsusceptible to these same
urges there's been times I thought maybe
I should dye my hair or something like
that people do it it's it's a lot more
common now I think for people to do it
I'm a little too lazy to maintain such
things and so I bring you Face the
Nation and to be a crony for Donald
Trump at this point the pressure is
intense and when you go on television
and maybe you're trying to maintain your
power in the administration with all the
changes that are going on there's a new
chief of staff coming in there could be
new
apartment of Homeland Security maybe
you're a little bit insecure about your
position there maybe you're Stephen
Miller for instance
this guy here he is and now if Stephen
Miller is looking at you you seem like
he seems a little bit different do we
have a picture of Stephen Miller from
just like I don't know the last time he
was on TV because Stephen Miller of
course aside being a someone who on the
inside I think is dark and and ugly and
is his is I don't want to say evil I
don't usually talk in that way but just
really despicable here he is he's
wearing shades and look at him he's got
a receding hairline many people do many
men do he cuts it close she shaves it
tight because that is a better look you
know they're more modern look that's not
bad at all no and I would as you can see
at the top of his head his hairline
basically starts you know back back I
would say by halfway through and then
he's got a little little tiny bit but
very sparse up front but you know and
then something happened he went on face
to face a widow's peak is that what you
call it yep yeah a widow's peak that
comes down across his forehead and now
that is you wouldn't notice it except
for if you were to almost go to a
different angle let's play this here's
Stephen Miller incidentally I don't even
know what he's saying here it's
something Despicable I'm sure he's
talking about why we should be horrible
- what's that Obamacare now a we will
talk about Obamacare in a moment a
incredibly partisan Trump appointed
judge I believe in Texas when the
Goodwin's ruled on this we will talk
about that in a bit but let's watch the
and listen this is juvenile it is pure
I'll it is silly and the only reason why
we're pointing this out is because
Stephen Miller knows that Donald Trump
scrutinizes the performance of his
cronies
on television and wants them all to look
as good as he does when they go I'd
television and so this puts incredible
pressure on a guy like Stephen Miller
who has only to offer on a completely
unresolved hatred of immigrants and
brown people as his selling point and
that's getting old so he's got to keep
up appearances and so he has a lot of
pressure to look good and so he clearly
asks the makeup people can you spray on
a widow's peak onto my head and the
problem is and everybody who's involved
in television knows this he's got two
problems one is high-definition and the
lighting on a new show is much harsher
than it would be on a television show
you know like a fictional show and two
your makeup people and your lighting
people if they don't like you can make
you look really bad and I suspect both
those things are at play and good
morning and welcome to Face the Nation
we begin today with White House senior
adviser Stephen Miller here's the
president's point person on policy good
to have you here in studio that is very
weird pattern of air it looks like
literally you drew that on he not know
they're gonna have cameras on the side
of the set I don't think he could see it
I don't think he could see what it looks
like
he just looks in the mirror in front and
it looks good to him no one's gonna
notice that it looks like literally it
looks like someone spray-painted that on
all right let's keep going do we have
another angle of because I think there's
a Wow thank you Merry Christmas Merry
Christmas to you oh I just want to make
a point of saying their constitutional
this could put at risk about 20 million
Americans who rely on it for coverage
including Medicare and Medicaid but
numbers in the guise of anybody see this
what is your reaction and how do you
reassure those Americans that
there okay well obviously there's no
change immediately in Obama or posit
right there like even that like how did
his hair on the top of his head get I
mean if this was done properly they
would have put it on the sides too so
that he would color matches a bit but if
it was done properly does he think
people haven't seen pictures of what he
looked like before people get away with
this but that side right there that's if
you want to find out who I'm talking
about the talk-show host
go back two or three years on all the
talk show host look a little bit and
that's the giveaway it's that side right
there where it's like sometimes people
you know close up like this like I think
I have that too it may you know my hair
is a little longer right now one short
you know it's just not that dense and
sometimes people spray in there but they
should have done that because it really
looks bad and I know Stephen nobody
you're not going to be watching us
assess this but I hope that our talking
about it will get other people you know
will add to the cacophony and the chorus
of people talking about it and we'll
embarrass you and Donald Trump will fire
you not because you're a horrible
scumbag but just because you're laughing
stone looks like chocolate
Aster's her yeah keep going Ben initial
what injunction about makeup is to you
unconstitutional we've always known that
Obamacare is unconstitutional the more
important question is whether Democrats
are going to work with Republicans once
Obamacare is ultimately struck down and
Tech's pre-existing conditions helps the
twenty-eight million Americans who
because of Obamacare still don't have
access to health insurance and keeps
prices low through robust competition so
to be clear there you're predicting that
this goes to the really exact there but
outcome because Obamacare has always
been unconstitutional yeah well I have a
couple points on this but I can wait
till the end if this is no go for this
clip the clip is very important okay
uh-huh
having this where to begin I always
figured he was one of those young
Republicans who just wills himself to
start balding and like fifth grade but
maybe Trump
wanted him to join him and having like a
confusing unsettling fake hair situation
there's not enough time for you to grow
the swoop it's just not it's gonna take
you years so in the meantime spray it on
also it never ceases to blow my mind
that this guy is the exact same age as
me we were both born in 1985 what the
 well
no Jamie of course you spray on your
hair but yours is much longer how do you
get that effect from a can it takes a
really long time that's sometimes when
we're late that's because we're just
waiting because Jamie's just spraying it
on time strange so like a whole process
it's really difficult to watch so that
guy lost a student government election
to the cobra snake guy the party
photographer when he was in high school
and that uh never ceases to amaze me I
don't know I'll show you hilarious all
right let's let's briefly talk about
this ACA ruling the we've been talking
about this for a while there's 16 states
that they were all republican-controlled
and a couple of those states for
instance in Wisconsin the new secretary
I should say the new AG is a Democrat he
was going to pull out of this lawsuit
and the state legislature said that they
couldn't took the authority away from
him the idea is this you will recall
that the republican-controlled lawmakers
or republican-controlled House and
Senate did not want to repeal the
Affordable Care Act they each
individuals may say they could but as a
body they did not want to repeal because
and they did not there's no difference
in terms of the way the courts perceived
this if Congress wanted to do something
they would do it they don't say well
they couldn't do it because they were
haggling too much no they just say if
they wanted to do it if there was a will
they they have a way they would have
repealed the Affordable Care Act instead
what Congress did is they repealed
the tax penalties for the mandate and so
16 states brought a case and the Justice
Department basically were in support of
this case that because the mandate was
ruled by the Supreme Court to be a tax
that now that there was no authority to
tax the mandate was unconstitutional it
exists but there's no enforcement
mechanism there for the entire law is
unconstitutional that was the argument
now it's a bad argument from a legal
perspective because there's this concept
of severability if a court finds that
one aspect of a law is unconstitutional
how severable is it from the rest of the
law sometimes Congress will say if any
part of this act is found
unconstitutional
it is separable from the rest of the law
I don't know if that that was in the
Affordable Care Act but there is in the
absence of explicit language to that
effect the court has a test and the
Supreme Court has expressed that test in
the past it is said for lower courts you
should not you should assume
severability unless there's a compelling
reason otherwise now the other part of
this test is what has Congress's
intention been if they don't say it
explicitly what is their intention would
would they want it to be severable would
they want one part of the law to exist
or if it didn't exist would they want
the entire law to be set aside in this
instance you don't need to even ask that
hypothetical question because Congress
has already acted on it they got rid of
the tax penalty for the Affordable Care
Act and left the Affordable Care Act
intact you don't have to ask the
question because it's not a hypothetical
it's actually just recent history and I
mean we saw this in 2017
however this judge guys name is O'Connor
I think is a I believe he's a trump
appointed a Bush appointed judge Reid
O'Connor he has a long history of
striking down democratic laws they oh
yeah he's an activist he does not he is
the very definition of a judicial
activist he doesn't care what the
legislature says in fact they sought out
his his court because they knew he was
the most favorable for this in terms of
where they would file their cases
Republican officials you will find if
you go back they file their court their
cases in Fort Worth Worth Texas because
they want to land in this guy's
jurisdiction there was 16 from all
around the country they could have done
it anywhere they did it in Fort Worth
because of this guy on top of this
O'Connor had made a decision
and I think we mentioned this in the
week or two before the election he made
his decision
like a month before the election but
waited until after to announce it which
is that the Affordable Care Act is
unconstitutional balls and strikes balls
and strikes he did not a Friday night so
there was no opportunity to stay the the
courts effect now according to the
administration my understanding is that
the Affordable Care Act and all of its
protections you could stay on your
parents
plan until you're 26 you you can't have
there's no bar if you have pre-existing
conditions you still have essential
benefits that are part of your insurance
certain things are provided free by
insurance etc etc all these patient
protections remain intact
it will head first to the Fifth Circuit
US Court of Appeals it is a very
conservative circuit O'Connor's ruling
may be upheld and then ultimately go to
the Supreme Court we as you know the
Supreme Court I think on twice his
pushback has turned back as adjudicated
on constitutional question about the
affordable care act found it
constitutional however that was pre pre
Kavanaugh and maybe even pre gorsek so
who knows it has saved the lives of how
many Americans do we know for sure you
know I don't know probably twenty thirty
forty thousand I mean it's statistically
speaking
fifty thousand since it's been
instituted maybe more
it has provided health insurance for
millions insofar as the expansion of
Medicaid never did as much as I think it
was sold on in terms of containing costs
helped a little bit but not much but
certainly made insurance a better
product if the Supreme Court rules that
it's unconstitutional it sets up an
interesting opportunity for single-payer
health care although I will warn you
this the Republicans cannot repeal the
Affordable Care Act they have been
unable to do so they are going to be
unable to do so going forward
if
there is no Affordable Care Act there is
going to be a push for replacement now
it can cut both ways in the absence and
there'll be a more out a greater outcry
for something to replace the Affordable
Care Act I don't know if that hurts or
helps single-payer I mean I'm of two
minds and maybe we'll take some calls on
this on another day one hand I could see
that the absence of these coverages
increases the urgency for a replacement
and certainly the organizing around
single-payer has the a momentum and B
it's hard to come up with a scenario
that would be constitutional I mean you
could just replace the mandate and make
it constitutional in a democratically
controlled House and Senate and or even
in a split they could just replace the
mandate and make it worse in other ways
the affordable care act so just be
careful about wishing for this thing to
go away let me put it that way honestly
I think it's just about equally urgent
no matter what and it's not gonna go
away as an issue no I agree but just I'm
just telling people specifically in
terms of their wanting it to go away
people should be in terms of political
urgency if they're if if they pull back
all those protections it becomes more
urgent I mean I think that's obvious
just in terms of the politics of there's
no doubt about that yeah I mean well it
will get but what I'm disturbed about is
the legitly there needs to be a judicial
strategy that's built alongside a
political and policy strategy for any
big healthcare package seems to me
Michael turn your microphone like that
that wire is going to break do you see
the see the cable yeah see the cable
right at the base of the metal see where
the what the silver metal hits that
black cord yeah
let's see that pressure this you see
what I'm talking about yeah turn your
microphone like this push this part up I
will do it later Brendan maybe could you
could you help him out you just you just
you redid the problem yeah yeah that
cable is breaking yes now you see yes it
does look bad that's exactly right
I love Sarah Palin quickly I want to go
after Jaime first so-called joke about
dissolving the federal government well
don't go after bad jokes that's the new
standard well I think people are upset
with you because you have privilege most
of us don't have for instance you work
20 feet from a successful comedian with
decades of experience working in
Hollywood Sam never brags but his
performance in Spin City was a tour de
force and his comedic timing and the
debate with Charlie Kirk when he alluded
to Foster Friess is unrivaled oh I get
it this this I am as a joke yeah I guess
next time just ask Sam for some help
with your pen game what I don't know is
it Beto smart enough to realize the
consultants and political operations
professionals are gassing his head up
because they can liquidate all those
campaign donations into their pockets
the Democrats cared about power they'd
be pushing him to challenge Cornyn in
2020
fames Darwyn Sam mrs. Darwin and I are
celebrating our 13th anniversary today
particularly since we got married in a
synagogue how about a Jew horn for us
[Music]
no I think jus horn is better called
from a four seven eight area code who's
this where he come from staff this is
Jeffrey Georgia a greeting Steve sir
Jeff and Georgia how are you hey man I'm
doing okay listen I know this is the fun
half but you know I'm gonna can't be
serious me for a second because there
comes a time when a man is to shed his
piss narc
he needs to turn away from irony too
since they urge them to work for God and
country
so saying I'm pleased to announce here
on your show breaking news my candidacy
for chief of staff for the prison of the
United States what they surely do need
we cannot have Mick Mulvaney pulling
double-duty now look I know a lot of
people are thinking if you want to be
complicit in such thing and I hear you I
hate but but I've got a lot of great
ideas changed weightless wings run I'm
talking team building courses held in
the mouths of volcanoes team I'm talking
competition kicking in specifically the
monthly gladiatorial competition to the
death we will be holding between cabinet
secretaries every week and I'm talking
mandatory fish lunches to the communal
microwave daily I'm talking time to
bathroom breaks I'm talking fire drills
involve an actual fire saying hello
great ideas and I need your help
me and I need this job real bad I don't
know how I could possibly help you get
that job our readers sorry I didn't did
I give you the wrong impression I have
no influence with that now I call up
Schumer I can't okay believe him okay
believe I'm being told this saying I
thought that you were you were a popular
man with with pole with charisma with
with sexual energy that could be in the
wines of men and women to do your
bidding Sam you you can't you can't give
me this job I cannot but I can say
people should listen to dissident
peasant on a regular basis I'm good at
that they should they should absolutely
do that they appreciate things thanks
man you guys have good week now
[Music]
come from a four to three area code
who's this where he come from four to
three come from a four eight four area
code who's this where you come from
hello hello hi this is Brendan from
Pennsylvania hello Brendan from
Pennsylvania what's on your mind
um first of all I wanted to thank you
guys because I was listening to the show
the other day where you guys were
talking about the Clean Water Act and I
ended up writing a paper about that for
my finals oh great and that went really
well
oh good and any time honey yeah I wanted
to ask because I was listening to the
other side did you know it was up was
that a college paper or high school
paper that at the college papers but it
was an agricultural and ethics issue
paper so I just kind of wrote about I
really found it interested the whole
joke about how like the mission of the
sherwin-williams what color paint they
were making yeah it was very interesting
yeah apparently my understanding is that
the Cuyahoga that was about the eighth
or ninth time that had caught on fire
that River yeah because I heard that
there wasn't even a picture of the river
when it caught on fire right around the
60s when they you know when the Clean
Water Act was put into place and they
only have a picture of it from like the
fifties when I had caught on fire yeah
it's tough stuff but go ahead but just
recently I kind of because I used to
when I was watching the news I really
kind of was going through I'm a
sociology major at Penn State yeah but
I've recently gotten into trying to get
a Poli Sci minor so I've been kind of
trying to follow the news and there was
a period of time where I was you know
kind of going through the rounds of CNN
MSNBC Fox News not because I thought
they were covering it what though but
just cuz I wanted to see how each of
them were covering it and the
differences between that yep and it was
only recently that I kind of
like around when the midterms happen
that I started following specifically
the Young Turks you the David Pakman
show
and stuff like that and I was watching
but specifically the Pakman show the
other day about you know kind of like a
couple of the things that ASC has been
kind of messing up which could hurt the
movement as a whole and something that
I've been curious about is why where's
the line with the people who are talking
about these issues in like including you
David Pakman all these kind of people
and what prevents you guys from
yourselves running is that not in a is
that just not really like a something
that you guys are interested in are you
kind of more interested in dissecting
the news and journalism itself and kind
of like the comedic aspect of calling
out the BS with all everything or like
does it kind of frustrate the YouView
that you can't but I'm just kind of
curious like where at what point do you
want to get involved and just say like
 it I'll do it myself
well I mean I can't speak my electorate
I hate each and every one of you my back
hurts my children are exhausting me and
I have anecdotes about Marc Maron and a
lot of misdirected estrogenic rage but
I'd like to talk about social security
as well well
Michael just obviously stepped all over
my open-air shopping first off wait let
me just push back let me just push back
on the idea let me just push back on the
idea that AOC has been doing anyway
problematic that is I think ridiculous I
just I just put up a picture of Scott
Walker who is probably going to be
appointed interior of the secretary
after he was just Samara Lee voted out
of office with a Venn diagram that in no
place in the world constitutes a Venn
diagram okay not aa
not only that it's representative of a
horribly anti-democratic move and yet
and yet aside from like shows like this
making fun of them and maybe a brief
announcement this is a guy who's been in
politics for
decades and nothing inhibits his rise
not failure after failure after failure
has inhibited his rise and a lack of
intelligence nor a lack of charisma so
the idea that there's anything that if
ALC misspoke on a couple of occasions
about very minor stuff is problematic is
ridiculous but that aside I at times
have contemplated running and in a
proper circumstance I would I would
consider it maybe in the future but not
you know I don't foresee that proper
circumstance I mean you know there was a
time I was like oh I used to smoke a
less than zero amount of pot and I
thought that might be a problem but
times have changed I mean it's you slob
you you know I don't think that anybody
should or should not run I'm all for it
and some of us actually are involved in
politics even though I'm not running for
anything I am you're not involved you're
not running active in the Democratic
Socialist of America and it definitely
informs my analysis of current events
that's true though I'm sorry what was
your name again is not the only way of
being I'm Brendon okay Brendon thanks
again Brendon I appreciate the call I'm
gonna be no problem thank you all right
good luck at school philosophically
Chuck Schumer's doing a terrible job
many of you don't know that because
you're too stupid to understand
and that's not exactly how I would bring
it up but I'm not totally against that
maybe followed a bunch of
mouth-breathing morons this country
might be a decent place to live it Joey
would be speaking of the Affordable Care
Act here is Donald Trump reacting to the
finally went to a cemetery in the rain
wanted to prove I could do it I just
need a huge umbrella for my hair but he
this apparently was the weekend where
all of the Trump officials were going to
put their hair on the line to talk about
the Affordable Care Act and here is
Donald Trump doing so where he is
[Music]
bragging to people about the Affordable
Care Act which would being ruled
unconstitutional will be able to get
great health care we'll sit down with
the Democrats or a Supreme Court up
lower we'll be sitting down with the
Democrats and we will get great out care
for our people let's say repeal in to
replace hands a little bit differently
but it was a big big victory by a highly
respected judge highly highly respected
Texas no the assumption that the ball we
will get great great healthcare for our
people will have to sit down with the
Democrats to do it but I'm sure they
want to do it also thank you very much
mmm there you go they should you sure it
I'm sure of it
sure that's a big question about the
Supreme Court upholding we shall see but
it will get there eventually without a
doubt is that top one Oh II okay here is
here is senator Amy Klobuchar could very
well be also potential presidential
candidate right here she is talking
about the Affordable Care Act lawsuit I
just heard it that basically is standing
while the house is burning down and
instead of going in there and putting on
the fire they're throwing lighter fluid
on it in terms of tweets and rhetoric
and things are saying the ruling was
absurd
Justice Roberts in a conservative Court
has already ruled that the Affordable
Care Act is constitutional unlike what
mr. Miller said and in fact you can have
part of it not exist and you can still
have the rest of it protect Americans
and that is exactly where this is headed
and I can say that this is about first
of all throwing people offer their
insurance no protection with
pre-existing conditions kids staying on
their parent's insurance until they're
26 years old a very popular and
important protection Medicaid expanded
for millions of Americans that's what
we're talking about here and for them
just to throw up their hands and say
well I'd be great if we just started
from scratch that's not what the
American people believe just look at the
results from the last election senator
Barrasso who was just here said that he
does think there's room for legislation
to protect pre-existing conditions one
of the things that would get thrown out
with this ruling if it's upheld but I
just mentioned a number of other things
that would also have to be done so the
best thing here but is there room for
Democrats to work on those sort of
issues specific
things when there's always room to work
on things but the best way and what I
believe will happen is this will be
stayed in court so it continues to take
effect then it will go up on appeal it
will be upheld but what we should be
doing is governing from opportunity and
not chaos that means doing something
about pharmaceutical prices and passing
my bill to allow Medicare to negotiate
for less expensive drugs for our seniors
and letting less expensive safe drugs
come in from other countries so that we
can actually have competition doing
something about premiums with
reinsurance and some of the things going
on in the states so yes there are things
to do but we should be working to
improve the Affordable Care Act not just
throw it out and set it on fire you
heard some disagreement among
Republicans on how to do that there's
also disagreement within the Democratic
Party on how to handle health care a
former attorney General Eric Holder
says it's time now to move to some
version of Medicare for all and end this
nonsense that was his reaction to
Friday's ruling do you agree with it
we need universal health care and there
are many ways to get there that is one
of them the other is to at least expand
Medicare than 55 there's a number of
bills that I'm part of including
allowing the expansion of Medicaid which
i think is something we're not talking
enough about that senator Schatz from
Hawaii is leading and then of course
allowing for an expansion of Medicare so
there's many things we can do but right
now with an administration in place that
seems bound and determined to take away
people's health care we have to protect
the ability of people to even have their
health care exists because they are
talking about throwing them off for
pre-existing conditions I'll tell you
something this is why you should gain a
certain amount of encouragement from
that segment when Amy Klobuchar is
having to defend defend her left flank
on anything from Eric Holder this is a
good situation when Eric Holder is going
to pull Amy Klobuchar to the left on
something this is a good situation and
she's gonna find I can tell you this
right now like I mean we can see where
this is going
right she's gonna find if she gets into
the race she is going to have to get
there early like these games with
there's a lot of different ways to get
to universal coverage that's not that's
one element of what people want with a
single-payer well people the reason why
people want a single-payer right because
for me material the material benefit of
a single-payer is not just that
everybody has it it's that it's gonna be
cheaper for me it's not gonna be tied to
my job it's not going to be tied to my
income it's not going to be something
where I'm going to have to wrestle with
health insurance companies all the time
I'm not gonna have to you know take a
skill share class on accounting to get
reimbursed if I go out and network I'm
not gonna have to think about networks
and this oven it's gonna be simplified
significantly that's a huge yeah I think
simplification is education
affordability yes universality that's
that's important for me as a citizen but
the universality is a is also what is
going to allow me to get material
benefits from a single-payer system
simplification of my life confidence and
security less expense also I think
what's interesting about Eric Holder
coming out with that is because she at
first she you know that I Fu's the woman
interviewing her I already forgot her
name but like she did that kind of
annoying like well why can't you just
work with Republicans which is just
nonsense and flies in the face of
everything we already know but what I
like is that now Medicare for all is
part of like the tsunami of searches for
sound bites and awkward sentences that
they're gonna like it's not even just
the kind of like what an interviewer is
gonna try to do to make somebody
uncomfortable is not always just gonna
come from the right anymore well that's
the point which is usually important
she's using Eric Holder in this instance
Breyers gonna be a dull it early
dozen other people running and so amy
klobuchar is going to be uncomfortable
because she doesn't have that position
so sherrod Brown cher Browns you know
triangulating like that too and it's not
gonna be durable and what she said did
she say that Americans don't want us to
start over with a whole new system or is
that something I just read online
because although that was in response to
their to her that was in response right
Republicans trying to junk Obamacare
which is a little different than you
oppose Medicare no but but just to
remind people the vast majority of
Americans at this point in time support
Medicare for all it's at seventy percent
according to this poll I found on CNBC
and that includes eighty five percent of
Democrats and fifty-two percent of
Republicans and the thing is is that
like I don't even know what that means
start all over I mean there is no there
is no there there is no start all over
like what I don't even know what that
means like if you're trying to pretend
that your health care is gonna get taken
away and you're gonna have a gap no no
they're actually that you absolutely
star lying about but it's just even that
I've noticed that talking point of like
is we're all gonna start and I can
understand if you actually literally
Medicare already exists well that's
incredibly successful so we switch to a
time people switch to at all time we're
talking about expanding the most
successful part of modern health care
and the most successful part of the ACA
right the mansion is not a game thing
but same principle I would say yeah that
is the most successful part of it I mean
the consumer protections are hugely
important but they would all become
irrelevant one if we had a Medicare for
All system because we wouldn't have
private companies trying to screw people
out of health insurance call from a 757
area code who's this where you come from
nice did you but dilation yeah hey man
this is Brock from Virginia Brock from
Virginia heard you interviewing somebody
the other day and you were saying like
oh man it kind of feels like I'm doing
all this for nothing
talking about you know taking on
right-wing youtubers and then that's why
I tell you
I found you guys man I'm not calm in
their place also the taro can podcast
all the time and so I went down that
like Jordan Peterson Sam Harris rabbit
holes and then uh I found you guys
actually search like debunking Peterson
and that's I kind of stumbled on you
guys and uh the empty bunk I'm a
little out of breath I'm at work I
understand your is this a chaotic phone
call now my bad dude I'm on the job no
no no that was uh that was Michael doing
an impersonation because a very bad
Jordan Peterson impression apparently
dude yeah you know I was harassing
people that were like sharing aoc videos
before I found you guys like oh dude
we're going to be Venezuelan and uh I'm
all on board with her now she's awesome
racism on the videos like a ofc and
Bernie Sanders that qyt video
than talking about climate change the
green you do and we win I just went and
participated in that protest to DC to
Monday's ago their sit-in so it's like
the first time getting involved in other
stuff um it's all because of you guys
really man oh well thank you very much
really appreciate that
let me ask you are you you work in
construction on a job site yeah yeah
working construction right to work state
Virginia so that's awesome you guys use
a lot of those fest tools track sauce
what is it best tool specifically the
Festool that track saw that's I'm what
I'm really interested in it's the fish
tool
do you know what I'm talking about that
jerk oh well Festool is like a lot of
it's getting it's like taking the
construction world by storm
right um in a reading like home affairs
together
you never decide to move to New York hit
me up and I can give you some tips on
getting into the construction unions
here because my husband is in one DUI
appreciate it but Brock our jaw hanging
up
I want to give another pointer just like
I'm nude all these concepts and stuff
and I found a website you know
goodreads.com they have a list of TMDs
recommended readings and that's really
helped me like kind of understand a lot
of the concepts you got to talk about so
not be a good point yeah just got like
50-something both to kind of break down
I like concepts and I never even really
heard about you know like neoliberalism
TM be anybody ever did that should send
me that info and I'll mention it thank
you appreciate the call hey no problem
yeah
thanks thanks we're just crushing in the
war of ideas yeah I never believed that
people change their minds based on
things that they see and like new
information but people call in all the
time and tell us that it's amazing I
think there's a lot of people that in
the last like five years realized I need
to start taking things a bit more
seriously and there's a lot of ferment
there it's all conspiracy here is a
Steven Miller I mean giving us maybe
what might be a I mean that there seems
to be and and and who knows but there
seems to be a sense in the White House
that shutting down the country the
government for the issue of the wall is
a winner for them now I guess it remains
to be seen but protracted government
shutdowns as far as I can tell
do not help the party that is perceived
in the public's eye to be the cause of
it
now it seems like that battle I mean
usually there's always like a big battle
leading up to a government shutdown and
and shortly after a government shutdown
and that battle is who's responsible for
it the last government shutdown I think
was a year ago or two years ago and it
lasted literally over a weekend I think
it was like it shut down on a Friday
night and by Sunday night the government
was restarted to nobody
felt the impact and I think the
Democrats were afraid that they were
gonna get blamed they obviously didn't
have much political power anyways at
that point they didn't it's not like
they had leverage like they will this
time which is like you can wait but in
two weeks we're gonna control the house
in this instance that that fight is over
it is Donald Trump's government shutdown
and the Republican Party's government
shutdown if there's a fight about it
it's just gonna be how far has it
extended beyond Donald Trump and based
upon this clip was Steven Miller
unless he's freelancing or unless maybe
that spray on hair has impacted his
aerosols his capacity to articulate
aerosol shut off the circulation it
seems like I mean it could also be one
of those things like we've got it all
wrong and it's not fake hair and he's
just willing hair to grow in that moment
it's some sort of fungus yeah but this
this is him on that face fateful face
the nation we are about five days from
potential government shutdown and
Republican leadership says there's no
plan what is the president's plan and
will he shut it down to get this five
billion in border wall funding we're
gonna do whatever is necessary to build
the border wall to stop this ongoing
crisis of illegal immigration and that
means this is a this is a very if it
comes to it absolutely this is a very
fundamental issue at stake is the
question of whether or not the United
States remains a sovereign country
whether or not we can establish and
enforce rules for entrance into our
country the Democrat Party is a simple
choice they can either choose to fight
for America's working class or to
promote illegal immigration you can't do
both
is there wiggle room on that five
billion I'm not going to negotiate the
details on air with you right now
well the senator latimer said this
morning you're not going in border wall
and if if the Democrat Party once the if
the Democrat Party wants to go down the
road of continuing to preserve a model
richest smuggling organizations that
spreads misery on both sides of the
border that kills 300 Americans a week
through heroin overdoses alone by the
way illegal heroin costs our country
230 billion dollars about the intent of
these migrants closeted hold on one
second I just got a I can't help it I
mean aside from this guy's blinding
charisma when he delivers the thing and
obviously a lot of people I would
imagine in the middle of the country are
just like this guy seems like like
almost like he could be sitting at my
dinner table telling me this stuff every
this is a super easy thing to find but
every official who is responsible in
fighting illegal importation of drugs in
this country will tell you that the
percentage that comes over the border at
through illicit crossings is negligible
the vast overwhelming majority amount of
illicit drugs comes through legal border
crossings and are simply hidden from
officials this is a very easy fact to
find and one would expect that if you
were paid the kind of money that I
imagine would be involved in hosting a
program like Face the Nation even if you
are doing this on a temporary basis your
producers would know this but apparently
they do not continue migrants and and
trying to stop that which really gets
you more to the diplomatic issues of why
people are fleeing in the first place
not the border well itself the largest
increases the largest is shut down over
Christmas as you yourself acknowledge
the largest increases in illegal
immigration are categories that are
incentivized by loopholes in our laws
and loopholes created by activist
left-wing judges including a district
court judge I said there are happening
right now in the categories that
correspond with these loopholes and the
interventions reckless lawless
interventions of district court judges
and this president has taken historic
action to stem the tide of illegal
immigration and to fight for working
people in this country misses his last
best chance to get a border wall before
Democrats so we want it
time that both parties and this is what
the American people want both parties to
come together for the sake of American
children for the sake of children all
across this hemisphere to create a
lawful system of immigration not the
lawless chaos that has been perpetuated
Stephen why are you yelling at me
we're right here Stephen I really
appreciated how you went right after
that lady and threw it in their face bad
they should have him in the room he's
bad yeah I mean whenever a Republican
ghoul says the word working-class you
should be very wary of him that goes
without saying but I just did a whole
episode on this on the anti Fattah and
like it is simply not true
that immigration hurts the working class
in this country throughout history like
they actually criminalized migration in
part because immigrants from Mexico and
elsewhere were too strong a part of a
labor movement and helping the working
class too much so they criminalized
migration and all of a sudden it hurts
not only migrants but native-born
Americans as well because they use the
criminalization the undocumented status
of undocumented workers to to police
them basically to police the workers and
enforce worse conditions on them and it
drives down the wages of everyone for me
I've been recently thinking about what
Castro and Che did when they came into
power and I used to think it was
actually kind of brutal and kind of
harsh and set things in the wrong
direction and then I saw people on TV
and I think to myself I just want to add
just one other data point the the vast
majority of the research into this
suggests that the more you actually
restrict immigration the more it cuts
down on jobs in this country now with
that said that is just testing
restricting
undocumented immigration there's a lot
of evidence that actually cuts down on
the number of women who enter the
workforce at a not necessarily at the
the lower ends of employment but that
the domestic workers who come
undocumented free up women to go work in
the workplace in the event that we were
actually to give protection to these
people as we should and give them a some
type of protection through some type of
official status that dynamic may change
a little bit but certainly the number of
people who perceive a crisis of the sort
that hair Stephen Miller suggests is I
think it's getting smaller yeah I think
that that message is falling on left is
resonating with less and less people not
coincidentally but I think it's also
because of just the I think it's like a
lot of issues we've been talking about
where the the middle which didn't really
exist to begin with is disappearing and
it's precipitated by the fact that I
think people who really are that brutal
and that vindictive and bigoted are
seeing it and they're realizing that
they like it and they're actually just
savage disgusting humans and then others
who maybe weren't as invested before
being like wait a second when they mean
get tough at the border talking about
killing children and separating families
maybe I need to have a humane price
laughter and when he says the majority
of American workers do not support
immigration that's simply not true we
cited a bunch of different polls in our
episode I mean I just think this is a
textbook example of how white
nationalism and racism because obviously
the enforcement of immigration is
incredibly racist there are places where
they racially profile people and have
actually
been ruled by judges that that's okay it
only serves to divide and hurt the
working class wherever people buy into
it all right let's turn our attention to
me but you know I over the years that
the the crap that has come out of the
Texas school system and never ceases to
shock me from the books that they assign
and remember when when the Texas
statewide school Commission decides on
books it has implications around the
country not unlike what California does
with cars when California says the cars
have to have a certain standard of
emissions it implicates the entire
industry so too would Texas and their
schoolbooks and so when they start you
know having like Pro creationist stuff
in their their schoolbooks it hurts
everybody this story is amazing
she teaches she's speech pathologists
she has worked for the last nine years
with the development disabled kids with
autistic kids with kids who have speech
impairments she's a speech speech
pathologist and she was told that she no
longer can work in the school district
well let let's listen to her this is a
piece from the intercept it's stunning I
never thought I would be forefront for
an issue or for a cause I'm not a major
activist no I'm not I'm a busy mom for
kids for me it was like the opportunity
for me to do something because my kids
were watching me first of all and I
always tell my kids when you see
something wrong you have to fix it I'm a
speech-language pathologist I have been
contracting where the Pflugerville
independence to school district for
about nine years now what was unique
about my position was that I spoke in
Arabic so we were able to correct the
value
kids who came in with arabic as a
language I love my job Allah and I've
always wanted to be in a job that was in
the service field because I know I'm
making a difference this year I got a
new contract with new compliances and I
came across one that shocked me it says
in 2017 Texas passed a law that banned
state agencies from working with
contractors that boycott Israel pause it
now you probably have heard about that
because of the tens of videos that Dave
Rubin has done but all the people in the
intellectually dark web but certain
period Jordan Peterson because this type
of of encroachment on free speech is
right in their belly belly huh so
different types of focus on actual
policy stuff well forgive us if this is
redundant because you've seen so much of
this from them she was asked to sign a
contract stating that she does not and
will not boycott Israel an economic
boycott from a consumer
[Music]
the point of boycotting any products
that supports Israel is to put pressure
on the Israeli government to change is
treatment then humane treatment of the
Palestinian people having grown up as a
Palestinian I know firsthand the
oppression and the struggle the
Palestinians face on a daily basis you
know I have to set an example for my
kids we got to send them for what's the
justice and for right and equal
opportunity for everybody and and humane
conditions and so for me it was an easy
decision in that aspect you know so I
have it I could not sign it she lost her
job and can we go to the GoFundMe page
that Dave Rubin is set up to support
this mother of two well Texas was
they're interested ideas and she was
shutting down their ideas by not
engaging with their ID no you say you're
not Neck de vista what is that you're
wearing on your head yeah exactly
what's your name again you say you're
not an activist but then you say you're
Palestinian so this is Palestinian olive
oil hmm Jesus I think got along with
Muslims and so he would have had no
problem with them yeah maybe you could
just return the favor to Jesus who is so
nice to your ancestors by just signing
the pledge like that yeah you know maybe
the best thing to do would just be sign
the paper and stop being such a pain in
the ass cuz this is totally different
than having an emotional breakdown over
transgender students their pronouns you
know I think they'll induce a minor
thing this is how they would dodge it if
they ever ever were forced to deal with
the complete and it's not even the
hypocrisy because they're lying there
disingenuous so it's really a misnomer
to say that they're hypocritical for not
supporting her they're lying in the
first instance that was never part of
their agenda but I'm I imagine if they
were questioned with this they'd be like
well she shouldn't be caught up because
she's just an individual but you can
discriminate against an institution
which would be a company that is a
contract I mean there's some some
disingenuous BS I mean the fact of the
matter is there's far more
this that exists that is a genuine issue
and chilling of free speech than the
issue that ben shapiro can only give
speeches at ninety five of the ninety
eight colleges he's booked at in any
given year there was there was a pretty
complicated su we will figure that out
but i don't like that she's calling for
killing the Jews anyways been somebody
was mean to you and Twitter right
exactly let's do a live stream about
that for four and a half hours uh I
think it's also I mean I I'm I'm at this
point I mean I'm I've always been pretty
anteed the platforming period I just
don't I just don't think it's a smart
tactic but it's just amazing that these
people like in addition to the obvious
lies this is the one area in American
life right now where there is actual
legislation I mean legislation exists
like new in New York that's very similar
to this there is national GDS yeah I
mean no this is and college professors
have actually lost their jobs one goal
Wankel Wankel was kept from an
appointment yes which was huge there was
one guy that was actually fired from
Temple they're trying to fire mark
Lamont Hill as well and this is an area
where you can and by the way not getting
cute like the people they defend on
these platforms actually do engage in
hate speech people just calling for
civil rights on a controversial issue
sure I'll grant that actually are losing
material benefits in the public sphere
not in terms of you know tech platforms
and it's yeah I mean this is a very
serious thing and if you actually do
value that stuff which we actually do we
actually do value speech yep anytime
Barry Weiss or one of those IDW ghouls
whines about free speech on campus just
please never let people forget that she
got her start harassing professors and
trying to get them fired for being
critics of Israel it would be nice to
have like some videos or something like
that of that
oh there's I think there is I get it all
right let's this is a fun thing and then
we'll take some IMS maybe one call we'll
get a get out here is this yeah is the
helipad is the funniest one I like the
other one but there
both good um well maybe we can play both
I mean what's interesting and and and
I'll just put this in context I saw on
Twitter somebody talking about how much
they enjoyed watching the this New York
City Council hearing it's New York City
Council but I guess they have a
subcommittee on economic development and
this person on Twitter and I can't
remember who it was said this is really
amazing to see because on the on the
Seattle City Council they genuflect and
would never ever treat Amazon in this
way the New York City Council however
and this is what it's all about Amazon
is coming here to build the amount of
power so that the New York City Council
cannot talk to them this way that is
what their recipe has been in Seattle
and they want to use New York less to
exercise political control but as a
vehicle through the media they're in DC
with the hopes of building that
political control in a national level
they're in New York to build it through
the media and so these New York City
Council people are probably not
benefiting from their presence in the
way that Amazon is used to but here they
are at the very least rhetorically
giving them a talking to let's start
with this one about the helipad why do
you need a helipad so the just be very
clear the Amazon will be paying for the
helipad there will not be city or state
text I would hope so for that you know
why do you need a helipad as we were
we're trying to have a very
comprehensive agreement we're trying to
look out in the future and anticipate
what future needs might be and so we
were examining potential safety or
security issues in the interests of
transparency we wanted to put this proof
in the MOU but we also wanted to make
sure that it would not be a disturbance
to the neighborhood or to the residents
so there are provisions in the MOU that
limit the number of landings new members
120 per year and also ensure that any
helicopters don't fly over the
neighborhood but would fly over the
water or the development site do you
realize how out of touch that seems for
the average New Yorker I mean that's a
very out of touch people we have 6
million people we think the subways
every day too many people take the buses
they're crumbling to have a helipad be
part of this is I mean it's crazy so
your senior vice president Jay Carney
said that incentives did not drive this
process for you that's what he said
publicly is that true so tell it was the
major driver and that's why we're very
excited to locate here in New York as
you all know New York has an amazing
talent pool and we're ready and eager to
start hiring on New Yorkers but
incentives were a factor in our decision
but they didn't jury your senior vice
president Jay Carney said they didn't
drive the process is that true
so talent was the key driver but in fact
incentives were also a factor would you
be willing to give up some of those
incentives so they could go to some of
the other things we've talked about so
again our project is going to have a
positive economic impact and we're only
going to receive the incentives after we
create these jobs and make these
investments we're not getting straight
answers
does the word monopoly bother you
because do you think monopolistic
behavior helps or hurts us as a society
well monopolistic behavior is against
the competition laws but if you're
talking about
you have a question for Amazon our goals
are to lower prices and provide better
convenience and selection for our
customers how do I marry that New York
City Councilman that was that was
awesome I lose like the laws which I
know nothing about but we're almost
certainly playing lobbyists to get rid
of the tiniest last VESA is Jay Carney
the same Jay Carney who was the
spokesman for the Obama administration
these are stinks still on the Silicon
Valley Grove a single Miller
contract is there a single member of the
Obama administration that went into a a
an industry or working for a business
that is not deemed problematic I get
Eric Holder is the best case now you
just hold their cells in that corporate
law he just went back to the corporate
law firm at least that's where he was
right isn't it isn't like trading all of
the on main players in them they're all
at uber or they're like organizer
abdicating for some like you know
third-world dictators yeah if they're at
a consulting shop Robert Robert yeah I
don't see why we can't join together you
know why should the secret police only
be run by men Robert gives us that
McDonald's he's the blue-collar one I've
actually been learning a little bit more
about Amazon since this whole deal came
to our town because the TSA is we've
been having a lot of meetings we've been
doing some canvassing so people in the
neighborhood know it's like the full
extent of what Amazon's gonna do not
just to their neighborhood not just to
our city but the world at large
and I just found out Amazon what you
think of as their front word facing
business like you know selling you
things that they send you in the mail
really like the way they make their
money where they make their money
it's they do tech infrastructure for
like the cops and all sorts of evil
shits basically through the Amazon Web
Services AWS and the server things and
if you had listened to the episode we
did with what's-her-face what was a
Mitchell I am is a Stacey Mitchell that
you would have mew would have known as
she is that the one did she explained in
that interview i uh i don't i do
remember that she wrote a piece that
amazon wants to become the market right
they don't want to be the one that had
the it's an old data point about amazon
but why Bezos chose books
as the first thing see there's a really
that's her but it is okay better family
it has nothing it's the metadata that
was the best way to get metadata on
people can tell about some reasons I
started with books but you know that's
the launching point to people's best
sort of full aggregate understanding of
them but you know what um there's
probably not that much we can do to kill
the deal at this point but we're already
seeing union activity at the Amazon
warehouse in Staten Island yes um
there's a group called Tech action in
New York that's like tech workers that
are talking about different ways to deal
with this so New York is a Union town I
say bring it on good good time to
leverage power against Amazon that's why
those guys in Staten Island did that now
was because they know Amazon cannot
afford to right now in the heat of the
scrutiny they're getting the Amazon
cannot afford to shut down their
attempts to unionize their their
situation and largely because of city
council people who do we know who the
City Council guy is what's his name I
looked him up his name is not at my
fingertips he is the I know he's the
only openly hiv-positive City Council
member now I don't know what do I know
about it
all I know is what's on the Internet but
here he is we should write that all this
out sheet description what is that Cory
Johnson
Cory Johnson right I am I hate Cory John
here is Cory Johnson and I you know
McElwee I think it's friends and you
should get him into another office we
should keep him running this I'm up the
future he should become mayor of New
York City what the hell here is a
scourge on teen stock more on pursuing
this question as to why Amazon needs a
three billion dollar incentive to come
to the center of the media universe and
a place where supposedly there's such
huge amount of talent Amazon is a one
trillion dollar company is that accurate
you're approximately valued at with
trillion
you think it's close to that yeah close
to that so why should we give you this
money so these incentives their
performance based which means that we
will not receive any money
until we create jobs and make these
investment you are worth a trillion
dollars why do you need our 3 billion
dollars and we have crumbling subways
crumbling public housing people without
health care public schools our
overcrowding why why do you need why do
you need our 3 billion dollars this
project is going to provide over 186
billion dollars in positive economic
impact to the state over the next 25
years now just contemplate this let's
just take him at face value it's gonna
cause 186 billion dollars a positive
impact for New York how much is it gonna
cause for Amazon I mean how many
billions is it going to cause for Amazon
go over the next 25 years that includes
over 14 billion dollars in additional
tax payments that analysis was done by
someone who was hired by the state of
New York and not by neutral third party
academics or companies that could
provide that economic analysis the the
Annette what you're citing was done by
people who were hired to do that on
behalf of this project it wasn't done by
a neutral third party so why do you need
our if you're worth a trillion dollars
why do you need our three billion
dollars we believe this project will be
a positive economic impact for the city
and the state we're here to create jobs
in not only our 25,000 direct jobs but
the thousands of indirect jobs that's a
little results from this would you be
willing to go through you lerp not at
this process I believe we're you know we
were proceeding with the GPP plan so
you're saying no to the community who
you want to be neighbors with you're
saying no to the City Council and the
local city council member you're saying
no you won't go through you lerp I don't
think that's an option at the Sun it is
an option you're saying no to it okay
I'm not sure what you LARP is but I have
a feeling it's another
program it is the uniform land use
review procedure which basically
assesses the implications of the use of
city land and look here's the bottom
line
if Amazon is going to be paying ten
billion dollars worth of taxes or five
billion dollar whatever the number is
multiply that by at least two and you
will get how much money they are making
and so why do we need to subsidize them
if look they pretended they were doing a
nationwide search and they fat this is
like this is like this is like Dick
Cheney's search for a vice president it
was always gonna be New York it was
always gonna be Dick Cheney the reason
why they want to come to New York if
it's the three billion dollars
first of all New York can handle the
Amazon not coming the only way that
there will be a different company there
may be even smaller companies who still
take advantage of the same benefits but
there are societal issues that go beyond
any type of benefits and even beyond how
much we're paying Amazon to come here
that make Amazon problematic but they
don't need that three billion dollars
they don't they don't yep it's also
already affecting the housing market in
Northern Virginia where the other place
that they're going to it's the other
housing market in Queens because there's
all sorts of stories of Amazon
executives and other people coming in
and buying up that whole area because
down the road it's gonna drive people
further and further out of the city and
also there was another you know and and
Virginia that's the other place they
were gonna go to DC right just to
complete the point it's this is a whole
fraudulent nonsense yep and Lee Carter
had some pretty good
statements calling them out and
debunking the idea that this will
actually benefit the majority of people
in his district all right one final
phone call gone long today but final
week before vacation sometimes that
happens call from an 805 area code who's
this where it come from hi William I'm
calling from California
William you are the final caller of the
day what is going on what what what what
would you like to share with us I'm new
to the program I just started listening
and I was wondering what are the what
are the similarities and differences
between a program like this and a
program like something I'm used to
listening to like Democracy Now I know
that they're mostly radio and you're
mostly online or the structure that's
actually the same I don't know exactly
what their structure are but let me ask
you this how did you first let me ask
you one question then I'll answer yours
how did you find us
I was recommended a video on YouTube
okay we we are less of a straight news
program and we have a little bit more
opinion we probably don't get as
granular about certain issues as they do
although over time I don't know I mean I
haven't watched a democracy now in
awhile I years ago I interviewed Amy
Goodman
I am socially somewhat friendly with her
and we're funnier than she is we also
don't have the socially responsible porn
music that they like to play oh there we
go there we go am i eating an MB joke
but I don't think listen if you can
handle sometimes sophomoric humor mixed
in with your news and an opinion Juan
Gonzalez has been doing a good Nation of
Islam Obama though I have to but if you
can handle that I think you'll enjoy us
if if not
welcome back this is democracy now oh my
god what a to make are you familiar
with the congressman roe Connor yes I I
thought it was interesting that one of
his largest contributors was Peter Thiel
I don't know he heard of Peter Thiel yes
oh yeah
no we've we've mocked Peter - you know
they've heard of me yes soon they'll we
have a real problem with Peter - you and
they'll hear from I think you know Rogen
is an interesting character I mean I
think um I am a little bit distressed to
hear that but I think on the issue sets
that row Kahana is most relevant on in
terms of my perspective I am not too
concerned that that he's getting money
from teal although that does make me a
little bit I raised a little bit of
Harriman well I'm wondering I'm sorry I
throat but when I'm wondering maybe I
don't know if you know this but you know
when those donations were like what no
I'd go I know it was when he was running
for well I wants it right here's this is
a Mother Jones I get it and here's the
funny thing about ROH Khanna and I you
know we'll see but when he first ran for
Congress which i think was in 2014 I
didn't pay much attention to it but I
figured I would support I would if I was
there I would vote for Mike Honda who
was just a you know a good solid sort of
labor oriented Democrat all right and I
was totally wary cover O'Connor he was
from the Obama administration he was
filled with Silicon Valley donations he
got into Congress he endorsed Bernie
Sanders he endorsed Medicare for all
he's doing incredible work on yet more
power and war powers so you know the
record so far mostly speaks for itself
and I do think some of those donations
are gonna be drying up I will also say
this and I appreciate the call William I
hope you continue to listen to the
program because we're done with calls
but I will say this I'm a little bit
concerned about his sponsoring of that
Pro drinking the blood
of young people yeah sure I don't think
it's going anywhere but I see what
happens when it gets to the Sun there's
a lot of things we disagree on but Rho
is coming through on really some key
issues like drinking young man's blood
from Aruba and making it all right some
AIIMS and then we're out here the analog
of a British treat eaters not tasting
blood extends today beyond ice how about
production of our electronics our
clothes our food energy enslaving
downstream generations to address
consequences yeah I mean that was my
point about you know the children's
store clothing
JJ cool Sam every time you think you're
going you're being harsh on the right
wing to beatty's remember who these
people are enabling left is best
represent Scott from Montana Sam what do
you make out of bolt and calling a
Western Sahara independence referendum I
wasn't familiar that I will check it out
property rights because reasons what up
mr crew hey say what do you think have
been the most damaging legislation in
the last 40 years I'm thinking it's
something that really helps the heads
the status quo and my guess would be the
Telecommunications Act that was really
bad the rollback on the sin fin
regulations I think was very very
problem horrible but wouldn't you maybe
I would go in either the GATT I don't
know I'm hard I'm gonna do three GATT
prison expansion the 94 prison bill and
welfare reform right three strikes and
you're out type of stuff
oh the welfare reform was also very very
problematic yeah I just rose why was my
third I mean though people there if you
study welfare reform and we're
definitely gonna do in a true history
uh-oh and repeal of glass-steagall based
upon what what just took place now all
three of these things happened under
Bill Clinton God for huh plus NAFTA well
that's I think well NAFTA yeah well
let's Nick Ramona Tobin entrepreneurs in
Sinaloa cantankerous okay there buddy
chill second
weird to hear your thoughts on ethics
during the coquettes debates am i i just
assumed you had built a value system
president premise thanh sweater-vest as
the moral foundation but i guess not
stay sweet m our beauties mitch from
houston a speech pathologist in texas
yes we we play that chris verdict
someone who lives in LA i'm less
interested in california seating from
the US than i am in California seceding
from Orange County bull Prague I can't
believe the FBI made a Brendan Dassey
out of Flynn speaking of Scott Walker
did you catch his photo with Maria booty
knee it's so cute
left you know can we call the sharp oval
at the center of the diagram I have
Sauron Paul from Queens is Rudy saying
the prisoners say whatever is needed to
avoid punishment if so then he should
hate torture Spencer can I please get a
shofar for my little brother Alex's
birthday Alex happy birthday
they square a perfect encapsulation Sam
the Dems need to push for more power to
expand democracy more democracy in the
fight is the response to these
knuckle-dragging power grabbing schemes
attorney Andrew wanted to add something
on the Dylan Matthews latest piece and
Voxx attempting to flush out a paradox
in Medicare for all Matthews to piece
argues the paradox of Medicare for all
is that 160 million people will lose
their insurance to switch to the new
Medicare aside from this not being a
paradox under any meaning of the word
it's also a dumb argument the average
person has 12 jobs in their life meaning
that at least experienced 12 switches of
insurance additionally millions of years
switch onto Medicare when they go age
into it
yes in fact it's inevitable that if you
live past a certain age that you will in
this country switch took that bucks
also let me just say look up
effectiveness and death penalty Act that
was another Clinton era like just who
secret identity politics regarding the
anti gerrymandering legislation attempts
to make society more democratic as
anyway stop to think about what the
Bailey's think all right for more of
these aerosol hair Sam if you and the
team spray paint over the flaw of each
of you most self-conscious of what what
would they be
that's a good question quick Michael no
gap of mighties gap in your teeth Jamie
I do not yet know absolutely everything
there is to know about communism and I
feel embarrassed about that sometimes
but I use spray paint over that I'm only
human i I don't know reading reading a
lot that my jump shot well I don't know
physical imperfection I don't know I
thought we were speaking more broadly
yeah I'm not I'm not self-conscious
about anything I'm trying to think of
like what I am self-conscious about too
the deep question is a deep question I
mean I guess I would you know nah no man
knows I mean I guess I have like a
disequilibrium in my nostrils but I
don't I would say like I mean I could I
could i I mean I'm not self-conscious
but I would like to lose another five
pounds that'd be good
spray paint over your midsection yeah
there we go I think the most
embarrassing thing is when you say
something with a sense of authority and
then later you find out that that was a
dumb thing to have said yeah but I feel
like it happens like once a week that's
right I know happens that's doing 15
hours of radio a week no I know it sucks
and then people get mad at various
points in time and I'm like uh Hugo ball
any thoughts on the efforts to deport
Vietnamese immigrants we'll talk about
that more on Wednesday we get a news day
never fitty it's official I walked
across the stage last night Friday with
my masters structural biology can I get
another shofar yeah we're resolution
well done
alpha male not sure if I'm digging this
dark and gritty Netflix reboot is Steven
Miller's hairline or not Adam cokehead
Stephens hair just blew up on reddit
Miami Dave it's like Steven Miller's in
her ugly he's beginning to show on the
outside Krista PS we fee is fine oops
the above was meant for elsewhere Steven
Miller and Jamie are 21 years younger
than me
Seb Gorkhas business in the face of the
nation clip is the flags at half-mast
to lament the death of seidman Miller's
hair and the final I am of the day I
know at least one person whose life was
saved by the ACA me alright folks see
you tomorrow
to get to where I want
Oh
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
though the option
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
