fine
did we all see is everybody here seen
Vice all right let's just play this clip
folks that's it for their calls we don't
have any more time today I'm sorry about
that
I saw a vice I mean and Christian Bale
did an amazing job there's just no doubt
about it I I just think that it is
highly problematic to make a movie about
this because on some level you're
humanizing Dick Cheney even if you
humanize him as a bad person like I
think that movies you know if I was the
dictator I would say you're not allowed
to make movies about figures like this
because you can't do it justice and
really you know you're gonna do a
biography of a guy do it in book form so
that you can capture nuance but that
people have to really make an effort to
know this stuff because at the end of
the day I don't care what motivated Dick
Cheney or at least I don't care enough
if I don't care enough to read a book
about it I shouldn't have this
information and think I have it what I
should know is just he did some very
very evil things I don't use that word
that often so scratch the word evil he
created a tremendous amount of human
misery
and I would say probably in the past 25
years it's conceivable he was
responsible for you know singularly
responsible for I don't know I I can't
commit but let's say he's in the top ten
of creating human misery over the past
20 years I think that's fair to say
and that's pretty bad and that really
should be that message needs to be
driven home more than anything else
about him with that said I do enjoy the
fact
that fox and friends have to sort of
deal with this and Christian Bell did a
tremendous job here is Fox and Friends
talking about the Golden Globes vice not
many people saw it but Christian Bale's
are really good posit I Got News for You
chief a lot more people are gonna see it
now but go ahead
vice not many people saw it but
Christian Bale is a really good actor
and really despises Republicans
especially Dick Cheney when he talked
about bleaching his hair gaining forty
pounds and bleaching his eyebrows
gaining forty pounds and playing the
role he described it like this he said
I've got to find somebody you can who
can be absolutely charisma free and
reviled by everybody so he went ask or
we bail in it you know thank you and for
all the competition I will be cornering
the market on charisma free what do you
think Mitch McConnell next that could be
good thank you
to Satan for giving me inspiration on
how to play this role okay so there was
Christian Bale being a political witch
the show otherwise was politics free
yeah just real insult to a guy who spent
his whole life of public service from
secretary defense of chief of staff to
Vice Presidency makes Bush look terrible
kind of Lisa right Donald Rumsfeld
especially all right congratulations to
Carol Burnett 85 unbelievable Christian
Bale got political in his representation
of a of a major politician who was again
responsible for hundreds of thousands of
people dying in Iraq civilians millions
displaced at least two million
internally in two million fleeing the
country and then you know I you know
just by our own Defense Department
records hundreds of thousands of people
there are other estimates that would put
it closer to a million people killed in
that
specific war of choice so but Fox
presents they really upset about how
Hollywood hate unbelievable really
unbelievable
