all right so look folks I just want to
say the that when I think about why
America is great this is part of the
reason because there are people out
there David Rubens probably never going
to put himself in a situation where
we're going to be able to have a
conversation
I suspect although you know who knows
but increasingly people are out there
and it's not just I want to make this
clear I don't think it's just empty
trolling the bottom line is New York
Times will go and write a piece touting
this guy is a member of a secret society
or of some group of intellectuals the
the intellectual dark web
now it's absurd that the idea that what
they're saying has no opportunity to be
heard it is across the board it's
extremely well-funded it is also he is
saying stuff all of these people are
saying stuff that has been said for
decades and in some instances even
longer in this country none of its new
it has all been aired people know that
there's an idea out there that there's
something wrong with Islam or people
know out there that there's something
wrong with the idea of or the idea that
you know the patriarchy should not be in
any way disassembled people know out
there that the idea that you know
certain people can be uppity or specific
or offended by you know being in some
way subjugated those ideas are not new
you don't need to go to the dark web to
find them
they exist all around us offline to even
and so the beauty of people trolling
Dave Rubin in a way that shows that he's
completely hypocritical that for all the
talk about all of these new ideas that
they want to get out there they are all
incredibly cloistered for all the the
you know the stuff that a steven crowder
does when he goes out and says you know
changed my mind I'm actually talking to
the people just so happens I'm cutting
it up in such a way that I find the
people who are the least informed and
you know or maybe people who are in
college have a class to go to right
so when people troll these guys it is
funny and it is you know but it also it
is it casts a a light on the fact that
they're full of crap so here's Dave
Rubin on his much-ballyhooed
signing off of patreon and you know he's
a martyr for doing this cuz he's not
he's signing off it he actually had to
build his own payment system man that's
just like what Gandhi did right what a
martyr this guy is for the cause that's
what the thought come on I'm signing off
patreon and actually just investing in
my company with the hundreds of
thousands of dollars I probably got from
the Koch brothers to develop a payment
system that uses a back-end that is
probably owned by the same people as
patreon or whatever and I get less of a
of a cut take a nap Wow but here he is
going on his live progress do that with
an ask me anything now I want to be
clear you can ask him anything but he
won't necessarily answer anything here
is hey Dave this is a very brave move on
your part kudos
you heard about the SJW nonsense no III
don't even care about those guys does it
really just honestly doesn't matter
viva la free speech good luck Dave
you patreon alright I'm reading these
live yeah yeah no it's interesting
oh he he's reading him live so he can't
be held responsible for a becomes house
mouth but he just showed us that he has
the ability to ignore a question and
like read in advance as to what it's
saying and not answer it why don't you
just run to your safe space days no
kidding the older man no but what was he
talking about
somebody said kudos and if you heard
about the SJW at the river blood sounds
good so far oh yeah we're gonna find out
here is and who's this by and this is a
Brian McAlister Brian McAlister
apparently it was his buddy who oh no I
don't know if it was his buddy
oh well he was aware of of what happened
in this chat and so play this I don't
have any lime or salt or anything we'll
figure that out
hey Dave this is a very brave move on
your part kudos have you heard about the
SJW nonsense
nonsense
[Music]
I don't even care about those guys does
it really just honestly doesn't matter
[Music]
a complication start
[Music]
oh man I don't have any salt or anything
we'll figure that out so the the
question was have you heard about those
hey Dave if you a very brave move on
your part kudos have you heard about the
SJW nonsense on the majority report
where they keep challenging you to a
debate should have Sam on and totally
destroy him in the battle of ideas
proceeds could go to charity I remember
I was we should note that was $100 a
super chair $100 super chat and then he
had a couple other $5 ones where he was
like debate Sam cedar debate Sam cedar
and then he asked if he was stored in
the balls and so a lot of people made
mixes of this and here's another and
look I encourage all of you to go past
these individual ones around and post
them so these guys get some hits on this
so this Bailey steam yeah this is a curb
your liberalism Dave Rubin dodges Sam
cedar debate first off I thank you guys
that we're all jumping in on super chat
and I know that's a cool way of getting
your voice heard and I'm reading them
all right here we're not censoring any
of this content
look censoring censoring great
hey Dave this is a very brave move on
your part kudos have you heard about the
SJW nonsense
[Music]
[Music]
this is a progressive voice it doesn't
get me that these are all great but that
wood is really a work of art watch that
like ten time not get does not get less
mature than this folks here is
progressive voice did Gabe Rubin is
scared of Sam cedar hey Dave this is a
very brave move on your part kudos have
you heard about the SJW nonsense uh III
don't know I don't even care about those
guys does it really just honestly
doesn't matter
viva la free speech good luck Dave
you patreon alright I'm reading these
live
[Music]
it does be
[Music]
I don't know what you people are doing
what are you people doing you're all
fighting with each other saying horrible
things they're often the ones that
amazed me the most no I really mean this
and I just glanced for literally like
literally 30 times I did was like
there's all these people that seemingly
don't like me in this comment section
and I don't care if you don't like me I
actually don't but what I would say to
you is what are you doing with your life
get off this channel what are you doing
if you don't like me go find something
to do good work everybody
I would I would send Dave some very very
polite I always say be polite to people
don't be you know insult absolutely but
be polite be straight up but I would ask
some very good follow-up questions about
this to him and all of his various well
the original question set him up so
perfectly is because like say you're
brave taking on these SJW nonsense and
then just go seamlessly right into I
think even like I mean i if i was to do
something like this I might even go with
like hey you know Dave I know it's
really annoying but you know it probably
would be great just a debate Sam cedar
just to clear this up I think you I mean
it I think yeah I mean I think it'll be
a little frustrating but I mean
obviously we have total confidence in
your ideas and your ability to
articulate I really I mean I don't know
if we have the ability to do this but
maybe we should set up some type of
reverse payment system that will
subsidize the super chat's contribution
and speaking of which though I certainly
I don't know how super chat works but
Dave give that guy a refund well that is
what I that was the one thing that I
tweeted out appears he got a refund
action oh he did yeah from Fredrik oh if
he revoked it her if Dave gave him a
refund but somehow Dave didn't not get
that money all right well if that's the
case bill his end of the bargain let me
just say that if that's the case I think
that shows a lot of integrity and I
promise I
will on Twitter make a correction and
say that I think it shows a lot of
integrity for Dave Rubin to refund that
person who asked about debating me when
Dave didn't want to talk about it and I
just I just want to say Dave for that I
do respect you for that tiny tiny thing
I have my respect I don't I have zero
respect but nonetheless good thing to do
ah freedom of speech I don't have the
ability to and I am still quite sore
frankly if we go into the history of
these things that I was literally silent
don't don't step on the the documentary
that will probably be made about this
and that was when Sam came in and told
me my free Street Beach was being
suppressed on behalf of a
self-proclaimed speech warrior yep
disgusting
that's like he's like it like a reverse
like sjw no he's not only we just we
just played a clip of people responding
to Dave Reubens inability to articulate
the words the majority report and debate
Sam cedar on his AMA I don't know we're
not sure if it's a medical condition
that prevents him from saying it or what
because he he did announce and he was
not kind of censor any of the questions
but with that said it's not just Dave's
listeners who are revolting about his
inability to to answer all questions and
to have actually a real debate with non
classical liberals on TYT was just last
night which show was this on I think
this was on the main show last night and
and I just yeah well can I just say I
love Ana Kasparian
our friends progression from a very
sincere this is a guy used to work with
and it's so disappointing to see him
become this just absolute
a moral shell to him to her going to
like like she said on my show this week
well Dave's a simpleton right here's uh
here's John idaero and Ana Kasparian
if you support Wolfson ro and Tim
pronounce bolson or else don't talk
about politics okay I think that's
pretty simple
he had no idea how to say the man's name
but supporters fascist agenda for Brazil
anyway if you're interested in talking
about ideas or maybe even I don't know
experimenting or exploring with new
ideas don't be so afraid to debate Sam
cedar and I think John would also
probably agree that even if you can
pronounce Bolden are both are narrow
pulse are even if you can pronounce
bolson ro you should probably also not
support his fashion yeah probably not
and also especially if like your big get
out card for every single despicable
thing you ever said and supported and
promoted is I'm gay I'm gay I'm gay I
maybe shouldn't support like potentially
the most overtly anti-gay head of state
in the Western Hemisphere that she isn't
even on a self-interest a lot of
tolerance right well I mean both
scenarios idea is that people make
oh he would prefer to have his son be
hit by a car to me gay Reuben had to
shut down his eight having the same
conversation you had with Ben should be
like would you come to my she I'm having
a party with my partner to celebrate our
anniversary still a gyro would you come
to my anniversary party no I will take
your support off for killing indigenous
people on YouTube but I'm afraid I
cannot go to your birthday party or our
anniversary party is against my my
values ooh okay both for oh it's so
great that we can exchange these ideas
let's just do this one
