[Music]
there was a lot of things that came
together between Donald Trump's win and
Hillary Clinton's loss and you know I
won dynamic that just strikes me is that
I don't know if you you read that book
of the persistence of the color line by
Randall Terry and his I had his argument
it was it was it was many years ago or
four or five years ago oh yeah yeah and
he argued that you know Barack Obama
could not talk about race and could not
engage in race and could not show anger
because it would have destroyed
everything and certainly Hillary Clinton
like anger at a time where anger there's
an anger in the country she can't she's
not allowed to access it because of the
way that anger is perceived by women so
basically one arrow that would have been
there for any politician who was not a
woman that's taken out of the quiver at
that point right that is exactly right
and it was that is exactly right and she
was running against two men on both her
left and her right we're able to access
anger and they both used it quite
masterfully right and my my politics are
on the side of one of those guys you
know Bernie Sanders speaking with
righteous fury about economic inequality
and the 99 percent and the you know that
he was able to channel the rage of
millions of his supporters who were
feeling for my you know in my view had
every reason in the world to be livid
and he was able to be a voice of that of
swagga singer and shake his head and
pound a podium and Donald Trump whose
politics are announcement of me I mean
you know he was able to challenge a rage
coming from a sort of a base that was
furious about the perceived incursions
on its status and its power and he was
able to channel a fundamentally racist
xenophobic misogynistic fury through a
you know truly in many cases direct
calls to violence I mean in the old days
we used to take protesters out
you know right he was able to actually
give voice to a punitive um you know not
just borderline but sometimes directly
violent rage that had racist and sexist
implications to talk about you know to
talk about those fears that have
obviously worked worked for his base and
Clinton when she tried to be angry first
of all I mean this is a woman who is
raised also born in an era in which this
was completely verboten the raising of
both female voice you know had actually
been a young adult at the moment of the
of the second wave women's movement but
she had already you know she had been
raised in a country that had no
tolerance made no space for the fury of
especially a powerful women who were
threatening male power in any way and
when so it's a it is my inauthentic when
she tries to you know transmit rape she
would sometimes thunder under a
microphone and what would everybody by
the way including me do is rear back and
say stop yelling because we're not used
to hearing that
well even going back 92 when she said
I'm not going to be baking cookies in
the kitchen or something and and I was
no fan of Bill Clinton at that time
either but that the reaction to that was
just I mean that dynamic you know is
like reminds me of like when Steven
Spielberg did his first movie and it was
a bust and then he decided I'm only
making huge hits for now on that are
less nuanced I felt like that's that was
her moment where she was like all right
now I've got to change my hairdo and etc
etc but so so she I think the one that
came before that was when she was blamed
for her husband losing reelection in
Arkansas because she kept her own maid
named where's like what are you gonna I
mean that was 1980 and after he lost his
reelection bid in Arkansas the press
said it was because his wife wouldn't
take his name and that's when she think
about it like that for me was like the
first moment and like the transformation
into Darth Vader it's like the moment
that like she then and she writes about
it was actually incredible candor in
various places about that moment where
she realized she had to become Hillary
Rodham Clinton okay so we take that
forward she's learned those
because those are lessons society but it
it it it not only it not only takes that
arrow out of her quiver it forces her at
that point to use an arrow maybe that
she doesn't want to use right which is
like maybe being too optimistic in some
respects but if you can't differentiate
one way because it's not available to
you you know part of the problems it
forces you to to avail yourself of
another option that is suboptimal but
leaving that aside so going from there
let's talk about the me to thing because
it seems to me that me too was a it was
a sort of a surrogate for Donald Trump
like with like the country did not hold
this guy accountable for the obvious
like because the the the the difficulty
is always like it's a he said she said
type of situation and you know we can't
know what happens when two people shut
the door or why you know you know but in
this instance it was clear to everybody
right and there's like literally they
tape and the it was the message to women
that like even when it's we don't have
these evidentiary questions even when we
all know what the truth is still not
gonna hold him accountable it feels like
me to was came out of like we couldn't
get Donald Trump but we can get other
people and I don't I don't mean to be
saying this like it was just it was
about time but it was like there there's
an overdue debt of justice here and
we're gonna go for that on some level
and what's your sense of that well yes
and no I think I agree I think that I
agree with you that for example I don't
think me the fall of 2017 hashtag me to
movement I don't think that it would
have had the staying power or exploded
in the way that it did had Donald Trump
not been President on the other hand I'm
not sure which is the symptom and which
is the cut right I think
Donald Trump himself it's like think of
the number of men who in fact wound up
facing repercussion during that meet
during the 2017 hashtag me too movement
and we should say that of course the
meet you movement founded by Tirana Berg
in 2006 specifically to address sexual
violence in communities of color and the
the hashtag Nietzsche movement that was
popularized in the fall of 2017 is an
outgrowth of that movement and it's a
broader umbrella term to cover
harassment and and you know in a wide
wide range of things but I think that so
many of the men it wasn't just Donald
Trump consider that Bill O'Reilly like
stories about Bill O'Reilly I mean he
was sued I wrote about a lawsuit against
him for sexual harassment when I was a
young journalist probably in 2004 and
yet he yeah Andrea Makris and yet he
kept his birth on television a bajillion
dollar birth on television for all the
intervening years consider Arnold
Schwarzenegger stories about his groping
had been on the record and and women had
gone on the record with their names and
talked about how he groped them and he
nonetheless got elected governor
consider Roger Ailes stories about him
had been published in Gabriel Sherman's
book about him and they had been poo
pooed by the newer times you know
claimed and nobody paid attention he'd
kept his not only Bill O'Reilly and and
Roger Ailes of course not only kept
their jobs and made millions of dollars
they also had the opportunity given
their birth to their their media births
and their platforms and the power that
that platform that they built had to
basically contribute to the election of
Donald Trump you know Fox News created
this president they had so much power in
addition to the wealth that they were
garnering they had so much power to
control the political conversation and
this despite having been credibly an
on-the-record accused of acts of
harassment and assault then you have
Donald Trump oh and Bill Cosby there
were many stories public stories with
name's Andrea Constance name attached to
stories about Bill Cosby and for more
than a decade for 12 years or something
he had continued to win Lifetime
Achievement Awards get new television
deals be healed at hailed as a hero in
community so this is a buildup of it's
not just about Donald Trump truck was in
combination with a political fury in
combination with the surprise that many
people felt at this understanding that
Hillary Clinton is qualified woman had
just been passed over for this job for
this for this raging racist toddler you
know the fact is that that there had
been an explosion of rage in the wake of
the Access Hollywood tape and that it
had not prevented him from becoming the
president was like it was like a final
straw but it wasn't all about him right
right the point is that these men could
be credibly accused by people and it
just didn't impede their rise to power
their further accrual of power and it
was like there was an anger that was so
inherent that when that story came out
about Harvey Weinstein it was like we
are not going to let this pass by there
was like it was like a desire to hang on
and tell these guys face repercussion
and I've never seen anything like that
before I've never lived through anything
like that before but it was like the
period I don't think it was a sweetie
chirp imaginatively it might have been a
stand-in for Donald Trump but it was
also for its own purposes right so we're
not going to be chased out of telling
you stories Trump was the sort of the
the final symptom in some ways that
basically said like this is undeniable
now and you know we're going to treat it
on some level the the other thing that
that occurs to me happened during that
time or at least I mean I you know I
think we've you know we've seen it both
sort of publicly and and certainly in
the context of you know privately women
I know have reassessed like their
realities in some way their histories
and now realize that there were there
were relationships that they had work
relationships or whatever non work
relationships where they were sexually
harassed they were they were in some
fashion either suppressed or assaulted
they complicit in somebody else's case
the whole reevaluation of once once we
get to the point because if you live in
a world in which all these guys and all
the guys I just mentioned right and our
getting elected president and governor
and running TV networks and being hailed
as heroes you know and and you absorb
the the reality which is that your
experience of having been you know
assaulted by them or harassed by them or
belittled or diminished or treated
poorly but it just doesn't matter it
doesn't matter nobody cares
and you really absorb that and so when
you have a meet you movement you have
something like it has happened over the
past year where there is an
acknowledgement of the damage that this
behavior has wrought it's like you
finally can open up that door in your
own brain in your own memory and all the
stuff that you stuffed in there because
what was going to happen what was going
to come of of really thinking about it
there was so much evidence all around us
that no one cared it didn't matter and
then when you get a sort of invitation
and that evening wasn't wrong it wasn't
he was almost like it was like an
assessment of nothing wrong happened
like it's not even like there's
something wrong that happened and no
one's gonna care it was like that that
that's just normal
right that's just life that's just
normal yes so we're like like we're if
if in those if in the wake of Donald
Trump this anger there was this sort of
a not necessarily explosion of anger but
I guess this eruption of existing anger
and assessment that we should be angry
and a different expression of I mean
tell me like is there do you think that
there has been a lasting change a in the
ability in to what extent has there been
a change in the ability of women to be
angry in you know relative to men let's
say we're you know immense anger is you
know the I mean it's just I
you mentioned Pat Schroeder if I
remember correctly the thing that really
knocked her out of the race was that she
cried like there was a right moment well
she was announcing when she cried she
was announcing that she wasn't gonna run
so I don't know if it's quite right to
say that that's what knocked her out but
that was the thing for which she became
famous yes it was like the idea that she
would cry in public and then I feel like
we've seen many examples of men cry in
public and it's like John Boehner
exactly yeah and you know it's
impressive it's impressive
he's able to do that took a lot of guts
to cry in public for that guy and has
the ability for women to be angry
because you know frankly like I'm
thinking about Elizabeth Warren I'm from
Massachusetts I'm a big fan of hers when
I talk to people in Massachusetts who I
think should also be big fans of hers
like I almost get like the like a
unilateral I mean like I should say
unanimous response and I feel like it's
a gendered response to when she gets
angry like she's a scold it's like wow
right are we making material change I do
think that we are making tremendous I
think we are in the midst of changing
our perceptions about how women can
express themselves and be taken
seriously but we make a mistake again
when we imagine that we can fix it
quickly this is hundreds of years
generations upon generations upon
generation of conditioning of social
messaging around what's appropriate
around what tones are effective this is
again we we talk about change in this
country as if it's something that we can
be quickly proud of having sex but in
fact when you're talking about a nation
that has that was baked into its initial
promises of equality and Liberty were
were structurally enforced inequality
and inhumanity you are talking about
problems that take so long to fix and
then we have to be in the midst of
probably for the framing inevitably for
the rest of our lives
so I do think that there are changes
that are being made around how we think
if you look at the way that some of
these new young women are moving into
Congress
Sheeta to leave Ilhan Omar Alexandria
Ocasio Cortez Ayane Presley the voice is
that they're using and the unwillingness
to be sort of solicitous of polite with
you though um I think you're seeing that
that's a data point in terms of we're
changing the register in which we can
hear and respect and acknowledge his
consequential certain kinds of women's
voices that's a huge set of changes
we're seeing being wrought around that I
think that the fact that we're having
conversations about how he'll about how
Hillary Clinton was heard how Elizabeth
Warren is heard how Kamala Harris as an
African American woman it's heard when
he challenges jeff sessions or or raises
her voice as a prosecutor on it on a
Senate Judiciary Committee you know she
is she and the ways that she gets
characterized as hysterical or punitive
or or or worrying in some ways like
we're the fact that we're having these
conversations is helping to change how
we hear these women but it's not
something where were ever in our
lifetime that you or I is ever going to
be able to say like well now we love
angry women like it's not it's not going
to be that quick it's a long arduous
complicated multifaceted process and I
want us the thing I want this book to do
more than anything and people often
understand it to be like a call to raise
your voice and anger and it's not that
actually because there's still so much
there's so many ways in which women are
punished in one way or another for
offering loud challenge right so I would
never encourage you know if you're a
woman of color who's pulled over by a
cop for no reason you have every reason
in the world to be livid but if you
voice that period you risk your life you
know you end it if you're a woman who is
playing equally in her office you have
every reason to be furious but if you
raise your voice about it in your office
you're gonna get a reputation perhaps as
difficult or you're not going to get
that razor you're going to get fired you
know there are real cost to that so my
book is not about not trying to
encourage people to speak differently
it's to listen differently it's to
listen for these patterns it's to listen
to the patterns in our own heads that
write off women whose voices are raised
and angry or disruptive dissent as you
know complicated or hysterical or too
much stop think start listening to anger
of marginalized people including
as instructive and diagnostic as
politically and socially potent I want
us to listen differently to receive
woman's anger differently and to watch
for the patterns in which it is
discounted and dismissed and and in our
own heads and more broadly I you know
and so that is that's part of the work
of changing things but it that is going
to be the work of our lifetime the the
it's a long-term project to get people
to listen differently to hear it
differently and whatnot the other thing
that has I think you know obviously come
in the wake of this is that and Thetis
copal and Lena Putnam I think it was and
even you know the the intercept stories
about what was happening on the ground
show you know I think we're indicative
of a rising activism like and I think
you mentioned of women who had otherwise
been maybe a reliable Democratic vote
maybe midterms maybe but now our running
for office are you know at the forefront
of of activist groups in terms of
particularly in the context of elections
I I think just like stumbled into
multiple essentially groups of women who
were organizing to send money to like
you know a state race in Colorado across
the city that energy you don't need is I
mean is that what what do you what
what's your your feeling about the that
engagement that level of energy it where
that's gonna be within five or ten years
I mean if the listening and getting
society obviously to change their
knee-jerk reactions to women's anger is
going to is a long-term project what
about that involvement I mean have there
been like a generation or two of women
whose political engagement is forever
implicated well I hope so this is an
open question and it depends this is why
I you know I get anxious when I hear
this all judge
tied to Trump because in part you know I
certainly hope that Trump is going to be
gone soon you know and and in two years
or you know even if it's even if it's in
six years god I hope not
yeah um you know it's not that's why I
get anxious whenever somebody ties
directly to being about Donald Trump
because Donald Trump in this regard is
absolutely symptomatic he is the thing
that has made the project of the
American right-wing evident because he's
you know he just says all the quiet
parts loud but and and if we attach it
too much to Trump then there'll be this
myth again that pernicious but seductive
myth that we fixed it oh we got rid of
Trump it's done but in fact we know that
it's not done that he his presidency was
enabled by a party and by a set of
ideologies and attitudes about who
deserves to have power and who is
permitted to participate equally and
receive equal rights and equal
protections in this country that is
again anger of a lifetime now the
question is how many of those Nuri angry
people will stay angry for the rest of
their lifetimes and that is up to those
people and including us and and I think
that one of the big opportunities at
this moment is even if people are coming
to the anger specifically say about
Trump I hope that part of what we're
doing is having a conversation and in a
period where people are really getting
an education about all of the
inequalities that are out there that
require steady anger and vigilance and
fight and commitment to being civic
participants and political combatants
right I think that the opportunity here
is an education and that's within
progressive coalition's to about the
racism the sexism the inequality that
exists within progressive coalition a
lot of the conversation is happening for
it within a women's movement this
iteration was women are about racism
within that women's movement and that's
especially true for a lot of the
suburban white women suburban
middle-class white women who are new to
the anger a lot of them are also
learning about anger at them because of
the unequal amount of space they've
taken up with in progressive and
feminist coalition's while women of
color who often have been doing the
groundbreaking intellectual and
political
work and have been the base of the
Democratic Party for years go
underrepresented in their needs under
acknowledged and within that Democratic
Party and any kind of less coalition
those kinds of conversations
I hope which are also rooted in it an
angry anger that happens within a
progressive coalition I hope are going
to be are going to reshape us so that
that the acknowledgement of the problems
we have to solve go way beyond Trump and
I hope that it extends deep into our
future but we won't know until we get
there and this is the question there
will always be incentive for women and
particularly for white women who are
adjacent to white especially
middle-class white men there were always
the incentives in place for them to
quell their anger and to go back to
being non disruptors and that is
something that we have to be very
attentive to because there will be those
messages that are put on offer
Rebecca tracer the book is good mad the
revolutionary power of woman's anger
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you Sam
