there's an interesting dynamic that is
going on with this election excuse me
and that is how much is racism going to
sell across the board we'll talk more
about this would Digby but here is a
student going and challenging the Mike
Pence not Mike Pence excuse me
could have been Mike Pence but Steve
King the Iowa congressman who has
basically run on and been a lightning
rod for white nationalism in this
country and he's gotten more explicit
over the past couple of years I think
and of course he feels more comfortable
doing so now in the age of Trump because
uh Donald Trump it's a white nationalist
and so here a student goes and asks
Steve King at I guess I'm not exactly
sure if this was a a press conference or
candidate for him a candidate forum
Steve King could see this guy walking in
he was wearing flannel how do you
distinguish yourself from the white
nationalist who shot up this synagogue
in Pittsburgh killed 11 people because
he was afraid of the immigrant hordes
who were being who were about to invade
this country being prodded on by the
Jews how do you distinguish yourself
your your ideology from his it's quite
evident that Steve King has not shot up
a temple full of of Jews he's a
congressman but how do you distinguish
your ideology he's asked and I guess
Steve King didn't feel comfortable
answering the question
and the terrorists who did committed
this crime he was quoted as saying they
bring invaders and that kill our people
I can't sit back and watch our people
get slaughtered you Steve King have been
quoted as saying we can't restore our
civilization with other people's babies
you and the shooter both share an
ideology that is elegantly you can cite
and the gray do not associate me with
that shooter I knew you were an ambush
or when you walked in the room but no no
basis for that and you get no question I
know and I was about to hell if you're
dumping which do you don't you're any
others here at i/o it's about to ask
what the stink of Djoser got cause the
line it's not tolerable they accuse me
to be associated with a guy that shot 11
people in Pittsburgh I am a person that
you couldn't Israel from the beginning
that to the length of that nation is the
length of my life that was nuts and
women are all along and I will not
answer your questions I'll not listen to
another word from you if you don't have
a WestEd over this world even why did
you travel to Austin over the White
House in a stock organization I think
he's good enough I think he's given his
answer I think that his answer is his
answer yeah but do you identify some
wings in church stop it Sharon why don't
you meet with the white spruce store
that's in America I would ask whoever is
guarding this door lead this man out of
the world yeah I
there you go Stevie King traveled was it
- a Poland to visit I think it was
Dachau maybe it was Auschwitz I'm not
sure and then also just to get the other
side met with a Holocaust denial er a
denier just do you know fair and
balanced and uncomfortable though
describing why his or how his ideology
is any different from the one that led
that shooter to his to kill those people
this is well that's a different one
right that's neem night so there it is I
guess we'll know if King gets reelected
he is in a very tight race with a pretty
progressive guy and there is you know
the the Republican Party has expressed
at least some people in the Republican
Party have expressed a little
uncomfortable 'ti with just how
outwardly fascist Steve King is so
that's there's a slight slight movement
there but it also could be the case that
they need to redeploy some of their
assets and other races so this is a good
way to sort of justify not saving Steve
King seat
