[Music]
this story I found to be sort of the
perfect metaphor for the right and for
this era microcosm is the word yeah I
think it's I think it's metaphor but
yeah I guess it's you could say it's
also a microcosm in some way there was
this guy Russell Bolton as you can see
here he was a write-in candidate for
sheriff in Stevens County Washington and
he also was the head do we have a tear
sheet from that old web website he was
also the the leader of the Stephens
County assembly what would that be the
Stephens County assembly Stephens get
here here's an old website this one's um
and it says welcome Stephens County
assembly is a volunteer independent body
of god-fearing American citizens who
have realized the changing conditions
seeking to prepare and equip all who
will heed with the knowledge and ability
to protect family and property to secure
real American communities during the
present insurgency insurgent political
and social change and to reach out
across our regions to like-minded
Patriots in order to strengthen our
common cause so they are a prepper
organization that believes
wholeheartedly and run-on sentences and
they also they go on say to the our
website is designed for the serious
patriot who doesn't like commas and who
wishes to rise above the conditions and
increase their critical thinking skills
not so much the grammar we invite you to
unite with us to uphold our United
States Constitution and our god-given
right to life liberty and the pursuit of
happiness and they were very concerned
of course of the about the hordes of of
immigrants coming in particularly all
the the drug gang bangers in drug
cartels that would come in
the drug gang bang current cartel in
that in fact in fact this group received
a letter not just a letter but multiple
letters from Alessio Don de Grande well
that's it excuse me
Alessio ton - grande you're not talking
about
he's de Brahman in Sinaloa Don the base
for local residents were getting a
letter from me he's the the dawn of the
big and Alessio Don de grande referenced
his membership in a shadowy criminal
enterprise and he demanded two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars in cash
within fifteen days and he had left a
two paged typed missive on the car
windshield of members of this group this
right-wing militia they sent the several
members of this group got several
threatening letters from de grande whose
name was signed at the bottom of each
don't get me in trouble with YouTube he
was involved that he was heavily
involved in a mysterious group outside
of the United States and insu insinuated
it was a Mexican cartel well all
prominent cartel heads are known for
running multi-billion dollar trafficking
networks and also uh putting extortion
threats on the windshields of minivans I
sign every extortion thing I promise to
you I sign every extortion threat
well it turns out that the sender was
actually the leader of the militia group
yeah though honor of votes their head
fascist James Russell Bolton basically
upcoming Tobs guest and here is the
here's of course the perfect metaphor he
scares the members of his prepper cult
as it were into believing that there are
hordes of Mexican drug cartel members
coming up into Washington State and they
know were the last line of defense
exactly we're the rearguard they're
gonna come back up through Canada after
they come at us at a frontal assault we
got on the radar some bad hombres down
there and so Bolton was trying to get
money from these rubes that he had in
many respects created does that sound
familiar to you no you know what I gotta
tell you you look at people and you
think if if I wasn't doing what I would
do I would do what they do and he said
in admiration and my deaf I wasn't a
trust fund baby and I wasn't president
that's what I do we were a superpower we
are now a hyper power respect the hustle
that's what I thought so apparently guy
apparently Bolton when detectives called
Bolton the militia leader Bolton claimed
he and his wife had been receiving
menacing phone calls too but he had but
he had shaken it off because it was
common in his line of work a hell yeah
been at this a long time asked if
someone asked if someone could be
targeting the group for financial
reasons Bolton reportedly responded that
the Stevens County Assembly had about
nine hundred bucks in its bank account
mystery was still unsolved in March when
Bolton called the sheriff's office to
say he'd started getting threatening
emails he told detectives that a red
Ford pickup had followed him home and
the passengers had yelled at him and run
him off the road which is a classic play
another classic tactic Mexican cartels
what you do is you drive a red Ford
pickup truck the Washington state and
then you drive this hombre off the road
[Laughter]
man I say free him
IIF by the way if Donald Trump was truly
respectful of his base you know we
always talked about these services base
I could not think of a literally a
greater example whose based on this this
guy should get a full party should be
Secretary of State five counts of
extortion in lure him of attempted theft
in the first three total which total
which what was the name of that we got a
fun remember Dilisio Don Del Grande yeah
let's just look at let's see how Russell
Bolton did with his writing candidacy
for sheriff in Stevens County I'm
running for Stevens County Sheriff
welcome to our website hope you'll find
this very useful as you get more
information about our program we would
like to you take the time to sign up for
email and information that you can
receive we certainly thank you for
visiting today there right I think it's
finally found their AOC yeah oh no
here's a toss Tito siting on the ground
they're coming fellas if you don't
immediately deposit I don't want to take
out a line of credit or will be killed
by the grande cartel I want to scare you
guys but there's some Taco Bell bags
dumpster up see I love him so much he
seems kind of good-natured you know
weigh it away I imagine you should team
up with no bumps in the road guy it'd be
unstoppable
