Donald Trump certainly hurt people you
know Republicans who are running for
re-election and that dynamic probably
won't change for some time however this
Ohio thing is nuts and we talked about
this in the context of North Carolina -
there are some states that are just so
incredibly gerrymandered that it is
mind-blowing
this comes from Cleveland calm the Ohio
Republicans won the race for every
statewide executive job from the
Governor on down this year that's you
know sherrod Brown won his race but in
every other statewide job Republicans
won the Democrats ran much more
competitive in total votes for the
hundred and sixteenth the house excuse
me the 116 Ohio House and Senate
elections across the state Republicans
got just over 50% total of the vote in
fact I've seen some indication I haven't
seen the latest numbers but maybe they
maybe they actually lost like just got
under 50%
they won 73 of the hundred and sixteen
State House races they won in in the in
the congressional districts they won
seventy five percent of the seats with
just 52 percent of the overall vote they
have a supermajority even though they
may have just cry across the 50%
threshold the implications of that I
think are obvious in terms of what kind
of legislation you're going to get in
the lame-duck session
Ohio House passed a stand-your-ground
law with enough votes to override a veto
and a so called heartbeat bill that
would give the state one of the
strictest abortion limits in the entire
country now the only thing that should
give you any type of hope although it's
still incredibly disturbing is that in
2015
Ohio uns voted to reform the way the
Statehouse districts will be drawn
beginning in 2021 and they did the same
for congressional districts going
forward the votes were changed we're not
close to each passing with more than 70%
so there will become a time with this
redistricting will go away in the
meantime the Republicans are trying to
get whatever type of draconian bills
passed and turn Ohio into a deeper red
hellscape but we see this in North
Carolina too where the Republicans
barely won 50 percent of the vote and
they got 10 out of 13 House dentist's
seats we see what happens in a state
that actually redistricting a way that
is more commensurate with some measure
of fairness and in Pennsylvania
Democrats picked up five new seats I
think it is so this is nuts
