I don't know if I would call this
exhibit a this may be exhibited I don't
know somewhere around J we're in numbers
now right but here is exhibit whatever
of a never Trump or that is you know
basically showing their hand here is
Anna Navarro right she she's been a long
time never Trump right yeah long since
the beginning from the beginning and she
I mean Trump is actually even called her
out hasn't he yes I believe so I think
so I think so and here she is on CNN
with who else is on there with their
crystal Symone Sanders Symone Sanders
Symone Sanders former spokesperson for
Bernie Sanders rank and bill kristol a
former cheerleader of genocide and and
wrong about everything looks like he's
eaten all his mistakes to these days but
nevertheless I'm not gonna go there you
just I'm sorry I didn't
but here's Anna Navarro telling you if
you didn't know before that never Trump
errs are useless
I mean look you're going to have this is
gonna be a Democratic primary where
maybe 25 people put their put their name
in the Hat out of those 25 people I
think maybe 10 of those campaigns be
very viable to go very one way we need a
robust primary I think Democratic voters
are really looking for someone that they
can trust and what they're saying you
know I don't like Donald Trump I'm not a
fan but the people that voted for him
trust it what he said even though I
think he's a liar so the owners are
looking for somebody that they believe
it's candidly and authentically
delivering their message to bloke as a
as a Republican who cannot stand Trump
never supported him never will I am
begging Democrats to please give me
somebody that I can vote for I'm ready
to vote for a potted plant I'm ready to
vote for a hologram I'm not sure I'm
ready to vote for Elizabeth Warren and
so you know I I think I hope that
Kratts think about you know themselves
falling in love and somebody that can
get their juices flowing and their love
tank filled but can also appeal to
people like Bill Kristol and Anna
Navarro who really don't want to vote
for a hologram we'd rather vote for
somebody that's got a pulse on a brain
who is that person you know I like the
idea of voting for a hologram though
that it could be an upgrade yeah well
but here's the point I mean aside from
like this sort of the creepy fall in
love with and get your love juices
flowing
we don't need Anna Navarro and Bill
Kristol to vote for a real Democrat as
opposed to a hologram or a potted plant
who's not going to do anything that
offends them in any way we don't need
them we just need them not to vote for
Trump and if they're not gonna vote for
Trump great great we have the numbers
the midterms showed that if they stay
home and don't vote for Trump but you
know what they supposedly didn't last
time they're useless
so don't promote them because all
they're going to do is undercut a good
Democrat running for office period end
of story
there is no other part of the story
that's why I just put a period I think
there's a phrase called beggars and
beggars can't be choosers when Ronald
Reagan funded the Contras he did it with
a degree of glass and it caught my love
juices flowing and when the Contras
murdered naans
and killed the people they did it with a
degree of class and respect for the
office listen think about how many
Democrats you're going to lose if the
standard for a to vote for a Democratic
presidential candidate is one that Anna
Navarro and Bill Kristol can vote
fulfills Prasad's
potential Democrats usually bill kristol
and I are looking for someone who is not
overtly racist and supports many words
in the Middle East right and if you
cannot do that you might not get maybe
well she's nominate Jeb Bush Jeb Bush
will be an incredible Democratic nominee
he has a certain degree of class like
the never Trump conservatives are gonna
try to find a home in the Democratic
Party and this is a tactic that the
Democrats have tried before and failed
trying to pander to moderate
conservatives wealthy suburban I it's
like if we are going to realign the
party into something that is more of a
Labor Party than it's ever been in a
long time we can't have those people
right they're useless they're useless
Jeb blue Thurston useless had not used
the n-word since at least 1990 that is
the type of integrity that Bill Kristol
and I are looking for along with an
invasion of Iran using the proper
pronouns that will get my love juices
flowing
