sherrod Brown makes a point of pointing
out the obvious here which is that in
the context of Georgia you had the
Secretary of State personally
disenfranchising voters and shutting
down voting voting stations in an
election that became incredibly close
and sherrod Brown who I believe is going
to be one of the many people on the
Democratic side who may be throwing his
hat or her hat into the contest to
become president was at the National
Action Network talking about that race
in Georgia gun lobby populace don't
appeal to some by pushing others down
that that's why I say in America we will
never give up the hallowed ground of
patriotism to the extremists at our
Statehouse Joyce in the extremists in
this White House and we also will never
give in as Senator Cardin said we'll
never give in on voting rights we have
seen what if Stacey Abrams doesn't win
in Georgia they stole it it's clear it's
clear and I would say I say that
publicly it's clear what they're trying
to do in Florida to the gubernatorial
candidate into the Senate candidate
running for re-election
what they tried to do in Ohio with some
success by voter purging what they did
in Georgia when they shut down rural
precincts that were predominantly
African Americans where many people
simply don't have transportation to get
to the polls that's what they do they
can't win elections because there's way
more of us and there are them they can't
win elections fairly they win elections
by redistricting and reapportionment in
voter suppression in all the ways they
try to scare people particularly people
of color how they make it hard for
people in college campuses especially
Community College where there are more
low-income people and more people of
color we know those despicable laws are
often aim
Way and we must make sure obviously that
every votes counted in Georgia and
Florida nip alright there you have it
and the Democrats are going to be
introducing at least in the house bills
that would reinvigorate section five of
the Voting Rights Act to institute motor
vehicle automatic registration a series
of voting reforms including offering an
amendment to repeal citizens united this
of course will not pass the Senate but
it will put some pressure on some
Republican senators to the extent that
they can feel pressure from normal human
beings in other words those who are not
living in a state that is incredibly red
as it were but sure Browns statement is
also self-evident there are in fact more
Democratic voters than Republican voters
they are not they are not district in a
way that provides us with results that
are reflective of that disparity you had
significantly more Democratic votes than
Republican votes nationally in terms of
Congress obviously that ended up being a
net 40 difference but when Republicans
165 vote 65 net pickups in 2010 they did
so with significantly less votes than
Democrats had in this election and same
294 just the district redistricting his
is in such a way that it mitigated the
size of the Democratic wave but 40 by
any definition is a wave that's just the
reality of it
