[Music]
so Ben Carson secretary ben Carson who
is the chairman of HUD excuse me the
secretary secretary of HUD housing the
Housing and Urban Development HUD is in
charge of the of public housing provide
all sorts of well here let me read what
they do okay they do housing in fact you
know what go go to this page here so
that everybody can see this Matt I'll
send you the link this is the the HUD
page here it is what we do and in the
first column of hud.gov what we do is
housing you'll see that there it's on
the left and right in there is avoiding
foreclosure that's the first thing it's
really the first thing in the first part
of what HUD does there according to them
buying a home home improvements homes
for sale HUD homes senior citizens
homelessness that's and then fairness
they uphold housing law and
anti-discrimination law fair lending
housing discrimination to say persons
rental assistance they provide voucher
programs section 8 program searching for
an apartment then they go down to
there's a sustainability programs
researching and working with various
right so HUD what we do housing avoiding
foreclosure the first thing so now this
was at the what hearing was this that
that porters at talking to a HUD
secretary not sure what the the hearing
is but it's a Congressional subcommittee
and Katie Porter who is a congresswoman
elected in this last class from
California she worked very closely with
the California Attorney General's Office
in dealing with foreclosures and real
estate in the in the wake of the
financial crisis in 2008 she is a
protege of Elizabeth Warren's actually
took her class and Harvard I believe
back in the day and so she's questioning
HUD secretary again housing Urban
Development Secretary ben Carson who's
been on the job now for about two and a
half years so you know he came in steep
learning curve but he's been on the job
for two and a half years good as you
look at also like you to get back to me
if you don't mind to explain the
disparity in REO rates do you know what
an REO is and Oreo our Oreo an REO are
the out real estate what's the O stand
for the organization owned real estate
owned that's what happens when a
property goes to foreclosure we call it
an REO and FHA loans have much higher
REO s that is they go to foreclosure
rather than to loss mitigation or to non
foreclosure alternatives like short
sales than comparable loans at the GSEs
so I'd like to know why we're having
more foreclosures that end in people
losing their homes with stains to their
credit and disruption to their
communities and their neighborhoods at
FHA then we are at the GSEs owned is
right now okay so let me just be good
tell you what it is and why it is so
stunning that Ben Carson thought a Katey
Porter was talking about a cookie and
then when she said no not a cookie are e
oh he was smart enough to go like well I
am chairman of HUD
well there's homes and of course we deal
with a lot of what's going on in terms
of loans and foreclosure in fact that is
under the what we do that is the number
one thing that we deal with foreclosures
are real estate real estate I got that
right
oh well Oh obviously organization but no
it's real estate owned which when a
property goes into foreclosure if it is
not dispensed if it doesn't come out of
foreclosure if it's not sold as a short
sale in other words basically less than
it's worth or if the bank is not able to
sell it the bank ends up owning it or
could be also theoretically a government
agency she was wondering why it is that
loans that come from the Federal Housing
Authority as opposed to the GSEs which
would be Fannie or a Fannie Mae or
Freddie Mac communism why is it that the
the the homes from the Federal Housing
Authority go into foreclosure and are
not resolved in some way so that the the
the homeowners just lose their there's
something going on that is creating this
disparity in other words maybe the FHA
is not functioning well with the agenda
of making sure that these foreclosed
homes either at least you know bring
some returned to its inhabitants or keep
the people in their homes
give them foreclosure relief Sam do you
see map really perturbed by this would
you like in Oriya but the idea that we
have a secretary of HUD who doesn't know
what that term is
I'll tell you what I do know I know how
to select $31,000 dining set for my
office and look flies house government
now yeah okay mr. Boy Scout Jew scout
Sam
let me explain something to you yes I
said because it's like a Boy Scout
except with your Jewish characteristics
so let me explain something when I was
in college I was trying to study for an
exam and I fell asleep and I wasn't
prepared and I was scared that I would
not pass that exam and then I had a
dream but God gave me the answers to all
the questions on my test so I could pass
with an A now if it was important for me
to know what an EO was her an IO or
whatever else that horrible mean woman
was talking about don't you think it
would have been revealed to me in a
dream I'm gonna ask you to use a little
bit of logic I'm interested in talking
about the ideas you're talking much
faster than actual talking about what
you want a cookie so you can say that
he's not doing his job here but his job
isn't what it says on the website the
job that he's been hired to do is to
dismantle whatever is left of public
housing assistance in this country and
he's doing it very well I don't even
think I don't even think that he is
tasked with doing that I think it's just
like if we put this guy at the head of
this department it's all going to
collapse and that's basically the same
outcome what we're doing is handing
people copies of the secret and they can
picture the home that they truly is that
is saying here ok that's more from my
hearing where other people were all
