[Music]
yesterday and we will get to this
yesterday we had mentioned that Kurt
Volker the unpaid special envoy to
Ukraine was headed in to the a
closed-door session with the Intel
committee and apparently he was in there
for like eight or nine hours and over
the course of the day some stuff sort of
came out of that committee room but by
the end of the day there were extensive
text messaging threads that we will go
through later in the program maybe
actually soon that show a basically a
criminal conspiracy a criminal
conspiracy involving not just a and
there was a tweet by the chairman of the
Federal Elections Commission she tweeted
this out she's like I can't believe I
have to say this but let me make
something a hundred percent clear to the
American public and anyone running for
public office it's illegal for any
person to solicit that means to ask for
accept or receive anything of value from
a foreign national in connection with
the US election this is not a novel
concept she writes electoral invention
intervention from foreign governments
has been considered unacceptable since
the beginning of our nation founding
fathers sounded the alarm about foreign
interference intrigue and influence they
knew when a foreign government seek to
influence American politics it's always
to advance their own interests not
America's anyone who solicits or accept
foreign assistance risks being on the
wrong end of a federal investigation any
political campaign that receives an
offer of a prohibited donation from a
foreign source should report that to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation she
wrote that in June
retweeted it again but the issue here is
not just that Donald Trump solicited
from the Ukraine dirt on Joe Biden it's
not that he may have done the same thing
with China and God knows whom else II
did it about or for or what but it's
also that he held back funds that were
appropriated by Congress for Ukraine he
extorted the Ukrainian president is what
you would call it I think maybe
extortion blackmail maybe but I think
it's extortion its cocktails and it's
its deals its deals but it's also
illegal deals you can sell weapons on
the black market it's a deal it's
illegal and let's go through this now
actually this is good a time as any to
go through these because easier these
are really stunning
these are text messages between and I
will go through a quick because this is
sort of a little bit weedy and a little
bit complicated but I think I can make
this somewhat straightforward there are
about four or five players involved in
this one is one is kurt volker he is the
special envoy to Ukraine the other is
former ambassador Bill Taylor former
ambassador to Ukraine you know what's
there involved in a country they still
have their relationships and they're
called upon to help out in certain
situations there's another guy Gordon
Sunderland who is the US ambassador to
the EU also owns some hotels and
apparently is just a buddy of Donald
Trump's then of course we have Rudy
Giuliani those are the main players and
so this starts on July 19th there's one
other guy I should say Audrey your Mac
who is a top adviser to pray
zalinsky remember zelinsky's the former
sort of comedic actor who managed to win
the presidency seems to be actually a
pretty intelligent guy but and you know
in the midst of a a war where
russian-backed I guess separatists I
don't know how else to characterize it
that's probably somewhat inaccurate but
some would argue a civil war kills
thousands of people in his country and
he is looking for these this money that
is for weapons to protect them it is
part of a basically a relationship that
we agreed to with Ukraine after they
gave up their nuclear weapons and we're
worried about a deterrent from Russia
and we should say it's not clear that
the Ukrainians realized that the money
was being held up that is not a defense
if I fire a gun at Matt and he's got
headphones on and doesn't realize I've
tried to shoot him I'm still guilty of
attempted murder right it's not legal
for me to do this even if I am wrong
about the awareness that the other party
has and it's still unclear whether they
knew or didn't know they just assumed it
was coming but it's quite clear from
these exchanges that on the US side
support meetings anything was a function
of them basically saying we're gonna dig
into Joe Biden so aunt Audrey your Mac
is the other so it starts here is back
as on July 21st we're gonna start with
I'm gonna skip around just a little bit
Bill Taylor texting with Gordon
sundaland remembered Bill Taylor former
ambassador to Ukraine
Gordon Sunland just this guy who
apparently is like a trump Trumpster
trying to get in on this representing
the White House total tear maker so bill
tell
says Gordon one thing Kurt this is kurt
volker the special you know envoy now in
ukraine and i talked about yesterday was
Sasha Daniel X point that president
zalenski is sensitive about Ukraine
being taken seriously not merely as an
instrument in Washington domestic
reelection politics okay so for some
reason zalenski is now feeling like he
might be just an instrument in the 2020
election eruption there's so much more
than that
Gordon Sun dueling says absolutely but
we need to get the conversation started
and the relationship built irrespective
of the pretext what that's not the words
so in other words in other words get it
doesn't whatever we need this stuff yeah
the one-liners is me worried that
matters
Gordon Sunland says I'm worried about
the alternative the alternative is that
Trump cuts off Ukraine okay so we go
through some other stuff Rudy is
involved now Rudy for some reason Rudy
is involved the president's lawyer is
involved the president's lawyer is only
interested in either creating some false
narrative about 2016 or about helping
the reelection in 2020 period so let's
jump to July 25th 2019 this is ahead of
a planned phone call between Trump and
zalenski Vogler is advising Audrey Ermac
zelinsky's zelinsky's advisor good lunch
thanks they had lunch heard from White
House assuming present Z zalenski
convinces Trump that he will investigate
/ quote get to the bottom of what
happened in 2016 end quote
we will nail down a visit to Washington
good luck see you tomorrow
in other words he's got to tell Trump
that he's going to do this stuff
then we'll be able to set down the dates
in which they will meet it's a classic
if-then statement exactly exactly so
let's jump to August 9th now State
Department officials discuss a White
House visit and a Ukraine statement they
want the statement because the statement
is going to leverage and just be enough
on some level for the domestic purposes
that Donald Trump has ambassador Volker
has the following exchange with
Ambassador Sundlun about arranging a
White House meeting after the Ukrainian
president makes a public statement
Morrison this is Scott Morrison I
believe from the National National
Security Council who deals with Europe
Morrison ready to get dates as soon as
your Mac confirms and Volcker says oh
great
so Sunland is dealing with the White
House right and Morrison said like I'm
ready Morris we're gonna set the date
for the meeting as soon as your Mac
confirms and Volkers like Oh excellent
how did you sway him a smile emoji right
yeah that's great how did you convince
him to do this well Gordon says I'm not
sure I did
I think POTUS president United States
really wants the deliverable the
deliverable you know I'm talking about
yes the anti-corruption deliverable
anti-corruption deliverable and Volker
says okay does does he know that meaning
that your Mac knows that
Gordon Sunland yep and Gordon sunless
says clearly lots of conversations going
on and Volker says okay that's good that
it's coming from two separate sources so
there are you know they're getting
multiple directions coming at the at
szalinski saying you got to do this and
then Gordon says okay to avoid
misunderstandings might be helpful to
ask odd rate for a draft statement
embargoed of course so that we can see
exactly what they propose to cover in
other words we want to see the statement
that they're gonna put out
because it would be a bad situation if
they as olanski gave a statement said
we're gonna we're gonna get to the
bottom of this
you know Joe Biden is innocent or not
bring up the words Joe Biden that might
be a problem even though Z does a live
presser they can still summarize in a
brief statement thoughts Volcker agree
so let's get a draft to make sure that
they're on the same page as us that the
deliverable is gonna be what we want it
to be just to make sure the secret
messages we receive skipping ahead to
August 10th now zalanski Zaid audrey
Ermac pressed Volker for a date for the
White House visit before committing to a
statement announcing an investigation
they don't even trust Trump so they
don't want to go out and give the
statement and then have Trump say oh I'm
not gonna visit now and you're not
getting your money so your Mac says hi
Curt please let me know when you can
talk I think it's possible to make this
declaration and mention all these things
which we discussed yesterday which we
now know
Volkers do delivering this sundaland is
delivering this message this is like but
it will be seen but it will be logic
logical I think to do after we receive a
confirmation of a date we inform about
data visit and about our expectations
and guarantees for future visit let's
discuss it and then Volker says it's
late little discuss it later okay and
then later in the conversation he says
your Mac says once we have a date we'll
call for a press briefing announcing
upcoming visit and outlining vision for
the reboot of us Ukraine relationship
including among other things
Maurice ma which is the name of the oil
company that hunter Biden sat on the
board of and election meddling in
investigations once we have this thing
we'll do this right so Ukraine is also
saying this they just don't trust it's
it's like one of those like things like
show up on the dock you show me the
money we give you the diamonds nip but
it's going back and forth here because
the diamond guy doesn't trust the money
guy they're like the world's least
subtle mafia guys
well I mean they realize at one point
and you'll find out when they start to
freak out a little bit
August 13th now kurt volker this is
after his outreach to Rudy Giuliani and
Giuliani Volcker in Sundlun
on August 13th had the following
exchange regarding the proposed
Ukrainian thing this is Volker and
Sunland this is after they've talked to
Rudy special attention should be paid to
the problem of interference in the
political process of the United States
especially with the alleged involvement
of some Ukrainian politicians in other
words you have to pretend that this
whole thing with Giuliani who has this
whole narrative about Ukraine being the
actual meddler in the elections with the
help of Democrats in 2016
trying to frame Russia this has to be in
this we intend to initiate and complete
a transparent unbiased investigation of
all available facts and episodes
including those involving Maurice mah
and the 2016 elections which in turn
will prevent the reoccurrence of this
problem in the future that what Volcker
is proposing is what the Ukrainians
should stay in fact take this paragraph
I'm giving to you Gordon and we're gonna
send this to our Juke what do you think
about it and Gordon says perfect let's
send to Audrey after our call so they
have just said this is what this is the
deliverable we want them to actually put
out and release pretty sure it's Andre
but I like it that you keep calling him
Audrey oh it's Android Andre writes
Audrey wants the dogs and Roy do you
call them that I'm very sexist
pronunciation right now and so
confirming desire to reference 2016
election in Berea on August 17th a
couple days later they have the
following exchange in which they
discussed their message to Ukraine more
do we still want Z that Solinsky to give
us an unequivocal draft with 2016 and
burry smih that's what Sundlun says
and Volcker says that's the clear
message so far and that message is
coming from the White House and Volcker
saying I'm hoping we can put something
out there that causes him to respond to
that and and sunless is okay unless you
think otherwise I'll return and raise
call tomorrow and suggest they send us a
clean draft so in other words send us
another one let's take a look at it
let's make sure that we're talking about
barrese MA and we're talking about 2016
these are the two things we want we want
Biden for 2020 and we want an undercut
of the mauler investigation then on
August 28th Ukrainian official shares
press report of the u.s. withholding
military assistance Aden and Ray your
Mac two says to its Android sorry says
to Volker need to talk with you and then
he drops in a link to this Politico
piece which says Trump holds up Ukraine
military aid meant to confront Russia
and this is from August 28th in Politico
it's clear that Trump just did it
unilaterally no one else understood why
you had Republican senators writing
letters saying you can't hold up that
military aid why are you doing it and
then Vercoe says a high and Ray
absolutely when is good for you so later
on August 30th Taylor this is the former
ambassador to Ukraine informs Volcker
that Trump has canceled his visit to
Warsaw where he was supposed to meet
Solinsky and so Volcker and Sunland try
and figure out an alternate plan for
pence to meet zalenski on September 1st
bill Taylor writes trip canceled Volcker
hope vice president keeps the ballot and
tees up the White House visit keeps up
the bilateral communications and tees up
White House visit and then Volcker says
and hope Gordon and Perry still going
this is Perry
the now resigning Secretary of Education
and Sunland says I am going Pompeyo
speaking to the president today see if
he can go no not you Mike
you're not allowed and then bill teller
says are we now saying that security
assistance and White House meetings are
conditioned on investigations bill
Taylor's getting a little bit upset on
September 1st like hey wait a second and
Gordon Sundlun
says of course not no he doesn't say
that he says call me like when your
friend took you for drugs and you're
like call me exactly now remember on
August 8th on August 8th you had Sunland
and Volcker talking about particularly
Volcker I mean Sunland talking about
they need the deliverables right they
need the deliverables just I want you to
keep that in mind because now between
August when he says we need the
deliverables there it is not sure I did
I think POTUS really wants the
deliverable that's August 9th between
nagas 9th and September 9th
what changes well there are press
reports of them holding up the thing and
you senators are starting to look into
this and what's going on here bill
Taylor says on September 8th the
nightmare is they give the interview and
they don't get the security assistance
the Russians love it and I quit in other
words you got to show up with the cash
if they're gonna bring you the diamonds
and if they give the diamonds and they
don't get the cash then it's then it's a
crap show but meanwhile on August 9th
remember Gordon Sundlun said POTUS wants
to deliverables bill Taylor the guy
who's bummed out about all this now says
the message to the Ukrainians and
Russians we send with the decision on
security assistance is key with the hold
that's the hold on the money we've
already shaken their faith in us the
my nightmare scenario and and bill
teller says counting on you to be right
about this interview Gordon and Gordon
says bill I never said I was right I
said we are where we are and I believe
we have identified the best pathway
forward I hope let's hope it works and
Bill teller says as I said on the phone
and this is where Bill Taylor this is
where Bill Taylor realizes this is going
to be absolutely nasty because we're
gonna get caught and I want to make it
clear where I was in this as I said on
the phone because you do not put this in
print unless you want it in print like
this is a very conscious thing as I said
on the phone and I can tell you that
from someone who has attempted to
threaten litigation against people this
is what you do you recount it as I said
on the phone do you ice as I said on the
phone I think it's crazy to withhold
security assistance for help with a
political campaign and Gordon Sundlun
who a month earlier before this whole
thing starts to blow up in everybody's
face realize is that Bill Taylor setting
him up and he writes back bill I believe
you are incorrect about president
Trump's intentions the president has
been crystal clear no quid pro quos of
any kind tethers the president is trying
to evaluate whether Ukraine is truly
going to adopt the transports it's
parentsí and reforms that zalenski
promised during his campaign
I suggest we stop back-and-forth by text
if you still have concerns I recommend
you give Lisa Kenna or s a call to
discuss with them directly in other
words holy crap
bill Taylor's willing wearing a wire
that's what he that's what he realizes
and that's what's going on there and
that's where we're at and that all came
out yesterday with Volcker and yeah I
think you're gonna see them fall in a
moment now let me just take a break here
to do some sponsors and then we're gonna
breath done I don't know if like you've
just broken my brand Sam or what I find
this chapter very compelling this
well this is like this is this is not
even the smoking gun this is the
watching the gunfire I like the scramble
I like like whoa but before we we do
anymore
