let's talk a little bit about Bernie
Sanders student debt Jubilee as it were
I don't think that's what they're
calling it but it's a proposal that
involves cancelling and well we should
just set it up this way as you know
Elizabeth Warren proposed six hundred
and forty billion dollars in student
debt Forgiveness Julian Castro
apparently has a even more modest
proposal
Warren's proposal would give forgive up
to fifty thousand dollars in student
debt for those earning $100,000 or for
about forty two million people
Castro's is a little bit more Byzantine
and but also reduces some of the debt
Bernie Sanders proposal is a little more
straightforward you have student debt
it'll be forgiven on top of which his
new plan calls for public four-year
colleges and community colleges these
are all public universities right so not
every college not the majority of
colleges not private colleges or
universities but public colleges each
state has a public university I think
each state does yes and each state has a
public university that would be free now
this is sounds like a radical idea we we
had this 3040 years ago 50 years ago I
don't know if it was exactly free but if
you were in a state you're in state
tuition it's still less than if you're
out of state for some places but it was
at zero or near zero New York California
Michigan other states
had this but we have cutback austerity
tax cuts less money coming from the
federal government etc etc and as the
cost of these public universities and
colleges goes up that creates upward
pressure on the tuition of private
universities so people the you know the
debt is not just the issue the cost of
public education of higher education has
just gone through the roof double
tripled over the past 15 20 years more
and how do you slow that you slow it by
giving a public option where people are
like I don't need to go into debt I can
go and get a good education for free
Sanders proposes to tax to have a
transaction tax on Wall Street which has
been shown that it should have
absolutely no impact on anything other
than the trades that take place on Wall
Street and it would be for high-volume
traders so the stories about pensions
paying big there should not be high
volume trading in your pension account I
should tell you that right now if you
have a pension account where there's
high volume trading your broker is
ripping you off
Sanders bill also includes 1.3 billion a
year for low-income students at
historically black colleges and
universities so in other words there
would be subsidies for people attending
black colleges and universities because
I think it's obvious maybe people don't
understand this but for most of our
history in this country our government
has had policies that have prevented
black people from gaining wealth our
Society for all of our history ongoing
has had not policies but reactions and
dynamics that have prevented black
people from building wealth and when you
can't build wealth you don't give it
back to your universities so the idea is
to build these universities build their
endowments build the the opportunities
for people graduating from there and
it'll be 48 billion dollars a year to
eliminate tuition and fees at public
schools and universities so what do you
do if you're trying to argue against a
policy that's so quite obviously
is extremely appealing to a large mass
of people in American public and we will
address the question of subsidizing the
middle class and the upper middle class
in terms of universities here because
let's be clear on who has to borrow
money right and what do you do we'll put
that we'll put that aside for the moment
what do you do if you're trying to argue
against this and you know that everyone
watching your TV show actually is like I
would like this well of course you could
just save the name of a country and
maybe that would help Bernie Sanders
later today is going to have a proposal
two days before the big debates down in
Miami he is talking about eliminating
1.6 trillion dollars worth of student
debt it would impact forty five million
Americans it would pay for and the way
they would pay for it is he would levy
0.5% tax on Wall Street Stock Exchange's
and they say it could raise two trillion
dollars over ten years free free free
here's his tweet Bernie Sanders finds
himself every time look at the polls he
gets worse so here's he's here's what
he's doing this is a truly revolutionary
proposal if he does say so himself all
Americans will get the college education
or job training they need while having
all student debt forgiven well bet we'll
bailed out Wall Street no wait it's time
to tax Wall Street's greed to help the
American people so Bernie Sanders taking
on Wall Street not unique paying off
everybody student loans and giving
people the sense that I can take out
money and not have to pay it back is a
concept I'm not familiar with for those
people who looked at as now suckers who
have paid back their student loan and
worked hard to do it that is must be
very hard pill to swallow on top of that
the issue is perfect student debt really
resonate especially with the middle
class lower class tends to get much more
grants upper class can afford it the
middle class says what about us we'll
give you loans next thing you know you
or tens of
dollars and you trying to get your first
job so the parents kind of help out as
well as the kids wants to help out the
kid can't move out so therefore it's a
cycle that I think we can address yeah
was it now wait a second now apparently
apparently Kilmeade has a secret plan to
address this but it does not involve
with anything that has been offered by
anybody on the Democratic side and of
course nobody on the Republican side has
offered anything like that's the problem
they start to talk about it and halfway
through their presentation they realize
like wait a second this is a problem I
was trying to generate a database of
black billionaires exactly who's gonna
pay off right kill me it's doing that
move that Bernie made fun of what that
FDR clip he responded to Hickenlooper
with and it's like cross my heart and
hope to die I want to do all these
things and we're not going to cost it
anybody and but he realizes as he's
saying it like oh we this is something
we got it I'm sure we could take care of
this in some way you'll need
accidentally gets into some quasi right
position hey yeah look there are a lot
of people who cannot simply afford to
send their kids to college and they hear
this and they love the idea it is very
powerful if you've ever been to a Bernie
Sanders rally there are a lot of people
who are in desperate situation and they
would they look to the federal
government for help
quote free sounds really good talk to
the people in Venezuela and see how free
works out for them and also to note it's
not just the rich people that will end
up paying for this debt Forgiveness
working-class people who maybe didn't
even go to college are going to end up
subsidizing the college education the
babies who are now gonna make a lot more
money because they went to college plus
it would be a 0.5 percent levy posit
posit now she doesn't really say how
these people are going to subsidize this
the transaction tax is so small that
it's only if you trade a lot pensions do
not trade a lot and if they do you are
getting ripped off
the whole idea of pensions is by hold
large assets classes of assets don't do
a lot of trading hold it for 25 years 35
years whatever it is I like how she's
sitting there clearly like Connect
Venezuela Venezuela can I be the one who
can pose Duffee needs a few more weeks
in double-a ball yeah I think so I think
we need to get sent back to Fox
streaming live or whatever their
internet property is and subsidizing the
college education abuse who are now
gonna make a lot more money because they
went to college plus it would be a 0.5
percent levy tax levy on all stock
transactions so if you got a 401 K
that's if you have any of that stuff
that could be impacted Bernie's gonna
lay out further plans later on in the
meantime what do you think about it Ken
emailed I hear many Democrats telling
everybody free health care free College
free child care with no out-of-pocket
costs what they're not saying is it will
be out of your paycheck yeah and maybe a
loss of freedom in that as well
a tweet from posit well it's not gonna
come out of your paycheck because again
it's a financial it's a transaction tax
on trades themselves so it's not gonna
come out of your paycheck and in terms
of your freedom I guess is she's
suggesting that what's gonna happen is
if you if you avail yourself of this
you're going to be rendered and flown to
Venezuela that's right that's actually
we I don't know why you would read the
secret part of the plan like that
I probably if you could just sign right
here that would be out of the little
brick on the way to Caracas is it will
be out of your paycheck
right and maybe a loss of freedom in
that as well a tweet from David it's
great that all these college kids would
get a tuition for given under Bernie's
plan while my wife and I are saving and
budgeting so we can cash flow to college
tuition posit well I've got some good
news for
he can send his kids to a well-funded
public institution unto Bernice plant a
plan and take that cash flow so yacht
baby or invest in your kids future or a
lot of opportunity for you there now if
you also have been saving and budgeting
good for you that's money you can spend
on other stuff yeah what he likes that
windfalls
listen David how about you go down to
the local marine retailer and find it
buy a new pontoon and name it the SS
Bernice and yeah exactly
there's nothing more uncomfortable than
having a huge cash windfall that you
didn't expect I really wanted to give
this to university Larry says I had to
work hard to pay off my student loans
will like it all that back I agree
that's what I'm picturing Larry you very
proud ripping out that last coupon which
I remember doing ripping the last coupon
saying no longer have to pay that dollar
amount every single month I think you
could work on the interest rate on these
loans why the government took them over
it doesn't seem to be working out but
going into their two-day deposit wait a
second that you could work on the
interest rates on these loans like
eliminate the interest limit is he
willing to do that he's starting to come
like around the Julian Castro plan I
mean they realized there's a massive
problem here and as far as Larry will he
get those back well I'll tell you what
Larry will get back I don't know what
Larry does for a living but the number
one thing inhibiting housing starts in
this country according to the National
housing construction organization its
student debt to forgive that student
debt is a huge stimulus to the economy
huge stimulus to the economy with people
who are gonna go out and buy new homes
buy existing homes they're gonna go out
and do other things we've freed them up
to do more socially useful jobs so Larry
will get a benefit it will not be a
direct one but he will get a benefit and
then once those are off and the
financial transaction tax is still there
guess what Larry hmm I'm gonna start to
lobby for four more benefits yeah
because we've already had that
transaction tax
it will also probably stabilize some of
assets in in the stock market as well
there are a lot of other beneficial
qualities to that you know I don't know
if the strongest public argument you
have is Solan people who already paid
off their student debts that's its weak
sad well it's fun it's fun once I didn't
because I'm smart well it's also funny
that like you know what about the people
why aren't you also pissed that college
is not free anymore like it was 30 years
ago right like there's a host of things
to be upset a bit of a various you're
gonna have that out of the 80s and early
90s where you can just be really angry I
guess you did get it on both ends
because because I was gonna say when did
Larry go to college but definitely not
in the sixties because you wouldn't had
anything to pay off yeah Larry
