[Music]
my sense is we were gonna bet right oh
yeah we have to do a few bets before we
get out of here we were gonna bet as to
whether Bernie Sanders enters the race I
am a little bit skeptical because
basically because of Elizabeth Warren's
proposal on on drugs because there were
everybody in the Senate who's running
came out with the drug proposal over the
past like month and a half like I had
literally like one is like they the drug
price Control Act and the Merkley and
Chloe Shar and Chad brown and Bernie
came out with one of his and they all
you know sort of complement each other
different hers is the most radical I
don't think it's you know like you know
the VA apparently started doing this at
the beginning of the year they started
to produce generic drugs when there was
spot shortages the VA actually like the
government in the government yeah Jeff
what she is calling for this when
there's a market failure in defining the
market failure as pretty broad yeah for
generic drugs and that is more socialist
than anything Bernie has proposed it is
the government and my my theory is that
she would not be picking Elaine her
policies would not be filling a lane to
the left of Bernie Sanders if Bernie
Sanders is gonna run she's gonna be the
person who's like Bernie Sanders but
safer yeah and that move sounds to me
like you're laying the groundwork cuz
you think Bernie's not gonna run now
maybe he is maybe isn't maybe she just
thinks he isn't whatnot but so let's
let's let's make a bet because this is
the big question right because
everything opens up if Bernie's not
there like people don't even there's a
huge percentage of Democrats on a
regular curve know who to hate yeah no
exactly no clue no not that hey only
upside of Bernie not running is to see
what all these people who do like where
everyone shade
here with a neighbor they have like this
is what our emotional meltdown because
that happy with these tactics get
applied to you know Cory Booker yeah are
these tactics get apply a very rabid
general I have just looked speaking of
so Bowie you don't think he's gonna run
you're putting yourself down for he's
gonna brawl putting five bucks in a pool
I don't know I know all right I have to
think I did too think about it for a
minute but I'll bet yeah he's not
running I say he's not running all right
but I'm sorry what were you saying I I
think he I think it depends on if he
sees numbers did well but of course it
depends a I'm gonna say I'm gonna think
he runs also he runs all right I'm gonna
say and and I'll maybe I'm my biases I
think that's that's interesting but I
also think like he essentially just did
a you know kitchen cabinet at the
Sanders Institute two weeks ago and not
only domestically with leading
progressives but essentially had like a
global contingent fly-in to Vermont to
beg him to run for president which is
like literally what Vera focus did there
he made sure that Haddad came within
Brazil so I actually think that the fact
he's spending so much time around
foreign policy is really interesting
because I think it's both where he wants
to go but it also opens up a whole other
Lane of daylight from somebody like an
Elizabeth Warren and you know that's not
gonna be particularly important to
getting voters but it definitely is
setting a whole new standard I think
like the issues he's putting markers
down on even if he does want her to move
towards him and run anyways I hope I got
what Perrine been he said running he's
running
okay Matt cuz I want all this cash yeah
you're gonna lap it in heidi
heitkamp of this
like a hedge fund guy you just playing
this bounce in the books I don't I just
have a feeling like it's it's Bernie but
if it's brainy versus the field and I
want Bernie I I just always expect to be
disappointed so I don't think he's gonna
actually run I can arbitrage all right
and I'm gonna say I'm gonna make another
prediction so it's we got 20 bucks in
the pool and I are gonna split it I
think you're gonna see I think well what
Bernie is gonna do with those people I
think that's gonna be part of the deal
no you want my support you yeah that's
broader I need this this in that I'll
tell you what Bernie's running for
Secretary of State he doesn't run no I
mean but look but it's but if he knows
this the why Warren knows this more than
anybody out in his life hey Chanel is
policy I'm all talk and I think Bernie
to learn that lesson we're gonna staff
these agencies and I actually have a
plan on democracy in Brazil and the Iran
deal then I mean the one thing that
would happen is I think any prevaricate
that people like us would have it's like
who our second pick is done immediately
support Elizabeth Warren in a heartbeat
like I think that would be a seamless
transition if they did it that way I I
think she would get a lot like at least
speaking for myself because I'm not
gonna I'm not gonna do the like who I'm
not sure you let's see well she's insane
she wins the left but she doesn't win
the ideologically incoherent but against
Clinton vote no but I guess who gets
that I don't know the Gabbard I mean I
guess they're I guess your name I guess
they're Biden or or bed up fighting our
beta I mean the upshot of bed oh is that
sure Brown I think sherrod Brown could
appeal to that type mm maybe I think the
upside of Beddoe is that he knocks Biden
out pretty quickly yeah he cancels Biden
out right there's no purpose of
and I've been much more bullish on
biting as a candidate than you but if
Beto's in why did you see that that
video of that that's going around now
that people are starting to dig up a
bite and like there's so much crowd out
he said I don't think actually I'm
pretty sure he won't do it no much
better he's done it I mean he has done
it twice it's like well here's your
loved uncle yeah but you know what
here's the thing I mean I don't know and
I think it's true with the Republican
side more than a democratic side but I
think this is changing too as recently
as ten years ago the conventional wisdom
is like you don't just run for president
it's a big decision you got to get your
family around you can realize you got to
go through all this hell yeah it's gonna
be a nightmare you're gonna destroy
yourself but that's not the case anymore
public my primary oh wait a second no
public a primary showed this and it's
more true I think what the Republicans
than it is the Democrats but running for
president particularly when there's more
than like five people running it's
pretty sweet get yeah
because all of a sudden you have
campaign paying for you to go do your
book tour right campaign going out to do
your social media promote you you're
gonna get a radio show you're gonna get
a book deal you're gonna get this is a
business plan totally I think right in
this case that I expel me when Joe Buck
would we want to go around when somebody
else is dying
I agree but have any audience I totally
drew it that's that's a right the egos
is strong but I read I read there was
some piece that came out in New York
magazine last week about this and first
of all important this lends itself
towards him running he actually has
turned down like they've actually people
offered Joe Biden like 20 million
dollars worth of speaking gig which he
has turned down because he doesn't want
to have a Hillary Clinton situation
which is savvy but on the other hands on
the other hands do you really want to go
from like beloved uncle Obama vice
president to like you run and all that's
gonna happen is he's just gonna like
every single well first of all
raaah he believes segregation he thinks
he's the only guy can be trumped I think
if he said the other day I think he
thinks anyone could be Trump it is first
cycle well I said two days ago I think
anybody could be Donald I agree with him
I don't think I mean I think he goes
into that but I also think that like he
could say to himself like his I keep my
head down a little bit I can be a guy
who the Prez
has to come to that's to come to me and
say what's it gonna take to get your
support yo and you know what I want to
be ambassador all right yeah secretary
secretary state yeah honestly for
anybody who isn't Bernie that's pretty
likely pick for Secretary of State
regardless of whether he runs or not
frankly I mean well you know this is the
type of thing like you you could say
like I can go out there and as long as I
just keep both for the thing with his
kid that's that's not like you know the
kid has passed away his wife remarried
the other kid I don't think he worries
about I mean oh man honestly like you're
just what salience is that gonna happen
run in 2016 but you're right today it
would die that's totally true
I just here's the answer I didn't have
my my imprisoned personal attorney look
Alex is there anything else that you
feel like we cannot enter 2019 without
having been said here oh my god I am NOT
that conversation made me dread the next
two years crap I just I keep focusing I
would say on the opportunity that is
yeah it's gonna be dismal we're gonna be
living in a society god help us
that those four Democratic appointees on
the Supreme Court
live to 2021 but can you indulge me for
twenty seconds with the Bernie becomes
president and the like Burlington
College scandal blows up and said this
is on TV be like well what he did was he
ratted he's a rat should be illegal what
they do is they go they find rats
