[Music]
actually I'd prefer to spend some time
on this John Bolton was speaking with
Jake Tapper and uh look this is so
interesting because this whole effort
towards this Venezuela coup and threats
of invasion first of all look at Trudeau
and the end the the pseudo woke scandal
engulfed Canadian government Trudeau
signed up on efforts at regime change in
Venezuela but has been I believe
photographed with the Haitian president
who organic non outside engineered
interests are demanding he be removed
Haiti has one of the most important
social movements happening in the world
today right now go to the tea MBS
channel and watch the history of it with
France fence wah
and again there's organic opposition
inside Venezuela and the Venezuelan
government has absolutely committed
abuses there's no doubt
Kent silverstein just wrote a really
good report there from the new
Republicans look look made plenty of
mistakes on the other hand the talk of
crisis is manufactured and made up and
most Venezuelans even if they oppose
Maduro do not want a u.s. engineered
regime change this should not be that
complicated to figure out the Trudeau
their resistance people the people who
are so naive that somehow they're able
to rightly say that Donald Trump is a
racist monster who rips children out of
their parents arms all of a sudden oh no
but no in Venezuela I mean obviously
that would be the one case where of
course there's genuine human concern
here and as evidenced by the fact that
his his point person is literally a
ghoul going back to the 1980s who has
done spin and cover for every type of
death squad and mass murder available
imaginable in Latin America not to
mention also tremendously harmful work
in the Middle East of course I'm talking
about Elliott Abrams at least this
administration you know Amber Lee frost
had a great piece about why leftist
don't like to near our times but we like
the financial time
and the one of the things she said was
she said you know there are times
doesn't know that we're in a fight
Financial Times is on I'm paraphrasing
here the Financial Times they're on the
different side of it but at least they
know we're in conflict here so don't
listen to the nonsense you know Bill and
Hillary Clinton tweeting out you know oh
but it's time for the Venezuelan people
and blah blah blah all this nonsense
this is John Bolton telling you exactly
what is going on with US policy in
Venezuela but do you not see that the
United States support for other brutal
dictators around the world undermines
the the credibility of the argument
you're making no I don't think it does I
think it's separate and I think look in
this administration we're not afraid to
use the phrase Monroe Doctrine this this
is a country in our hemisphere
it's been the objective of American
presidents going back to Ronald Reagan
to have a completely democratic
hemisphere I there you go well I think
the word he was actually looking for was
capitalist well well and also you know
the tapper sure is right to point out
the hypocrisy but the appropriate
follow-up question which tapper did not
ask is what about literally you know I
mean again over 49 coos death squads
your point person on Venezuela was lied
to Congress about iran-contra was
involved in covering up some of the
worst massacres in human history and El
Salvador a genocide in Nicaragua how
does that fit but Bolton he said it I
mean the first point was the important
point this is the Monroe Doctrine it's
our regional Imperial hegemony that's
what this is about
and that's why again and a broader
conversation of course there should be a
serious analysis event as well and of
course anybody who tells you that
there's no problems there and there's no
corruption there's no abuses is either
being tremendously naive or usually
ideological or lying but at the same
time you need to recognize that the
strategic context of what a US
intervention is this is a US government
that even under Obama was already
backing a coup in Honduras that removed
a moderate Manuel Zelaya
that culminated in the assassination of
Berta Kenton
in 2015 by paramilitaries in a Honduran
far-right government backed by us this
is a government that participated and
backed the law fair that made Lula a
conciliatory social democrat who managed
to deliver huge things for the Brazilian
people while trying to strike deals with
the oligarchs in his country and Western
capital but but importantly I do think
refused to denationalized vital oil
reserves and I think that is where the
relationship broke down so be real let
alone when you're talking about Trump
who again as all resistance people
constantly rightly say is a racist
monster who has no human concern for
anybody so the notion that all of a
sudden it's like Trump just it's like
yeah I mean I don't care but when it
comes to Venezuela there's a lot of tens
there I really care about their
well-being if he cared about their
well-being incidentally why is he
deporting so many Venezuelans back to
this hellhole I mean you think
Venezuela's not part of this white
supremists war on people of color from
Donald Trump's ice regime I mean god
it's like in another context I'll quote
a Hood Olmert like are you being naive
well I think this is the year when
people have to say the quiet parts out
loud and they have to say what they
really mean and what they really believe
about things and this is another one of
those instances where you can't be a
fence sitter there are two choices
there's a quite Oh a representative of
neoliberalism and the ruling class
that's going to impose further suffering
much worse than the Venezuelan people
have seen so far and there's Maduro
which is the other choice which every
leftist that i've spoken to from
venezuela has some form of critical
support for Maduro because he's better
than the alternative well and also again
even i agree with that and lift
sanctions i mean that's the other thing
too is if you wanted an organic process
where you could allow for a possibility
of a left opposition to a murder
without being suppressed as it has been
inside the Bolivarian movement by
bandura
you would list sanctions which is the
primary cause I mean there's no doubt
that there's a huge amount of corruption
and mismanagement the Venezuelan
government that the sanctions are
overwhelming you could actually
contribute to an open society in
Venezuela and the emergence of movements
that are still democratic and autonomous
inside this left formation power to the
communes which could win right and that
could actually be an alternative power
source but of course it's literally the
last thing that the United States
government or even you know of course
obviously you know again not good faith
people in Venezuela who are I know you
know like it's not no people who's like
no they don't support the opposition but
they don't support Maduro because it's
things are not good right fine
but they don't support US intervention
and they don't support quite Oh a period
but you know it goes without saying that
there's the oligarchs and u.s. foreign
policy do not want a democratic
opposition to restore the Bolivarian
movement they want a right-wing pliant
client state where all of the problems
will get even worse I mean you you think
that a right-wing Venezuelan us-backed
government is gonna be the oh so oh yeah
we should really we should clean up the
cartel stuff yeah you know u.s. foreign
policy in Latin America is known for
cracking down on military abuses and
drug trafficking that's something you'll
learn if you study US history in
Venezuela so I think yeah the best case
is to have a critical engagement and
understand the Bolivarian movement and
drill into Venezuela and think
critically about it but honestly you
could just if you want to you could just
save yourself some time and say I oppose
a coup and an invasion period there's
actually nothing more in a functional
political level that you have to do yep
cuz that's the bottom line right this is
another area where Bernie Sanders is far
and away the best candidate for
president okay whole CGI believed on the
right noises on this - sure
case I gotta get he understands this
stuff he stands against meddling in
Latin American countries he knows the
history and you know a lot of the other
candidates don't really have a foreign
policy and if you don't have a foreign
policy guess what your foreign policy in
office is gonna be it's gonna be the
bipartisan neocon consensus that has
already done so much damage to the world
precisely it's gonna be all those like
liberal foreign policy people who were
surprised at the negative reaction
Elliott Abrams got yeah it's just like I
know Elliot Ames we have coffee together
nice he's a nice man oh he covered up a
massacre where they literally drank
children's blood it was the Cold War it
was remarkable seeing the people who
have built followings of like liberal
left people but they're part of the blob
completely caught off guard that people
might have issues with Elliott Abrams
like that that's a stare delusion I've
saw it like this there is such a thing
as cognitive capture it isn't all
material there's also genuinely Sam
Harris a suit who's bad believes your
call
