[Music]
can you hear me all right
could you tell me your name again door
door yo are okay what's on you where you
calling from door yeah
I'm pulling from Israel
how you doing what's on your mind man
you know about coming in you know
getting your take about the elections
I've been somewhat peer pressured by my
other leftist friends too I'm sorry
about the cabin doors to dock not those
who like an actual leftist party but
Trevor to like this new central party
that's the whole purpose is to just be
able to you know be posing to meow
getting out about this mm-hmm but in
terms of like the peace process or
anything they don't really have anything
you know we don't really have much of a
video game play right you're talking
about Benny gay like the Benny Gant's
coalition exactly and I think one would
be remiss to not mention that Ben gang
was there israeli chief of staff during
the 2014 yeah absolutely
there were like 30 percent people
calliope you not gorilla million no they
got operations in 2014 were so vicious
and so brutal targeting Gaza that Joe
Scarborough did a segment saying like
what's going on here because they bombed
the UN school I mean when you have Joe
Scarborough talking about Palestinian
humanity do you realize how you know I
mean the obscenity of the crime was that
Israel engaged in in 2014 would be hard
I think for most people to comprehend so
yeah I mean look I can't I I feel really
weird telling people in other places you
know I just could tell you how I would
vote
I would vote for a left party because to
me and granted I'm not of course things
like you know fiscal policies and
austerity versus non austerity policies
matter I don't necessarily know that the
centrist coalition is necessarily even
that much better on those things in the
end Yahoo but to me like you know you
just can't you can't think about or vote
or analyze Israel outside of the
occupation you can't I mean that is the
central defining characteristic of the
place so you know I would have to
register I mean that last election cycle
I certainly would have voted for the
joint list and you know those are the
parties I support in Israel if I was
voting in Israeli elections for sure
right now utilitarian valued for keeping
Netanyahu and placing him within you say
that the world still hasn't learned to
despise so to speak I think there is a
truth that Netanyahu is very easy to
dislike and he's you know a horrible
brand ambassador for Israel and he's
distinctly unlikable I think that that's
true good that's probably a good thing
I mean fried American context he's put
himself in the context of you know House
Republicans right I mean when you have
beta O'Rourke which he did again at a
campaign rally yesterday saying
Netanyahu's a racist Netanyahu's doing
some work for slightly clarifying
although it also goes the other way
because he's such an obvious villain and
he's such an obvious creature of the far
extreme right and a Republican yeah that
it's easy to personalize a policy to him
that as you know as a policy right like
and there's a lot of structural factors
behind where Israel has been and then
even more so like where it's going right
so I think it goes both ways I think in
some ways yes Netanyahu obviously
horrible for the brand of Israel because
he's just such an unlikable person but
on the other hand there's gonna be I
think that's actually gonna be the new
democratic move right
it's increasingly untenable to defend
Israel if you're running any type of
modern center-left campaign so what are
you gonna do you're gonna isolate it to
one particularly unlikable person versus
a policy that frankly I mean as you know
literally goes back to 1967 I mean you
know these are and the expansion of
settlements has actually in sight at
some times the rate of increase has been
faster under labor and I think you know
a guy like a hoot omerta who I actually
really you know where I differ from some
other people on the Left I would not put
him in the same category as Netanyahu I
do think they represent different things
but I also know that you know he is
responsible for incredible war crimes
during his tenure of as Prime Minister
so you know I don't know III don't I I
don't know the answer I know how I would
vote I would rather a joint list
candidate for sure right you wouldn't
you wouldn't be going likes being
strategic about it like and because I
think it's out of parallel to us like
the dilemma the lefties have in America
for 2020 like do are we being pragmatic
with our vote or you know why are we
voting what we want you like
ideologically I wonder I mean you could
be right I just don't know if to me like
in the United States there's still
enough even the worst possible choices
right like if Hillary Clinton's kept in
the Iran agreement and you saved a
couple of Supreme Court seats that
already is enough of material difference
on people's lives
now again I'm speaking from the
perspective that maybe if you were to
tell me that there was a party in Israel
that was terrible and you know totally
pro apartheid and so on but was going to
significantly reverse austerity and
privatization then I would say look
that's a more complicated choice I don't
know what to tell you but my
understanding of voting left in Israel
is that in fact like the jointless
parties are also
primarily socialist so you're sort of
registering what you want to domestic
policy as well I don't I mean when I see
these centrist parties run it seems to
me that the primary agenda is just that
Netanyahu's an and will look
better internationally without him no
difference on domestic policy and no
difference on foreign policy so I know
that's kind of where you know yes I
think if you had someone like Olmert
running saying that I'm actually going
to these are the specific concessions
I'm gonna get like I'm a you know I'm
pretty open about being a sort of a
bi-national democracy guy but if you had
a campaign that set off one candidate
saying we're gonna give up the West Bank
no and pull out of Gaza versus
Netanyahu saying I'm gonna annex the
West Bank then I would say you got to
vote pragmatically I would say that but
that doesn't seem to be an option right
now
oh by the way sorry had like an election
ad M but extra dough it kind of looks
like fan theater I could send it to you
by then I am okay that sounds funny take
a look at that oh good we need Israel to
do better ostensibly all right good luck
man thank you good luck take care I feel
for leftist in Israel I mean I feel
kinship had left us everywhere obviously
but it really sucks to be on the left in
Israel man yeah well you have to join
the army you have to join the army you
have to I mean I think what people
really don't understand about like
there's all these fights between say
like leftists and liberals or whatever
and some of them are real some of them
are actual things that matter some of
them are just sort of silly brands
positioning but you have like a basic
there's some sort of shared parameters
on like I'm not even talking like ultra
wokes
but this like super basic like hey
racism is bad right and I'm telling you
like you cuz is real like that is not
the ballgame like they're they're like
they have moretz is like the closest
like Democratic Party positions on this
stuff and they are totally obscure
marginal party at this point and labor
is not like that like labor does not
echo those same sort of like basic civil
society sentiments like it is a
massively racist society and only
getting more so oh but I hear there is a
viable candidate who wants to legalize
marijuana so that makes it all okay
right that's a good point well let's
actually play this this is important
these are this is some video footage
from these what's happening in Israel on
Election Day so several years ago when
Netanyahu ran for re-election he put out
a video at the last minute warning that
Arabs were coming out to vote um and
said and Rianne affirmed that he opposed
the two-state solution he reversed
himself after he won but everybody knows
what his position is this time with the
act of support of the Trump
administration he's promised to annex
the West Bank which again this is just a
formalization of what already is so but
that's a that is a formal apartheid
declaration I mean that is we are going
to into perpetuity govern another group
of people and control their movements
and bodies and they're not gonna have
political representation now again that
has been the case for decades but
there's always been the notion that in
the mainstream we'll stop that at some
point and clearly they won't and clearly
that's not where his political coalition
is but they're stepping off of that then
there's the question of what's inside 67
borders is there a real democracy and it
is more complicated and it's different
than obviously being in the West Bank or
Gaza but it is not a full democracy for
everybody and this is reports and
granted this is some of the complexity
of Israel because in this case
apparently election monitors and police
are actually disrupting this but these
this is a young man who says he's from
la cude and Netanyahu and he's putting
cameras inside our voting stations our
predominate voting stations - apparently
monitor them while they vote and the
people are saying what are you doing
here and he's saying like I was sent by
like the governing party to do this
saying like ooh these are complicated
cameras and reporting and I think Nana
who will probably win um I do I think
he'll be returned to power um what does
that make of his corruption charges well
the really interesting thing about the
corruption charges is that they're not
just standard corruption charges I mean
there are actually charges that
implicate like the Free Press in Israel
because part of it is using the leverage
of Sheldon Adelson has a free newspaper
that he prints in Israel that runs
pro-government propaganda essentially
and Netanyahu part of the charges
against him are him leaning on other
press outlets for better press coverage
apparently I don't know I mean on the
other hand Israel's like has extremely
corrupt politics and I don't think that
you know all mert served the prison
sentence for corruption there's all
sorts of allegations against other
senior officials I don't I don't know I
don't think we'll make such a big
difference
