[Music]
lastly speaks very highly of Barack
Obama had no idea
Barack Obama does not get the credit he
deserves in trying to de-escalate our
imperialism and our militarism around
the world apparently and this is
breaking news according to the president
United States he entered office military
did not have any bullets let's play this
for us the UK was very thrilled at this
decision as you know they're over there
they have soldiers over there also and
others but many people agree with it
very strongly and I understand both
sides so but I fully understand both
sides of it but I campaigned on the fact
that I was going to bring our or
soldiers home and bring them home as
rapidly as possible was it for one
second he is talking about trying to
explain his decision to essentially
screw over the Kurds I mean let's be
clear to these troops in that area
whenever you're in the field you're in
harm's way but this is a demilitarized
you know it's supposed to be a
demilitarized zone I mean they're trying
to maintain at least they're really
basically there as a buffer zone I don't
wanna say a peacekeeping force but it's
pretty close but good as rapidly as
possible
I we all together you we defeated and
took over 100% of the ISIS calabaza I'm
sorry I've got to do that again did you
notice how he said I and then he
remembered oh they told me not to say I
I didn't defeat it we you all of us all
of us literally none of us right right
nobody here maybe he's pointing there
could be some military personnel in
front of him who may have come back from
the field what I defeated I mean we you
I he catches himself go back and play
that because it takes him about 15
seconds to forget that he was supposed
to attribute it to other people besides
himself as rapidly as possible i we all
together you we defeated and took over
100 percent of the Isis Caliphate
everybody said that was going to be an
impossible thing to do I did it and I
did it quickly because we have a
military quickly when I took over a
military we didn't have ammunition I was
told by a top general maybe the top of
them all sir I'm sorry sir we don't have
a Malaysian I said I'll never let
president have that happen to him or her
we didn't have ammunition
now we've captured Isis we've done what
we've done we had 50 soldiers in the
area you're talking about and I said we
want to bring our so first off I want to
thank Barack Obama for getting rid of
all the ammunition that the military is
supposed to have pretty stunning stuff
that they've been able to keep this
under their hat for this long that
there's been no ammunition I like the
idea of like general maybe the top
general maybe I don't know we don't know
maybe it could be a top general I like
how he remembers not to just say I and
then forgets again immediately it took
one second it took like I already I did
the effort I did it and so I'm not gonna
do it again
Obama had us perfectly set up for a
violent revolution we thought it was
impossible totally drop the ball the
time is the time to do this the time to
do it was when they had no ammunition
now that windows closed
