[Music]
welcome to the program Anna thanks for
having me so rise the power you don't
say yeah just a little bit I mean I
suppose we could start with the with the
president who was one of the chief
purveyors it seems to me of the birther
conspiracy about about Barack Obama but
I mean I don't know I mean I think
people are probably familiar with his
trajectory well but let's talk about I
mean the I mean and and I want to cover
I mean obviously we've talked on this
program about pizza gate about South
rich and and and certainly in terms of
what what you call Russia gate but let's
let's start with the just overall
perspective on conspiracies I mean this
isn't the conspiracy theories I mean the
the existence of conspiracy theories you
write is nothing new what rain what
makes it different now so I think
pointing out that Donald Trump sort of
rise to actual political prominence
started with birtherism is important
because we saw the ways that he realized
that using conspiracy theories was a way
to create a base to appeal to the right
wing it was a way for him to you know
create some measure of attention for
himself so what we've seen over the last
few years is the idea this resurgence of
the idea that promoting conspiracy
theories can sort of tie all these
pretty strange disparate groups together
and can give them some actual political
influence in the mainstream so I mean in
and I guess it's a good time to address
like whether to what extent it's
relevant the propagators or the
amplifiers of these conspiracy theories
actually believe in them right yeah that
comes up a lot you know when I talk to
people about folks like Alex Jones at
I would argue that it doesn't really
matter you know or this comes up a lot
with Donald Trump specifically it does
he really believe those or is he just
making this claim you know for attention
and for political gain and what matters
is that he's making it what matters is
that he and Alex Jones and other people
are trying to promote these ideas and in
some cases have spent a really really
long time doing it or someone like Roger
stone you know who is a known sort of
troll you know a self-described dirty
tricks artist it's unclear what Roger
stone or Donald Trump or Alex Jones
believed in their heart of hearts but we
know what they spend their time doing
and trying to promote so but what is
different about this era in terms of of
the salience of this I mean I mean
obviously you know conspiracy theories
like we say go back a long time and
they're not you know even pre social
media right they were there I I
distinctly recall being in Gary Busey's
house it's a long story
but he had a series of VHS tapes that
were all about changelings in Mount
Shasta and he claimed that if we watch
these we would have to go into the
witness protection program now and we're
still shrink-wrapped he had not opened
them themselves but but they were you
know who's out there like David iki and
that whole crew like what what is it
yeah like what is what's the difference
now that's more self-control than I
would have given Gary Busey good for him
that was the best as he got believe it
so I we know that conspiracy theories
are an element especially of American
society and around the world but we also
know that conspiracy theories are
strongest typically among people who are
disempowered or disenfranchised to give
people a way to explain systems that are
not working well forces that they feel
arrayed against them systems in the
United States like the healthcare
industry of the financial industry that
feel exploitative or you know when
people's favorite political party is not
empower they tend to turn to conspiracy
theories what we're seeing right now is
a resurgence of conspiracy thinking used
by the hands of powerful people and the
powerless
alike the other thing that we're
obviously seeing is the rise of social
media and the way that social media
allows the spread of conspiracy theories
and also though I think this can be over
discussed to a degree but organized
troll organizations like the internet
research agency and Russia or bots who
can aid in the spread of conspiracy
theories so we're seeing this mixture of
political influences and also sort of
organic and inorganic means to spread
conspiracy theories across social media
so we're seeing this really unholy
confluence of stuff that is leading to
the prominence and power and force of
conspiracy theories in a way that we
haven't seen for a really long time
there's a lot to unpack there but how
much of of the I mean you talk about the
the data shows that you know people who
are just broadly powerless I guess that
can mean economically powerless
politically powerless or even I think
you know sort of in some type of
asymmetrical information dynamic as it
were I mean at some level it strikes me
as these things are are like religions
in some way right like the people's
ability to deal with modernity is is
just overwhelmed and they turn to these
things that are basically neat neatly
describe what's going on well yes I
think religion there are a lot of
studies to show that the deeper somebody
gets into conspiracy thinking the more
it sort of resembles religious faith it
actually a lot of conspiracy theories
though don't make things particularly
neat or particularly tidy you know like
the the archetypal conspiracy image
besides the tinfoil hat is that guy from
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia
standing in front of a bulletin board
filled with photos you know tied
together with red string like a very
chaotic image you know and so a lot of
times conspiracy theories don't make a
neat explanation but what they do is
they point really clearly at who to
blame who to be mad at and that in a way
is just as important for people as
having a tidy narrative a lot of
conspiracy theories you know give people
purpose and meaning to
and direction to their lives but they do
it by creating a common enemy that's
interesting I mean I guess the that
though it occurs to me though that
though that is not neat with the
different sort of like pictures there is
a sense that there is a neat explanation
out there right it's just like it's a
question of it's out there and we're
just going to find it and which is also
I guess sort of very much a religious
exercise but you also talked about there
are there seemed to be sort of I guess
of various levels of I mean so much of
this cuts like in multiple different
planes but there seems to be sort of
like various levels of I don't know if
justification or legitimacy for pursuing
conspiracy theories but but in the
african-american community there's
there's a burning or has always been a
market for conspiracy theories largely
because of some almost unbelievable
things that have been done to that
community it would discuss that part of
it yeah I mean my book that's about
conspiracy theories among black
Americans and the reason why they are
unique is because they tend to tie
really directly to actual things that
happen to black people over the course
of this country's history so one thing
that I talk about in a lot of detail is
the idea that during Hurricane Katrina
the levees were bombed on purpose to
drown black neighborhoods on purpose and
drive people out and rebuild the city
you know in a way more amenable to
wealthy white people and so while we
don't have any evidence that that
happened and there's a lot more evidence
that the levees just failed we do know
that the levees just outside the city
were purposely bombed during the great
flood in the 1920s and so the idea there
is that a lot of conspiracy theories in
the black community tie in directly to
something that really did happen you
know another really good example is that
there's a lot of medical conspiracy
theories and a lot of distrust it's very
hard to get people in the black
community to participate in that
trials for new drugs and that is because
of things like the Tuskegee Experiment
where black veterans were who had
syphilis were allowed to remain infected
with syphilis for a very long time long
after the government knew what cured
syphilis because the government wanted
to you know track the progression of the
disease and see how it worked and so
there are all these examples of things
that you know um some number of black
Americans have come to believe because
it is not that crazy to believe it
so this is really different than
something like say queuing on or Pizza
Gate where it it has sort of less
emotional and historical legitimacy an
appeal I mean so let's let's talk about
like what queue and on and pizza gate
and and and where that where those come
from because it's so I mean these are
people theoretically in power on some
level right right
yeah I mean I think it's really really
important to sort of recognize that you
know both Pizza Gate and Kieran are
fundamentally well so Pizza Gate arose
during the 2016 elections and it was
promoted by people who wanted who had a
political reason to say that Democrats
were part of a child sex trafficking
ring happening in the basement of the
pizza parlor and pizza gate was
effective and it was part of a number of
strategies to you know try to create
distrust and division and sort of smears
and then q and on fundamentally is a
conspiracy theory that Donald Trump is
secretly doing a really good job you
know and that his supporters you know
only need to wait and soon he will you
know arrest all the evildoers finally
put Hillary Clinton in jail so at their
core they are an idea that there is this
sort of secret powerful group of sexual
predators and that Donald Trump and
people connected to Donald Trump are
fighting them in secret I mean this is
this is where where Joan Alex Jones was
- I mean it was it was it there was a
certain amount of-of
of pretzeling that had to
happen it's the only me right because
Alex Jones is like you know the
globalists will never let Donald Trump
take office which yeah it was a great
thing to say when you were like everyone
else
assuming that Donald Trump is not going
to win when he wins it completely
undercuts the fact that there's this
all-powerful cabal at the the head of
the world essentially because how could
they possibly not be able to pick the
American president what's the plan yeah
well that's that's where the deep state
comes in that's where the idea the deep
state comes in that they you know tried
mightily to prevent Donald Trump from
winning but when they couldn't prevent
it they then set themselves out to you
know work for his destruction for his
whole presidency right but also you'll
notice that Alex Jones so I had
something in my book that we ultimately
took out but the day before Trump was
inaugurated Alex Jones recorded like a
special episode of Infowars it sounded
like he was on an airplane and he's sort
of like whispering hoarsely into his
audio recorder and he's having a
meltdown and he's saying I know that the
inauguration is not gonna happen you
know they're not gonna let it happen
it's not gonna take place I wish I could
tell you what I know and then of course
it's just never mentioned again you know
that he's claiming to have evidence of
this plot but yeah it's very confusing
for people at some level who
fundamentally believe themselves to be
fighting this all-powerful system from
the outside and to realize oh wait no I
suddenly have a much larger degree of
power than I thought I did do we have
any sense of what of how you know the
the I guess the followers of an Alex
Jones to what extent they would take him
seriously and to the extent that they
did like how did they deal with that I
mean I know like you know I've seen
research on melanistic cults where you
know the world's gonna end on Tuesday
and then Tuesday comes and the cult
leader says you know why it didn't is
because Bernie wore shoes and you're not
supposed to wear shoes and so the new
date is you know within three years that
type of thing right right I mean I think
that you know most people I've talked to
and I've been to a lot of conspiracy
related events most people tell me
specific
that they take Alex Jones with a grain
of salt you know and they do their own
research and that they find their own
facts but I think also it's really hard
to underestimate the power of people to
just sort of create new narratives as
soon as the old one doesn't work out you
know a lot of those doomsday cults that
you reference they don't disband the day
after the world doesn't end right but
some of them hang on for years you know
I mean it's very hard to talk yourself
out of an idea once that idea is in your
head and it's far easier to just sort of
slightly rework it to make it more or
less jibe with reality as you now see it
right because none of this is really so
much about idea of these specific ideas
themselves it really has more to do with
I mean are there do we have any data or
we do how do we understand who is
susceptible to conspiracy theories or is
that really a wrong question so most
people in the United States specifically
believe in at least one conspiracy
theory 50% of us one-in-three most of us
so with the type of conspiracy theory
that you believe really has a lot to do
with what your political and social and
economic persuasions are and also like
in my experience sort of how the systems
of power in this country have treated
you personally like you and I are people
who have some degree of of power of
legitimacy I don't think either of us
have been particularly badly treated by
the institutions in this country so we
have less need for conspiracy thinking
and that's a useful way to think about
it is what a conspiracy theories do for
people what do they provide in the face
of their particular life circumstances
and in the case of like you know sort of
white supremacist they are also
developing theories to explain away like
why they're not actually supreme
yeah I mean I think again this is where
the idea of a deep state or a global
cabal comes in right this idea that like
they would be supreme genetically their
supreme but you know because of these
secret rulers of the world they can't
get ahead the Jews oh you know you mean
yeah the Jews a lot a lot of stuff about
the Jews in there it's amazing how often
the Jews come up and I do not just say
this because I am Jewish and perhaps
somewhat attuned to it but really you
know um Kelly wheel at The Daily Beast
writes a lot about Flat Earth or ism and
she noted something to me recently that
I had also been seeing which is that
even flat earth communities eventually
turn into like Holocaust denial you know
like there are so many conspiracy
communities where the terminal' stop on
the train is some form of anti-semitism
in ways that is really surprising at one
point we have to wonder like is that a
coincidence or is there something - it
is very useful to have a group of evil
outsiders who we blame for a myriad of
world events and when all else fails we
have the Jews for that right you know
like it is one of the oldest and deepest
sort of conspiratorial ideas so it's
just fundamentally it's still around
because it's useful we Jews may end up
being like the deus ex machina of all of
these of all these things when you've
run out of being able to make any type
of logical steps the Jews step in to
basically short-circuit I mean I always
tell these guys and they're always guys
that I end up talking to who are white
supremacists you know you think about
the Jews way more than I do you know
like this is something that occupies you
more far more than it occupies me but
that's because you know it has a purpose
for them
