a second of this I literally couldn't
sit through this debate but I know many
of you would enjoy this I can't sit
through it for two reasons one I'm legit
uncomfortable watching Tim Poole deal
with Sam I'm not gonna lie I don't know
much about Tim Poole
he seems like he's you know some type of
IDW a jacinth guy his space has always
been very bizarre to me like what space
he occupies in the online discourse or
whatever you want to call it because I
mean I worked with him at when I was at
fusion okay I hired him to a huge
contract nice guy I guess I mean he
seems like the type of person who it's
like you know and it's funny because
it's like the type of dynamic that I I
get annoyed with wokes Gold's with this
and of course I utterly loathe
reactionaries on this but like the type
of guy who would probably be like you
know I don't know from what I've seen of
him like you know global corporations
are burning the Amazon but like have you
seen this new thing that the OL Berlin
students are doing that's ridiculous
folks like kind of that sort of lain on
you know basically just utterly boring i
off the ball and probably probably
whitewashing for some of the worst
people in this country what's his deal
is he a conservative I think he's one of
these people who like always happens to
align with conservatives but isn't
conservative I don't really honestly I
don't really know I haven't done the
deep dive on Tim poll yet uh and after
watching this if this is what he has to
offer it literally makes me embarrassed
to watch and you know Sam here clearly
is like oh I live finish stupid
arguments that make no sense over Skype
yes please I'm gonna lock my children in
the other room all right guys I honestly
this watching Tim will say this
literally makes me embarrassed also
shout-out to Brendan caret I think on
Twitter who edited the video just
slightly Jesus Christ and look at Sam
and the oh my god the eyebrows licking
is a shock
chops licking big glasses nose
everything is just oh oh oh debate okay
I would vote for someone who is gonna
create less concentration all right
pause I'm sorry this goes back to what
paws ate this is a piece of majority
report lore uh I think it was like I
think it was during the Obama election
where basically Sam said you know if one
kid it's proposing thirty concentration
camps and another proposes ten I'm
voting for the one who proposes ten now
I understand why people find this
particular experiment to be off-putting
but the very obvious and not
particularly hard to figure out point
here is that voting unless you have the
opportunity to vote for like a Bernie
Sanders is and certainly in 2012 was a
highly utilitarian activity and you were
putting a choice there is a column a
column B choice both are gonna cause a
huge amount of injustice and suffering
one less than the other so what you do
is you go and you opt for less suffering
because voting is not really about a
personal expression of your essence it's
about a practical activity so I you know
I might have used a different metaphor
but that's all Sam is saying it's it's
pretty freakin simple but let's let's uh
let's see how this goes in a freshman
philosophy bong joke direction I would
vote for someone who is gonna create
less concentration camps so your your
willingness to put your weight behind
somebody who's gonna make concentration
camps no I'm not willing to put my I'm
willing to put my weight behind
diminishing the number of concentration
camps I think that before you go it's a
really great point that I think may
separate its utilitarianism versus
deontology ISM that you you're
quantifying versus I'm not you see that
I'm not saying you're wrong I'm saying
your philosophical standard is the
minimization of harm and mine is more
about the individual is this
you know I mean like yeah I'm curious
about the second part of that you said
you know what I mean because I really
don't oh sorry so minimize you do
philosophies about yulian violating the
ethics of an individual is violating
ethics regardless and yours is
minimization of harm is better so
utilitarian versus deontological from my
standpoint committing one on ethical act
is a violation of principle and ethics
that can't be crossed but I will admit
there's not like a hard line I think
that is silly but they're very strong
philosophical positions I believe that
less suffering is better and that I am
willing to you know I'll tell you
something you know that's the outcome
but about I'll tell you something you're
not gonna want to hear and and I admit
it's it's a I'll call it dickish
utilitarianism is typically the villain
in most movies I don't care yeah so so
for instance like Thanos
always the was utilitarian and Captain
America was deontological I didn't so
vanos willing to reduce the suffering by
killing you know hundreds of trillions
versus the you know thousands of
trillions which would be living better
off so or
like but I'm movies I I'm not having to
kill anybody
I'm just voting and true I mean if you
vote in favor of somebody's gonna build
a concentration camp you are know one of
these people is gonna win Jim you don't
understand that I'm like physically
embarrassed watching that down to the
point that like we've all done a dumb
reference we've all done you know we've
all had something in our head we thought
was funny or more clever but oh my god
the dude is talking about voting and you
think like you know Sam I hate to spring
this on you but you're the villain in a
Marvel movie you've never seen sorry to
give you the bad news and then of course
like this is the day you know it's funny
because I look I know
I can be a dick sure but the difference
between me and Sam is that I depending
on the mood I was in might actually
laugh uncomfortably and go uh-huh I
guess I got to see that movie jesus
 christ who am I talking to Sam
is just gonna give you know I don't care
and just give you his best like I did
three and a half semester I did two
semesters at Boston University Law
School it's devastating
hashtag bully the right people I mean
you know what I have no doubt that I'm
gonna read more about him a pool and
feel totally comfortable that bullying
session but as a on a human level that
to me was like that was like watching
LeBron like stuff a fourth grader like
if that gets that type of just visceral
like all right LeBron like wait for it
like you know throwing the ball up not
even shooting it throw up and then and
then instead of being like the nice like
you know what you're supposed to do
which is like catch it and then dunk it
oh look at that
LeBron just goes like LeBron just treats
the kid like a Hong Kong protester
stuffs it in his face that was what
washing that was like to me it was just
like I know that he thought that that
was a gotcha premises argument in
support of like the Avengers with Sam is
like one of the worst things you can do
[Music]
will dismiss like like at times like
important theoretical distinctions in
the pursuit of like his you know OJ
attorney argument and you're gonna come
at me or come at him with a frigging
Avengers movie argument I'll Avengers
movie um I am still embarrassed from
seeing that and he giggled like he had
something and Sam never gets tired of
it's either nostos like Sam is like
texting H John pitch-black
you see it's like extremely his but
you know what better Tim Poole than me
so I'm happy about it I can't believe I
don't think that that exchange attempt
pool is gonna help steven crowder or
dave rubin agree you know you know you
kind of like the guy in the New Avengers
movie oh good point if he's trying to
get Crowder to debate him maybe he
should pretend that he's like a nice
debater for a while
you know one guy actually he said to me
like he said and I'm not trying to get
myself in this but somebody recommended
that Sam and I dresses college students
and Romer al looking for a Crowder we
just were like no we're not from the
jari report for college students yes
change our minds oh my god I don't know
why I maybe I'm overreacting but I found
that to be so unbelievably uncomfortable
to watch that I don't even know how to
put it into words but maybe I'm he seems
like he sucks dude of course he sucks
but Jesus Christ I mean I don't know I
don't a lot Joe Biden Joe Biden sucks I
didn't enjoy watching his blood vessel
pop I'm sorry I'm not an edge lord on
this I did not enjoy watching an old man
have it be like oh my son dude you
weren't he cried yeah that made me
uncomfortable watching that guy go well
I hate to rain on your parade about a
atactic loading but I'm have you seen
vanos that is embarrassing
that is truly embarrassed it's like the
blood vessel pop in debate forum he said
literally and we've seen Sam do a lot of
these debates at this point I would
posit that maybe the joy was not exactly
in this one as much as it has been I you
know that is actually true Sam did look
a little bit more long on the tooth
likes it what I guess it just isn't the
same joy is like just the pure
or expression of like well guess what
tell you what what if we didn't sign a
civil rights bill I think we would live
in a transracial utopia now yeah you
know like when you get that real like
I'm Alex ich wei√ü bulbs are Stalin like
that is more fun than Thanos oh my god
you're calling from a knock
