[Music]
here's Chuck Schumer going on at the
same a PAC conference spreading the same
stuff and it is an easy look the reality
is I don't I'm not saying this of all
the people in that room I'm not maybe
saying it for the majority of the people
in that room but there is there is a an
openness to a certain amount of a little
Islamophobia that I can assure you is in
that it is in action in this room so
you're gonna crap on Alana Omar then you
you're okay you're not gonna bring up
Thomas Friedman saying the same thing
about how AIPAC their money will help
you in a race you're not going to talk
about that because it's not gonna have
the same like I have the same stickiness
in that room well they have to
dehumanize Muslims in order to do what
Israel is doing to them right now that's
right
here's Chuck Schumer when someone names
only prominent Jews is trying to buy or
steal our elections
we must call it out when someone says
that being Jewish and supporting Israel
means you're not loyal to America
we must call it out posit the first
instance happened the first instance
happened by a member of Congress several
Republican members of Congress the
second instance never happened not by
anybody who said it in public not by any
member of Congress so ik waiting the
hypothetical with the literal is very
problematic here well to America we must
call it out when someone looks at a
neo-nazi rally and sees some very fine
people among its company we must call it
out when there's someone suggest that
money drives support for Israel we must
call it a posit First Instance Donald
Trump maybe there's nice people in there
people can decide but the fact that
money does not drive support for Israel
or at least edify the inability of
people and this is what she said she was
talking about her inability to critique
Israel and why would she inability to
critique Israel because of the lobbyists
that come up and literally end up
getting her censured or an attempt to
for critiquing Israel so that's the
dynamic that's going on this false
equivalency and I'll tell you something
again I've said this many times as a
supporter of Israel of its right to
exist this is the stuff that is going to
be the most damaging to those prospects
this is the stuff that's going to end up
isolating Israel more than anything else
you don't allow criticism is the United
States for a very long time functioned
as a bulwark against the worst
inclinations of Israel because they're
there in every country right every
country has some bad inclinations and
some good inclinations and the United
States was often used as a ballast by
the Israeli government of like what was
constraining them despite the fact that
some elements of their society wanted it
despite the fact that they have a
parliamentary a system of government and
more often they had to have right-wing
elements within that that government
during the Bush years that fell apart
because the bush administrators actually
pushing the Israeli government to do
worse
and we are now seeing the implications
of that and when you don't have the
ability to allow for critique when you
try and suppress that critique bad
things happen it's not going to end well
in terms of Israel I mean if you want
Israel to get support from the United
States this is the worst type of
situation that you could want because
this is what this is how this is I mean
and and it's been clear for years that
this is where it was going well when
that is your first priority like a
blindly pro-israel policy you end up a
lying yourself with some very bad
bedfellows right like the Trump
administration and the right wing in
Israel and all kinds of really really
creepy right wing authoritarians who
openly espouse anti-semitism even if it
wasn't even if it wasn't that's true and
but even if it wasn't ending up
associating you with them any type of
blind any type of blind support is
problematic because you know you you're
not seeing what's happening so you have
no way of course correcting for a long
time prior to the Civil War there was a
rule against debating slavery in the in
Congress and look how that turned out
dampened those abolitionists down yeah
it's I mean that's very apt
