is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any ELISA we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex the majority
report with sam cedar
[Music]
it is Wednesday December 5th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of Middle Eastern Studies in
the history department at the University
of Michigan Juan Cole on his book
Muhammad prophet of peace and the clash
excuse me admits the clash of empires
also on the program today it is a day of
national mourning when we recall the
suffering of those killed and injured in
the first Iraq war and throughout
Central America as former CIA chief and
President George Herbert Walker Bush has
finally laid to rest meanwhile Michael
Flynn has sung and apparently it was an
incredibly long and beautiful tune about
three different investigations over the
course of 19 recitals the Trump
administration wants to eliminate the US
Postal Service to negotiate for their
pay Wisconsin Republicans pass a host of
undemocratic laws in the middle of the
night and the Weekly Standard is on its
last legs as conservatism looks into the
mirror and sees Donald Trump meanwhile
Trump CPA to roll back limits on coal
plants
and the Senate is now firmly turning on
Mohammed Ben Salman after a PowerPoint
by the CIA National Republican
Congressional Committee emails were
hacked unreleased the Republican sadly
wins the Secretary of State race in
Georgia Jeffrey Epstein convicted sex
offender settles a soup but more coming
and AOC looking to get on the Ways and
Means Committee in the house all this
and more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen
yes Wednesday it is uh I guess a
national holiday of sorts federal
offices are closed the stock exchange is
closed I think they're probably happy
about that yesterday I think it took a
big tumble I only am aware of that
peripherally as I am not heavily
invested in the stock market just a
couple of oil companies just a couple of
oil companies big tobacco
yo weapons manufacturers in Lockheed
just had a huge merger approved yes I'm
very excited about that my aw it's
that's my portfolio of course heavily
invested in those sectors but most of
that is just actually delivered in cash
bags slush fund yeah so but today is a
day of mourning for George Herbert
Walker Bush like I said yesterday
perhaps one of the more overrated
presidents that we had this is a guy who
pardoned three for maybe more people
involved in the iran-contra scandal to
probably protect his own culpability
mm-hmm he waged a war again
Saddam Hussein after basically either
purposely or mistakenly opening the door
to Saddam Hussein's attack on Kuwait he
encouraged the Shia in Iraq to rise up
and then did not offer them and any
support therefore leading to mass
slaughter he also of course was
instrumental in bringing some of those
phoenix program folks from vietnam over
into central america as the CIA chief
and the implications of which we see
reverberate to this day in terms of the
massive violence and breakdown in
societal structures in many countries in
Central America I mean it's not
inconceivable that he was one of the
midwife's of the crack epidemic we had
back in the 80s as the CIA was using
cocaine as a means in which financed
some of their illicit activities I mean
there's a whole host of of issues as to
why we should remember this man on this
day yeah but he was polite to other
politicians so he was better than Trump
he was incredibly polite and very
patrician and also extremely extremely
wealthy which of course is well not that
rare for a president but here we have
Donald Trump very appropriately heading
to the funeral today let's take a look
at the video this is the video of Donald
Trump heading to the by motorcade to the
Blair House the presidential guest house
across Pennsylvania on you to visit with
the family of President the late
President George Herbert Walker Bush
let's play the video because it lasts
only seconds because he gets into
motorcade
and yet can we expand that let's take a
look at this video here it is there it
goes and it's quite a motorcade and then
they stop right there
that's nice easy means in which to shoot
that because you just have to pivot your
body about 15 degrees to capture it was
about here let's split take a look at
the map this is about let's say they
they say okay now according to according
to Google Maps from the White House to
the Blair House is approximately a two
minute walk walking sucks yeah it's
actually a nine minute car ride but it
is a two minute walk I have to conserve
my energy but I don't know that Donald
Trump has walked for two minutes
straight might have a walking it's
possible he's afraid of stare too many
Cubs too many can't do it how long till
he gets one of those motorized scooters
for places that cars can't go I would
not be surprised if that comes out in
some White House memoir that that's what
he's been using inside the White House
maybe like those motorized stair
climbers for the elderly but indeed and
as George Herbert Walker Bush was an oil
man I guess he would appreciate the
probably gallons of guests that were
used in the multi-room vehicles opening
up some markets there you go appreciate
what you did that's not to mention he
replaced our guard Marshall do you know
that with yes I don't know who replaced
him with right with uh what's-his-face I
creep I found one hey he gots it folks
one of today's sponsors is Skillshare
and the first 500 people who go to sk l
dot s h / majority that's sk l dot s h /
majority and you guys you guys got to
wait at least until like this afternoon
because you're gonna get two whole
months of totally free access to skill
shares entire library of super quality
online
courses and tutorials Skillshare is a
vibrant online learning community and
offers courses on everything from design
to video editing photography business
technology cooking mediation everything
in between
there are Skillshare courses for
everyone you'll have no problem finding
courses that's going to be useful for
you both in your personal and
professional life I am a perfect example
of that let me read this and I'll just
tell you in a second whether you want to
sharpen your skills with something you
already love doing or you want to learn
how to do something totally new
Skillshare has you covered they got
courses for entrepreneurs on computer
coding web development personal
nutrition learning new languages
brushing up on your Spanish Photoshop
you name it for instance I don't know
why I did this I don't cut that much
stuff but I was sort of just interest in
it I watched this like mini class on on
knife skills like on how to chop like a
like a chef and I also took one on
Google Analytics cuz I thought like I
should understand that stuff and I know
it a little better but I I'm glad I'm
not going to take another one
I just don't that's too dry for me but
both were incredibly informative and I'm
going to be doing taking more frankly
there's one on just brewing an amazing
cup of coffee but there's also stuff
like accounting you could take
accounting classes can learn all
accounting skills in one hour I think
that's actually one I'm gonna just set
up to do because I need to do that but
you can get two entire months of free
access to every single course offered by
skill share by going to SK l dot s H
slash majority that's sk l dot s H slash
majority just think of everything you'll
have at your fingertips for two whole
months
k l dot s h / majority I put a link in
our podcast description and of course
under our YouTube at the moment so check
that out also remember this holiday
season is a great time for a bedding
upgrade for you or frankly for somebody
else
I've sent Brooklyn in sheets to my
sister as a gift last year maybe I'll do
the other sister this year she's
probably listening I just blew it
Brooklyn and works directly with
manufacturers in customers they're able
to offer a five-star hotel quality
sheets that are affordable and easy to
order plus they have over 20 colors and
patterns these sheets don't just feel
amazing they look great too and they're
super fast shipping make sure you get
them for holiday gifts and you get it on
time I have three four different sets of
Brooklyn and sheets now I keep ordering
more I'm now like getting a little bit
fanatical about getting more pillowcases
as I'm trying to mix and match striped
and solids with the pillowcases I'm
getting very excited about that
you get three there's three different
versions of the sheets personally I go
for the cool crisp cotton ones but they
have like the smoother ones I don't like
those I like I like the cool crisp sleep
but my Brooklyn and sheets are the best
they're the most comfortable sheets I've
ever slept on and now it's time for your
upgrade Brooklyn and dot-com has an
exclusive offer for just majority report
listeners you get 20 bucks off and free
shipping when you use the promo code
majority at Brooklyn in calm Brooklyn is
so confident in their product that all
their sheets comforters and towels come
with a lifetime warranty the only way to
get 20 bucks off and free shipping is to
use the promo code majority at Brooklyn
and calm that's Brooklyn and BR oh oh KL
i n en dot-com promo code majority
Brooklyn and these really are the
Sheetz ever and lastly this is super
cool
our last sponsor of the day is privacy
calm and you can check them out a
privacy calm slash majority it is a
totally free service go to privacy calm
slash majority that lets you buy
anything online without having to give
you a credit card number and lets you
prevent companies from overcharging you
anybody in the office yesterday will
know that that was a problem for me just
as of yesterday here's how it works you
take a couple minutes you link your bank
account to privacy calm then you're able
to create virtual credit card numbers
which are linked to your bank account
you can create as many virtual cards as
you want you can delete them you can
freeze them and unfreeze them you can
set limits on each card it's basically
like a like a cloaking device for your
credit card it's great for signing up
for free trials because you can just
create a virtual card once and delete it
knowing that you'll never be charged
once the trial is over think about it
how many times have you gone to do those
free trials you gotta put your credit
card in you're like and I'm gonna do it
because I'll forget and they'll charge
me it also protects you when companies
get hacked in people's information is
stolen because you're not giving out
your real credit card number each card
is locked to a merchant so you're
totally protected against fraud and
unauthorized use of your card privacy
coms mobile app and desktop browser
extension make it incredibly easy for
you to manage your wallet of virtual
cards and allow you to autofill your
virtual card number at the click of a
button
when you're shopping online there are
countless different advantages to using
a service like this to pay your bills
and buy things online you can find out
more and get a hundred percent free and
unlimited access by going to privacy
calm / majority again we have links in
our podcasts description and in our
YouTube page check it out privacy calm /
majority all right we're gonna take a
quick break we come back we're gonna be
talking to the great or Juan Cole about
his new book Muhammad prophet of peace
amid the clash of Empires we'll be right
back
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
Middle Eastern Studies in the history
department at the University of Michigan
and author of his latest Mohammed
prophet of peace amid the clash of
Empires professor Juan Cole welcome back
to the program thanks so much time so
let's all write list I mean this is I
want to resist the temptation of sort of
applying what you have researched about
Mohammed and Islam to today's sort of
political scenes but I want to hold off
on that because I know this is a book
that if it it's a it's a history book
but let's let's just talk about the the
era in which Muhammad arises and the
sort of the I guess the geopolitical
context in which he begins the Muslim
religion there was something that I call
a world war going on raging all around
him and his people there in Western
Arabia between the eastern Roman Empire
and the sustaining Empire in Iran and it
began in 603 when Iran invaded the
Eastern Roman Empire and you know the
Roman Empire at one point had the entire
Mediterranean but it had lost the West
and and funnily enough Rome and moved to
Constantinople what is now Istanbul in
in the East and but it ruled you know it
had ruled Syria and what is now Lebanon
Jordan Israel Palestine Egypt and the
Iranians took that the middle eastern
part of the Roman Empire away
in that period after 603 and that was
what was going on during the time that
the Prophet Muhammad began preaching and
so I mean so give us a sense of I mean
you know like I to the extent that I can
understand and conceptualize these
things it's uh it's it's from having
studied I guess would be considered
antiquity somewhere between late
antiquity around Yavne and and it's sort
of the birth of sort of what we consider
more modern Judaism today rabbinic
Judaism right and there was so many
different sort of competing forces at
that time what were the the competing
forces that a prophet at that time would
have found him or herself I guess
surrounded by sure well culturally and
religiously the dominant force in the
Roman Empire was was Christianity but it
had a big sysm a big division between
the the imperial faith which was favored
in Constantinople in the late 500s and
early 600 which was called the
Caledonian branch of the religion after
a conference that was held and then
locally you had what are called Mia
physics or sometimes they're called
monocytes and these two sort of branches
of Christianity had severe how to define
Jesus his divinity his relationship to
to God the Father and so forth and so
they fought over this and most people in
Syria and Egypt favored the the Methos I
definition whereas the Imperial
authorities favored the Caledonian so
the Christians were deeply divided and
the the imperial faith had difficulty
asserting itself in the near East and
then on the Iranian side the great
religion of the time was the Zoroastrian
faith which is now a very small
for people mainly in Bombay in India but
at that time it was a world religion and
very influential and believed in a
prophet and a supreme deity and a kind
of moral and ethical struggle against
the forces of darkness and then as you
say there was a big Jewish community not
only in what is now Palestine in Israel
where there was a very large community
still in the Galilee and Tiberias that
weren't allowed inside Jerusalem by the
way by the Roman Christians and and then
there was also a big Jewish community in
Yemen which had actually come to power
briefly in the early 500s and then was I
D thrown by Christians and there was
wrangling between Christians and Jews in
in Yemen and so the Prophet Mohammed
lived in this multicultural world where
there were various kinds of Christians
there were Jews the resort Austrians and
they mostly didn't think well of one
another the the two branches of
Christianity called each other heretics
and doomed each other to hell and the
azure austrians thought non-iranians
were barbarians and so on and so forth
and my argument is that the Prophet
Mohammed tried to create more of an
ecumenical a cultural stream there in
that world and okay yes so let's talk
about the the the Prophet Mohammed as a
prophet of peace I mean what what does
that mean exactly well there are many
dimensions to his peace work the first
thing to say is that you know his career
fell into two broad eras one was when he
began preaching in his hometown of Mecca
in in Western Arabia and and much of the
Quran and the more you know shorter and
medium chapters are from that at time
and then a later period when he had and
his followers were
forced by persecution to emigrate to a
nearby medina and the the the emphasis
in the Quran and those two eras are very
different but the in the in the Mecca
period where they were simply being
harassed and taunted by the Meccan power
elite which was still pagan most people
in that world had either become
Christian or Zoroastrian or Jews but
there were still some people who
followed the old religion and the old
gods of the Arabs or even you know the
Olympian Pantheon people still worship
juzu sand and Athena and so forth and
the Arabs probably mixed the Greek and
the and the Arab but deities together
you know polytheism is very hybrid but
they were very attached still in mecca
according to the quran to their gods and
goddesses and the Prophet preached
monotheism so they his early community
received a lot of harassment and he the
Quran consistently throughout this
period advises people to deal with
harassment by what we would think of as
turning the other cheek
it says repel evil with good return
taunting and harassment with wishes of
peace and say peace to those who are
harassing you and there's something very
Sermon on the Mount like about many of
these verses in the Mecca period
moreover there's a kind of insistence on
religious tolerance so the Quran says to
the pagans you have your religion and we
have ours and it seems to imply that
they should try to get along regardless
of theological differences the Quran in
this period praises Jews as the chosen
people says that there are people among
the Jews who are exemplars teaching us
all how to be better human beings it
praises the Christians for their own
sense of of charity of giving to the
poor
of of turning the other cheek when when
faced with with harassment so it's it's
a very copacetic atmosphere that the
Quran seems to present there in that
period although it is admitting that
there are the moments of harassment and
taunting they don't seem to rise to the
level of violence and that's different
in the succeeding medina period all
right yeah I want to I want to move to
that Medina period in a moment and and
just get a sense of just how long I
guess a period of time the Quran was
essentially work in progress but the
heed to what extent is Islam at that
point seen as a I guess a culmination of
Judaism and Christianity you know as
part of a lineage as opposed to sort of
like a rival right well it's been argued
by Fred Donner at the University of
Chicago that when Islam began in there
in Mecca that it really was an
ecumenical movement and that people
gathered around the leadership of the
spiritual leadership of Muhammad
regardless of their religion and that
they could kind of be his followers and
think well of his teachings and yet
remain in their religion and so that
early Islam was kind of a United Nations
of religions and that's very plausible
from what the Quran says because it does
praise these members of the other
communities and there's a document that
survives when mama goes to Medina which
explicitly says that the Muslims and the
Jews are one nation and then it says the
Muslims have their religion and the Jews
have theirs so it's possible to be part
of this community or nation and yet
retain a different faith and that's the
is that the constitution of Medina yes
that's the constitution of
yeah let's I mean let's talk about that
I mean what what are the implications of
of that I mean I guess that's part of
the piece right I mean the the let's you
know there's there's a lot of I guess
diplomacy going on here that's right
well you know from from 6-10 to 622 the
Prophet was preaching in Mecca and then
622 the the date of the emigration they
moved under pressure to to Medina and
Medina was from what the Quran says a
much more complex society a bigger city
and a more diverse one than had been
Mecca and there was a substantial Jewish
community there which the Prophet
reached out to and tried to make an
alliance with them and with the the
tribes in in Medina some of them
probably still pagans so he put together
this coalition and it was designed to
protect Medina because it was clear that
the Meccan pagans were angry and we're
going to come after them there that
Medina would be attacked and so I think
the Treaty of Medina or the constitution
of Medina was intended to to bind
together the the major populations in
the city and a defensive pact and but it
does explicitly give a freedom of
conscience to the Jewish inhabitants and
and makes them treaty partners with the
with the believers so let's talk just
briefly about the development of the
Quran it I mean how long is this sort of
a work in progress and then I want to
just sort of like slowly get into this
concept of abrogation yes well the the
Prophet you know heard these words in
his mind the Quran talks about it as
coming unbidden into his mind between
610 and 632 so it
it was you know a couple decade and a
couple decades and a half of in progress
and the the character of the book
changes a bit over time the beginning
chapters are short and kind of staccato
and then the middle chapters are more
like the Psalms you know very sonorous
and praises of God and so forth and then
the later chapters are more like
Deuteronomy as they start talking about
law and how to organize the society and
so forth and okay so I mean do what was
it was it was it it you know just
developing in in his mind or was he
writing it down and sort of like
serializing it like what was the actual
mechanics of this well we don't know the
answer to that question for sure
with the Quran as I said it the Prophet
felt it as something coming to him
externally it wasn't like you sat down
and wrote a book
it was more like inspiration and then he
would recite it to his followers and the
the Muslim sources say that there were
people who then memorized it and other
sources say that some people wrote it
down you know and made inscriptions on
camel bone shoulder blades and and so
forth but we're now finding really early
manuscripts and there's one dated as
early as 645 the Prophet died in 632 so
it's entirely possible that there were
Quran manuscripts on papyrus or
parchment during the prophet's lifetime
the later sources just are murky and
contradictory on how exactly all this
happened and who would have written it
down
I mean who I mean like a you know I mean
I guess they're I mean we have a sense
that at least you know parts of the
Christian Bible right we're written by
apostle's and some or you know apostle's
of apostle's I guess I mean who right uh
who would have who would have written it
down
at that time a solar dynamic or yeah
actually I would argue it's a different
dynamic because in Christian I'm sorry
you know our professor I'm sorry I'm
sorry we just had a little bit our Skype
is acting a little bit funky just I'm
sorry
you see we're about to say it's a
different dynamic than in Christianity
yeah I think the the Bible and the Quran
have or the New Testament in the core I
have a different kind of text history
because we think that the Gospels
developed in Christian communities and
they were stories that those particular
cities or communities told about Jesus
and they developed over time and and
ultimately got written down whereas it
seems increasingly clear that the Quran
is more like the letters of Paul that
that it that they're the the they came
through a particular person and in a
particular era and so they're not the
work of a community and the the some
early sources say that there were
scribes around the Prophet Muhammad the
the writers of the revelation who took
down the Quran and others suggest that
they just you know they had very
powerful memories being tribal people
and they memorized large amounts of epic
poetry so that they just memorized the
Quran and then a subsequent generation
wrote it down so as I said this this
question you're asking is a really good
one and scholars puzzled over it but
it's it's also not been fully decided
and and as I said we're now starting to
get some artists some some some
manuscript evidence for how these things
happened which seems to contradict some
of the stories that that were told in
later generations
what of the legend I guess are the
narrative of Muhammad being illiterate
does that track with what
what you you found or theorized oh no I
I think it's very clear that Muhammad
was not illiterate first of all he has
said both by the early Muslim and the
early Christian sources to have been a
long distance merchant long distance
merchants are always literate how would
you keep your books and and then the
Quran as a document is just enormous Lee
learned and and humane and and broad and
that you know it it quotes the
Palestinian Talmud it
it has Aramaic words in it occasionally
quotes the Bible it retells you know in
in Judaism you have this tradition of
the the rabbi's retelling the the
biblical stories with a particular moral
point it's called a Midrash and there
are things like that in the Quran so
Muhammad was clearly a man who was it
seems to me widely traveled a widely
read I suspect he was trilingual in
Arabic Aramaic and Greek and I think it
does a disservice to him to suggest that
he was illiterate I think one of the
reasons that the that the Muslim
tradition sometimes asserts this is that
they wanted to protect him from charges
that he was a plagiarist that he just
you know picked these things up and and
reworked them from other people but that
kind of polemical charges anyway silly
because that was his heritage he was a
man of the Near East and of course he
would he in communicating to his
audiences who knew these biblical or
other stories he would retell them with
a moral point and in the Bible does the
same thing some of what Jesus said is a
retelling of Isaiah with a moral point
so I don't think it's necessary to
prevent to have that point of view of
Muhammad being illiterate in order to
protect him from influences I mean how
do we know that all of that is you know
a reflection of him as opposed to
the you know the crew around him that
first transcribed stuff you know we are
first transcription a manuscript and
maybe that window starts to close a
little bit but it's you know 10 years a
little bit more after he passes how do
we know he didn't just have sort of you
know lieutenants around who were like
we're gonna definitely make this guy
seem you know a little bit more
sophisticated well that's a really good
question salmon you know you're managing
to through your questions to raise these
issues that have really dominated the
study of early Islam for the last forty
years there's a whole school called the
revisionist who took the position that
you just elaborated which was that maybe
the Quran is more like the Gospels and
that it it grew up over time and was
added to and and that reworked and and
maybe represents in some verses you know
more the atmosphere of the later Muslim
empire and Damascus or Baghdad and that
revision of school however I think has
been pretty firmly refuted by now for
the most part first of all the Quran
doesn't contain any evidence of any
incident that happened after the Prophet
Mohammed so just to give one example I
read the Quran as being extremely
pro-roman it predicts that the Romans
although they have been temporarily
defeated will come back and it talks
about how the closest and loved to the
Muslims are the Christians it talks
about the need to protect churches from
from being raided and destroyed so I see
the book throughout even into the late
what we think of our the later chapters
as Pro Christian prone and we know that
soon after the prophets death however
the early Muslim polity
based in Medina came into conflict with
the Romans so if some of the Quran were
reworked after the prophets death it
surely would would reflect that new
situation of ant of conflict with the
Romans and it doesn't and whereas the
later Muslim sources do so there are
many reasons for thinking that this
document is 610 632 and that it probably
is you know something that came through
the Prophet Muhammad himself so okay so
great alright so so but let's talk about
that concept of abrogation now what what
what does that mean and in what and what
is it in practice right well you know it
began as a way of dealing with the fact
that the Quran did you know develop over
time and just to give you an example is
early verse it says don't come to
prayers drunk so that seems to indicate
that people were drinking alcohol and
sometimes they went a little too far and
that's disapproved of if you come to
prayers drunk but then there's a later
verse that says well you know in alcohol
and gambling there's good and bad the
bad outweighs the good towards
disapproval and then ultimately it says
don't drink and so the the people who
were dealing with the Quran is a source
of law and by the way there isn't very
much law in the Quran but who were
interested in this issue of Quranic law
would wanted to be careful you know
where you took the law from it should be
the most advanced position the Quran had
it shouldn't be an earlier position that
later was changed and likewise with the
point of Prayer prizms pray towards a
particular point just as Jews do
initially the the Muslims prayed towards
Jerusalem just as Jews do but then
around 624 the Quran instructs them to
start praying towards Mecca instead so
you know if you were setting the point
of Prayer you can't use the early the
early verses which seem to point toward
Jerusalem so there's abrogation in that
sense but it's all it was initially
always about and the great the great
jurists say it's only about law and
there isn't very much long the Quran
later on a medieval Muslim started using
it I think to shape their reception of
the Quran in the ways that they wanted
so as you had the Crusades or a very
military kind of movement they started
saying well all those peace verses I was
talking about have been abrogated by the
verses that talk about war which a lot
of the jurists thought was you know
completely irresponsible and
unacceptable but there were people who
who did that and and so you know there
was a way for the government or jurists
to take control of the Quran instead of
having it hit dictate their values they
could decide which parts of it they
liked alright I mean this is you know
that dynamic is I think hugely important
and it's obviously it's not it's not
that dynamic is not exclusive to the
Quran right we have we see it in the
context of the US Constitution on some
level as well you know considering the
amount of time that we we we've had to
sort of reinterpret the Constitution we
see the Supreme Court do it all the time
where you know so that that concept is
not unique and on some level it's that
dynamic which we see which takes us sort
of like into the the political realm of
today isn't it absolutely well you know
the extremist groups disregard all of
commands in the Quran to make nice with
other religions to protect churches and
synagogues to to reach out and be
charitable towards other people and and
and then to wish peace upon your enemies
they disregard all those things because
in the medina period when Medina was
under attack
from the militant pagans who came out
with with brigades and swords and spears
than they were going to kill the Muslims
the Quran then does permit defensive war
always defensive or never offensive but
it does prevent it does allow and indeed
commands defensive war and the verses
where it says you know establish
lookouts for the approach of the enemy
and then when you encounter them on the
battlefield you know meet them with
deadly force those kinds of verses which
are about those defensive encounters
then are misinterpreted by the
extremists and and also by people who
hate Islam by the way as as being
somehow universal Commandments as having
no context and this outweighing all of
the peace verses I mean let's talk a
little bit about that I also have to say
in my in you know from my own
self-esteem that I was very disciplined
and not making this entire interview
about your piece entitled on how
everything sam Harris says about Islam
is wrong but let's let's talk about
let's talk about the the sort of the the
modern-day Islamophobia that we see and
the dynamic of of I guess how a there is
this sort of like in this abrogation
that goes on but also be there is a sort
of lack of historical context in which
people are assessing what certain Muslim
people do without a historical context
in which that that that vision of Islam
is being used I mean can you can you
maybe expand on what I've said and make
it a little more clear I guess for fun
haha well you've made it very clear the
the other fact is that first of all
often the Quran is not very well
translated
and people then don't know anything
about its context you know at one point
Jesus says I haven't come to bring peace
I come to bring a sword and if people
who didn't like Christianity could quote
that and say look those those Christians
are about murdering people that's the
kind of thing that people do to the
Quran into Muslims so the Quran talks
about the pagan militant pagans who were
trying to kill the Muslims as as
infidels it never uses that word as a
noun poor Jews or Christians and then it
says that when when those pagans come
for you defend yourself with with lethal
force if you have to and so then people
will read that and it says you know slay
the infidels so then they allege that
the Muslims want to go around just
killing random people which is you know
completely a historical or not what the
Quran or the Muslim community believes
at all and people like sam harris who
have made careers out of spreading hate
against muslims have have you know
excerpted poorly translated versions of
those verses and tried to make them mean
something that they don't and and what
am one of the things that i think sam
harris also likes to to quote and to do
in his argument that there's something
fundamentally wrong with Islam is the
hadith what what is the hadith what is
the relationship of the hadith to the
Quran and and what of that practice of
someone like sam Harris's yes well
that's a it's a complicated issue
because mainstream Sunni Islam is a
little bit like worth of our Studios I'm
in the sense that you have the Bible and
then you had the Talmud and both are
adhere to as strictly as possible and so
with the Muslims there's a big amount of
material that grew up after the prophets
death which is sayings and doings which
are attributed to him by
generations and those were collected and
people tried to winnow through them and
decide which ones were sound but there's
a vast amount of material of that sort
in my view as a Western academic it's
clearly clearly contradictory to the on
itself but there are you know thousands
of these sayings and doings attributed
to the Prophet and his companions which
some of them can be be picked out and
and used for political purposes I mean
that is the point right I mean and then
that's what we talk about historical
context is that throughout the past
fifteen hundred some odd years different
political entities have wanted to gain
the authority of Islam as a mechanism in
which to rule or to to shape the
politics of their day and so they
reinterpret the religion or the document
in ways that that suit that political
agenda that's right and of course this
is a universal phenomenon I mean this is
like the Kings saying the King you know
of England saying like you know I'm here
because God wanted me to be exactly or
pope urban ii too strongly believed that
christians were commanded by the new
testament to go to the holy land and
slit the throats of the Jews and the
Muslims you know a religion can be used
for these political purposes and then
the whole tradition of the religion can
be deployed in various ways so you know
again in in the history of the Holy
Roman Empire after the Roman Empire
became Christian Christianity was the
state religion and gradually no other
religion was allowed and the
interpretation of the New Testament by
the Byzantine Kings was that you know
pagans should be killed they threw them
to the Lions
they kind of reversed what had happened
to them earlier on and to make to make
this about Christianity as opposed to
Byzantine policy would be invidious it
would be unfair and and likewise a lot
of the polemic against Islam is about
what Muslims have done in history which
has been both good and bad you know as
they're human beings I mean ultimately
and lastly I mean that obviously as a
historian this is this is your field of
interest but what when when you set to
embark on on a project like this what
are your what's the what what both from
an academic and I guess more from a just
a human perspective do you hope to
achieve well you know I began this
project with an open mind and I had been
trained in my youth in Islamic and had
wanted to go back to it for some time
and you know that the post 9/11
atmosphere was such that at my blog I
would get involved in conversations with
my readers about the Quran and about
Islam and I began to see that it just
wasn't well understood it wasn't
understood as I understood it and but
then I also had some puzzles to work
through in the text and in the history
so some years ago I began working on
this in what passes for my spare time
and I tried to read as much as I could
about the you know the Roman the late
Roman context of all of these things and
then to trace through these themes in
the Quran and often I was surprised I
was surprised by how much emphasis there
was on peacemaking in the Quran and how
few you know verses there are it said
that the Prophet Muhammad was involved
in these defensive Wars for six
afternoons in his life and and he
probably died 63
so most of it is about community making
and peacemaking and I felt that since
the Prophet Muhammad is being demonized
so much by Islamic Oba courses both in
the United States in Europe now that a
solid explication of the of his life as
it is told by the Quran itself which I
take as my primary source was really
needed as Sam Harris ever reached out to
you for you know to to engage you in
your expertise on this subject oh I
think Sam thinks he knows it all he
doesn't know Arabic and has isn't really
and you know trained in religious
studies so much of what he says it's
just you know glib polemics he blames
you know nationalism on on religion and
his basic argument is that all Muslims
are really extremists or Islam is always
extreme and that if it isn't it's
because Muslims are living with the
blessings of modern enlightened society
he never talks about you know like the
Khmer Rouge in Cambodia who were
atheists and who killed about a fifth of
the country you know it's it's not only
most Muslims or religious people that
have been involved in violence in the
20th century you know there's Stalin and
so forth and he seems to say that if
only everybody were an atheist we'd all
be living in in paradise and that's
clearly not true
and moreover then he blames religion for
many things that are actually about
things like nationalism well I you know
it's I'm not necessarily in a position
to criticize someone for glib polemics
but I do I do think that people should
reach out if they are going to espouse
such opinions to people who are experts
so I appreciate you coming on professor
Wong cold the book is Muhammad prophet
of peace amid the clash of empires
we will put a link to it at majority dot
F M thanks so much always a pleasure
thank you salmon you're the least glib
person I've ever met
thank you I appreciate it all right bye
bye bye bye
alright folks that was it's fascinating
and professor Cole the the research that
he has done here is extensive and he's
been doing this for four decades so
check out that book if you have any
interest and also head over to his blog
it still remains a great source of
information particularly in of the
Middle East but broadly speaking it's a
very thoughtful guy and that's informed
comment you can find I think it's Juan
Cole org one cold dot I will put a link
to it at majority dot F M and in the
podcast description
I apologize for Skype it has been very
strange for the past couple of days
we're actually getting interference from
other calls people on reddit I've been
talking about it as well oh is that
right things going on yeah I'm for
Newsday I'm very very strange and we've
noticed that for two days now but
hopefully it was not too much of a
distraction and folks just a reminder it
is your support that makes this show
possible every day we try and bring you
the best of analysis and news and
interviews with in-depth interviews with
legitimate scholars in their field it's
a lot experiment you know Jamie's
writing a piece about podcast and am I
allowed to say that sure and she
interviewed me by email because I don't
like to talk to anybody in the office
directly so all all all of our exchanges
are all by email
serious solitary quiet monastic almost
it's a little bit strange in the Auto
Show the only time that we talk is
actually through the microphone and then
when the microphones are off we just
email each other even if we're in the
office but it's got me you know thinking
about the the various you know sort of
like podcast and whatnot and one of the
things in comparing sort of the left
podcasts to the right ones in terms of
politics I don't know about in in other
silos is that my experience in watching
the right-wing shows or podcasts or at
least you know sort of peripherally is
that there is a lot of like circulator
you know it's like it's they all just
interview each other for the most part
there's sometimes they'll bring out you
know I get another voice but like the
thrust of it is in talking to other
commentators I I imagine there are other
shows that are different from that but I
don't know them I mean even Reubens show
it seems like every third show he does
is interviewing someone he is
interviewed for the tenth time like how
many times can that guy from Evergreen
State who whose whole backstory was
manufactured anyways how much insight
could this guy have about the world I
could tell you researching this book not
much right but but I'm saying like you
know they keep bringing on these same
commentators over and over again and I
think it's I think it's very lucrative
because it is like building out a you
know a community of sorts and there's
constant reinforcement and there's
almost constant corralling of that
community but that just came up in the
context of I don't even know what I was
talking about why you should become a
member of the show because we try and
endeavor to bring you voices who
actually know what they're talking about
and then we we try and I was spiced it
spice it up by by adding our voices that
don't necessarily have the depth of now
some of our guests but that's where we
get our knowledge what is that guy from
evergreens what does he even teach I
think biology yeah honestly yeah I think
biology yeah I mean we have on other
commentators too but we also have on
people who are actually doing research
out there in the world which is pretty
unique I think first it's the right I
had such respect for Juan Cole and he's
formed so much of how I think and look
at really important issues I did find
him saying that you were the least glib
person he ever met alarming because it
that man to cut some describe yeah I was
disturbed by that as a long time but I
will say in his defense that Skype has
been acting up and maybe he didn't hear
he didn't we didn't quite hear him or he
didn't hear us quite clearly so I just
reminded go to join the majority report
calm become a member today for just
literally a couple of bucks a week a
couple of like a couple quarters well
not even a court couple quarters a day a
couple of 32 cent pieces a day not even
that nevertheless also Brandon informs
me that maybe it was because a Tuesday I
don't know what it was but the hotcakes
sold like hotcakes yesterday folks I
think we are close to well we're
definitely close to less than a third of
tickets left we're gonna sell out I like
to think that we're not going to sell
out before Christmas but I have a
feeling that we might we are doing a
live show January 13th at the Bell House
as part of the Brooklyn pod fest it is
18 and over 15 bucks a person buy your
tickets now ladies and gentlemen buy
them now don't come crying later cuz
it's not like we get we can build on in
an extension to the Bell house it is
what it is fire codes so you can get
your tickets at majority dot F M or at
Bell house I imagine or the Brooklyn pod
also just coffee co-op is running a
special this month or for the next I
think another week and a half
30% off all your coffee so check it out
a Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate no
coupon code necessary for the next like
week and a half last night Michel was
Tuesday apparently there was an enormous
amount of drinking going on the entire
liquor cabinet was raided and so but
what I presumably there was other things
that went on
besides the partying last night not much
the title of last night's episode was
more like George HW bad and really hips
are both self-indulgent consciously I
deliver dud but it was a lot of fun we
did the George W Bush a George HW Bush
drug cartel legacy and the overlap
between drug foreign policy and spikes
in prison industrial complex in the
United States
Mike Racine great comic Dave Rubens sam
Harris impressions talked about Fred
Hampton a whole bunch of other stuff and
of course you know tickets to our show
at the Bell House as well patreon.com
slash t MDS and Michael Brooks show on
YouTube and iTunes thanks and Jamie out
now on the anti Fattah Sean and I recap
a little bit of our magical Mexican
vacation we talk about why we love
visiting Mexico the legend of Trotsky's
cookies our car break down on the side
of the road and Chiapas let you go
dunya's summit with Corbin and M lo a
visit to Zapatista territory and we're
running with a caravan of internally
displaced people and of course a
psychedelic tinder love story check it
out folks
matt is out
Brendon speak on literary hangover it's
my birthday as Matt lek and wait is
today Matt's birthday
ah happy birthday man happy birthday
Matt he's out well I was gonna say he's
out party I think he's working on
literary hangover is he really Wow
dedicated to his crappy go all right
we're gonna take quick break heading to
the fun half the number is six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number we will take your
phone calls and see you and the fun half
all right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degre the white man alpha males
almost has one
I am a total can we bring back to
EJ's Anarchy song yeah or a couple you
put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough food will break
[Music]
Hawkinson and the alpha males Oh psych
almost says what what watch watch watch
on the back
a lot of back
a lot of bang
back
[Music]
all lives matter have you tried doing an
impression on a college campus I think
that there's no reason why it reasonable
people across the divide can't all agree
with this psych
black
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have a
thought experiment for you the alpha
males
someone needs to pay the price replies
to be around here like I am a total
well I mean things some things that are
therapeutic obviously can also be I'm
gonna take on Chuck Schumer
oh no he's lavage oh no I know it was
fun for me
let's go to the phones you calling from
a six for six all right excuse me you're
calling six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty but you're calling
from a seven one nine area code who's
this where are you calling from
III guess it is yes it is you
okay I'm Colton I'm calling from Omaha
Nebraska
Colton from Omaha Nebraska well I am a a
moderate-sized fan of Omaha I've have
you actually been there I've been there
multiple times and a couple of Bronco
burgers and sure it's it's an awesome
burger town but anyway yeah I just
wanted to ask you I don't I don't
understand why you or TYT or any of you
guys and I'm a big fan of you guys I
don't understand what all you guys are
losing your crap over a OC I I don't
understand what the big deal is I'm not
sure we know why my crop I'm not sure
you mean by losing my crap but you mean
are excited by yeah that's what I mean
okay all right you don't know why we
like her yeah why do you I don't know
why what's not such a big deal like I
keep what's the bet oh and that get
excited about that oh I mean I think
it's I I like her politics she is quite
good it seems to me in a way that I
haven't necessarily seen from from Beto
Beto it got involved in a New York race
for instance all right so a OSI goes
around the
country has been very supportive of
politicians in in politicians who who
hold issues that I think are very
consistent with what we have on this
program badow to the extent that I know
that he got involved in any race he got
involved in the Attorney General race in
New York and he supported a candidate
who by all accounts got into the race to
basically run interference upstate and
prevent Zephyr Teachout from winning and
I can tell you the forces that were
concerned about Zephyr Teachout winning
the forces that were were were running
to keep her from winning are rather
corrupt which is not to say that the the
people running against her
you know like Tish James was not running
because she wanted to keep Zephyr
Teachout from from winning what's his
phrase from upstate New York his name
escapes me who beto supported was
running to keep Zephyr Teachout out the
that is you know a very shorthand way of
explaining why I'm excited about a OC
versus better I'm not none excited by
beto I think he's good I think I think
would be a mistake for him to try and
run for for president but but but maybe
I mean rhetorically I'm impressed his
record and in the house is not stellar
but it was okay but I think what we need
in the house in my estimation is a
stronger progressive caucus we have a
larger one
I mean Sam the thing is that she lies a
lot and I understand if you're excited
about her give me an example of a lot
more often an example of a lie okay so
she lied about military budget increases
on The Daily Show she also lied about
basic staff involving the US population
on the daily show we might miss out give
me on budget this was a story there was
a story about the Pentagon budget where
they are now unable to even audit
the Pentagon budget to even audit it
they don't learn have it listen not only
did they not audit the budget they don't
it is such a disaster the way that
they've been doing a record keeping and
impossible to imagine anything but on
purpose that they don't even have the
ability to begin an audit because the
mechanisms aren't in place right it's a
mess but it's not a 21 trillion dollar
mess like she tries to make it down okay
so she misspoke right okay so this is
the thing I get from people was like
okay she's just misspoke and she doesn't
really know what she's talking about
okay but again I feel like I would be a
lot easier on her if you guys on the
left or this far to the left as you and
TYT are you guys champion her but you
don't even give her a bit of fair
criticism and say okay she missed speaks
a lot sometimes well no wait a second
wait a second what was the number that
she gave of the budget on the Pentagon
on the daily show uh she didn't do the
Pentagon budget on the daily show she
did on her Twitter but on her Twitter
she said 21 trillion dong no no that was
the audit story that was the audit story
what was it that she misspoke about or
lied about on the daily show on the
daily show okay so she said that the
military wanted a 700 billion dollar
increase to their budget which is
incorrect that there that's great it has
gone up that is their entire budget they
wanted a seventy billion dollar increase
no they didn't that's wrong that's
factually inaccurate how much was the
budget increase for the military this
year um I'm not sure exactly what I was
but I know that the entire budget was
700 I know that we just agreed on that
the entire budget is 700 billion dollars
what do you think the increase was this
year I know it wasn't a hundred percent
increase I didn't say it was a hundred
percent increase it was a seventy
billion dollar increase it was seven
hundred billion over the course of ten
yes listen so do you know how you know
you you you must be familiar with how
these budgets are drawn up right so very
often what you'll end up hearing is for
instance when people say 32 trillion
dollar increase that's how much it's
gonna cost for let's say single-payer
right they're talking over a 10-year
horizon in this instance they were
talking about from like I think twenty
one to twenty to twenty twenty two to
twenty thirty two that's the way that
people talk in in Washington you're
correct
they did not want a seven hundred
billion dollar increase the excuse me
the 2019 military budget and I guess I
was thinking of 2018 is an eighty two
billion dollar increase from from 2017
so yes she misspoke she said seven
hundred billion where she should have
said seventy billion maybe she was
talking about over the course of a
ten-year period which is very often the
way that budgets going but what so what
is the fund about this so you you so
these two I I don't like how she
misspeaks
all these times because I feel like
she's all these times all these times
how many times have you heard tell me
something how many times have you looked
at the tweets of a congressperson or
seen them on TV in the past five months
she's the much she's much more exposed
than even Peto on national and
international media and so you're not
you're more conscious of do you think
she's lying do you think you think they
should go on to the daily show and
consciously lie and inflate the military
budget by just coincidentally a factor
of 10
well do you think that she would go on
to the daily show and just make a
complete idiot of herself by getting
populations that's wrong dude dude dude
if you do wait what's the population
stat now yes sir do you really
Americans what listen we okay so she
said that 200 million people would be
40% of the population and that's just
wrong right that's 60 percent of the
population mmm yeah I mean that's closer
but so love it all but yeah what is it
doulton tell me what it is what is 200
billion what is 200 million of the
population well well just tell me tell
me tell me
sixty-one percent
Oh sixty-one percent all right man
what's the actually honestly just just
saying that you have different politics
than her don't be so bizarre you came
with nothing
yeah I'm sorry let me call I'm sorry for
lying to you when I said it was 60% I
clearly lied to you when we all know
after having done it on our calculators
it's 61 percent but now wait a second
now Colton I think you've lied to me
because what is the what is that it's
200 billion of what is 61% you didn't
put in 300 billion
did you 325 do you think that's the
exact population figure of the United
States 325 billion a million don't lie
okay wait wait Colton what is the exact
no no no no wait a second you don't come
on my show and start lying about the
population 325 million when we all know
it's 325 million six hundred thousand
don't lie to us on our show yeah what
are you doing man lyin Colton lying
piltan Colton loves better standard I
wish that beta was who do you think that
ultimately benefits in the end
like what Democratic Party at large
what's the agenda what's the agenda on
that of holding people do this no no no
what's the theme what do you think
Genda was when she went on and told this
this lie about the the 40% to population
what do you think was behind that like
gulags well I feel like she likes to
paint a picture that America is falling
into complete nothingness which I know a
lot of people don't agree would mean
nothing but what do you mean by nothing
that's I mean that people's wages aren't
even stagnating they're going down
people have to multiple jobs to keep
unemployment low which is another lie
she told on well excuse me way to sell
wait a second wait a second wait a
second first of all in real dollars
people's wages are going backwards
okay that's that's a reality yeah
where can I look that up on the Google
Google machine the Google Michigan you
could read my review of Tom head over to
UM read thomas piketty's blog if you
want like actual economics on it read
Paquette e that's the defining work on
not only wage stagnation but global
wealth inequality over the last several
decades and it is the case that that the
unemployment numbers for people who are
I should say the employment numbers for
people who are underemployed is is
significantly higher than it has been in
the past when we've had such
unemployment numbers do you know I'm
saying so under employee yeah
now these employed beating people can't
get hours yeah exactly
okay well the still not what she said
but I feel like what she says helps out
her narrative and that Americans are
Naurang this is you guys you guys can
defend your politics without having to
craft a lie or a what is it do you like
about bad information what do you like
about bad house politics well I like
about that oh I I'm not so up on
everything the thing is that wouldn't
you that I'm more informed on a overseas
politics because she's in the news all
the time but when I look at Ted oh and
when I get like justified doing about
about I feel like he's more about being
a rallying force for the entire nation
when you look old on Colton wait a
second so you don't know no I'm not
asking you to be an expert but you just
you Colin you say you got a problem with
with AOC and you like Beto what do you
like about battle I just he just seems
more like everybody that's what you just
said he just seems more like everybody
but more like he's not more like
everybody he just seems like somebody
everybody can get behind right that's
what I want in a politician that's why I
hate Trump and I don't like a lot of
people who I see on the Democratic side
and when I look into the past
I want leaders like from the past like
who were able to rally be like who and
when I see Beto
I know like who what what leaders from
the past I just want to get to this kid
I feel like this is a mystery this is a
little bit like a like a like a like
you're a little bit like an onion I want
to peel a couple layers here
what what what leaders in the past
Colten you you aren't gonna like this
none of you were gonna like not Reagan I
know Reagan it's I know yeah I
love Reagan told you ha ha of course you
love no I actually wouldn't hate to
cause if you're lying about me you lied
about it right about the Puerto Rican
chick and now you're lying about me okay
meadow wouldn't be a Republican either
okay even though he supports Tipu else
besides raising totally hey about police
fine what about but he does look like
everybody else if you what about George
who did you who weep more partial to uh
George W Bush or Al Gore or or John
Kerry John Kerry no I can't carry more
than I like Al Gore
what about boom those let's who the
choice was a boy would have a brown or
over Bush back in the day hmm I like I
don't know how to feel about HW
expecially
the wake was death Regan's the best
closest like personal example you know
when the Baines Johnson was how old do
you like let me ask how old you are
 a I mean I'm 20 okay Colton
alright
well listen alright alright so I because
you trauma
do you like Obama alright I like there's
there's some I feel like there's good
and bad a bit more good let me tell you
something bro if you love bado and you
don't love Obama
you got a really self assess that's all
I'll say they I mean they are tied up in
instruction machine wait what Obama has
all this corporate tax money in such an
he's willing to sell us down the line
dude you gotta read NATO's family are
some of the biggest landlords in the
entire state of Texas he was able to not
get PAC money because he has an
unbelievably wealthy family could draw
from and you got it he was supplying you
should also you should also look into
Ronald Reagan and who his benefactors
were
listen Colton I'm gonna cut you some
slack you're 20 years old you're on a
path buddy just you know be careful of
the turns that you take and going
forward I think go back young man said
about but I do shape the car like
everybody else was very salient I
appreciate it man thanks I mean I
honestly if called me the new racism is
there any white golden if Colton had
said to me I'm 45 I would have had a bit
of a problem with call Cody age 20 look
I think it's uh you got a uh Colton
there's a gay Jew named Dave Rubin now
in my day we didn't pretend to like
homos we just denied them aids treatment
but he makes a lot of sense when it
comes to some of my friends later
we're gay Robert of course we were gonna
just let them all die anyways cuz that
was the way I was gonna get elected we
gave Rock Hudson the drugs on the
download as the criminal community says
or broadly we did nothing for them
because well it's just as did you
explain it thanks everyone
the other Jew let's check back in with
Colton when he's trying to survive on
his own in the world he's not yeah the
problem with GOC is that unlike me she
isn't incredibly precise in detail I
absolutely never misspoke about
government statistics or any other
empirical facts of governing never to
the extent that I was actually conscious
I was so precise I didn't even know
about massive global criminal
conspiracies that happened in my
administration
ask me again about the iran-contra
affair
I'll just nail a dazzle you
Colton if you're listening look up
Ronald Reagan literally did a press
conference and you correct me if I'm
wrong where he said something to the
effect of like I don't think we did it
but all the facts appear to state
otherwise with regards to by the way
support hemp is a vegetable battle
anyone big trees I think was he the one
who said that was that Bush now I'm
confused about the trees what it was one
of their it was one of their interior
secretary no that that's great all right
let's take one more something about a
you see she doesn't look like everybody
 lost sorry
effing yeah I mean he ran in a to be
fair he ran a much more uphill a
fighting for Senate in Texas is not the
equivalent of winning in in in Queens
that's true they've got a lot more
people there who look like every guy
colleague from a two five six area code
who's this where he come from hey Santa
skirt from Alabama
Oh her from Alabama well you got a
problem with something Kurt no I'm not a
libertarian actually a big fan - oh okay
well fair enough what's uh what's going
on so uh just this past week there was a
new 18-month peer-reviewed study
released by the political economy
Research Institute we're going Bernie
Sanders is Medicare for all plan and the
study indicated that if we replace our
current health care system of Bernie's
Medicare for All system right now over a
two-year period we'd save five point one
trillion dollars over that time frame
and now I've noticed that since the news
is broken about this study the
mainstream outlets like you know New
York Times Washington Post CNN socio
pres etcetera barely covered is fairly
covering it barely covering it barely
and we remember how much first of all
you think you contemplate how much
coverage the Mercatus study got which
right which ultimately actually showed
that the the plan would save two
trillion dollars when you look at the
study that during the campaign the
coverage that it got yeah no of course
of course
I mean look people should not have any
illusions about this
if Bernie ends up running and to the
extent that there's going to be a big
campaign regardless of whether it's
Bernie or not on on single-payer the
forces that the the the major forces in
our society are going to ally against it
so this is not going to to come easy and
and and and we're going to have to
promote these things and get it into the
consciousness of people this is going to
be a big project over the next two to
four five ten fifty years but I mean
that's yeah yeah
this study was a was it was an
incredibly comprehensive study I'd seem
very little bit about it and to be fair
we have about that much here as well
yeah I mean even if it right guy was
even if it did not save massive amounts
of money it would still be the right
thing to do but it's a great figure to
be able to show to the people who say
who but how are we gonna pay for it well
yeah and and and the point of it's
saving massive amounts of money is is
really I think important insofar as
that's the only reason why you wouldn't
do it like why would you not I mean
there'll be a libertarian it'll call and
it'll talk about like the moral hazard
involved in if you provide everyone with
health care soon they're all gonna want
food or they're all gonna want you know
a job or you know and which would be
great which would be great but I mean
that's the the libertarian argument but
in terms of cost I mean look the the
this should not be surprising at least
in terms of like you know
back-of-the-envelope type of
calculations we know that Medicare which
provides health insurance for one
quarter of the population has an
operating expense one-tenth of what
private insurance does something like
two cents on every dollar is spent in
Medicare towards the administration of
that program and at least 20 cents on
every dollar is spent in the private
insurance industry which does not even
include the the savings that would
happen in terms of administration on the
supplier side and the savings on sort of
like uncharged administration on the
demand side right cuz like I don't get
paid for the three hours I've spent at
least a month dealing with like getting
the paying the checks for you know a
dollar forty five or whatever it is or
twenty-five cents or whatever it is from
the the my kids going to this place or
trying to get back a hundred bucks from
the dentist appointments they had or
what
ever it is I mean the the the the
savings comes across the board and it's
just more efficient we understand this
in every other realm
it's just except for where people don't
want to understand it but Kurt well well
I promise to talk more about this study
next week great sounds good i 100% agree
with you appreciate the call thank Ron
Reagan lives okay so let's talk about
the the fortunes and we didn't get a
chance really to talk about with Ron
cold but it's worth reading him on
what's going on with the MBS but
yesterday on the hill
Gina Haspel mm-hmm the torture and she
torturer in chief the CIA director went
to Capitol Hill to talk to some leading
senators as to the evidence that the CIA
possesses on the killing of Jamaal
khashoggi who was a u.s. resident and a
columnist for The Washington Post I
can't quite figure out what is going on
with people like Lindsey Graham let's
say who have every reason in the world
to be large allies of Saudi Arabia and
their moves to which would ultimately
either bring about some type of war an
attack on Iran or you know
do in their struggle for long-term
geopolitical strength against Iran but
whatever
Jena Haspel told Lindsey Graham
he seems very very exercised about it I
think secretary Pompeo and mattis are
following the lead of the president
there's not a smoking gun there's a
smoking saw you have to be willfully
blind not to come to the conclusion that
this was orchestrated and organized by
people in under the command of MBS and
that he was intricately involved in the
demise of mr. Khashoggi there you go
I mean the guy's going on talking about
the saw that was used the bone saw that
was used to essentially dispose of
Jamaal Kogi's a body and I suspect the
briefing they got from Gina Haskell was
rather explicit and they are not letting
go this I mean I for the life of me do
you have any sense of like what because
I don't know if if Graham just has other
sense of who are better allies within
the Saudi royal family and but I haven't
seen much reporting in that have you I
am a little bit I mean I the two things
I could speculate is that first yes
there's definitely other people who
would be less reckless than him but
would still have the same core policies
and then there was a thing we didn't
pull it because it was one of those
things like I just I didn't advocate
pulling it because it's like I don't
know what the frame is around it it was
weird but maybe we should play it later
where McCrone greeted MBS at the g20 and
they caught Mike pick them up with a
twith McCrone being like you don't
listen to me and NBS is like I listen I
listen and giving him like that warm
smile that he gives and I I think that
part of the subtext of all this and then
please in no way is this and I mean MBS
it's obviously a total monster but I do
think there's some element of people
reacting to the fact
that he doesn't listen including to them
and the same pattern that he served
people that were ahead of him in the
family and has been a rule breaker and a
defier that's applying to traditional
allies and power relationships and it's
easier to you know you can mess just too
much of a wild card yeah and you can
mess with Trump all day cuz he could
just get on the phone and tell Trump
that he's great but I think people like
Graham and McCrone are like wait a
second you're really stepping out on us
yeah he's counter establishment man
right let's like him he's disruptive
pretty well pretty strong words
impressive all right well let's play
this clip from Laura Ingraham this is
always nice yesterday on Fox News oh you
know one thing that occurs to me do you
know during the interview when Professor
Cole was talking about that that chapter
that verse in in the Christian Bible
about Jesus said pick up the sword you
know where I first heard that Sean
Hannity said that years ago for about
invading Iraq or something this was I
don't know in the context but I think
back in the odds Hannity who I think is
very strong with the Jesus Jews and
particularly in the context of things
like lying for the Lord and picking up
the sword that type of stuff when I
think that he thought his career was
going to go more in that direction was a
little bit a little bit more open with
expressing those sentiments weird that
it's less fashionable to do that these
days well I don't think it's less
fashionable I just think that there's
other opportunities in terms of money
and you don't have to necessarily go
there you can play a little more close
to the vest when he came on to the
majority report we had him on early on
earlier than I think Janine and I were
prepared to do in terms of our our
skillset but he wanted Janine on his
program because at that time she was a
huge ratings draw on conservative media
because all the old men who watched it
love to
say you know like oh she that that dumb
girl doesn't know what she's talking
about type of thing which is really
actually not much different from the
FoxNews model now but I didn't you I
mean that's why you know Tucker Carlson
was you know subsonic and and I mean we
see this over and over again and to a
large extent why the right is loves to
go after AOC women are always a prime
target for for conservatives women of
color they get a two-for-one it's a
twofer and but he came on the majority
report and Jeanine actually thought at
that time that she could sort of
convince him with reason and I was a
little bit more skeptical I did ask him
do you think we're living in ten days
and he got very mad when I asked him
that question he did not want to answer
that question just a little side note so
folks Laura Ingraham has some incredible
insight into the move across the country
to end the extolling of racists and what
they represented look we had some very
bad chapters in our history some of them
are ongoing frankly as a society like
like most societies there are bad
chapters in in all these societies the
question is how do you teach future
generations about those bad chapters do
you extol the figures would you would
you want there to be if you were in
Germany a statue that uncritically
praises let's say I don't know Adolf
Eichmann would you would you want that
in Germany I would imagine no you would
not could you have museums could you
have plaques that describe Eichmann's
role
in a very dark period of their society
yes of course you don't want to deny
history but you also want to make sure
that your record of history reflects
your understanding of the mistakes that
were made at that time laura ingraham
apparently does not understand that
concept or does and wants to pretend
that concept is silly cut-and-dried
there's a movement particularly among
the young to hate the past and eradicate
anything they find objectionable or
troubling and look every country all
history has its bad side that has this
good size good stuff bad stuff but this
recalls the kind of destructive mindset
of let's say Isis think about Isis what
they did they pull it pillaged and they
wiped away irreplaceable historical and
religious monuments from Palmyra
remember in Syria simply because they
could it's offensive to them now no
matter what one thinks of the way this
was all treated after the Civil War
where they should built these monuments
or not this happened okay the
Confederacy happened and we owe it to
the future to leave history as it
existed undisturbed continue to debate
it have conversations about it but why
not allow future generations the
opportunity to mark this history process
it and come to their own conclusions put
up another statue commemorating the
slaves who were abused and killed
adjacent to silence Sam but to destroy
instead of engage to defy the law
instead of respect it is no way to honor
the past or the future or to highlight
all the gains America has made now but
all right so so exactly it's an
interesting rhetorical trick that she's
playing here now we know that Isis
destroyed these they destroyed these
statues because of religious differences
not just because they found it offensive
and people aren't getting rid of these
statues simply because there
offensive they're getting rid of them
because they tell the wrong story and
interpretation of history these people
were not to be extolled if you want if
you're very concerned about silence Sam
and you want that history to exist then
raise money to create a little mausoleum
for silence Sam put it there and put it
in the context of a memorial that
actually tells history from the
perspective that we now understand it
that this was a very dark period that
there were people who were fighting and
we're told you need to fight because
this is about our sovereign tree
sovereignty as opposed to about our
ability to maintain slaves for economic
purposes that really you're not going to
benefit from and if you want to tell
that story you can tell it but the idea
that we don't I mean would Laura Ingram
say this about some of the
hundred-year-old 200 year old town
houses that were destroyed here in this
neighborhood of Brooklyn for a hotel
would she say that of course not she
becomes like an anti gentrification
activist yeah of course not this is
absurd this is absurd where's your check
to the Paul Robeson theater and Fort
Greene of course exactly exactly
I remember when Laura Ingraham had
chained herself to the Strand because
she was afraid that it might get taken
over me at Barnes and Noble
like the jury's still out on the
Confederacy right it still hate both
sides you know right and and the the
bottom line is the problem is that these
statues do not reflect our history
they are propaganda just because they
was built doesn't mean that it should
stay there for eternity without some
form of reinterpretation or frankly just
it sends the wrong message yeah that's a
big part of why we study history
right so that we can create sort of a
living concept of what these things
meant to us as a people I mean we she's
not concerned about the the Indian the
Native American villages that some of
these cities are built on I mean it's
absurd it's absurd yeah I think it's a
great way to engage with history to take
down the statues venerating the
confederacy that's that I mean in some
ways what you really should be doing is
a video installation of people taking
down the statue and that would really
teach history very engaging meanwhile
just earlier in this this network feed
from Fox News one hand they talked about
how horrible it is that you would in any
way reinterpret the celebration of
people fighting to enslave other people
bring on Tucker Carlson who is going to
also scare white people as to their
future that's what you're saying hold on
you just said we need to bring in people
because Americans aren't reproducing in
sufficient numbers positive for one
second I should tell you that he's
talking to Lois Miranda about
immigration good why aren't our leaders
thinking about how our people can afford
to have children they don't even
consider that a subject worth studying
much less trying to fix it's just like
oh well they're not having enough kids
but there's enough those are mutually
exclusive you know you're saying that
our low birth rates are the
justification for immigration I'm saying
our low birth rates are a tragedy that
say something awful about our economy
and the selfish stupidity of our leaders
that combination of our growth and our
prosperity that is enables us to have a
stronger economy so there's there's
definitely a both sides to this where
you can look at well who are gonna be
hurt but when you looked at states like
Georgia
and others that have implemented
anti-immigrant measures that forced a
lot of these immigrants out what you saw
was you know food rotting on the vines a
lot of lost crops because there weren't
enough people there to work them and so
the reality is is that we can both do
something that's actually economy for
people who are suffering it so and who
are American and who have lived here
their whole lives they want to have
children they won't have an opportunity
to do better than yet there maybe
someone should care about them a little
bit absolutely it's the most important
thing we have to demonize the immigrants
who are legitimate demonizing anybody
I'm not against the immigrants I is for
Americans and nobody cares about them
yes nobody cares about America you can't
replace you and it Ducker Carlson nobody
cares about Americans first of all his
premise is wrong it is expensive to have
children in in our society surely there
are some people who make the decision
not to have kids because of cost the
reality is that women in the highest
bracket of incomes 20% of incomes are 5
times less likely to have children than
people living in the lowest income
bracket now certainly we should be
making it easier for Americans to have
children and I appreciate Tucker Carlson
coming out strongly in favor of things
like Universal child care like universal
paid sick leave like universal mandatory
and paternity leave all of these
medicare-for-all all of these things
would help in and raising children but
the idea that there's a low birth rate
which is common amongst as nations
become more wealthy because people had
children because they needed a labor
fall off after the recession the fact of
what's that the yes oh yeah yeah I mean
I think people III mean I think people
tend to react to specific moments but
broadly speaking the reality is
one of the reasons why immigration is a
net positive is because of the aging of
our population but I just want to say I
mean this is another I always say really
watch Tucker Carlson because he's very
clever and he knows how to latch on to
some totally legitimate and real issues
and well the thing no no but he's never
going to take the next step and actually
not anymore and that's exactly where you
always need to go so it's a right front
war you need to of course debunk and
respond to his bigotry and his his
barely dog whistling racism but you also
need to exactly any if I was ever on TV
with Tucker I'd be like Tucker I reject
X and Aqsa and these other things I not
only are you raising a good point I a
hundred percent agree with you so join
me in card check Medicare for all
universal paid right leave I'm looking
for we can do this make you do it and
I'm excluding and we could fund it with
a tax rate of ninety percent on you know
I've returned to the Eisenhower levels
it doesn't even have to be that radical
basic moderate progressive stuff are you
with me and all right let's go to the
phones come from a 508 area code who's
this where he column from what's the mic
what's the mic what's up what's
happening wasn't mine well I'm not in
Worcester I'm in Omaha I moved out here
with my wife a few years ago so I wanted
to thank you for taking it easy on my
fellow Omaha I was gonna say go me go
maybe you got to go to Bronco burger and
sit down with Colton and figure out
about how does everything look at me
so uh yeah I literally was laughing out
loud with Michael with your impression
of Reagan there that was great yeah he
Colton's young he doesn't really know
what's going on
so we'll give a dinky doos I think the
fact that he's interested yes is is
probably a good sign agree so I had a
quick question for you what's worse than
ben shapiro challenging AOC to a debate
I don't know answer the answer the
answer is dave rubin challenging aoc to
a debate with ben shapiro right so he's
on he's on Twitter shooting at her well
do some on and his shell harassing Wow
well I thought a few days ago and I've
been I've been not you know trying to
get on the line here to call you guys
but I didn't know if you guys had seen
this and stuff I had not seen that yeah
he he likes what happens is that
whenever somebody from the left does
anything that gets popular Dave Rubin
comes in and challenges them to debate
ben shapiro which I just don't
understand at all he's too chicken to
even debate them himself exactly exactly
and I Sam you may remember this you
member that show Welcome Back Kotter of
course if you remember that guy I never
I can't remember the character's name
but he was like their arch enemy and he
had that sidekick there like the black
sidekick and every and every time they
got the you go ahead I know I remember I
remember that guy now and he would
always whenever he made like a funny
comment that black guy would come out
and go yeah did you hear what he said
yes that comedians what day but for what
Dave Rubin it I have the open exchange
of ideas now this kid it was very funny
yeah I know what you're talking about
we'll look that up that's gonna be good
we should that should be a drop he just
caught it dropping all right I
appreciate okay thanks for everything
man left is best Thanks what's the mic
it's not Worcester anymore but evidence
moving to Omaha I guess so that's where
it's all happening on the I am the Chris
lapacho any thoughts on Tim black
calling you out on Twitter today I have
not had a chance to assess that
rage thank you I keep wondering how bad
Flynn screwed over Trump I'm sure
they're all I'm sure all of our favorite
middle-of-the-road moderate Dems are
still up - they're probably up doing the
Carlton hey Sam cedar is that the is
that it - got it
I don't understand I think the Carlton
is a dance I know that the Carlton is
that's from Fresh Prince of bel-air but
he's he saying that Michael Flynn is
lying about Trump and so we're happy I
don't I don't get it I keep wondering
how bad Flynn screwed over Trump I'm
sure all of our favorite
middle-of-the-road Democrats are still
up - they're probably up doing the
Carlton I don't get it
I mean if you if he's I guess
generically if you're accusing people
who are actually socialists of being
happy that Donald Trump might get some
political heat yes I didn't do the
Carlton when I found out about this
though for the record and you wouldn't
do the Carlton you would do hotline
bling I would never I doesn't follow the
show Wow offensive why is he lying
attorney Andrew hello three things we
have first have we discussed the John
Dingell article in the Atlantic calling
for the abolishment of the calling for
abolishing the Senate I have not I have
it here I mean the argument is we're
gonna get a much more democratic society
and that by what we're doing with the
Senate is we are subsidizing an ideology
that in the marketplace of ideas would
simply fade away were it not for this
subsidy the the you can call it the I
don't know what Dingell calls it but I
would call it the sort of the rural firm
ative action program where we're
subsidizing the political power of
people just because they live in
wide-open spaces and they get to measure
the amount of political power and the
Senate so he says abolish the Senate I
gotta breed into it a little bit more I
won't say about the mauler team they got
subpoenas and I like that oh yeah I
heard about this there's a charter
school teacher strike in Chicago we got
to get more on that as well
oh yeah Dingell also suggested moving
toward full electoral participation by
automatically registering all American
citizens to vote when they turn 18 we
were yes cosign able to do it with the
the draft more or less and third Amy
Klobuchar told Chris Matthews she's
mulling a run for president the list of
nondescript Dems without the cachet of
Clinton are lining up for their circular
firing squad and clearing the way for
Bernie yo I remember when I was teaching
I effing hated how kids lied on their
pop quiz all the time
not that that's the answer Timmy no
that's not the answer to me lying I
think he's sort of mocking Colton a
little bit like Winnipeg Craig this is
ways off but the hundred year
anniversary of the Winnipeg general
strike is in the first half of 2019
thank you for getting us it's considered
one of the largest most significant
labor actions in North American history
the anniversary is going to be a huge
celebration of Labor maybe look into
booking and academic or two as a guest
to talk about the history and the legacy
of it come on Brendan put that on the
list it's a general strike let's do it
again
class us creative apropos of nothing I
had a surreal dream last night that I
was watching M R and all of you started
talking to a crew member named Caden I
was baffled because everyone's acting
like they had always been there thought
I was going insane and I realized that
was in a dream who woke up very strange
gumshoe can mr at a fifth show to
the network hosted by Pamela Anderson in
mahmud and mahmoud ahmadinejad
called dicks out for a harem Bey it is
pretty amazing that Pamela Anderson I
mean acha Medina died it's very on brand
he's gonna have some global wolf takes
with it what's funny baba ganoush sam
cedar the man whose idea of light
reading is security
trustee report believes google analytics
is too dry pot meet kettle
career politicians and businessmen can
say right any they want but a 29
year old bartender after winning her
first campaign to be held to a higher
level of scrutiny it's a funny world you
know I'll tell you what often lying all
she does is lie and lie there was a
tweet with a picture of AOC
from like 10 years ago 15 years ago why
12 years ago no she came in second I
think in the 2007 like New York State
science fair probably faked her
experimenters and I can't remember even
what it was necessarily with some
statistical stuff and then things start
making sense you know that like oh she's
like a science genius yeah like a
scientist she lies all the time yeah
like a scientist she like what you gonna
tell us now the earth is warming
Colin Nebraska is someone who took over
32 credit hours of accounting don't do
it I will however offer auditing
services for the majority report
something tells me VIP attendees are
getting scammed for the Mr live event we
do not have a VIP for the EM our live
event I do the MBS baby there's as bad
as the scamming is taking place correct
chewy
my girlfriend and I just booked a flight
from South Carolina comes to you guys at
the Bell house looking for new to
meeting all of you there you go bring
your winter coat that's awesome yes stay
warm
majority report thought happy birthday
Matt you are a hot piece of ass I'll
accept the compliment on Matt's behalf
since I'm in a seat thank you maybe they
just confused about the seat
mirela are Brandon and are Brandon and
Matt twins brothers cousins maybe I
can't tell them apart I don't know if
it's just me and they are both extremely
cute by the way the whole team is
attractive and
matt is of good Norwegian stock that I
am of dubious northeastern stock Irish
you mean I'm everything I'm like in
Irish English I was gonna say that's
racist but then they gave us all
compliments so boink boink had to agree
with Dave Rubin but I hate to agree with
Dave Rubin but f the post office and F
George Herbert Walker I want my effing
package to come in wish I went with
privatized mail no I don't get any of
that but what I don't I'm not sure
exactly what that's about
oh okay so what are we doing the Rudy
Giuliani Rudy Giuliani plays and
gentlemen upon hearing the I don't know
was this a response to the to the Muller
filing I'm not sure yes he did it was a
response and Rudy Giuliani was very
angry
he wrote Muller filed an indictment just
as the president left for g20 that is a
g20 period in July he indicted the
Russians who will never come here just
before he left for Helsinki period
either could have been done earlier or
later out of control exclamation point
supervision please question mark now
Rudy apparently wanted to save character
space even though I think he probably
had significantly more right oh it
doesn't look like 240 and so what he did
was G - 20-period I n now Rudy Guiliani
as you know was named a part of the
chair of a cyber security commission in
the Trump administration what he does
not seem to be aware of is that dot I n
is actually a suffix that is used in
hyperlinking just like dot F M if you
will
majority dot F M and if I was to write G
xx dot F M on Twitter
it would create a hyperlink a very
boring podcast yes well and there you go
and so some entrepreneurial spirit
apparently either had G - xx dot I in or
bought G - 20 i N and when you click it
it goes to this page which says @ G - 20
dyin Donald J Trump is a traitor to our
country and then also a breaking special
counsel calls X national security
advisor Michael Flynn's cooperation
substantial recommends no jail time Rudy
Giuliani got wind of this go back and he
had this to say
Twitter allowed someone to invade my
text with a disgusting anti president
message the same thing - period no space
- occurred later and it didn't happen
don't tell me they are not committed
card-carrying anti Trump errs Time
magazine may also fit that description
fairness please now I will decipher for
you because my parents are somewhere
around Rudy Giuliani's age so if you
scroll up what it what Rudy Giuliani
thinks happened is that Twitter
allowed someone to hack his text with a
hyperlink not invade my text it's also
not a text it's a tweet the same thing
he say argues a period no space occurred
later in his text slash tweet that was
when he said Helsinki dot either a
period either and it didn't happen
because Rudy doesn't understand that dot
I n is a suffix that creates a hyperlink
whereas dot either is not a suffix that
creates a hyperlink so there is no
website that could be formed from
Helsinki dot either he's having a rough
night
yes and then I mentioned difficult time
magazine because I think he was drunk so
there it is Rudy Guiliani yeah someone
got into by Twitter
invaded bothers our control
I was he's always been a racist fascist
was he always like a drunk jackass yeah
well I don't think he was a drunk
jackass but maybe a jacket maybe and I'm
speculating he's drunk is being generous
the National Republican Congressional
Campaign Committee apparently has been
hacked none of the emails have been
released but they were accessed
Republicans were made aware of this
Donald Trump has no time machine so
unfortunately he cannot go back to this
moment when in July this is July of what
July of this year he was still talking
about the DNC security problems as being
an embarrassment President Bush said
that he saw into his soul I think he
came to regret that you said that Putin
toyed with Obama how do you ensure that
things are different in this
administration
look I've met him two times two and a
half times most of you people were there
when I met him I think that I may have a
very good relationship and I think I may
have a very bad relationship with am i I
mean I don't know how you could sound
any more guilty about having a weird
relationship with somebody than to offer
up that stuff completely unprompted
here's a bunch of very strange verbage
yeah I have before I answer this
question I have a couple of non
sequiturs that in my mind make it seem
like I absolutely have no illicit
relationship with this man before I
answer your question I was like three
non sequiturs two incredibly suspicious
sounding statements and one just at the
very least it proves how nuts this guy
is oh yeah that he is Kiki he's
convinced that he looks guilty I don't
know if he is or he isn't of whatever it
is that he thinks he is but he's so
convinced that he looks guilty that he
makes himself look even more guilty by
saying that I didn't do it I mean look
I'm not an idiot if I did nothing wrong
offering to give him a 50 million the
other penthouse
doesn't look good it's not like let me
just start by saying it's not like I was
still negotiating for a 50 for a huge
tower in Russia during the campaign
that's not what it looks like I was
doing really cool stuff and even if I
did it was very cool maybe I did maybe I
didn't I probably didn't I don't know
maybe I didn't periscope as involved to
go back and just understand that he is
now saying that Obama was weak because
he allowed the Russians to hack into and
it by all accounts we don't know if it's
the Russians but we know that it's at
least as reported that it was a foreign
entity that hacked into these emails
were there when I met him I think that I
may have a very good relationship and I
think I may have a very bad relationship
with him I have no idea
I love the United States he obviously
loves Russia he's for Russia up for the
US we'll have to see what comes of it
but I think we have a chance to have a
very good relationship
I mean the couple of times I've met him
we get along very well there was very
short meetings but we had a long
collusion for instance if I got along
with him that's a good thing you know
we're a magnificent powerful country
they're a very powerful country we're a
nuclear country they're in nuclear
country and getting along is a good
thing that affair good thing we could
you know be guided would you ask Putin
to to send them here well I might I
hadn't thought of that but I certainly
I'll be asking about it but again this
was during the Obama administration they
were doing whatever it was during the
Obama administration and I heard that
they were trying or people were trying
to hack into the RNC to the Republican
National Committee but we had much
better defenses I've been told that by a
number of people we had much better
defenses
I think the DNC should be ashamed of
themselves for allowing themselves be
hacked I love this guy like that was
that was America under the Obama
administration over here you got a
do-over I was told by Arnold Palmer but
great golfer if there are security was
better I think people who didn't get
hacked
yeah the first half of that answer had
nothing to do with the question nope he
just heard the word Russia and he just
like I I'm glad you brought up what's
going on in Crimea because I have not
colluded with anybody super glad you
asked me that it's not like I have a
building that I was pursuing like for
instance that never happened
maybe it did happen maybe it didn't
happen if it mattered it happened it
wouldn't have mattered what was the
question
meanwhile no crime we haven't talked
about much about this I mean I this case
is heinous and I mean we brought it up
peripherally over the years probably but
this guy Jeffrey Epstein I don't know
he's a billionaire or were just a
hundred million it but I haven't feel
I think he was a bill I think he had a
billion and had relationships with all
sorts of major media and political
figures including Bill Clinton and Alan
Dershowitz there and Donald Trump there
have been some pretty explicit
accusations about Alan Dershowitz I
don't know about anyone else I haven't
heard any explicit accusations about
Bill Clinton in the context of EV scene
that I've definitely heard that he was
on a man if manifold where you took a
flight with him or used his plane not
necessarily what's that that's known it
oh yes that's what I'm saying yeah it's
been reported that he's a man has also
been on his jet the idea of politicians
going on millionaires and billionaires
planes not too uncommon but the the the
the specifically in terms of Dershowitz
there's been a lot more explicit
accusations I think by victims or
alleged victims so what happens is there
was a lawsuit that was threatening to
essentially try almost for the first
time Jeffrey Anthony I mean or retry
because what had happened before is that
Epstein had made a plea deal with a
federal prosecutor years ago that was
about as good of a deal as you could
ever get having been essentially copping
to sexually assaulting dozens of
underage women and sexual trafficking
he was basically allowed to register as
a sex offender and then leave lead his
life almost completely unfettered that
trial was set to start I think within a
day they were going to start to pick the
jury for this lawsuit and Epstein
settled in other words bought off
all the the plaintiffs who were bringing
this case however apparently this is not
the end of it oh I should also mention
the US attorney in Florida who gave
Epstein the sweetheart deal was a guy
named Acosta who is now the head of
Labor Department under Donald Trump
which oversees human traffic laws in the
country cool
takes one to know one and I want a bad
but here is one of the attorneys from
the plaintiffs who apparently have a
Phase two planned going to have a volume
of victims that are going to come
forward and be ready to testify and not
get cross-examined testify about what
happened to them in a way that will help
them heal it would take a fool not to
recognize that he faces extremely
serious jeopardy at this point he faces
the distinct possibility that his
sweetheart plea bargain can get set
aside and that he and others will face
federal criminal prosecution there's a
federal case also pending here in West
Palm Beach involving Epstein and the
secret agreement that the federal
government reached with him not to
prosecute him federally if he would
plead guilty to a couple of state
charges he did 13 months in jail he's a
sex offender registered but he could
have gone to prison for life if he had
been prosecuted federally so this is not
over
and I have a feeling there's a lot of
very nervous people not just that steam
because I have a feeling that at one
point he's going to decide there's some
there's some other fish here that can be
fried so this story is not going to go
away and it sounds like a super super
creepy one oh could not be more
disgusting in grotesque also I I'm
paraphrasing it but in the first New
York magazine article that was written
before he was charged
there was just sort of like who is this
guy there's some fishy stories about him
I think it was um phil weiss wrote it he
interviewed Trump and Trump said
something to the effect of we both like
young girls yeah I will tell you let's
go to the phone call from a two six
seven area code who's this where you
call them from uh hey this is Pat from
South Philly Pat from South Philly
what's on your mind I just want to make
a quick as my first time calling I've
been listening to you for about a year
now
but I just wanna make a quick comment on
this the general way that Trump has
changed a lot of leash cultures
throughout America I guess I work in the
comic book industry and recently within
the last year there's been a thing
called comics gate that kind of popped
up and it's not necessarily like there
was there was no like kind of
controversy behind it originally it just
kind of they came up with the name gate
because they saw like all right kind of
people already accepting that as like a
good thing so these people came up with
the idea of comics week but it's
basically like an all right comic we're
considering themselves like a oppressed
minority now and it's kind of related
somewhat adjacent to alright and uh
light and um kind of like gamergate it's
why are these all night comics like like
illustrator is or writing or just like
robberies like this both mainly but it
comes out of like you know but there's a
liberal agenda and comics now and we're
going to take down the sjw's because
comics in general the past 10 years as
far as like mainstream comics have been
trying to appeal to a more diverse crowd
right you know they made like a black
spider man and a young woman iron man
and you know a Muslim superhero is now
Captain Marvel so they're like fighting
the idea of sjw's but this is only
happen within like the last year and I
because you can see like a direct
correlation from Trump taking office in
like Miam these types of people be more
ballsy and vocal and yes feelings get
around there yeah I mean I think here he
gives voice for the aggrieved you know
whoa you know white nationalist
essentially yeah and it's a few guys
ever like look up the hashtag comic
strick there's a guy named Ethan Van
Sciver who's actually Jordan Peterson's
go-to artist so it's like all kind of
related in that same kind of Internet
realm but this guy made like um he's
like one of the leaders of comics gay
and there's like this other guy that
ended up getting like national press
this guy he makes it he means like a
troll YouTube name is called comics and
diversity but it's like against comics
and diversity and just like you know
says despicable racist things but he was
on like Comedy Central where they pulled
him out and they had a comedian like
Calma racist to his face which is a
pretty funny clip to look up weird weird
stuff but yeah these subcultures I've
learned my lesson about ignoring them
they don't go away
Pat how did you come to listen to the
show actually last year from I kind of
followed the alt-right goings-on and
like sterna vich when he got you you
know fired for like a day I was like
who's this guy and uh I just been
listening daily almost since all right
well thank you Mike Serna Mitch I
appreciate it
and thanks for joining us bad weird Mike
there you go right the lap T are you
ever had who's laughing now stammering
honestly if I if I had Mike sorta which
is my agent when I was in show business
I wouldn't know I would be laughing now
Sam
I'm green-lighting the nice
that's gonna set up in a totally Akron
astac way I would change it but I found
in whoo my discernment cervix calm ah
[Laughter]
let's listen to this lion again
apparently at the Bernie Sanders had a
climate show noses lie here she is
probably gonna tell us that we get some
problem here is Alexandra Acacio Cortez
talking about her climate change plan
she is in a fight right now to get on
the Ways and Means Committee and I think
I tweeted this out there are three
according to according to Ryan grim at
the intercept there are three Congress
people who are I don't know if they have
specifically all the control but they
appear to three steering committee
members who will recommend to Nancy
Pelosi whether Acacio gets this spot on
the Ways and Means Committee this is one
of the you recall the interview we had
with David day and there are four
committees aside from intelligence that
are hugely important every piece of
legislation that you care about needs to
go through one of these four committees
ways and mean is a huge one they do all
the tax policy and she is going toe to
toe with North Shore that says North
Shore Long Island representative Tom
Suzie he is a new dem who would get all
his financing and funding from bankers
so listen up Colton there's a reason why
a OC is popular it's because she's going
up against these forces basically saying
like
I'm never gonna get this money I'm never
gonna take this money I'm never gonna
get this money I'm going to I am willing
to lose some allies and support and she
is not getting on the Ways and Means
Committee I can a Matt I can assure you
to protect the banks and to protect
wealthy people from having their taxes
increased so the three people who are
responsible for this representative
barbara Lee
representative Eric swallow well 2020
candidate oh yeah really possible 2010
and rosa DeLauro who is congresswoman
from Connecticut so if you are from one
of those districts or even if you're not
email them tell them
AOC on Ways and Means Committee it's
important here she is at the national
town hall that Bernie Sanders put
together I see Bill McKibben there Van
Jones and who's the other who's the
woman and alc let's hear what they have
to say but the only way we are going to
get out of this situation is by choosing
to be courageous that's the only way
we're gonna get out of this and when
first of all is just plain wrong
the idea that we're going to somehow
lose economic activity as a matter of
fact it's not just possible that we will
create jobs and economic activity by
transitioning to renewable energy but
it's inevitable that we are going to
create jobs it's inevitable that we're
going to create industry and it's
inevitable that we can use the
transition to a hundred percent
renewable energy as the vehicle to truly
deliver and establish economic social
and racial justice in the United States
of America that is our proposal and that
is what we are here to do
but the oh there you have it so it's
just sort of deluge of dishonesty I mean
there she has images just extolling the
the
the both the moral and the moral
imperative and the the fact that there
will be economic benefits from this as
well at the risk of killing the fun I
did ask a question about this green New
Deal idea a talk on the extractive
industries at the socialism conference
and this guy whose name currently
escapes me but he wrote a book on this
stuff he's very well researched said
that yes certainly in the short term a
green new deal is way better than what
we have now but long term the amount of
economic activity that that would
generate within the capitalist system
would basically cancel out any net
benefit to their environment there's
definitely a reason to be skeptical of
the the idea of it being an economic
stimulus I mean this was frankly it was
a it was an idea that was first
developed and obviously the policy sets
were different by Thomas Friedman he's
the one who coined a green new deal so
there is a reason to be skeptical but it
also look the bottom line is whether you
accept that assessment or not
that that I that that is definitely out
there and I think it's some degree is
sound by changing the focus of our
economy to alternative sources of energy
you are essentially eliminating an
extremely oversized lis powerful
political force in our economy in our
society that is inhibiting our ability
to move forward with what needs to
happen in terms of saving the planet and
that's really it's a bit of a bank shot
but there is no direct line through that
unless you
got like you know a tank and you know we
don't have the tanks not yet not
thinking of Bernie bro of like like what
I think
all right Bernie she's like she sits up
in lies nice and she doesn't look like
any of us she doesn't look like other
people and bado inspires you like Reagan
all right we got time for one more call
sorry we got multiple people who have
been on hold for well over an hour you
called from a 602 area code who's this
where you come from yes right this is
Arman from Vietnam our mond from Vietnam
what's uh what's happening are Mont hey
man I wanted to talk about I'm a half
Turkish South American citizen and I
seem like a sort of wave I'm 24 years
old over the last I seem like a sort of
way from and religious and like
uneducated sort of I I guess maybe it's
unfair to tie religion as the Collins
into it but I just feels like coming
from Turkey where you know we were such
a modern Islamic state too slowly
pushing back like that sort of
progressiveness that we had for you know
well over 60 70 years or not really 60
70 years but you know and then following
suit you know this sort of rise of
nationalism in the West I I kind of want
to ask after this is all over if the
elections go well how do we sort of
encourage these people to because I feel
like education has become a sort of you
know enemy to these people or education
is seen as a shortcoming or you know
education is a bad thing how do we sort
of like encourage these these these
people who are so far and you know
radicalized sort of but not really maybe
that's the wrong turn to use but sort of
encouraged until they come back is
ending these insane talk shows like you
know buses named Bill O'Reilly and
Infowars is ending those sort of
programs enough and then they'll just
naturally you know
see the world through the lens or it
doesn't it doesn't hurt but I mean I
think what has to happen is that there
are there has to be I think
material there has to be policies that
are implemented that provide material
benefit to people sort of watershed
policies that become the new third rails
right I mean Social Security and
Medicare in this country have not only
functioned as providing material benefit
for tens hundreds of millions of people
I mean you know through time I don't
want to live I I want to be you know
somewhat precise but keeping 2/3 of our
elderly out of poverty
this material benefit has also
functioned to provide a just almost an
immovable we used to refer to it as the
third rail of politics we didn't talk
about anymore because it's it's so
clearly is a like an immovable backstop
in our politics and so I suspect that if
there is the introduction of other major
policy initiatives let's say like
single-payer that it creates even more
leverage and it gives more of an
opportunity to empower the type of
politics we like and hopefully those
people will smarten up about also
educating the population as to their a
new relationship with with with
government and create a a wider
understanding of the possibilities
that's the only thing I can tell you
that's my that's my optimistic view I'm
not going to tell okay that's a mystic
one you're too young and then another
view I'm something I've kind of seen you
know throughout many countries is as you
reach like you know the more rural towns
where there's you know not as many
people and you know sort of just
indigenous as either indigenous people
or people who have just lived there and
it's all their own sort of town and then
coming into big cities where you know
there's such a melting pot of people
you know one usually leans farther right
and one usually leans further left
regardless of really which country
you're in right how do we encourage is
it just maybe economic development or
for these smaller talents or is there a
way to sort of you know bring you know
people to these towns that you know
maybe have different stories and would
that help like you know this is always
been this has been the dynamic at least
for a couple hundred years I think and
you know at least and I think it's
getting a little bit better I think
things like the internet and TV on some
level help I mean certainly you can see
it in the context of things like its its
most obvious to me in things like at
least in this country like marriage
equality like you know people are
exposed there's no substitute to
actually having a daily or you know sort
of interaction with people who are
different than you but I think
communication does that and I think like
again you know programs like a
single-payer if people share a certain
relationship to their government I think
it strengthens those things and breaks
down those barriers but I appreciate the
call Arman got a jump advantages to
organizing and red states I don't know
if you're progressive or socialist or
what kind of leftist you are but there
have been some Democratic challengers
who won primaries in red states against
more conservative Democrats much more
easily than in places like New York
where the democratic party establishment
is much more firmly entrenched so
there's certainly our possibilities to
organize both in the electoral sphere
and out of it he's in Vietnam that's a
red state red area super red sea like
that alright sorry folks that's all the
time calls right there oh geez I get
I gotta go I get to record some stuff
alright well do five of these Sam
tenders profile hey girl swipe right to
go left its best let's bring in a glass
seagull Michael Mike Racine was
hilarious on the show everyone check it
out
jerem out - a great question Michael ALC
what's not to like home run 2001 Rahm
Saad says - point truly two point three
trillion missing from the Pentagon
interesting it's a decimal off that
jerem oh please save Jamie's not yet
responding - we have tanks on 1250 so
sweet secret identity politics this
guy's a friggin nerd we all know Quran
allows us to lie to non-believers aoc
all the way more Reagan lies that woman
had 62 photo IDs not 60 also she drove
of a Buick LeSabre not a Cadillac Ryan
in LA Reagan said the thing about trees
when he was governor of California thank
you oh wow I thought it was James yeah
um James while it was pretty terrifying
- yeah I'm pretty sure the anti AOC
collar is steny hoyer turn up Vega last
report I saw 14,000 kids are being in
prison without their parents it's
terrible to think about it but is it
really possible none of these kids have
died in custody yet it's hard for me to
imagine that's not the case or won't be
soon our report is working hard to
uncover info like this I think
ProPublica has been doing a lot of
reporting on that but I think it's a
good point and the final I am of the day
Scott Walker Texas Ranger can you guys
shed a little light on the fre going on
in Wisconsin right now before evers
takes office we talked about it a little
bit yesterday with Ari Berman we will
update you later in the week probably on
Friday folks see you tomorrow in thats
it goes back to get
[Applause]
[Music]
I was when I just got caught
choo-choo
[Music]
feel and advance
no the clock is ticking
[Music]
[Applause]
choices made
they'll get paid
Desmond
I guess
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
