[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday April 23rd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrial ravaged Gowanus Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA yes folks it's another one of our
famous vacation show book Show interview
fresh content even though we're not
there but you don't care cuz you listen
buy podcast anyways except for those
people who listen live in which case
it's okay folks we'll be back soon on
the program today evan thomas journalist
author a first story of Sandra Day
O'Connor why is that relevant well
because the Supreme Court is important
and interesting to get insight into the
Supreme Court from any portable possible
centered a coroner's story
one such portal because she was rather
disaffected with the way that the
Supreme Court turned out some regret
there ladies and gentlemen
who can blame her well I blamed her I I
guess I could I blamed her not so much
for the regret but for the things that
she regretted but we'll get into that
with Evan Thomas in the meantime I am on
vacation with the kids it is now the day
three and if I have done this properly
things are going great for me I'm
sitting by a pool in Florida I've
managed to dish off the kids I'm just
hanging out having you know I don't know
if I'm actually having a pina colada but
in my mind's eye I am maybe a maybe some
type of rum drink I guess a pina colada
forget it let's just stick with a pina
colada I'm joining myself and I'm
probably I don't know answering emails
and going through stuff that I haven't
done for the majority report in a long
time that's my vacation getting drunk
and you know trying to fix the back end
of the website but I'll tell ya if I'm
not doing that I know what I'm doing
because one of today's sponsors is
Skillshare and anyone who goes to sk l
dot sh majority report to is going to
get two whole months of totally free
access to scale Cher's entire library of
super quality online courses and
tutorials Skillshare is a vibrant online
learning community that offers courses
on everything we're designed to video
editing photography business technology
cooking meditation everything in between
so I'm sitting there I've got my pina
colada
I'm watching a scale share video because
there's courses for everyone I'm gonna
have no problem finding of course that's
gonna be interested me not just in my
personal life but also my business life
as will you if you want to sharpen your
skills with something you already love
doing or you want to learn something
that is totally new Skillshare has you
covered
they of course is for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages Photoshop you name it
like I say I'm sitting by the pool right
now I'm probably checking out how can I
up my social media game how can I keep
things neat around the house it's not
that's not so easy for me and the thing
that I that every time I dip into skills
show the thing that I love is I end up
looking at things that I don't think are
gonna be relevant to me I'm like it's
sort of interesting I wonder and there's
no the bar to entry is so low and I
ended up always having at least one
thing that I take away that I use in my
daily life in some fashion just think of
everything you're gonna have at your
fingertips for two whole months
again that's sk l dot s h slash majority
report to Skillshare i've put a link
underneath this video if you're watching
on youtube and if you're listening I put
a link in the description of the podcast
so check it out
also as I sit and deal with my kids
alone two kids just me and them the
support that the majority report is
getting from simple habit is also going
to be helpful to me why it's a mobile
app that provides a massive and diverse
library of five-minute guided
meditations and the majority port
audience can try simple habit totally
for free for an entire week when you go
to simple habit calm / majority look
there's a lot of hard science out there
about the value of meditation
anecdotally half the people in this
office will tell you that meditation is
their saving grace simple habit has over
2,000 guided meditations specifically
designed for different parts your day
and just about anything you might be
dealing with in life they've guided
meditations for mindfulness mint and
meditations very anxiety for depression
when you're having trouble following a
sleep meditation for when you wanting to
overcome procrastination or if you've
got something that's particularly
stressful at work or something that you
want to be clear-eyed and
bring your a-game - they got meditations
designed for parents who are losing
their minds on a trip with their kids
maybe not specifically losing their
minds with the trip of the kids but
basically well I like about simple habit
is that I can go in it's another one of
those things where the bharta entry is
just so low and I can try meditation and
I can do I can find one that's
completely appropriate for me in that
moment I'm not a big I'm not big into
meditation and simple habit allows me to
dip in dip out I love it
different people are trying to
accomplish different things meditation
simple habit can cater to just about
everyone doesn't matter what your goals
are doesn't matter how much past
experience like I said with meditation
the variety guided meditations on simple
habit is what sets it apart it just won
the 2018 Google Play award for best
well-being app you can get it for iOS
Android and your web browser majority
report audiences can try it for a week
by going to simple habit calm / majority
simple habit calm / majority if you're
watching on YouTube put the links in the
in the description and same with the
podcast all right we're gonna take quick
break and when we come back we're gonna
be talking to Evan Thomas on Sandra Day
O'Connor his Burke first Sandra Day
O'Connor we'll be right back
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program Evan Thomas
author of 10 books former professor of
journalism at Princeton University and
his last book is first Sandra Day
O'Connor this of course is a authorized
biography of Sandra Day O'Connor the
first woman to serve on the Supreme
Court Evan welcome to the program I Sam
after crutch is not authorized oh it is
not a complete access to the family but
authorized suggests that they have some
control over it and they don't all right
MA my my bad on that and I appreciate
the the correction and you did get
extraordinary access what what do you
think I mean well I mean you've written
multiple books what what do you think
was behind the access they want I mean
she definitely wanted to have a
biography of her done and I'm a Random
House author and I'm Miranda nice author
has a law degree so and they check me
out you know with other historians but
you know it's just it's it's you know
she cares about her legacy there was
some thought about her doing her memoir
she never got around to doing that and I
I don't know why but part of it I think
is that she I don't think was totally
comfortable with being as forthcoming as
you'd have to be if you were gonna do a
good memoir right I mean I guess what
I'm getting to is this notion I mean I'm
fascinated by the Supreme Court and in
particular I'm fascinated by you know
what happened in in in 2000 and and we
will get there as well but I mean
broadly speaking before we talk about
her life whoa I mean the import of
legacy to a Supreme Court justice I mean
talk about that to the extent that you
can have gleaned from what you've
written
because
you know we're entering or entering an
era where it's conceivable the majority
on this Court will have almost like a
supermajority over the next two years we
don't know but and certainly a very
durable mature majority when we look at
the ages of the five short of Thomas
what what where does legacy come in do
you think or is it is magenta say Sh
about different justices oh sure they
don't care about their legacy I mean
they may say they don't but of course
they do you know get to be a Supreme
Court justice unless you care about your
legacy it takes a Vigo to get there in
her case it's a little complicated
because she's not purely ideological in
fact she's really quite the opposite she
didn't really like ideology at least you
didn't like ideology and opinions she
was a pragmatist the practical type
middle-of-the-road or you know she's the
one who preserved abortion rights that
was her and it was also justice O'Connor
who abhart preserve affirmative action
but in both cases she personally I don't
think would have had an abortion she had
some reservations about a Bourdon
abortion and I first same thing with
affirmative action I think she had her
her doubts about affirmative action but
she felt that it was important for the
country and for people in the country to
have abortion rights for women to have
abortion rights limited to some degree
by the state to some degree but to
preserve roe v wade and on affirmative
action she doesn't love identity
politics and she wants a permit of
action to end it to not be necessary at
some point but she thinks that the
country basically although they may not
like quotas they do want to have racial
preference in areas like higher
education where you know is her view was
law schools trained leaders I think a
quarter of the US side they're lawyers
and if you just did it on the numbers
and you didn't have any affirmative
action you would the number of
african-americans would drop way off to
very very low numbers that actually
happened in the West Coast when
California when they had a referendum
about affirmative action and she was
influenced by the military and in
business where you know that you you you
you needed to have some affirmative
action to make the numbers look like
America so the point here is that she's
not particularly ideological about this
she's practical minded she's sensitive
to where the country is she's sensitive
to this idea that the court can't get
either too far behind or too far ahead
public opinion without hidden reefs not
reading polls but she's not unmindful of
public opinion well now as you described
you know these two cases where she ended
up being the fifth vote in terms of
protecting abortion rights and
protecting permit of action the there's
no we're not mentioning any type of
legal principles I mean just to the
extent that you know I mean as a lawyer
I mean and you know and I think I am
certainly of the mind that the Supreme
Court that you know the legal principles
sort of our you know very often
backfilling for for Supreme Court
justices but but speak to that because I
mean the sure I mean she was not a
doctrinaire a conservative nor a
doctrinaire liberal but she certainly
was a principled pragmatist I mean if
you want to get into legal jargon here
you know she believed in you know strict
scrutiny where there where there was
racial preference that should be exposed
to strict scrutiny but unlike some
people she didn't believe that scrutiny
was fatal in fact she was willing to
have exceptions for it she was you know
things could like for instance the need
to have diversity in a college campus
that would overcome the close scrutiny
that the courts would give to racial
preference so that's that is principled
but it's not the absolutist kind of
principle that you would find on the
right where they believe that any race
preference where the Constitution is
colorblind and all racial preferences
bad or on the Left where they're pretty
much Pro affirmative action no matter
what she's a middle of the rotor she's a
compromiser she because she was on both
sides of this issue it's not
unprincipled but it is practical all
right so let's go back and talk about
you know how she ended up on the Supreme
Court and I'm you know particularly
fascinated about the what she did in
terms of like sort of I guess
I mean socializing feels like too too
too soft of a term I mean she she she
changed it seems to me the the nature of
the way that justice is related to each
other or expected to relate to each
other
she tried I mean when she got to the
court she found was pretty cold chilly
was I think the word that she use and
and and the you know it Sam exactly said
marble building but the justices didn't
get along with each other
this is 1981 and your listeners at least
the older ones will remember a book
called the Brethren by Bob Woodward and
scarred Armstrong and that was an expose
of the court it came out in late 1979
and when O'Connor gets there about a
year later the justices don't trust each
other they're wondering who the leaker
is so she goes to her first lunch they
have a weekly lunch sometimes more than
once a week but a weekly lunch and only
four other justices show up and she's
wondering well you know where is
everybody
and she made it her business to get
everybody to come to lunch she would
literally sit in their chambers until
they came by
I was talking to Justice Thomas about
this and he's he's very this is stories
very illustrative of Justice O'Connor's
style you know everybody remembers
Thomas's hearings Anita Hill and I
without knowing this for sure the the
strong impression I got from the clerk's
is that justice O'Connor really did not
like those hearings one bit both the
nature of the allegations sexual
harassment and just the whole spectacle
of the whole thing
wait what is that I wanna I'm sorry I
want to just press like what I
understand the notion of like feeling
uncomfortable with the spectacle but
what was her perspective of like like
the the nature of the hearings like that
shouldn't have come up or that oh I I
don't know she didn't talk about it but
I'm gonna tell you what I do know
because they're clerks of course were
know what she thought she was grimly
silent about the whole thing okay from
knowing a lot about her
I have a strong guess that she was very
uncomfortable with the allegations
themselves whether or not they were true
but very uncomfortable and the spectacle
of a Supreme Court justice nominee going
through that you know it was just a
rough scene for the for the court anyway
let me so let me tell you the story this
comes from Justice Thomas he said he
told me I was feeling hammered and
lonely and alone and so on the very
first day he's walking back from the
courts conference to his chambers and
she walks with him and she says those
hearings did a lot of damage and he
doesn't know what to say I mean is this
about damage to me personally damage to
the court she doesn't say anything and
he doesn't say anything but the next day
and she doesn't look too happy
the next day she walks with him again
and she says Clarence you got to come to
lunch and the next day Clarence you got
a convulsion finally she says Clarence
you got to come to lunch and he you know
so he had been sulking basically in his
tent and he came to lunch and he said it
changed things for him the point here is
that the justices don't have to love
each other but they do have to work
together they don't always work together
but it's better if they do and O'Connor
had this effect of making people come
together again it's not you know doesn't
have to be jolly friendship but she just
it helps if you break bread together
you're more likely to be able to work
stuff out and and and O'Connor believed
not always in compromise but sometimes I
mean actually sometimes she was would go
off on her own
you know separate opinion concurrence of
the concurring opinion enjoy other
justices crazy so she wasn't always on
the team but at times she was and and
and she at times like more famously
Justice Brennan she would bring five
together but she wanted people to work
together and and when they needed to to
compromise
whether she approved of them personally
or not and in and in
but for Thomas right no one is sitting
on the Supreme Court that's sat with
O'Connor is that right at this point or
no right right of course I guess that
she they they were at the I guess maybe
they just come in at under under Clinton
and so this notion I mean how much did
she did you get a sense of horse-trading
I mean I'm curious as to to what extent
once you start to build those those
bridges and she has this sort of
practicality where she is very conscious
of I mean it seems to me that she has a
a consciousness of her role as sort of
like a an uber politician or States
person if you will in measuring where
the the country is at that point and not
you know based upon her ideology to some
extent like well how much like horse
trading would she do was she in a
position with your zero horse trading is
the wrong word to use with these people
there's a subtle pot you know there are
some small P politics of they will they
will they will they will narrow there
they'll alter their when they're writing
an opinion you can see some
back-and-forth where they try to
accommodate each other but the idea that
they log roll or horse trade that's just
not I mean I spent a lot of time in
sitting those files I used to cover
Congress there's a difference between
horse trading and what they do there
there are some subtle modifications in
order to get majority opinions and there
are some times when it looks pretty
crude I know we're gonna get the Bush v
Gore and that's a place where it got
really crude but generally speaking it's
fairly high mind
and they are careful about you know
their cable about principle they're
careful about precedent they're careful
not to look too naked in raw about this
I mean how do I because you know there's
a there's a new book out about and you
know that I know this is sort of outside
of your portfolio but there's a new book
out about John Roberts and you know and
I haven't to be fair I haven't read the
book and I've read just maybe a
secondhand account of it but it appears
that in the context of the Affordable
Care Act that there may have been some
of that or at least there they've you
know between Roberts and Kagan and
Breyer there was at least a some type of
equilibrium found horse-trading yes you
swapping your trading
I just object to the word because
because it suggests quid pro quo I'll
give you this if you give me that I
don't I know it doesn't work that way
there that doesn't mean there are
politics and they're not talking to each
other and they don't have agendas that
are not purely say shall we say judicial
but of course trading is a harsh word
for a more subtle process alright I
don't want to get caught up on the
semantics but I am curious on how that
dynamic works because it's just it's
fascinating it is but what I'm saying to
you it's subtle it's not like in the
legislature you say if you vote for my
bill I'll vote for you right I'll trade
you a sewer culvert for a post office
it's just not that way on the court it
just isn't it's much more subtle now
that's not to say they don't a political
beliefs and if they don't trim their
sales a little bit but it's a much more
subtle process and is there and so there
is never a sense of like you know if we
if we come to agreement on this
principle here this is going to
intellectually obligate you to do why in
the future nothing there's no or is that
just the hypothetical conversation oh no
no I know it just doesn't work that way
I mean I spent a lot of time reading
their memos and talking to them
and it's they are conscious about not
doing that they they would have you
believe it's not political at all now of
course it is because look at the look at
the outcomes you know right you often
have liberals on one side and
conservatives on the other so yes it's
political but the process itself is they
if you look at their memos they are
talking about points of law with each
other and the argument is always logical
and rational and it's just never a crude
trade it just isn't yeah okay I mean I
mean I'm just I'm still you know trying
to and maybe it's one of those things
where you need to be involved in a
dynamic to get a real sense of it but I
mean as we were just talking about
affirmative action and abortion you know
all of the assessments that you
attribute to Sandra Day O'Connor were in
many respects you know a political
assessments about where the public is
and what would work and in sort of a
sense of decency and you know it's not
sure let's do abortion here she when she
comes on the court you know robing wait
is the president right and that's that's
a three trimester system but I'd get too
far in Louise here you know in the first
trimester the woman has an absolute
right to abort her fetus and the second
trimester this day consider the health
of the woman and the the third the state
has you know more interest and she
decides that that's basically not
practical because viability of a fetus
is his lengthening and so the trimester
system is as she put it on a collision
course with itself so she's looking for
a new rationale she still wants to
uphold abortion rights she does believe
you know she's willing to believe that
in the 14th amendment the due process
clause there is a privacy right for a
woman but she the question is does this
when does the state get in there and she
comes up with a different standard
called undue burden meaning the state
cannot put an undue burden on a woman's
right to an abortion well what does
undue board undue burden really mean
well that's kind of a case-by-case thing
so you know does it mean you have to
notify your parents the woman does she
have does a doctor have to read
something to her about you know there
are various things of states do how far
can you drive how hard is it for you to
exercise this right and yeah exactly all
that and that's sort of a case-by-case
thing that's infuriating to the purists
of course but she's is recognizing that
the states have some interests here and
it's going to be decided case-by-case
she was very much a case by case person
it's exhausting because of the abortion
you know they keep having to do this
every couple of years and so there's a
lot of critics of that but that was the
way she was gonna have a pragmatic
case-by-case person let's inch this
along and I do think although she didn't
read polls she was aware that about a
third of the country is against abortion
under any circumstances and about a
third as for it under any circumstances
but then there's a third that's you know
in between and she thinks thought that
the court should be mindful of that
public opinion if you will and not go
too far one way or the other
she's not sitting there looking at you
know like a politician looking at what
Gallup told her last night but she's not
unmindful of public opinion and if I
recall she was a she was a politician in
Arizona and upon image she had she sat
as a judge in any on any level prior to
the Supreme Court yeah she was a she was
a trial court she first she was a
politician you right in fact she's the
last Supreme Court justice to have
actually had to ask for votes she was in
the state legislature amazingly she was
the first women ever to be a senate
majority leader of a state Senate
anywhere she then went on became a trial
court judge did that for a few years
then on the state court of appeals judge
that's a court state court of appeals
it's an intermediate
she's not on the state Supreme Court so
it was a big reach for her to get on the
US Supreme Court you know she's not even
dealing with constitutional issues not
u.s. constitutional issue right she was
not even a federal court system at that
point right
he was basically not not prepared to be
a US Supreme Court justice as we would
measure that today yeah and I mean I
asked that because you know cuz and
that's what I had recalled was that her
her judicial experience was not within
the federal system and that idea of
doing a case by case is it makes more
sense in the context of a state court
right where you're not creating broad
principles that are to apply to
essentially you know 300 million people
that's true but she was also wearing
leaving aside the distinction between
state and federal she was wearing that
when judges when federal judges apply
broad principles they create unintended
consequences that the and also she
noticed that she's one of the games up
there is that justices will try to salt
into their opinion some dicta that
becomes the basis for later opinions by
lower court judges lik Brennan was
famous for this I've kind of salt into
his footnotes and and in some marks on
the side that he knew lower court judges
you know balls that they would pick up
with and run to basically broaden the
expansive federal power and she was
always trying to step on those little
land bar to stop out those little
nuggets that he would salt in there so
she was very sensitive to the courts
language having more meaning than than
the court necessarily intended or at
least more meaning than she intended she
liked to limit limit the reach of these
opinions now the criticism of that is
that it doesn't give very good guidance
to the courts below and you're
constantly having to relitigate things I
have a friend as a federal judge who is
cranky about this how do we know what to
do if you don't tell us right and so
that that is that is it that is a valid
criticism
of hers she would say well I just don't
want to get ahead of ourselves and you
know she had this if you want such a
philosophy here this is actually
important her view of the court was not
as the last word rather it was some it
was an institution that was engaged in
an ongoing conversation with other
institutions with state legislators
lower courts and state courts and
federal courts part of this ongoing
conversation that was going to very
slowly work out the hard issues that
that you struggle with affirmative
action and abortion being being two of
them where public opinion is divided and
it's really hard to know you know an
affirmative action one of the great
existential questions can you use race
to remedy the problems of racism I mean
it's a fantastically difficult
existential question you know using race
to cure race and some people just say
absolutely not and other people say well
of course I mean if you're Thurgood
Marshall yes of course you have to do
this but if you're you know William
Rehnquist no and she was in the middle
of it all right let's talk about mm I'm
I you know have spent the better part of
my adult life considering that election
to be a real problem and I feel like we
could probably draw a lot of of today's
ills in our country to that the way that
election was handled and my
understanding is that she at the very
least had some regrets about it talked
about her role in the Bush v Gore
decision I think a lot of people who are
listening to the to the program don't
really understand exactly you know like
how it got to the Supreme Court it was
extremely messy way in which it got to
the Supreme Court
just give us a thumbnail on that and
then her role in those sure I mean you
know yeah I'm sure your listeners will
remember in Florida there were all these
different ways to vote there and there
were hanging chads and under votes and
over vote so it was just a a mess
and so it got a got into the court
system to try to resolve this and the
basic question was do you have to have a
system by which all the votes are
counted the same way and that's why it
really became an issue for an equal
protection issue if you will for for the
US Supreme Court but it's really
complicated because the question of
whether the Supreme Court should be
involved at all and what is essentially
is well it's a state court state
legislators decide state legislatures
decide how you choose electors right
from the popular vote but it's a federal
election so the Supreme Court although
the Supreme Court likes to stay out of
local political stuff in this case since
it's electing a president that that is a
federal question and so they involve
themselves but it's but it's a difficult
question and they came in at the time is
it fair to say because this was my this
was my sense at the time was that the
vast majority of legal scholars thought
that once it was in the Florida Supreme
Court that the that the Supreme Court of
the United States would not touch this
case that they would just simply reject
they would just not grant it cert as it
were right I mean do you think that's a
fair the vast I'm not sure the vast
numbers would certainly all the Liberals
would well but does that mean good that
produced a better outcome well I
understand but but I mean forget vast do
you think the majority of legal scholars
at that time were surprised that the
Supreme Court picked yeah yes okay yes
yeah I do
and I think that I probably would have
been on the other side of this but but
you asked me about justice O'Connor's
thankings right let me try to talk about
that again on her pragmatic notion you
got to follow the bouncing ball here
this gets a little complicated but but
but let me I have to explain this
because otherwise you can't understand
her yeah I got this I got this from
Justice Ginsburg it was my principal
source on this and a couple of anonymous
sources
she was looking at the statute book and
there is actually our is a statute that
applies to all this so you have this
case that comes up and the issue is do
we allow the recount to go on do we
allow the recount of votes to go on if
they if the answer to that is yes she
thought there was a chance that gore
would win you already had the Florida
Secretary of State had already certified
the Republican Secretary of State had
already certified matters Paris it's
already certified electric for a bush so
the outcome could be this that there's a
certified bunch of electors Republican
Gore wins so now you're going to have
two sets of electors but a Democrat and
a Republican believe it or not there's a
rulebook for this it's a 3 USC 15 what
happens is it goes to Congress and the
house has one vote and the Senate has
one vote the house was going to be
Republican the Senate was going to be
Democrat so it would be a tie under the
statute book the tie is broken by drum
roll the governor of the state whose
last name was Bush right so it was gonna
be Jeb Bush deciding the presidency
giving it to his brother no doubt and
she just didn't want to have that that
was gonna be a car wreck it was gonna
make us look like a banana republic
so her view was look let's get this over
with let's get this done and go with the
Republican view of Electress
she as you said she had some regrets
about this public very unusual for her
extremely unusual for her she told the
Chicago Tribune about four years later
maybe we should have not have taken that
case but at the time she was she was
trying to forestall what she saw as a
political trainwreck it was going to
elect Bush anyways she later comforted
herself that the media did a recount you
may have crawled over the next year yes
and Bush actually Bush actually did win
unless you count all the overalls and
all the intervals which wasn't going to
happen
Bush was gonna win anywhere she tried to
comfort herself with us but it wasn't
very comforting because she knew that
she woke up on the morning that the vote
vote the morning that the case came down
in December and that December of 2000
and she told her younger son or middle
son but half the country's gonna hate me
and she knew that I mean it was gonna be
bad for the court it did hurt the courts
standing for a while although actually
if you look at Galils courts standing
recovered but it still sticks in the
craw of a lot of people and I I
constantly run into people or still want
to kill her for that for being the fifth
float on that and we should say it there
was also I mean built into the decision
was essentially almost a like a caveat
you don't see in many decisions like
this is a one-off and the the reasoning
here is not applicable to any future
case essentially ugly it was ugly I mean
it just ugly because they're doing an
equal protection argument here but it's
just for one case one time only it was a
I don't know if I might like to swear on
your show sure I certainly have sworn
about this many many times
okay so Scalia was in the majority said
the reasoning was was as we say in
Brooklyn a piece of right and and
and being in Brooklyn I would agree with
those sentiments and so let so then let
me ask you about this because you
mentioned like the the Supreme Court
rebounded in terms of like a popular
opinion and I'm not convinced that
frankly 9/11 wasn't in some way Montano
turning away from that decision because
my understanding is and because like I
say I was a little bit obsessed with
this that on September 13th of 2001
there was going to be a the cover of
Newsweek was going to be dedicated to
the fracture on the Supreme Court in the
wake of that decision and that it was
centered around a meeting that the some
of the justices had with I think
justices from Russia coincidentally who
were sort of mocking the supreme court
for picking the president did you come
across any of that and the course
you recent I work I work for Newsweek
there's nothing there was no cover
saying that I don't know where your who
are you talking to but that's nonsense
oh really
I'm September so there was no story
about the the Supreme Court that's
fascinating because I've been living
with that that I guess that that so was
there was there a was there any type of
you know fracture on the court in the
wake of that there were some hard
feelings I don't know how hard they were
but there was there was there was some
tension it's not the first time there's
been tension on the court to put it
mildly and it's certainly the clerk's
now this is always an important
distinction what the clerk's think on
what the justices think are not always
the same thing
the clerk's there was real anger and
real upset among the little law clerks
over this the justices yeah I mean I
know I talked to justice Stevens and I
said this is interesting actually this I
I said to justice Stevens about this you
know justice O'Connor has some regrets
about Bush v gore and justice Stevens
said she doesn't have enough mmm he was
still pissed I'm at how many years later
is this 18 years later he was still
upset about it so yeah there was some
bad feelings but it's not the first time
there's been bad feelings among the
justices and I think most of the discord
you're hearing I'm guessing came from
the clerk's huh interesting
that is interesting I mean I I guess I I
had heard that story and I'm still not
convinced I mean that's fascinating
about the the the Newsweek story because
I'm actually I just googled it because
I've been living with this sort of I
guess what is now I guess in Apocrypha
there was a story by david paquette I
know that I don't know a lot of things
for sure but I know that for sure
there was a story by David Kaplan and no
did David Kaplan just not true well I'm
not gonna be a cover story for Newsweek
not okay
I mean I guess maybe I misinterpreted it
but it was it was a story about the
accidental president on
on September 16th I mean I'm just I just
googled and now maybe I'm wrong
and I would imagine definitely I'm wrong
if you were the the one of the managing
editors and so that and that never broke
out or any it was that the that tension
was well there was a I'm not saying it
wasn't some tension I'm just saying
they've been lots of periods you know
they used to call them scorpions in a
bottle I mean you read Supreme Court
history there have been fantastic
tensions I don't think this was
particularly worse than at other times
when we were talking earlier when
justice O'Connor came on the court
an 81 there was a lot of tension over
the Brethren and you know they don't
they don't all get along they don't in
fact there are some pretty you know cold
cold feelings I just don't think that
this tore up the court on any and on any
massive level I mean I know that justice
Stevens is still upset about it I you
know I talked to Justice Ginsburg about
it she wasn't she wasn't happy she wrote
a pretty strong dissent there there were
there were strong feelings they doubt
the court had to do something in two
days they don't they don't like doing
that this is not a good moment for the
Supreme Court I'm not suggesting that
it's just the idea that the court was
torn apart in some fundamental way I
just I just don't think that's true
interesting and and so in the final
analysis I mean you we find out that
Sandra Day O'Connor who had left the
court really basically to spend time
with her husband who was who's whose
health I guess was deteriorating rapidly
she ends up regretting that decision she
does I mean there's a tragedy she left
the Supreme Court to take care of her
husband and had Alzheimer's but within
six months he could barely recognize her
and so and he was in a home so she said
this is the dumbest thing I ever did she
regretted having left she the reason she
did it was a you know a human one but as
it happened he he deteriorated and she
couldn't you know he ended up having a
what they call a mistake in attachment
another girlfriend a girlfriend in the
almond he'd be sitting there holding
hands with this woman his name was Kay
and justice O'Connor would come in and
sit down and hold her his other hand it
was brutal for her I mean publicly she
said she was happy for him because he
wasn't depressed anymore but you know
probably was heartbreaking Wow
well the book is first Sandra Day
O'Connor Evan Thomas thanks so much for
your time today I really appreciate it
yeah thanks Sam good to talk to you good
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
