[Music]
no no me Klein is a there's a big you
know this University of California
divested and from it has something like
14 billion dollar endowment and a
seventy billion dollar pension I mean
this University of California system
it's pretty big obviously but you're
talking about a total of like I don't
what eighty three billion dollars
somewhere around there maybe eighty
eighty four billion dollars and they are
divesting their holdings of anything
involving fossil fuels both because it's
becoming a risky proposition to invest
in fossil fuels because everyone knows
the future is coming and fossil fuels
cannot be part of it
but it's also because they want to make
sure that the future comes and and and
that in divesting her this is a big deal
because the argument that you're putting
at risk a pension by not owning oil
stocks or you're putting at risk and
endowment by not owning coal stocks
fracking stocks or whatever it is is
hard to make when you've got an eighty
billion dollar fund that is willing to
to divest in that way that's a big deal
and Bill McKibben at the three fifty.org
think he's still there
has been working on this for four or
five years there were people at the end
of the Obama administration we're
getting arrested for this type of
divestment it is in some ways this
divestiture movements brought about the
changes in South Africa at least to the
extent that America played a role in it
it was largely because companies were
finding that doing business in South
Africa was beginning to hurt their stock
values and so they basically went to
South African said like this is not
sustainable
and I guess I'm getting a little
sentimental of a divestiture talking to
Billy Bragg today but also Naomi Klein
has a new book out she was on a
Democracy Now talking about the what is
happening with the climate movement and
particularly in this segment some of the
dangers that are represented as we saw
with the el paso shooter referencing a
diminishing amount of resources and
therefore that justifies us throwing
some people overboard I write about the
Christchurch killer in part because that
horrific attack which stole the lives of
more than 50 people in New Zealand at
two mosques happened on March 15 and
that day is significant for for many
reasons one of them is that that was the
day of the first global youth climate
strike that is the day that 1.6 million
young people around the world walked out
of class and and - and took this stand
for international solidarity with
children all around the world it really
a movement that is in no way nationalist
right that is calling for justice at the
centre of our response to the climate
crisis in an in in Christchurch the
student strike the rally after the
student strike was disrupted and the
students were told to disperse because
there was a live shooting just a few
blocks away at the mosque and that was
the killing that I referred to earlier
and one of the things that was really
different about that attack and he did
take inspiration from all of these
different mass murderers was that he
this killer identified as an eco fascist
that he said that in his manifesto wrote
that in his manifesto talked about how
immigrants were destroying Europe
destroying you know the Christian world
and so on and you know I think there's
been a lot of focus in recent years
about how do we change the minds of the
climate deniers right
I think the only thing scarier than a
far-right racist movement that denies
the reality of climate change is a
far-right racist movement that doesn't
deny the reality of climate change I
mean there you have it it's I mean Minh
the idea that this is being cited across
you know from you know the lunatics
fascists on the right just give you rise
to the the reality of this of its
existence and the idea that we still
have the only major significant maybe
the only but certainly the only
significant political party in the world
which is organized around the principle
that and I'm not exactly sure where they
are at this point that either climate
change is a hoax or just simply not
there's nothing we can do about just get
God will take care of it well or as some
in in Silicon Valley they're actually
planning for those scenarios and buying
eco bunkers and building scenarios for
them well at least they're where they're
acknowledging that it happened that's
true but I think that's the correlation
of the of the point I just want to make
that that of course it's important to to
acknowledge or accept or whatever we're
gonna use the science of it but that's
not the you know a sticking point it's a
political question and ultimately as the
right-wing quote-unquote accepts the
science if the politics is still
maximalist and apartheid no it's that's
how it's gonna turn to it's gonna turn
into mass deaths and this is what a
chill of bimbe again I always cite that
piece the age of humanism is ending
which he wrote before 2016 and all of
the dynamics are here and that's exactly
the point and that's Anna Anna also
correlates with the viciousness and
racism towards refugees because a lot of
refugees are eco refugees and also
internally in countries as well so you
need to deal with the politics where the
science is a second-order question and
this is not new by the way there is a
long history of P
on the far right taking an interest
however disingenuously in the
environment I don't think it's
disingenuous some well then you look at
where their money is invested and it's
in fossil fuel companies so like into a
really good episode of trill Billy
Workers Party with my friend Brendan
O'Connor where they talked a lot about
all of the this this web of connections
this element of the right that takes an
interest in the environment and it's
it's always been that way some of the
early you genis eugenics people were
into environmentalism but i think it's
going to catch on more and more as like
you guys said people more people on the
right accept the realities of climate
change and as we see waves of migration
that we know are going to be caused by
climate change and the left needs to be
ready with a real response to that we
need to be making the case now for the
free movement of people and we need to
be making the case to the wider working
class how this in fact benefits everyone
and doesn't hurt us to let people in who
want to come here yeah it's sort of a
scary thought oh just reminder somebody
just told me I did not say the name of
the Billy Bragg book at the end of the
interview the three dimensions of
freedom will put a put a link to
obviously in the the podcast description
I think Republicans started unrolling
their climate policy when Trump started
saying build the wall right
