ah folks just a reminder let's play that
clip I wanna play that clip before we go
as a way of reminding you what's going
to happen this evening on the show here
is this is CNN is this that who is that
dude that's not it's a blonde she's that
guy has been around for a long time a
lot of different incarnation of it
what's his I actually know from
Bloomberg for blue Leon - Leon writer he
was Giuliani speech writer and then he
migrated into migrated into being one of
those guys like in the from the early
aughts I think who was like sort of a
centrist like he like he was heavily
branded as a centrist oh really is that
right how their brood their beloved car
wait which aisle are they on on the same
aisle Center right there they're loved
between the center right and the center
writer I don't totally hate gay people
and we both support cutting capital
gains it's a really no it's not like
totally gay people it's like I like the
gay people I know in my own right
but generally speaking I'm not gonna go
to bat gay people are fine black people
are terrifying cut the capital gains
rate but in nevertheless he's been
reborn as he a CNN he seems like more
than a contributor here he this is a
reality checks oh thank you we needed
that here's a reality check for you
tonight you think it's just the State of
the Union but it's something else
welcome to Super Bowl for policy wonks
the State of the Union is here and
tonight President Trump Plaza for one
second
sorry imagine there's a lot of you who
have just tried to commit suicide after
you but just to hang in there it gets
worse maybe he was saying like the Super
Bowl was boring this year I didn't
forgive it him way too much I did both
boring I
it was pretty exciting and I love the
way that it finished but continue
welcome to Super Bowl for policy wonks
the state of the union is here and
tonight President Trump will offer his
scripted vision of governing in a
constitutionally mandated report to
Congress now he enters the arena with a
robust economy but barrel scraping
approval rating fresh off the longest
government shutdown in history what's
worse a new CNN poll shows that 43% of
Americans say the federal government's
doing the worst job of governing in
their lifetime but there's always a
chance that a strong speech could leave
analysts saying that tonight was the
night that Donald Trump finally became
president I like how he oh yeah he won
steps that away from him right he
doesn't say a good speech could be the
night the president finally becomes
president he instead says that analysts
could say that that's the classic some
say I'm not saying I could become
president today some people they're
saying I could be president today
tonight some people
well analysts can be gullible so - made
God a shameless Trump I've never felt
more just a visit what's that feeling
where someone else's pain becomes your
pain I've never had that before but this
kid he's got this beautiful last name
beautiful beautiful last name and
they're mocking him can't be best it
just makes me feel it what's that
feeling in your stomach where you feel a
concern for another you I've heard
people describe it to me it's not hunger
it's that hugger it's not it's not
I'm not hangry either it feels like I'll
tell you what's gonna be fast it's what
they said Schindler's List was like but
I fell asleep five minutes in I'll tell
you what's gonna be fascinating I'll
probably repeat myself before the thing
but if he does try to do to make this
like about like I want the country to
come together and I want to reach you
know put an olive branch out the Nancy
Pelosi it's gonna be fascinating to see
and his point his his approval rating
will move
on that but it's gonna be it is going to
be a function of just how diluted and
absent the American public is to see how
far up it moves and that's another
segment of blaming the I got it I got it
audience I got another one of those
segments coming right up all I'm doing
now is just I'm right in the book night
analysts say it might move the needle
and it could be right but that's because
you never bet against the stupidity lack
of inform this and general ignorance of
the American people I that is not that
is not it it's it is far more active
it's not ignorant I'm sorry everybody
stupid it's just the desperate desperate
desire to have things to have to be
living in a delusion right and that I
mean because honestly like you you have
to be I can understand why people
support him because there are you know
hateful racist types out there who feel
they're under siege what I don't
understand is that like you know he was
pretty nice in that speech I changed my
opinion about that guy that to me just
seems nuts
all right folks that is actually pretty
nuts it's pretty nuts we're gonna take a
quick break
heading to the fun half and when we do
we don't have a post roll no no post
rules um and here is what's going to
happen we're going to be a live
streaming tonight 8:30 p.m. we will have
a show tomorrow it will be an interview
that I think that we have pre-recorded
so we will have a new show for you
tomorrow
