[Music]
meanwhile we've mentioned yesterday that
Donald Trump has a secret deal that he
has made with the Mexican government
because it was reported that the actual
deal that he claimed to make with the
Mexican government in the wake of his
tariff threat was actually not a deal
that he had made with the Mexican
government it was a deal that the
Mexican government had already made with
the United States at least a month or
two ago but there's an add on that I
knew about there is an add-on and that
is the secret deal and now people who
yesterday were like what do you mean
secret deal what are you talking about
there's nothing you're making any sense
we don't believe you was the subtext of
everything they were saying now of
course nobody in the press would say
this to the president because that would
imply that this proven pathological liar
is a liar and people don't want to point
that out because that is rude in the
context of politics to say that a
pathological liar is a liar but he got
the sense that people thought that maybe
he was lying so what better to prove
that he's telling the truth then come
out and show people the document but
there's a dilemma it's secret so how do
you do it well here's the president to
show you what a prop comic does
that's the agreement that everybody says
they don't have so no because I'm gonna
let fix home the announcement at the
right time from Mexico they want to go
through but here's the agreement it's a
very simple agreement posit it is a
one-page agreement that they made the
secret part we're gonna make the secret
part one page I only want one page I've
never wanted to enhance and sharpen baby
they've done it I don't think it's on
this video but they have done that I saw
it on television and it basically says
jibber jabber it's all here
it basically read something to the
effect of like if things don't work out
with the immigration floods that the
Mexican government will take other steps
possibly after the course of 45 days
that are subject to them being passed by
a legislative body it there's something
written proof and this is of course
something that they wrote but go ahead
not like working with me better than you
I have the papers right here but here's
the agreement that's a very simple
agreement this is one page this is one
page of a very long and very good
agreement for both Mexico and the United
States without the tariffs we would have
had nothing we had nothing two weeks ago
you know told us absolutely I don't know
where the times got the story but I
think they got it probably for somebody
that worked here and said oh how well
they would do well for a long time for
many years people tried to get what we
got in a period of a couple of days and
they couldn't get it that's the
difference they couldn't get it so
Mexico we're getting along with them
great Marcelo and the president and all
of them were getting along great they've
started a very strong action they're
moving right now 6,000 soldiers to their
southern border who ever heard of that
you think we had that two weeks ago two
weeks ago I'll tell you what we had we
had nothing and the reason we had
nothing is because Mexico felt they
didn't have to give us any they're gonna
blame them
but this is actually ultimately going to
be good for Mexico - and it's good for
the relationship
of Mexico with us so here's your this is
just professional wrestling oh yeah god
I wish that Obama was like Trump oh god
did you imagine like the deal for why
you're more in this you know here on
deals right here this is the supreme
leader saying no nukes and he will
personally blow me at table squares
right who ever heard of that who ever
heard of that of Mexico with us so
here's your thing you know they all say
oh he doesn't I just give you my word
inside here and I would love to do it
but you will freeze action it you will
stop it you will analyze it every single
letter you'll see but in here is what is
the agreement you have my word
you have my word unn yeah
rouhani it's gonna celebrate Passover
right here that the supreme ators
Supreme Leader's gonna eat pork he's
gonna do southern-style barbecue with me
then we're gonna burn anaronnie and flag
whoever heard of that it even went heard
of that it even be less committal than I
would be like Briana's gonna do some
stuff with regards to religion you're
gonna love it
I'm gonna tell you that soon can't wait
to tell you about the guy you simply
Hezbollah you won't who ever heard of it
it's gonna be great Hitler has
surrendered images gentlemen I assure
you it was not only surrendered he's
offered to pay us back on the half of
the jobs the emperor has agreed
Disneyland the Emperor will be the
Emperor of Disneyland unbelievable I
just sing it trust but I have it in my
hand it's I mean I give you my word in
here that I can't show you I just like I
know where it is here can you just
imagine this in any other context
nevermind Obama but just like I don't
know just your friend doing this to you
or just like your kid or your parent I
gotta move the boss they're gonna move
the co-worker off a kuba and they got
what they're gonna do with them well let
me tell you something you're gonna love
it
it's gonna be unbelievable it's just a
deal that we made with Khrushchev who
ever heard of it they're gonna be in
Turkey but not in Cuba it's all here
it's in writing you're gonna love it
it's God it's so crazy
who ever heard of that so crazy
