[Music]
all right let's turn to in the wake of
reporting on the sentence that that
white supremacist who ran his car into
protesters in Charlottesville killing
Heather hire and wounding others let's
talk about the the president who is
really with of course his handmaidens in
the Republican Party been normalizing
racism and social scientists will tell
you that whatever people's racist ideas
are they can occupy a larger part of the
way that they filter things in the world
and when figures in society begin to
normalize these things and they say
basically tell other people it's okay
then people on the outer margins of
these things become even bolder and act
upon these things and it's not just the
president normalizing it it's the
Republican Party normalizing it when you
don't have I don't know more than one
two Republican lawmakers coming out and
criticizing Donald Trump for tweeting
that these women of color who are
freshmen Congress people should go back
to their countries because you know
Alana Omar was a Somali refugee
basically I mean her story is basically
the story that Americans tell themselves
as what America is and Donald Trump has
basically came out and said go home
to where you belong if you want an
example of how something like that can
be normalized like normalized just not
even million normal like almost like hey
this is it this is a is a benefit this
is cheeky here is Fox and Friends listen
to how they talk about this it is again
when you talk about like you know in a
note that all of this stuff basically
came out of the trip that the squad made
down to these detention centers this is
what has brought a lot of this to the
fore this is what has raised the
emotions of of of people and and seeing
Nancy Pelosi's in activity or left-wing
base there and essentially what these
these newly elected congressman
congressmen and women oftentimes women
in these cases are coming out and saying
listen we were elected to buck the
system we were elected to step in and
and shake off the establishment because
they feel that Democrats have not been
fulfilling a progressive enough agenda
and they feel that voters want to hear
from them so they are standing firm and
I think that Nancy Pelosi is going to
have a hard time contending with a lot
of people who are very very strong
they're very very principled and they
are not backing without a doubt you know
we're not the only ones to notice
president Trump noticing tweeting this
morning this so interesting to see
progressive Democratic congresswoman who
originally came from countries whose
governments are a complete and total
catastrophe the worst was corrupt and
inept anywhere in the world if they even
have a functioning government at all now
loudly and viciously telling the people
of the United States the greatest and
most powerful nation on earth
how our government is to be run why
don't they go back and help fix the
totally broken and crime-infested places
from which they came then come back and
show us how it is done these places need
your help badly you can't leave fast
enough I'm sure that Nancy Pelosi would
be very happy not let me work out free
travel arrangements this tweet that
you're just saying now it's clearly
going to get I think a lot of discussion
is feeling very comedic today
I was at I call it okay first off look
you can hear them forcing chuckles
during the last reading of that both I
don't know the the stooge in the middle
and the stooge on the on the right and
they both both have the exact same
reaction is that strange one slit so it
feel a little comedic and so it says the
comedian in chief almost simultaneously
and sit like this is the way that we're
gonna deal with this we got to put this
news up I mean because everybody's
talking about it how do we say oh he's
joking he's being jocular is that zet
sound to any jet sound familiar to you
if you ever like heard rush limbaugh
when he was always when he was
challenged like you called sandra fluke
a for going up in front of Congress
and saying that we should have health
insurance that provides birth control
for people I was joking
kids take a joke gab McGinnis I was
joking can't take a joke all these all
right guys I'm joking I'm joking
snowflakes you can't take a joke what do
you want to censor me I'm being comedic
this is what's wrong with the left
you're not funny anymore this is how I
mean like I I don't think that these
people all get in a room and say hey how
can we mainstream increased hostility
towards brown people how can we do that
but I'll tell you what if they did I
mean I think what happens is Trump has a
certain mentality he reacts and then
these sycophants try and make it go down
in the smoothest way possible but if
they did get into a room and try and
plan it out I Got News for you
it would look exactly like this they
don't this is just ad hoc because this
is not brain surgery
oh he just he basically just used the
the greatest sort of racist
you could against people who are whose
job it is as congresspeople to tell the
government what to do they are the
government that's the system that we
have here and you tell them to go back
home they would not be Congress people
if this was not their home he's joking
he's joking there's a point there's a
points trying to make a point but it's a
joke yeah like do they think that he
wouldn't deport them if he could figure
out how to do it oh my god well they
would they would be going like it's
funny
he said have a nice trip I mean come on
that's a funny way to deport people are
the Instagram group the hash tag squad
goals and all that it seems like a
number of the things that they say are
those means that you see on on Instagram
these somewhat like defiant and
inspirational memes this is real life
this isn't social media just having fun
trying to you know rile people up this
is real life the words you say have
real-life consequences posit this is I
will remind you he's saying this 10
seconds after just saying that Donald
Trump was told these women to go home to
their home countries three of them born
in the United States incidentally that
it's a joke I mean this is stunning
and I think that needs to be taken to
consideration I think president rump is
making an important point because he's
trying to say that the values that built
this country everything from you know
securing the border and being a nation
of laws to you know freedom speech on
college campuses whatever issue you're
talking about a lot of times these are
the very issues that the left is trying
to obstruct and he is drawing attention
to that and saying if you don't like
what this country stands for you're not
gonna change it and take away all these
things that Americans value so much like
freedom of speech in college campus
countries built on the word border does
not appear in the Constitution also by
the way strengthen borders freedom of
speech of college campuses do you know
the big major principles the country is
built on like if you don't like it leave
and go set up camp somewhere else but
you're not going to destroy but we have
fought so hard and so long to be
it's a good point we're gonna talk to
your headlines now and not oh my god it
I mean that was right
Jesus what we know what the list you
don't even have to the list is
strengthen the borders freedom of speech
on college campuses there was one more
well it's he's trying to say that the
values that built this country
everything from you know securing the
border and being a nation of laws to you
know freedom speech on college campuses
whatever issues you're talking about
being a nation of laws well that's what
makes America unique where our your
nation of laws no less of the other
nation no never
I think we're a nation of laws except
for when it comes to businesses who want
to put crap in the environment or poison
the water or cut some corners when
they're making a medical device or you
know put some food products or quasi
food products in our kids cereal you
know a nation laws except for those
niggly little ones that inhibit business
do you think we all missed the part in
the Declaration of Independence where
they talked about the sjw's on the
college campuses I mean I think if you
there's there's no doubt in my mind that
the there's enough letters in the
Declaration of Independence where if you
knock a bunch out you could actually
create that sentence unbelievable
