let's start with what's happening on the
Donald Trump corruption there there is a
it does feel in the past couple of weeks
and I think well and you wrote about
this on some level it feels like the the
investigations into Donald Trump what is
in play has expanded exponentially and
you had a fascinating piece about this
that in many respects I mean it's to be
expected Democrats come into office but
there is almost a pent-up demand that is
overwhelming I think both the the the
arguments of the President and of the
Republicans on some level but also that
is sort of allowing for the expansion of
all these questions regarding Donald
Trump and this is coming out of time
where we were supposedly going to hear
about the Muller investigation report
over the past week or two but now it
feels like what we really have a sense
of is that the Muller investigation is
really just running in parallel with a
whole I don't know series of
investigations well I think you're right
and and truthfully that's the way it
should have been from the beginning is
because the Congress has a different you
know mandate it the oversight mandate of
the Congress it with with all of these
things having been revealed in the press
and what we knew about what happened in
the election and and the interference
it's one thing to have that you know
that special counsel's office doing this
you know investigation in which they
have access to a tremendous amount of
you know classified material they are
they have to work on some level in you
know in secret simply because of the the
foreign policy and national security
angle on that story but there are dozens
of stories that have been out there and
my personal feeling is that the
Republicans made a big mistake in
deciding to just go totally in with the
you know on the house side they just
became absolutely
accomplices of the President and tried
to cover up everything on the Senate
side they played it with a little bit
more dignity but they basically did the
same thing which is they just advocated
all responsibility for oversight and my
feeling is that they would have been way
smarter to have you know made to have
some hearings maybe you know had to see
some of these people up for a public
hearing done a little bit of of
questioning you know they could have
they were in charge I mean they they
could have controlled the agenda greatly
and and just sort of you know been a
little bit of a release valve on some of
this right a little bit of the air out
of the tires as it were exactly so now
we're with this thing where it's just
exploded as well it should and not just
should it must because there is that you
know that we don't want the Southern
District of New York or the special
council to be leaking like sieves the
way that ken starr's people did that's
wrong their law enforcement people that
it's just wrong for them to do that you
know hopefully we'll have a good report
or some you know indictments will come
down that will explain what they're
doing in New York but we don't want them
leaking to the press for political
purposes so there is a huge political
element to this so and that's where the
Congress comes in so now it's all you
know it's all kind of flowing out there
and and by the way let me just mention
it in aside the media is doing in some
Democrats you know they're they're out
there to kind of right oh it's overreach
and they're going too far and you know
they really need to be careful because
then
Donald Trump will claim victimhood and
I'm going are you kidding there's a guy
who's been screaming witch-hunt in the
middle of night in the last two years of
course he's going to claim victimhood he
already has and you know the idea that
the Democrats should be concerned with
that under these circumstances these are
you know they're not just flailing
around with some stupid Solyndra fast
and furious nonsense these are real
scandals I mean they are real and they
are significant I mean we've got
basically bribes going on we've got big
companies coming and hanging around in
the lobbies of the Trump Hotel and
paying vast sums of money to stay there
so they can you know grease the skids
for
our mergers I mean it is beyond belief
that anybody would say to the Democrats
well you know maybe don't make trouble
here because you look bad you've got to
be kidding me
but of course is to be expected that you
know that some of the timorous Democrats
there is always a few who do this and
then the media of course who's you know
they're wringing their hands over this -
not all of them but but okay enough that
I've noticed yeah I mean this bit of
conventional wisdom kind of simmering
out there they're there they're there
feels like a this is a pretty unique
context right like this it it feels like
it is very difficult for Democrats to
get out in front of their skis as they
say in this instance because of the what
feels like right now the the bottomless
pit of corruption that I mean I mean and
let's be clear you know we talked about
the the the Cohen hearings I think it
was last week I you know I've lost
complete track of time but Alexander
Acacio Cortes got some very good
plaudits for her questioning of Cohen
and I think we are now maybe two weeks
later we see the implications of her
questions that at least you know one set
of her questions ended up spurring a
completely non congressional nonpartisan
investigation by I think it you know an
insurance board in New York State into
claims that Trump had filed you know in
the context of his business and I think
you know one of the things that's and
and I want to take a break here in a
minute and when we come back on the
other side I want to get your opinion on
this because I am of a couple minds here
but from an analysis standpoint it's
clear to me that the Democrats felt that
they had to make the question of Russian
collusion a a dominant narrative because
it involves national security
and they did not have the ability to do
a legitimate investigation into Donald
Trump his actions in in office his
actions before office etc etc because
the Republicans simply weren't gonna
have it right I mean like he said they
could have they could have had
investigations and just sort of
poo-pooed things and you know
compartmentalised and but they didn't
and so it's created this big this big
sort of pent up demand but it you know
there there's an entire strain of
investigation that the the Southern
District of New York seems to be
undertaking that feels like it has like
three or four investigatory tracks going
on simultaneously which is running
parallel to the Muller investigation you
know we thought for a while what Muller
was trying to do was sort of inoculate
himself from presidential action that
may have been part of it but it's also
clear that he was like maybe he didn't
feel like he had enough of an apparatus
that there was so much that they were
running into that they needed to hand it
off to another investigatory agency
specifically the Southern District of
New York US Attorney's office all right
well I want to take your I want to get
your take on on that dynamic and if
those things that the US Attorney's
Office in the Southern District of
Manhattan is finding and the insurance
investigations and whatnot are
overshadowed by the the notion of
collusion and from a political
standpoint maybe Democrats didn't
necessarily play it the right way or not
I don't know you tell me when we come
back I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire
radio
