[Music]
alright let's just turn back into how
Donald Trump is very excited about Bill
bars claims that his campaign was spied
on just like coin tell Pro I'm just let
me hop Minh like happy Hoffman an MLK
like Abbie Hoffman it's like you he
Newton in me the struggles real and here
is Trump basically announcing I hired
only the best person I think what he
said was absolutely true there was
absolutely spying into my campaign I'll
go a step further in my opinion it was
illegal spying unprecedented spying and
something that should never be allowed
to happen in our country again and I
think his answer was actually a very
accurate one and a lot of people saw
that a lot of people understand many
many people understand the situation and
want to be open to that situation hard
to believe it could have happened but it
did there was spying in my campaign and
his answer was a very accurate one many
people many people and here is what guy
I'm just gonna say there's precedences
for campaign spying on other campaigns
and we're not getting it this is illegal
spying if there was spine there's
precedents for spying I mean LBJ spied
on Nixon because Nixon was scuttling the
Vietnamese peace talks so he was
undermining the Paris peace talks right
with a double-dealing by Henry Kissinger
and in this instance the spying that
took place on the campaign to the extent
that we're aware of it was a function of
campaign operatives or and in some
instances just people who were under
surveillance be joining the campaign
actually very similar to what happened
between LBJ and Nixon and I figured what
her name was but the dragon lady was the
back channel to the
like it's it's lima shanghai ex-wife
yeah yeah exactly right Madame Chiang
kai-shek's she's a major figure in
right-wing politics okay but that was
that's deep that's history
okay I'm saying it's unprecedented now I
was at an orgy with Roy Cohn and Madame
Shanghai Scheck once so I think I know
the history I'm saying it's
unprecedented in the present as far as
anybody knows it's unprecedented now not
in history so
and speaking of in-depth analysis of
this Ainsley Earhardt on Fox and Friends
weighs in with a really good question if
a presidential candidate is being spied
on shouldn't everyone be concerned about
that to find out why that's happening to
you this what happening mechanisms of
the federal government destroy my
support opponent unbelievable if the
roles were reversed if we found out that
Hillary Clinton's campaign was being
spied on don't you think everyone would
be upset about that it's such a double
standard what's wrong with just asking
how this happened if there is spying we
want to know more information about it
period
we knew it took place and it yeah I can
only imagine how how upset they would be
about Hillary Clinton being spied on I
mean you can understand you even care
it's the I have to say the the Attorney
General and the way that they are
playing this is very very effective now
right because we have moved on to
waiting for the Muller report and when
it does show up in a couple of days or
in a week or whenever it is it's going
to be heavily redacted and then the the
news story is going to move to this
ongoing investigation of how the
investigation the the investigation was
launched
that I imagine will be heavily redacted
but the reactions will probably create a
narrative that Donald Trump will be
coasting on for months to come and this
is how it's going to go and so
ultimately you know we're back to where
we've been the entire time which is that
people need to mobilize against Donald
Trump and others and then vote him out
ultimately
