[Music]
call him from a 2:06 area code who's
this where he come from hide with me
it is you yes who's this hi Cyrus is
James from Seattle James from Seattle
what's on your mind hey I had a question
about Kamala Harris's medicare-for-all
proposal she released this morning yeah
it's really confusing to me it seems
very cynical it seems sort of like a jab
at Bernie I'm really confused about how
this is supposed to lower costs and I
was wondering if you could House it's
lower costs
you mean cost of the met her plan yeah
well that's the yeah I don't know if I
mean is it is it is it being sold as
being less expensive because I don't
think that's being the selling point as
far as I understand it
let me let me let me just give you my
assessment of what the plan says yeah
there's there's three elements to the
plan one is that it has a 10-year
rollout as opposed to Bernie's four-year
rollout one is that it allows for
essentially Medicare Advantage to
continue that dynamic and the third is
that it supposedly doesn't tax people
under a hundred thousand the first one I
think is fairly straightforward four or
ten years I can understand arguments for
and against although I would remind
people that in the four years between 20
2010 and 2014 the rollout of Obamacare
it was people were saying we should have
done this quicker because it's giving
people an opportunity to sort of like
politically attack it and there's an
argument that the Republicans wouldn't
have had such salience with that had it
gone
than for years but that you know 10
years for years I think that's that's a
flip the the medicare-for-all thing the
the medicare advantage thing seems
bizarre to me because the difference
between Medicare Advantage and Medicare
now is that Medicare Advantage provides
few things that are not covered in
Medicare and and gives you lower co-pays
well as far as I understand it the
services under Harris's plan is similar
to that of Bernie's and both of them the
Medicare for all covers everything and
has no co-pays and so I don't know why
if I'm an insurance company and then she
also says that they're gonna be heavily
regulated and price controls put on them
I don't know why they want to decide to
get in and instead of administering
Medicare programs actually maybe provide
the the you know taking premiums and and
paying out like I just don't understand
what's in it for them like why would
they do that I think it's just I my
sense about that is it's like I've
adopted Bernie's plan but I'm gonna add
a rhetorical thing that sounds like it's
more cautious or moderate it just
doesn't make sense to me
and the taxing thing I don't know you
know like I don't know if that's
actually the case I mean they haven't
fleshed out the details enough but but
that's my sense of it what I'm not so
sure I follow what your critique is well
I mean the claim is that constant be
regulated right but I I don't see well
one I don't think there's been any like
concrete reason laid out any concrete
way that's gonna happen besides them
having to come under Medicare cost I
guess a private insurers but two I have
two
supposing according to her plan that
they they have to their reimburse rates
would that be the same as Medicare I
don't understand like what why would a
private insurance company want to do
this is not they're gonna they're gonna
have substandard care and you know
because presumably they gonna pay them
they get to pay their executives right
and their shareholders look good well I
mean is that is that like a backhanded
way of saying rates are gonna go up to
make it more like appealing for them to
do that I'm really not sure and also I
didn't I didn't see anywhere in the plan
where it says no copay or deductibles
like speaking to that tax that tax break
part were people making less than
hundred thousand dollars are exempt from
the income tax premium I don't see
anywhere where in her plan where it says
point abuse is free though and that's a
major selling point of Bernie's and
that's basically why I'm I support
Bernie this is because yeah my taxes
might go up but at point of views it's
free and I don't see anywhere in her
claim where it says that so I think it's
just in genuine for her to say that you
know in the way it's laid out and the
article she wrote it said people making
less than hundred thousand dollars pay
no premiums but that's not really I
don't think that's actually true I think
it's only true like further that
specific income tax premium so it's
confusing to me yeah I I think we need
to see more details I my understanding
was that it was no cost to the point of
service but if it if it is if it is then
it's even more problematic appreciate
the call
James thank you thank you I mean again
the regardless of what happens in the
context of the election like the this is
one of those like Thank You governor
Nixon moments equivalent no moments
where it's just like the idea that the
moderate the so-called moderate plan and
you know with flaws and be that as it
may may not be you know it's maybe a
little bit thin
in terms of its efficacy but the idea
that the moderate plan basically says
like we have to understand that in terms
of the give Bernie's already beat us
there and so now we just have to make it
seem like it's gonna be less painful
right like everything follows follows
the model of that FDR quote that Bernie
had talked about early on which is like
I want I want the same thing I'm gonna
give it to you it's all gonna be bed the
same and it's going to be better
and it's gonna be cheaper yeah let's
just play this I mean that this is now
it would be nice if it was true it was
you know like oh they're gonna sign on
to this because it's gonna sound more
reasonable but this is the kind of
debates we should have been having for
Obamacare frankly but he warned you
against the smooth evasion that says of
course we believe these things we
believe in Social Security we believe in
work for the unemployed we believe in
saving homes but we do not like the way
the present administration is doing them
just turn them
we will do all of them we will do more
of them we will do them better and most
important of all the doing of them will
not cost anybody anything I got a say
that I mean it's a it captures a dynamic
that obviously his is I mean maybe
timeless in some respects at all there's
what I'm also struck every time I see
that clip I'm also struck by like what
it where the laugh lines are cross your
heart and hope to die
I guess maybe that was always a new move
a new fangled meme at the time where
people like oh my God he's done it oh my
God he's so currency that was the Yolo
of his time exactly only live one
I appreciated the speech however I could
have done without that part about cross
your heart that seemed to go just a
little bit too far hope to die really
what if there were children there do you
remember when we did Trump's speeches
throughout the ages like JFK at the
correspondents that are a big like I
Love Lucy is bit a disaster
several seasons out Ricky Ricardo used
to be a talent but now he's just a joke
everyone says it and you hate to see it
Sammy's
