I meant to ask you
at the beginning of today's episode
because I feel obligated to now are you
part of this cabal trying to push better
O'Rourke out of out of contention in the
primary no no combat no no not at all
whoa there's the Perry Mason music what
is the cabal oh that is what I would say
cabal was on a plane yes what is Kobol
I'm not oh I see plausible deniability I
was on a plane actually the first don't
large the first attack until a linear
plane we rally it don't apparently
Elizabeth breunig wrote a piece that
that highlighted that bait O'Rourke had
you know it's taken not some not great
votes but also was involved in working
on a a pretty predatory real-estate
business I think in Texas and was also
like but I have to say I mean I I like
it was a great piece but it was also
like the piece that someone like me
would echo in the sense that I like bata
overworked I hope he runs for Senate in
Texas I don't hate the guy it's just
it's ludicrous that people are talking
about him as a contender and if you're
on the left you have serious policy
disagreements with him I would add one
addendum and I know we've made this
point before any conversation that's
talking about a candidate that lost as a
potential presidential candidate why is
stacey abrams not at the top of this
list in fact I would suggest I mean
we've talked about the pool of voters
that were disenfranchised could have
made up the margin she lost by I feel
comfortable calling it a stolen race she
did an incredibly impressive job and I
think especially because the people who
were sort of the biggest sort of
promoters of this bado thing or the
psuedo woke performative people that are
always gonna go on burning off of like
fake identity issues it's very bizarre
that they aren't embracing Stacey Abrams
there's an incredibly impressive person
who should be in I would say VP Franklin
I mean I wonder if I mean if it's a
function of Stacey Abrams not that's I
mean look people are talking about beta
O'Rourke about this way because they're
being encouraged to write I mean it's
not like he's sitting there like I never
never even occurred to me know when
people start talking about him as a
potential candidate it's because during
the course of his campaign you know a
couple of people said you're very
charismatic and he raised thirty million
dollars hodo which is a tremendous sum
for a can't you know for a somewhat
quixotic campaign theoretically and and
he's promoting it I don't know that
Stacey Abrams is out there I think some
of it is organic though I do I don't
think it's all I I think especially in
social media when people sort of
pontificate about these things I think
some of it is a just wait let me has a
couple of things here you know and I I
just can't wait for the left to eat
itself throughout this entire primary
right I'm really excited for where this
goes but it's no accident that Deval
Patrick decided not to run this week
because of the Zack Carter no it has
nothing that Carter piece it has
everything to do with the Obama world
saying you're out we're gonna clear
we're gonna look at that oh no I mean
not clear the field but we're going
better art we're backing better right
we're not backing you and III think that
played a major role because as you
recall there was a lot of talk about
Obama world backing develop out of all
paths yes and suddenly he decides I'm
not running this week it's pretty early
well let me put it this way I my sense
would be that the the the message that
they got from the Obama world
and that piece that came out the timing
is not no incidentes was part of it I
think but wait a second you're missing
my point
no I know and also his there's real
issues in terms of like yes that's true
family but often the way these things
work okay is different parts of that
world have different jobs to do right
one comes in and says look this is not a
Zac Carter as part of Obama no I'm not
saying that that Carter's nor was he nor
is he affected by anyone who is who
would be part of the Obama world saying
hey you better write this piece no no
but you write the piece because you have
the information and the information
starts flowing and it starts getting out
there and you know I think the timing
was interesting I was but but I don't I
don't have exact rights what Zack wants
right no of course of course but but but
you know how this works with with
spokespeople and communications people
they say who's gonna be good to write
this piece and they live it I know I
don't I just don't feel like anyone who
would be in that position would that
Zack Carter would be the person they
would go to III don't know that that was
I mean I don't know if Zack on the phone
I don't know I don't ask him do you also
know about the very sad like real thing
when he was first governor of
Massachusetts how he almost resigned
because of his wife having some very
serious like anxiety and depression
issues no I didn't they've written and
spoken about it publicly so I actually
also think his sense of this the toll
that this could take on my family like I
know that that's like a toy like a
glancing I don't think that's total BS
and his kids no I think there's all
these factors I think I think it's all
these factors all right but but here's
let's get back to a moment for for bado
because look I know you're on the fence
here but let me let me just bring in
Chris Matthews okay to tell you what you
need to do here is Chris man here we go
this is a really sort of this is we're
gonna look back on this in 16 months
from now like liquid fond is like real
impact
the barrel up is look at Vader warrants
remember the beta Wars of late 2018 here
we go and we the Democratic Party have
not given them an alternative let's
start my presidential party because I'm
already thinking about 2002 a CNBC's
reporting that Democratic congressman
better or Roarke of Texas team has been
fielding calls from senior operatives
who worked on President Barack Obama's
campaign in the pivotal states of Iowa
and New Hampshire as speculation
continues about a potential presidential
run by beto in 2021 comments in the
wife's voice is already questioned where
the Democratic rising star of Roberto
Rock is far enough left for the party
Elizabeth writes we still have time to
pick a politician with a bold clear
distinctively progressive a agenda and
an articulate vision beyond something
better than this the literal translation
of hope changed campaigning betters a
lot like Obama true it's perhaps time
for left cleaning Democrats to Royce
that may not be a good thing
Peter on Burmese by this here's a guy
that has electoral power people like him
he's got charisma like Obama and the
aunt somebody on though I guess on the
Left say he's not left enough well
there's a explain that there's an
amazing wonderful blue-collar
philosopher once said naivete and
children is often charming in adults
it's stupid II that's political
stupidity so that person to write about
antipathy towards Wall Street oil and
gas welfare reform those are all major
issues that we need a president to deal
with not to simply scorn them and
discard them and second I think betos in
an incredible position not necessarily
about the presidency but he's captured
energy and one of the failings of the
Obama the campaign in Oh 8 was that
after we won we never had a call to
service and I think Beto and his team
are figuring out where do you take all
that get people in the act up that was
positive I don't know who that was but I
have a feeling it doesn't feel like he's
I got that these fingers on the pole
sound like some accountant in New Jersey
really hey so Trump beat Clinton in
Texas by nine points beto comes with in
was it two three
Trump lost by two points nationally
Democrats won in 2018 by eight points
rights the same swing it's the same
spread there's the exact same spread he
did not outperform he performed exactly
as well as everybody else right exactly
yeah but he's so inspiring not like that
boring Obama guy well you know what I
noticed about those posters do you see
it what that's an exact those bado
posters are identical to Obama's posters
into the veep of widow no no four yes
the the Senate poster is I have one of
those from from 2004 eats up in your
room it is love your but it is above my
bed I look at it every time you see we
move over here and I take out this part
of the be it's Beto it's very similar
like just that big lettering up there at
the top of the the sign but all right
well dudes are more sound here yeah
let's keep playing it I don't know who
this guy is
yeah Morgan he's dragging somebody call
in in the and we go to ask you on this
it seems to me that if the Democratic
Party sets us a standard you must be
Bernie vowed socialist I'm not knocking
it but if that's the political goal line
you're setting up if this person isn't
for so-called Medicare for everybody all
life if they're not for free tuition pay
back here but not for all these social
programs that they're not for a big role
for the government the economy then
they're not Democrats if that's the
standard you're gonna knock out a lot of
candidates well let's look at this
though the dance that was it hold on let
me just say this I think that Elizabeth
breunig sitting atop of where she sits
choosing who gets to be Democrats is
wrong I don't know who gave her this
power but I mean it should anybody have
that power probably I don't even think
that she okay if that's the standard
you're gonna knock out a lot of
candidates well let's look at this
though the D
see itself was against Bernie Sanders
and they set parameters to make sure
that he would not get enough support and
not have the support he needed and let's
go back to super-delegates and all of
that so I do think the establishment and
the Democratic Party will not allow
someone to progressive to get back in
about the voters so now here's you've
got to get to the suburban middle-class
blue-collar voters and they need to
start thinking about that Obama Trump
flips who are those guys the Westchester
County folks who just go over to the the
car factory out in Westchester County
make a half million a year and they
drive upstate to work what is who are
the suburban blue class middle class
blue-collar workers like as he grabbed
his macchiato there are six highly
highly influenced oh we know they're in
this this panel right now there's a
little panel it is it's the Bailey's all
right you've got to get to the suburban
middle-class blue-collar voters and they
need to start thinking about that Obama
Trump flip that happened in 2016 that
again flipped in 2018 if you do not
focus on that which they're moderate
swing voters to I would vote for a Joe
Biden not a beta how do you get the
people in the industrial states who
flipped from Oh from Trump to the
Democratic counties for prep for senator
and governor in Michigan Wisconsin
Pennsylvania the hole I know I totally
agree it's like she's only talking about
the primary which is one thing but it's
let's move on to the general you know
these to say back in 260 I see November
doesn't count the hard left would say as
long as we win the primaries it doesn't
matter George McGovern but that
mentality is out there Peter it's out
there now I just saw in the paper today
later that over Governor Nix too much
like Obama that's a problem 200,000 he
yeah okay yeah the the it is well but
this is gonna be McGovern right this is
this is generational I mean this is what
has been problematic with the Democrats
for a long time is that the baby boomers
still hold because of the size of their
of their generation still hold too much
sway over essentially the the convention
of the the common wisdom the
conventional wisdom and you know the
idea that you can draw any parallels now
between George McGovern and anybody in
like like there's no it is well I need
to draw a parallel with George McGovern
you have to find a candidate who is
broadly seen on the anti-war left who
was hated by unions right who is that
can't parallel today with with reason to
right he was the one who cut the union's
power out from under them and picking
who um I mean it's a little bit more
complicated you didn't swerve but
strongly Pro war at that point George
Meany himself he tried he was so pro
labor he tried so hard to get the unions
on his side and they just told us
correct yeah I mean I it's not know what
he was anti as the unions were we're
strong winds bad was he his reaction to
it led him to later in his career do
like antique are check propaganda which
is it's an interesting comparison right
because the things that sank McGovern
back then were very very different from
the things that the centrist are saying
would sink Bernie right now right a lot
of things that sunk will govern with the
socially conservative unions were things
that every Democrat supports now things
known as identity politics right
minority rights gay marriage drug laws
anti-war etc whereas uh and their
economic policies who were actually very
much in line with his and now it's the
economic how does the asset ablution
yeah now it's Kannamma Kalla sees that
they're saying our two to left so it's
like really a bad comparison as long as
Bernie doesn't pick a vice presidential
nominee who was treated for
depression I think right now we should
also say that that I think part of the
animosity came from the the commission
that McGovern co-chaired - that that
changed the way that our primaries rent
- actually created primaries as opposed
to a backroom where unions had a
tremendous amount of power in basically
picking who the nominee was about
totally bummed I really thought that
Chris Matthews was gonna develop a crush
on AOC she's good I totally lost it I
mean this is the problem with oligarchs
but what this is what's what's what's
fascinating to me well I guess it's not
that fascinating to me I mean the idea
is it isn't well I mean I should know
better at this point like it should be
completely boring to me oh you actually
would expect better than that no it's
just I don't believe like you know like
the idea that they the there are folks
who are willing to already sort of like
who think they're playing this poorly is
my point is the the the forces that want
a bado
are playing this poorly because they are
polarizing too early it you see it like
it is way too early to sort of like
complain about about the idea that there
are people who are pointing to Beddoes
record and saying hey these are this is
problematic what you should be doing is
you push back on his record you should
be building him instead I'll help them
you know there's there's one vote that
I've seen put out there that are work
vote of some financial deregulation vote
that that bill never became law that the
the the the vote that is being pointed
to is something that was just one of the
many deregulatory measures the House
passed that that never got through the
Senate the one that did the deregulatory
Bank bill the one big bipartisan
Bank deregulation bill this year better
voted against it so just do that instead
of you presuming your cabal they're
scared they're scared man
III think actually it but didn t it
surprising to me too because I think
there's actually a lot of people like me
who obviously will support Bernie over
Beto because we're left but like I have
no particular intimacy or hostility to
him at all
and they're fast tracking that what I'm
saying yeah right from a strategy
standpoint right this is not the time
where you you set this up you set up
this this because it's not going to be
helpful you know like it you know it's
not it certainly wasn't helpful during
the 2016 primaries and it in in and
those forces are not as well situated as
they were then and so it's a big mistake
for though betos a better candidate it's
a big mistake but my point is yes but my
point is you don't want to make this
about the so-called Bernie bro know her
she's made up they're doing it more
Julia then for others I mean Elizabeth
burning said already she said it we're
already at that time where I think I
forget how she I mean there was a couple
of other things but she's like we're
already at that time where I'm a white
male magically right like we're not even
like in the friggin election cycle yet
and all this garbage my my biggest
problem was with Maloney and bado sort
of coming in I think he endorsed Maloney
in the New York AG race if I remember
correctly Sean Patrick Malone yes that's
and that hurts it makes me nervous
yeah as to what like something's like
all that low-key stuff what's making
what makes me nervous is that the it's
still 2018 on the calendar party I don't
I I think like they're escalating III
mean I think like near attend and
escalated this in a useless silly way do
we put up that's what you put it back up
put it back up I mean well I understand
but but somebody should some but there
should be somebody in that world every
NATO fighting the 20s
but I felt like that stuff it sort of
had no have you been on Twitter well and
near at Manon is on the front lines of
the 20s use the law war of 2016
yeah she should offline maybe it's like
it's like when Andrew Jackson in 1814
was still fighting that battle of the
war of 1812 like it's just still
fighting the war of 2016 I know it she's
like one of the people in the hills and
Japan and I heard 1975 they fire guys in
a cave yeah except that guy would still
like be running at the positions in a
position of power that's the problem
well maybe running propaganda exactly if
I may maybe it's time for the hard left
to flex its muscles a little bit and
remind the people in the political class
that uh and in the ruling class that the
Elizabeth breunig option the Bernie
option that is a nice option people are
angry and if we don't get what we want
in the electoral sphere or even if we do
we're gonna have some widespread unrest
outside of it well yeah I don't think
it's gonna happen on Twitter I don't
think that's a place for that no
certainly not but you know maybe have a
wildcat strike or to put the fear of God
in them only Wow probably not going to
happen yeah I mean I I just it's just
what we're but what we're talking about
here has nothing to do with people who
would do a wildcat strike it has only to
do with like what the political class is
doing I mean this is a yes talk about
this bank that was you know doing bad
credit report reporting on thousands of
people and you know policy I mean I just
have to say like I would say like and
I'm Pro Bernie whatever but isn't it
really clear that I mean of us but
specifically on the issues you're
talking about I mean I think Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren are
definitely the only candidates that I
would absolutely trust on I think
sherrod Brown is always around like that
Jarrid round but those three Merkley I
think it's pretty hard running I'm
thinking about you know I'm not heard
he's running that would be interesting
trying to Berkeley has talked about
running a we've 34 to my count Democrats
that have talked about running in a
serious way they're still 3 for 8 Bernie
as this like hard left socialist this
extremist and like the furthest left
option that exists when in fact he is a
very moderate compromiser as far as I'm
concerned I'll tell you what we should
but I think it's not I think you have
that within the context of American
politics
Bernie Sanders is to the left of any
candidate who people think actually has
a chance of winning the nomination
things he's proposing are not actually
socialism they're just common sense
social democratic policies that every
other country in the developed world has
the more they can make him look crazy
the more they drag that yeah I feel like
that we need at all happy Meyers shot
because the play of the smart ones and
it this is difference between Obama and
Clinton people it's really subtle Obama
people get oh we should pretend to be
closer to that right Clinton people
that's crazy and he's a way to yeah
we're listening
yeah that go bomb people I go that's a
really good point right we're for like
Universal Medicare well that's this is
what this is what I find okay so this is
what I find so strange about what's
going on now and maybe it's just rogue
you know sort of clintonites
we were just mad about Bernie and mad
about certain people that's there but
the the point that you're making is that
the Obama people are going to dress
bateau up as if he's like I'm like
practically a younger Bernie they're
gonna set him to the wildcat strike on
his skateboard right exactly and and and
I think and I think I think you know to
the extent that near attend and had a
point about people being worried I think
there is a worry on the left that people
are going to project on Tibet Oh
positions and a philosophy that he
doesn't necessarily
surely have I'm looking forward to over
getting his band together for a remake
of fight song they don't even speak that
into existence and toriel campaign you
heard a lot of like look he's not as
progressive as he appears and he's a
team but he's he's from Texas and you
know he's you know and and the you know
there is a lot of sense on the left that
Obama lot of people projected stuff onto
Obama that was not there that people did
not realize that he was not an ideologue
I haven't fallen into that trap again
but well I mean what do you mean women I
mean I feel like what you're saying that
he's sort of a blank slate yeah and been
people and what's happening now is I
think you're getting people to say like
look don't project right and you know
yeah I don't hate that oh but that's
just my state like I actually kind of
like him but I just want to be very
clear that this guy is not if you're if
you're interested in a progressive
candidate this is not your pick if he
yeah if he becomes the eventual nominee
I wanted his liabilities to be known and
articulated as bright on the left yeah
exactly
like what does it say about the
Democratic Party that they even need to
have a progressive caucus in the first
place like isn't the party supposed to
be progressive it's a cold well yeah I
mean it's a big party I mean it's yeah I
mean I don't know what else I would say
that you know when thinking about the
role of the left in in you know this
this next cycle it might be wiser rather
than staking out a position of
supporting one candidate above all else
wiser to support certain issues and
demand that every candidate moved toward
the his got well quickly institutions
then
certainly put us in a better position
after the election should a Democrat be
elected to continue that absolutely
that's what the Bernie people are doing
but people keep accusing us with a great
new disability that's what the green
noodle but but the point is the you
you're I mean if you analyze that
statement the Bernie people are doing
this people who support Bernie support
him not because my point is like look at
what a se is doing on the green details
she is she has said we need this this
particular committee because we have
this crisis out there and we need to
build legislation for it and we need to
go around to every member of Congress
now no matter who they are or who
supported them whatever and said are you
gonna support this this green New Deal
Commission and she's got like 20 of them
already in the space before she's a
congressman this big though today's but
week two to support it and and that
seems to be that's for me to be the
organizing principle that's different on
the Langer president's okay no it isn't
it's saying literally we have one we
have ten candidates here are you going
to support this is what was done on
health care in in and and without as
much participation on the left and so we
got the health care we got it was what
was done on I you you build consensus
and and and you say that that this is a
threshold issue but there are two the
only two roadblocks to that or I mean
first of all I think you may of course
generically and generally that's true
and then it's like okay I'm generic and
but no no I mean it's true it's of
course you're right but I think that
like okay so the thing that I keep
hitting with Bernie is like no one is on
the near him on those consensus issues
on foreign policy that matters to me
what your position on Brazil is what
your position on Yemen or the Iran deal
is or Israel it matters to me I don't
think it's good so that's number one
he's still far ahead of the rest of them
and then number two I think you have to
decide at some point like do you really
trust somebody's you know of those
relative choices I trust Bernie just
even in terms of who
a point to oversee Wall Street Azamat as
an example or Warren I trust her too far
more than I do trust Cory Booker is by
the way what Warren did in 2016 was
create this this idea of personnel as
policy right and she pinned down that's
great
Clinton on on who she was already well
point that's grin and tried to
disqualify certain people who were in
Clinton's orbit for appointments so I
mean there are ways to go about this
that aren't just but it's a personality
driven yes I didn't say anything about
personality no but no but no but but but
the idea is that instead of well I think
what would what David is suggesting is
instead of starting with the person and
assessing their issues you come up with
an issue set and you push those issues
and you let people fall in line and then
you start to assess okay have they
adopted this position do I trust them
now you're also talking like we may have
9 months 12 months 14 months to make
these people say it over and over and
over in public it's such a way that's
like doesn't matter if you trust them or
not like they're there you know right
there you know some obviously are within
a certain zone but the idea being that
why the the what makes what they what
the the Nira tendons are doing now a
mistake is they are people they are
forcing people to pick candidates much
earlier than they should yeah they're
short-circuit in that whole process
they're showing circuiting that whole
process I can assure you that can happen
on Bernie Sanders comes out and he goes
I want most little mints in the West
Bank and Lula should be in jail and
privatized Social Security I will not
continue to support ether nice adders I
mean I think that like of course I
actually think a lot of people
especially that was the sort of
distinguishing marker Bernie's campaign
was actually people being more policy
oriented and I understand that people
put that people worried there's
personality cults around everybody I get
it but that's I mean first of all it
that applies just as easily to Hillary
Clinton or Beto but if you're really
seriously talking about policy there's
me
major differences here and there is also
a background of credibility that people
have and other people don't have I mean
this is not that really it seems pretty
obvious yeah and it's not just about
their platform at the moment right like
we've heard everything before we've
heard so much progressive talk from so
many people from you know Bill Clinton
to Obama like I want to see what they've
done in the past and Bernie has been
bashing away at this stuff for decades
like we knows where he we know where he
stands versus you know if like a Hillary
type candidate came out and said oh yeah
Medicare for all is a great idea and
then you look at what they've done in
the past like people might not dress
them I mean it's true I mean I but a
that said people definitely changed
based upon the the situation I mean I
think Bernie's probably softer on guns
than he was five ten years ago yeah well
yeah you're there really I mean I mean I
know it's not your issue but that's not
what we're talking about
therefore talking about a dynamic yeah
they're foreclosing on the I'd like the
of the availability to make Beto a
better candidate over all this right by
short-circuiting all this immediately
because it's not right Matthew's his
complaint wasn't that people are
cultists about Bernie it was that
they're doing purity tests or on issues
like Medicare for everybody right stuff
right right well stopping this process
and that's what all these people are
doing right I mean that's why you got to
focus on the on the on the issue and not
make it associated with personnel at
this point but there's gonna be a
certain point when you're like okay I
know is Sanders the ideas were out forty
nine yeah the idea in 2018-2019 work is
not to start to apply the test it is to
create the test sure
