this is an interesting exchange that
took place in the White House as you
know a Donald Trump is insisting that in
the context of a non criminal case and
we don't even have this in a civil a
case really this this dynamic the the
bar to to win against a defendant in a
civil case is lower than it is in a
criminal case and there's a reason for
that in a criminal case you're talking
about putting someone in jail in a civil
case you're talking about making someone
pay some fashion for damages that have
occurred so the standards of proof are
lower now if you're in a situation where
it's like not even a case it's just a
job in a determination of should we
confirm someone to be hired for a job
it's even lower however the president
feels very strongly about this innocent
until proven guilty
unless of course well we're talking
about I hope nobody brings up and then
somebody did bring it up to Sarah
Sanders that is the central v Central
Park five the case of five young men at
the time who were coerced into admitting
guilt for a crime they did not commit in
attacking a woman in Central Park Donald
Trump bought a full-page ad calling them
animals as a private little T wanted the
death snoring the death penalty to New
York specifically so they could be
killed was it 15 years later they were
exonerated and now they are free men but
they've spent 15 years of their lives me
I just want a button even they didn't
get financial restitution until de
Blasio so even though they're exonerated
under blue
Bloomberg refused to pay out and of
course we're not talking about like oh
they're making they're getting a killing
there it's like literally like we've
completely destroyed your life your
ability to work and make a living and
robbed you of yours here's some money so
you can have a roof over your head
Bloomberg wouldn't do that didn't happen
till de Blasio yep and if you want more
information on the Central Park five
case Google majority report Ken Burns he
was involved in making a documentary
about them and we interviewed him for
that but here is Sarah Sanders being
asked the question by April Ryan and ISA
Orosco in the White House press briefing
isn't there a bit of a double standard
here thank you so President Trump talked
a lot yesterday about this issue of
being concerned about men being guilty
before being thought guilty before
proven innocent and this idea of due
process but in the past with the Central
Park five he put out an ad basically
calling for the death
before they had been found convicted and
even after they were exonerated he still
basically said that they made me guilty
and even as president he has talked
about presided over rallies where people
say lock her up talking about Hillary
Clinton
so I guess is there a disconnect between
when the president is interested in due
process for some but not for others not
at all the president actually encouraged
the Senate to hear dr. Ford's testimony
in the same way he encouraged them to
hear judge Cavanaugh
he is simply stating the fact that we
are a country of law and order we are a
country that still believes that you're
innocent until proven guilty and we want
to see that process go through in its
entirety and it should be on a fair
playing field that's simply the only
point he's making
does he feel that now the specific
comments Dave question in the midst of
this the president has taken this on a
president has taken this moment to say
that he's been affected personally by
all of these allegations and he's
picking and choosing just this next
question was he said to Central Park
five was guilty and then he has made
Bill Clinton guilty because he decided
to change his line on the Central Park
five because they interesting that you
bring up Bill Clinton nobody wants to
hear those accusers voices be heard but
you're certainly happy to hear all the
other stage no that's good I'll take
that opportunity to completely
confiscate the issue just a little text
from that ad that I pulled up goes mayor
Koch has stated that hate and rancor
should be removed from our hearts I
don't think so I want to hate these
muggers and murderers they should be
forced to suffer yes mayor Koch I want
to hate these muggers murders and I
always will
how can our great society tolerate the
continued brutalization of its citizens
by crazed MIT misfits criminals must be
told that their civil liberties end when
an attack on our safety begins so
fascism sowing the seeds that is
definitely fascism yeah that letter is
that was the original campaign memo for
his run
