calling from the 347 area code hello
hello hello hello hello
can you hear me yes I can can you hear
me yes I can now who are you and where
are you God
my name is Lake Lee I'm calling from New
York City
hello Blakely what's in your mind um I
have a question about you guys talking
about like the plans of or the coalition
of the lab and my question was why is it
that a left is so fragmented when the
right is so cohesive in the way that
they stick together I still don't
understand that and I thought you know I
mean it's I can the the shorthand for
that question is is that the the right
is incredibly homogeneous they are a the
true party of identity
there is one identity that makes up 90
to 95% of its voters white people they
are less diverse socially economically
probably geographically and they to the
extent that they have political power it
is in places that also see less people
that are different than them and so just
the the natural design of these
philosophies are reflected in that there
is just much more diversity of thought
and agendas on the left and there would
be on the right I mean it makes total
sense
like almost definitiely right like the
bottom line for for conservatives is to
maintain a very narrow status quo
keep the keep money and culture as
static in in in control of very few
hands or very homogenous hands and it's
just not the case on the left and so
that's why Oh
I'd also like to add there's a class
element there because the right eye
which I'll define broadly as like
Republicans in this country is unified
on a class basis right it's the boss
class it's small business owners which
really make up the base of Trump support
even if they might talk in a more
populist way most of them are not poor
whereas the Democratic Party is a cross
class alliance it's not a labor party it
contains bosses and workers so they have
to kind of walk the line of representing
the interests of two different groups
that are often diametrically opposed
right and it seems to be particularly
like that I feel like in New York like I
recently only in the last few years that
are getting involved with politics and I
started trying to get involved in like
the local community and I after a little
bit I was like man this is a
 show like it's really overwhelming
how many different factions there are
and how disjointed it is and I I don't
even know where to start like I want to
get involved I would like to run for
office but like after I went to a bunch
of events and started getting involved
in some of the groups I was like oh my
god this is worse than I thought
well yeah it ain't easy if it was easy
listen here's the bottom line you know
the fact is is that the left's policies
broadly speaking are far more popular
than the rights so you know that's one
of the reason but there are a lot of
competing interests and as to which
policies get addressed first and how and
that's why you know we are where we are
but I appreciate the phone call
