where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam c de it
is Friday March 8th 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Bendixon host and proprietor of the
Benjamin Dixon show also on the program
today Paul Manafort
gets 46 months in the clink and that's
just his first sentence ladies and
gentlemen part 2 coming up shortly
meanwhile Donald Trump turns out to a
hosted the former owner of the sex
trafficking massage parlor where Bob
Kraft got busted bad coincidence picked
ups victims I didn't start anything with
the wife Democrats in the House passed
one of the largest voting and ethics
reform bills maybe in decades and 23
Republicans vote against a resolution
condemning hate
meanwhile the Pentagon asked to
warehouse up to 5,000 detained migrant
children as the White House plans to
drain military pensions to build the
wall Elizabeth Warren releases a plan to
break up Amazon Google and Facebook
does it involve prison sentences for
[Music]
under the Sherman Act but still pretty
good Mitch McConnell prepping a new
nuclear option to speed up confirmation
of right-wing judges no word yet if it
involves blowing up the moon
and having its pieces fall into Lake
Michigan and someone in the White House
is leaking stuff about Jovanka to
democratic investigative committees and
lastly Chelsea Manning sent to jail for
refusing to testify in the US
government's WikiLeaks case all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen thank you for joining us what
a well another week is past I don't know
what to tell you we are still here
barely we did it it's amazing in this
era but a week goes by and it feels like
we were on vacation like six years ago
so much I feel that way and I was on
vacation last weekend like this week
actually yeah up until Monday up until
Tuesday yeah well it's not good
technical about these things folks but
nevertheless yes it's another crazy no
I'm just uh just weird it's all just
about accuracy I'm trying to make a
point but the another crazy week and
it's gonna get worse folks I want it let
me just just touch on this
McConnell thing because sometimes
stories like this get lost and certainly
I'm not going to go into a long diatribe
about about Jimmy Dore or other people
who are just not bright enough to
understand the implications of having a
Republican executive in office in a
republican-controlled Senate there's not
going to be any legislation that gets
passed over the next two years eighteen
months two years that is going to be
particularly horrific there there may be
some corporatist ones that get passed
that do so with a little fanfare that we
may not like but there's not going to be
any huge tax cuts for the wealthy again
there's not going to be a rollback of
the ACA although it will happen
administrative Lee in in some sectors
there's not going to be cuts to Medicare
there's not going to be cuts to Social
Security they're not gonna be Social
Security privatization however what has
happened in the Senate and will continue
to happen in the Senate and at a pace
that is even greater than it's been will
be the hotel monopolization of the far
right of our judiciary for decades to
come
decades to come if we are extremely
lucky the worst that will happen from
the about the Supreme Court from now
until 2020 will be that a 70 some-odd
year-old conservative is replaced by a
45 year old conservative so that seat
will not come up for grabs for another
30 years and if you look at the
conservative it's on the court that
majority of five will be there until I
am probably too old to speak into this
microphone and be legible and understood
huge missed opportunity obviously would
the garland thing I mean it wasn't uh
you know putting aside that garland was
not the pick that I would have chosen
but Kennedy and maybe Thomas is I would
imagine Thomas is going to announce his
resignation pretty soon that would be my
guess yeah they're gonna want to get him
out of the way
although McConnell may not certainly
will not slow things down because it's
you know nine months till in an election
whatever it is but Roberts is probably
going to be the next out unless
something tragic happens and one of the
four on the left side of the court I
guess the liberal side of the court has
to resign and and even these four are
not you know they are to the right of
nearly everyone who sat on that court
supposedly in the left seats thirty
years ago but nevertheless the other
aspect of the judiciary is not just the
Supreme Court it is the Federal Court of
Appeals in various districts circuits
around the country and Trump has filled
these spots at a pace that it's
completely unprecedented at least in the
last I don't know four or five
presidents so 3040 years at least and
they are as radical as maybe we've seen
in the modern era they are much more
reminiscent of of justices that we would
have seen in the 1890s let's say or the
early 1900s who viewed such things as
Social Security as unconstitutional I
mean these people are extremely radical
they come in slightly different flavors
some are are convinced that we are now
living in a full-on socialistic
communistic state others think that
we're living in too
found profane of a world and their
theocrats but they're all extremely
radical on the conservative end and what
Mitch McConnell has done is he got rid
of the filibuster when it came to the
Supreme Court justices completely
predictable although some people thought
it was equivalent to the moon falling in
Lake Michigan completely predictable and
Mitch McConnell also got rid of blue
slips which was a a rule that basically
said a senator from any given state
could basically refuse to give their
sign-off for a judicial nominee in that
circuit that includes their state and
prevent a lot of justice judges from
sitting on that Court the Republicans
use this throughout the Obama
administration repeatedly kept a lot of
a lot of judges off the court McConnell
it no longer recognizes that practice
the latest reporting is that McConnell
will now invoke a new nuclear option by
reducing the amount of time for debate
over district level judicial nominees
from 30 hours to two so one of the ways
that Democrats have tried to slow
McConnell's role here and particularly
since Chuck Schumer was basically told I
think by his caucus you got to stop
making these deals that allow all of and
walk through that they would require 30
hours of debate and you know 30 hours of
debate it's not from this morning at
10:00 a.m. till tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. it
is 30 hours in which the the Senate is
in session and on any given week there
may only be 30 hours of session time
period probably I don't know maybe even
less and so this slows the pace in which
judges can be confirmed however if you
change the rules
which McConnell can do with a simple
majority vote that will basically just
make it the the path to confirming all
these much easier so this is going to be
you know highly problematic for my kids
that's how along the impact of this is
gonna be as far as I'm concerned court
packing should be a question asked of
every single presidential candidate
right now the problem is I mean yeah and
Eric Holder actually came out in favor
of that today I mean I think ultimately
core packing will will bring about
hopefully some reform with the Supreme
Court on 18 years but there's just it's
unlikely and it's possible the Senate
could add you know to the circuit courts
around the country certainly the
Republicans were trying to reverse that
they in during the Obama administration
they tried to eliminate three positions
on the DC Circuit Court so that Demma
khun's can maintain their parity with
the number of Democrats on there because
there was three or four vacancies it's
conceivable that in this but that's not
just for presence right this would be
for Democratic senators will you vote to
expand the number of judges on these
circuit courts but you know it becomes
you you're opening a can of worms I mean
the the best thing to do is to win
elections consistently over time and and
make sure that you have the ability to
vote for these for these you know to
confirm these judicial nominees and
frankly the left does a very bad job
because they don't seem to understand
the importance of the judiciary as
exemplified by people who pop oh it
there is no there is nothing akin to the
Federalist Society in terms of basically
training
and reproducing these judicial
candidates and providing on day one the
president with a list here's here's 50
people who should be getting you know
the first 50 Circuit Court or district
court appointees and here's a list of
people on the Supreme Court I mean it is
just simply that the left broadly
speaking doesn't take this stuff
terribly seriously I think that's going
to change over the next 15 20 years when
they start to realize like nothing we
pass what's changing now I think I think
there are I think there are structural
barriers to it and maybe some people
didn't take it as seriously as they
should have but it's like more complex
than what it takes it takes you know I
mean people can say I take it seriously
but it takes literally you know decades
to build an infrastructure and when Jake
yogurt was a young lawyer 25 years ago I
think he he was member the fellow of
society right like there is no
equivalent on the left and and I'm not
just talking about you know voters or
the commentariat also like
institutionally there needs to be more
appreciation on the left of the
judiciary that will happen it's going to
be it's going to take 10 years from now
when we have you know president Alon
Omar al on Omar trying to you know he is
the new gun stand and I don't care by
the way if whatever the amendment is
that bars her but she's my new ideal
stand right it's no longer AOC right
it's president Elano okay whoever it is
as president there when they start to
pass the you know the Sharia laws and
the work again where the court says you
can't pass the you know that this is
unconstitutional that's what I think
you're gonna see a lot more attack the
court so it can implement Sharia right
awesome court packing and term limits
are to shorter term solutions to the
damage that's been done to the judiciary
I'm importing the deer and moose all
right let's uh let's
turn to this before we we get to
Bendixon I I have to tell you that I I
know I there are times where I don't get
too emotional in situations like this
but I found this really moving Meghan
McCain has been taking Lana Mars
comments and has been really devastating
for her can I just ask we know this all
the things that they're said and go back
and forth and Meghan has been really
really strong you know throughout this
entire period where we have seen such an
increase in hate groups and in in
physical violence and by the right and
she has been a real trooper but this
she's never prevaricated I mean any
single instance whether it's Trump or
whether it's an interesting that she
wouldn't she has been totally 100%
opposed to all forms of bigotry and but
she's just hit her limit with what's
happening when I just we had better I
know let me just finish when we had
Barry Weiss on as an expert in what is
anti-semitic and what isn't I asked her
is it okay to talk about Israel's
policies and not be called anti-semitic
she said she said yes she said where it
crosses the line is when you say that
Israel does not have the right to exist
that that is when it crosses the line
now Omar has never suggested that Israel
does not have the right to accept what
she has so to me it seems to me that
Republicans are trying to use this as a
wedge issue I'm really not I think that
you know this little outrage is kind of
crazy because I don't think that the
Republicans have moral high ground here
it seems like deny her that Tara
McCarthy has used with this antiseptics
anti-semitic tropes I think that Jim
Jordan just really and I you know
squeezes
Tom Stockman's and right remember that
Ilhan Omar in the West Virginia
Republican Party just had this huge
poster superimposed with her face with
9/11 terrorists and I haven't heard any
outrage about that coming from
[Applause]
and I will tell you I take this very
personally as a woman of color who has
you know been the subject of so much
bigotry and what a lot of people don't
know is that my grandfather is Jewish he
is a Sephardic Jew and so I have you
know my family members have received a
lot of bigotry so but I need to leave it
I've experienced firsthand in my family
anti-semitism and bigotry for being
black and so I I just I so you know I
paused for a second that is a sunny
Hostin who is now like my favorite
daytime talk-show that's readable
endless he's a quasi are you gonna go
back because really now I said well so
Megan is trying to interrupt sunny
throughout this and she can't and even
Abby Huntsman was trying to interrupt
sunny throughout this and she can't
Sunday just like blew through her and so
I have a feeling the fact that Megan was
you know feels ganged up on by joy and
sunny I mean this is so silly that we're
talking about this but millions of
people get their perspective on these
things through this I mean this is this
the view is so much more effective in
getting a political message across than
this program that it is impossible for
me to even contemplate so this stuff is
relevant and so sunny and joy are
basically you know taking the lead here
and I think that's as much of a reason
why Megan McCain get so emotionally or
anything else watch this and so I I just
I so you know it's just a distraction
that are comfortable with me speaking
yes so she also said Israel has
hypnotized the world suggested that Jews
in Israel have bought us politicians all
about the Benjamins implied that
American Jews have divided loyalties and
it's okay for people to questions was it
none of this is true the only thing she
did say was that Israel has hypnotized
the world and I and I would take issue
with the word hypnotized because really
what they have done is sent out squads
of former Mossad agents in private
organizations to change and to
intimidate literally to intimidate
people who critique Israel in this
country that's not hypnosis in many
respects it's worse and this is
something that she tweeted in 2012
deleted and apologized for and frankly I
gotta tell you like it may be
inappropriate language for a
congressperson because you're in a con
you know like I tell my son hey we're at
a restaurant don't keep talking about
your penis cuz not that there's anything
wrong with your penis but just like it's
just there are things that are more
appropriate in other situations at home
you can talk about it with me if you
want yeah it's like her third language
so it's not on her if she didn't know
the association with that word but even
if she meant it as she did the reality
is we know that there is and I
personally know this and I mentioned
this the other day like you know Israel
is extremely aggressive in in dealing
with their critics and you know from
whether I was on a radio show and I get
it contacted from the Israeli embassy
the next day I critique Israel or
whether they're sending out former
Mossad agents to harass people and this
is all well documented I mean there was
a story this past week in it so but
everything else she says about the dual
loyalties and referring to Jews simply
did not happen this is getting you
or your news from the Daily Caller and
their interpretation of what she said
allegiance to a foreign country I again
say why this obsession with Jerusalem in
Israel why this obsession with this
specific area of the country and as you
said posit she also is a huge critic of
Saudi Arabia which Megan McCain doesn't
know because Megan McCain has done
nothing except for read the Daily Caller
about this as you said as you've said
many times these are dog-whistle
comments for for Jewish America yes they
are angry and they hear what she's
saying and she not apologizing that it
is disingenuous a pion party to go after
the top point when they are backing a
president so who is in bed with a
dictator is committing human right
violation since we're talking about
about I take this very personally I
would go so far as to say I probably for
John being a Zionist as well but I will
say that I don't have family that is
Jewish but Joe Lieberman and Hadassah
Lieberman are my family
yeah and I take the hate crimes rising
in this country incredibly seriously and
I think what's happening in Europe is
really scary and I'm getting emotional
but you're right the idea that this is
politicized I'm really not I was very
nervous to talk about this on this show
because I thought it would become
politicized and it really shouldn't be
on both sides it should be called
outright and just because I don't
technically have Jewish family that are
blood related to me it doesn't mean I
don't take this as seriously and it is
very dangerous very dangerous and I
think we all collectively as Americans
on both sides and what ill on home art
is saying it's very scary to me and it's
very scary to a lot of people and I
don't think you have to be Jewish to
recognize our job instead of a
resolution of leaving just from the
Democrats
I'm tired of the selective outrage and I
hope that we have enjoyed
and from the Democrat I would be in
favor of a joint resolution well
actually because I'm not Jewish doesn't
mean I can't do fake outrage and
ridiculous crass identity politics
incidentally I have to say to defend the
Jewish people you pick two of the worst
Jewish people in human history Joe and
Hadassah Lieberman don't you you're
completely out of the mainstream
Jews are marginal and Jewish thought and
so you know the you don't have to be
Jewish to be outraged at Ilan Omar's
comments and actually it's probably a
liability it to that end because I am
quite confident and we haven't seen any
polling but I am quite confident that
the majority of Jews in this country are
not concerned with her comments well I
also have to say too in addition to how
disgusting and fake that came off to me
and how of course Joe Lieberman is not
helping your case I'm gonna go back to
Hillary Clinton Chelsea Clinton's trash
disgusting tweets about Olano March
lecturing her on not only anti-semitism
but but actually citizenship in this
country a couple of weeks ago and so
like what is it with trust fund baby
children of prominent politicians who
had everything handed to them impugning
the integrity and patriotism of somebody
who came from a refugee camp to be in
Congress who has worked more hard and is
more self-made in an afternoon than they
are in a lifetime it's disgusting
no she poses a threat to the bipartisan
neoconservative foreign policy consensus
therefore she's very dangerous to them
and you know they're gonna use whatever
underhanded means they can to silence
her I also think that McCain is the Mary
to the head of the Federalist which
maybe doesn't have the same weepy
relationship to Joe Lieberman yeah
here's a couple of here's a couple of
just headlines from the Federalist Steve
Bannon isn't anti-semitic because Jewish
girls are whiny that's kind of funny I'm
sorry well it's it's not a funny it's
also true but I would say that you know
again what's great about this is like
these are people that first of all
Republicans spend all day either just
denying actual acts of racism or any
other form of bigotry or if they're
Meghan McCain and they want plausible
deniability they pretend that something
isn't there and now sudden they can
impune subtlety when it comes to her all
right we've got to take a break when we
come back we'll be talking to Ben Dixon
right back
[Applause]
[Music]
infrastructure no bumps in the road
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report and just a reminder folks you can
support this program by going to join
the majority report dot-com join the
majority report calm for just a couple
of bucks a week you get the bonus show
and you support this free show and on
the phone speaking of show the
proprietor and host of the Benjamin
Dixon show Bendix and welcome to the
program Ben hey Sam thanks so much for
having me man that's always a pleasure
always a pleasure to talk to you as we
look back on this week I guess the big
news obviously yesterday and there's two
things I mean we were just talking about
the Elan Omar situation which ended I
think fairly well relatively speaking
for the Democrats insofar as they ended
up passing a bill against hate which is
always you know nice sentiment 23
Republicans found it inappropriate yeah
speak out against bigotry discrimination
but I guess that's the way they roll but
the the the problem the biggest problem
for me with the whole Alana Omar stuff
is that it stepped all over the passage
today of HR 1 which which is a great
bill and should be you know has the
whole host of first off it is one of
those things where it's hugely important
for democracy to make these reforms and
it's also something a structural change
because we know the more democracy you
have the better the Democrats do this is
something they should have always done
and it should be sr1 in 2021 if the
Democrats take the Senate as well but
give me your sense of this this bill we
can go through it a little bit yeah I
mean there are some key components to
this bill that progressives we've been
screaming for for some time the national
holiday the automatic registration
exposing an attempt to get rid of dark
money I think I
really I hadn't really thought about the
way you framed it there with the ill on
Omar issue kind of trading on this
because this is a significant win mind
you I mean it's not going anywhere
Mitch McConnell has made that clear
already and of course even by some
miracle it passed the Senate Donald
Trump is not going to sign it even
though he did run on draining the swamp
and this act this bill actually is a
move in the right direction even for his
his false promise but but here we are I
mean this is an opportunity for for
Democrats and progressives to signal
what 2020 will actually look like and I
think that's the biggest takeaway from
this it's like we can show America that
once Democrats get back in power
ostensibly they will move forward with
this type of campaign reform yeah this
thing you mentioned that it makes a
federal holiday of voting so only
federal workers would get off but there
would be an option for private and
private sector it would provide same-day
registration fifteen days of early
voting across the board this is
something you know to have this stuff
sort of standardized it would provide
automatic or online registration it
would it would deal with the what do
they call it the caging where they would
crack you know down on efforts to jump
people off the rolls we require paper
ballots it would it would reinvigorate
the Voting Rights Act which got
decimated by the Supreme Court it would
you know campaign finance you'd have it
would enhance the disclose Act it would
do a new matching fund program and then
it would there's a whole host of ethics
things to like release your tax returns
you can't serve on corporate boards if
you're in a house you can't use taxpayer
money to pay penalties for employment
discrimination Supreme Court would get a
code of ethics which is absurd that it
doesn't now but right now you have
someone like Thomas and his wife is his
wife exactly and it would it would deal
with foreign and domestic
lobbying I mean this is all good stuff
yeah I mean it's unquestionably good I'm
I'm actually a to be honest with you I
am a little shocked at how robust it is
and perhaps its robust because it
doesn't have a chance of passing because
there let's let's be real this there
there's there's things in there that
obviously Democrats have benefited from
but I think I I think if we look at it
through an optimistic lens I think the
the powers that be on the Democratic
side I have to realize that even though
they benefit from some of these things
the Republican Party has
disproportionately benefited from all
the things that they're trying to
address in HR 1 and so that's looking at
it optimistically and and again I think
the best that we can do is invigorate
the various bases like there's their
components in here that should resonate
with Republicans if we weren't in such a
hyper partisan era but I think this bill
really could be something that will
invigorate the frustrated base that that
just feels like that that this is all
rigged well here here's a piece here's a
piece of legislation that literally
addresses some of the most critical
components of our broken system right I
mean one of the things that Donald Trump
I mean ran on right was this idea of
like I'm not gonna have to take their
money cuz I got my own money yeah that
was something that you know we we forget
about this but as you're saying that I
remember like you know so many news
stories we're about how people were like
the he is not going to be subject to
money right and to have a six to one
matching funds or for you know federal
elections that goes a long way to
balancing out the the funding from
supposedly all those millionaires and
billionaires that Donald Trump had
convinced his voters you know it was bad
for them and and you know this
theoretically should be something that
Congress people that people in the house
when they're running against their
Republican opponents can sell to to
constituents and I also had like
statehood for Washington DC also in this
bill
so it's a whole host of things like that
that like you say if Republicans you
know Republicans are never gonna sign on
to any of this but the real question is
how much of this is you know just good
for democracy and how much of it is good
for Democrats structurally and and how
much of this is good in terms of a wedge
issue and they're all in there in this
bit right exactly exactly and the the
hilarious part of this is it's like it's
sad as you have to laugh or not crying
with Mitch McConnell labeling this a
socialist agenda and I'm like we quite
literally
never mind the the misnomer and the the
misuse of the phrase but just these are
things that are healthy for democracy
right these are the things that that are
unquestionably healthy making it more
accessible for people to vote easier for
people to vote to get money out of
politics as much as we possibly can I
mean literally anything that that is not
beneficial to the Republican Party now
has been reduced to to being socialism
and thankfully that that that where it
doesn't have as much thing as it used to
but it just shows a level of desperation
in terms of how would they publicly of
course of course they can stop it right
but how do they publicly address an
agenda this progressive and this
beneficial to the common person well
they just have to use some common scare
tactics yeah and apparently Udall is
going to introduce a version of this in
the Senate and it's gonna be interesting
to see because you know how Democrats
use this on the on the 20/20 campaign
trail both in the presidential election
and in the House races again because in
the presidential election you know one
of the themes that Elizabeth Warren has
started to hit seems to me from what
I've just read on the campaign trail is
is the corruption right like you know
she's running in many respects similar
theme Attica Lee to Bernie Sanders but
within the context of the problem isn't
necessarily wholesale you know like I
don't think Bernie is running saying
like a full on you know we got to get
rid of capitalism
campaign but the war and more explicitly
as saying our capitalism is broken
because of corruption and a huge portion
of this is like is are these
anti-corruption measures you know so you
can't get a Chris Collins going around
saying like I've made four billion you
know millionaires in Congress and
bragging about it and we're you know
sitting on boards and mean people coming
in and using the government as simply an
extension of their business interests
and so it's gonna resonate on both those
levels right III don't know I was just
very pleased with the way they
constructed this bill
yeah no no absolutely I'm I'm actually
shocked again I I'd usually come to
these conversations very quite skeptical
but I guess I am still coming quite
skeptical but I'm shocked it made a lot
of the things that are in there I'm
surprised that are in there but I mean
let's take a win and run with it and
just run up the scoreboard and all the
way to 2020 because I think this is
gonna be a really strong tool for
candidates running in 2020 yeah I mean I
was just reading a piece where Max Rose
who is the Staten Island Democrat who
ran as being like you know a pox on both
their houses type of guy and he is and
he is excited about this bill because in
and certainly you know if you can get a
Democrat who is I don't want to say
conservative but who is you know sort of
like that I don't know what you know he
there's just a there's a slight right
wing you know independents quality to
him right maybe that's a little bit of
an overstatement but when you have a
Democrat like that who feels strongly
that they can run on this met on this
bill then you've really hit a bill that
can that crosses the gamut and you know
I don't know what's going to come out of
all of these these hearings and whatnot
but it is clear
that the Democrats because now they have
the opportunity to actually investigate
this stuff
the idea of corruption he's gonna get is
gonna because I don't know if you know
Donald Trump is a Manchurian Candidate
but I certainly know that he's corrupt
and the level of corruption that we have
seen throughout the administration has
been unprecedented and Manta forts going
going to prison for at least forty seven
months as of the you know sentencing
hearing number one because of corruption
right I mean the tax evasion whatnot
what was your take on that
sentencing table you know I have a
little bit about that sentence I I
really am I'm not one to champion the
justice system giving maximum sentences
for obvious reasons but at the same time
four years seems like quite a slap on
the wrist for four mana for guaranteed
he's like what is he 67 years old so
it's gonna be really hard for years for
him at that age and in prison but I just
felt like that judge really gave this
guy too much of the benefit of the doubt
saying what was his phrase prior to this
he had a like a pristine life or
something to that effect
no he didn't right that's the whole
point you know you don't just stumble
into fries you don't stumble into tax
evasion like this was a lifestyle for
him and and the second part of it is
that if this is the sentence that came
down I think we talked about this back
in December this was one of the
opportunities for America to have a
sense of closure and justice around this
entire election you know you have you
have like metaphor you had I can't think
of the what is the the former National
Security Advisor yet when Flynn you had
slain you have all these guys who
actually are like extremely high level
close to Trump and my my thesis back in
December was well if we aren't getting
justice with these guys because I don't
feel like four years is justice if we
are getting justice with these guys then
we sure as hell better have some justice
lined up for some someone
that Flinn higher up than mana for twas
namely the President of the United
States so there's some really strong
opportunities that I think for plea
deals I think for for cooperation
obviously that we are missing the
opportunity for that national closure
because there's so much spin around this
there's so much there's so many
conversations like 24-hour news cycle
about Russia and while these charges
weren't connected to Russia you know
it's still within that framework you
know what I mean so I really do hope
that that there's some justice coming
down the street for America in general
because if not we're missing the
opportunities right now with with
Michael Flynn we're missing the
opportunities right now with a person
like Paul mana for who got four years
for something most I mean I mean how
many years what was I forgot the maximum
sentence that he could have gotten but
it was between the minute I think it was
something like the the the the the
standards of you know they sort of the I
guess the what do they call it that I
gosh I've it's been a long week folks
the the the guideline range is 19 to 24
years come on crazy which you know I
mean here's the problem right like we
have and the way you fix this isn't
necessarily sending Paul Manafort to
jail for 24 years at age you know 69
yeah but that woman who accidentally
voted cup when she wasn't allowed to
because she was on probation she got
five years right for accidentally voting
or I should say voting thinking that she
was allowed to and she got five years
you you you know and people are tweeting
out like you know a myriad of these
examples and so put aside whether Paul
Manafort should have gotten more time
okay cuz I do think for years if he
serves for years and and who knows how
much he actually serves at age 69
that's pretty that's a pretty harsh and
ignoble way to end your life essentially
or to start start the beginning of the
end of your life but you know there was
a you referenced that point about his
otherwise blameless life and Franklin
for at the Atlantic put together the
best sort of like rebuttal to this I
think or at least the most poetic and he
started every paragraph within an
otherwise blameless life he produced a
public relations campaign to convince
Washington that ukrainian President
Viktor Yanukovych was acting within his
democratic rights and duties when he
imprisoned his most compelling rival for
power or when he his police killed 130
protests in the made on or that he
walked away from twenty million dollar
debt to a Russian go Lagarde or he put
his Protege in the pro-trump super PAC
to funnel money to him to pay off the
debts or when he was found guilty of tax
evasion on industrial scale or when he
lied to investigators in lied when he
took the plea deal or when he tried to
phone a potential witness in his trial
to alter his stories I mean when he went
on and with in the 80s when he went on
to you know work with a Roger stone in a
you know a lobbying outfit said that
helped develop racist means against
again the Democrats or when he worked
you know sort of to help regimes that
were involved in atrocities all through
the 80s I mean that's a pretty blamed
whole life I mean I guess you know I'm
just trying to think of like you know
what it would take but that seems to be
to be a weird you know it's one thing
for the guy to you know the judge to
come up and say I think that you know
we're too harsh as you know providing
penalties but of course this judge also
has record yeah go ahead
you probably know the details better
than I do yes Ellis the
who sentence William Jefferson from
Louisiana to 13 years for his corruption
remember famously the guy with $90,000
in the freezer yeah that the FBI had
been tracking so you know was this this
change of heart in terms of harsh
sentencing and then particularly to wrap
it all in an otherwise blameless life I
mean you mentioned the young lady who
got five years I mean this is this is
why I have like quite the ambivalent
approach to this because you know this
this is a system that if we advocate for
harsher sentences well they're gonna
fall disproportionately on communities
of color in federal and state level like
that's that's a proven fact right but at
the same time will you see it this
blatant it you know you have to step
back and say like for 47 months for you
know for years if he serves that much
it's a disservice and it's it's
certainly a disservice to anyone who was
seeking a sense of justice the
collective community the collective
American conscious which is right now
looking for closure like I think we're
getting to the point where we have rush
of fatigue and to see this guy get off
with four years when everyone else
around him sentenced by the same judge
let's get far more than that it's really
a slap in the face yeah and you know and
it's interesting because the in the
years running up to the Trump election
right there was a lot of people in sort
of our sector if you will of political
commentary who were pointing out that
there's a tremendous disparity in the
way that justice is being meted out in
this country Taibbi had a book Greenwald
had a book in many respects Dayan's book
was was largely about that in the wake
of the financial crisis this and is this
dynamic where if you are a you know a
millionaire hedge fund or billionaire
hedge funder or if you're the one who's
profiting off of all these mortgages in
these foreclosures you're fine if you're
Steve the Newton you're fine if you are
a
of lower income or middle income and you
went in and you were basically just
trusted your your bank loan officer that
this is the way that things are done you
got screwed and and the this is a
problem I mean it and on some level the
idea you know to the extent that there
is a problem in this country with
discouraging corruption at the highest
levels right of our society this does
not help now yeah all of this also begs
the question of like why did it take so
long like you know why if if Donald
Trump was not elected president Paul
Manafort would be sitting in one of his
twelve you know pieces of property
wherever he had you know drinking the
you know water out of his fur line sink
or wherever he was doing with all that
cash and you know nobody would know that
Donald Trump was in the money laundering
business nobody would know that he made
his fortune through tax evasion just
like Paul Manafort nobody would know I
mean all of this none of this would have
been nobody would be digging into this
these guys would be living the life if
if Hillary Clinton was the president
right now and that is also I think
highly problematic yeah
yeah well what the facts right and and I
think that there's a certain point where
Donald Trump is probably relenting like
just really hating the fact that he
became president almost every day not
not withstanding the responsibility that
he is not up to the task to meet but
just the sheer reality that but winning
the presidency is now brought and Seana
light shining the light on all of all of
his criminal past all of his all of his
fraudulent past in that way but you were
saying and I just want to say one last
thing in terms of this the justice
system that well I think one of the
biggest differences and it's something
that I'm learning now the biggest
difference really is who can afford to
pay the right to attorneys and and we
see so many times like
you know when when the young lady I
don't know her legal situation I don't
know what kind of turns she had that was
sentence five years for voting in the
wrong place you know when you're going
up against this justice system and
you're going up against the attorneys
that they have and you're not equipped
with financially to fight back with your
own attorneys then you are going to get
you know the harshest sentence that they
can get on you you know so I think one
of the biggest downfalls of our system
is just the inability to have proper
representation across the board I mean
our public defender system while you
know noble it is surely inherit when
you're going up against a system that is
funded by all of these billions of
dollars in order to get the harshest
sentence as possible and you look at it
Steve minuchin you look at a Paul
Manafort
you know part of the calculus here
probably was just the fact that he could
afford some of the best attorneys he
could possibly get to fight back against
all these charges and get a reduced
sentence an obscenely reduced sentence
so I think all that goes into play into
the system of injustice in the inequity
and justice in this country well yeah
and and and not only has there been a
tremendous rollback in funding for for
for criminal defense attorneys who are
doing you know pro bono work or public
defenders and we're starting to hear now
Republicans talk about and even on the
court
actually the Supreme Court there's a
couple of justices who have started to
hint at the idea that like I don't knew
that know that we need to provide this
for people and that is even more reason
why we need statutory criminal justice
reform so that right you know regardless
of the type of representation you have
when you come into court that there is
no opportunity for you to go to jail for
five years for being under the
impression that you could vote when you
couldn't vote right I mean you know it's
one thing we've uncovered a massive
scheme to drive you know undocumented
immigrants from the Massachusetts area
in 75 buses and in to disperse them
throughout New Hampshire so that we
could sway the vote I mean a scientist
project it'll be different if the
veritas project was true right exactly
exactly it but but you know when you're
talking about one person who goes in and
thinks that they they're allowed to vote
one way you deal with that is like
everybody can vote so you cannot make a
mistake about whether you are eligible
there's no reason for there to be these
Byzantine laws about if you've served or
if you're on probation etc etc all right
let me just I know you've got just a
couple of minutes left but there's two
things that I want to talk about and I
want to get your take on either one of
them and I'll give it to you is your
pick one is Warren came out with a plan
today to break up Facebook Google and
Amazon or also I think this is
interesting because of just the I don't
need to tell you why it's interesting in
terms of the narratives that are out
there but there was a morning consult
poll I think it was on Wednesday maybe
that was released that said Bernie
Sanders is leading all other announced
candidates in support from black voters
I think and in terms of unannounced I
think Biden may be a slightly ahead of
Bernie but the operative thing is that
Bernie supposedly it seems to undercut
the narrative that Sanders does not
appeal to african-american voters well
your choice on IR those topics or if you
want to do both we can do that too let's
take the low-hanging fruit
let's take the Bernie Sanders okay in
the black vote for 200 my take is really
this like we you know Sanders does
appeal to black Americans i but here's a
problem the specific set of black people
who participate number one in the
primaries right number two who
participate in the South you know I
really wouldn't want to see it drilled
down to primary voters because if he's
going to win he's got to win in the
primaries
and he's got to clean up shop through
the south and so while I know nationally
you know I'm
one of his supporters I've been a
supporter since 2015 probably before
that the fact of the matter is it's like
there's a certain level of there's a
certain approach there's a certain means
of communication and there's certain
pitfalls that he just should not stumble
himself into unforced errors when it
comes to the black vote particularly
primary voters so while is we can easily
say bernie is popular amongst black
people yes he is how popular is the
amongst Democrat the Democratic base of
primary voters that really for God knows
why well I mean I know the answer
Biden you know you think a bi didn't do
you think of Obama you think of the good
old years I get it and I just for the
life of me I don't know why they would
support Biden but if you look at those
primary voters that's the reason he's
not announced that he might be ahead are
years ahead of Bernie Sanders so you
know it's not just about the the general
election it's about that primary base of
democratic I mean the the people who
actually go to the convention you know
right those are the folks that uh that
Sanders has always had a problem with
and I think that's where he's gonna have
to do his best work and not have a bunch
of unforced errors yeah and I think that
I mean the the campaign clearly
understands this right I mean he made a
point of right after he announced saying
to you know leaking an email he sent to
all surrogates treat the Democratic
Party with respect and as as a means of
appealing to those Democratic primary
voters he did his you know so where do
allegiance to the Democratic Party the
other day or whatever that document was
and yeah and you know I think there's uh
I think it's Jamelle Bouie who's written
that you know those folks
african-american folks you're talking
about have a lot of reason to look at
the to want to protect the institution
of the Democratic Party because of the
sure of its history and things like the
Voting Rights Act and then things like
the Civil Rights Act and I mean it to be
fair like rather transit
for quite a few of them some of the key
some of the power players in the
Democratic Party African American power
players they have a transactional
relationship with the Democratic Party
like it is it has been a means to to
success and opportunity and platforming
and so I mean I think it's unreasonable
for people on the outside to look at
people who have this allegiance to the
Democratic Party and say oh you're not
doing what's in your best interest you
should be voting for Bernie if you knew
what was in your best interest well now
these people actually do not quite know
what's in their best material interest
and it has been working with and through
and around the Democratic Party for
years so I think a part of Sanders
release saying respect the Democratic
Party you know or at least you know play
nice I think that's a baseline that a
lot of Sanders supporters you know it's
it's a hard pill to swallow but you know
if you want Sanders to win you can't win
it through a scorched earth war against
the Democratic Party particularly black
folks in the Democratic Party because
they really do hold the keys to the
power particularly through the south in
the primaries so you know they it
unfortunately it just is what it is and
I would also say that not only has there
been success transactionally for a lot
of you know let's say the black
community leaders within the Democratic
Party and material benefits for black
people you know across the board in
terms of some you know key Democratic
measures obviously you know with obvious
limits and whatnot but right I think the
other thing that people need to
understand is there's a there's not a
lot of other paths right like right like
you know the Democratic Party has been
helpful to the African American
community to a you know within certain
limits that's not absolutely but there's
not like there's a lot of other
institutional outlets for for progress
for the african-american community and
that's not a function of the Democrats
that's a function of America right for
sure my um I I can't really call him a
friend but we're friendly Bakari sellers
from CNN when I I had a quote-unquote
debate slash interview with him some
years ago and one of the things that he
was excited about was this proposition
of Bernie Sanders starting or continuing
his revolution after the election
particularly because of the amount of
support that it would provide for people
who would like to be progressive and go
further to the left but can't because of
the lack of opportunities to have a
support base a financial support base to
actually create a platform that you can
work in and work through so I mean it's
not only that the Democratic Party has
been the primary platform for African
American leaders to be propelled into
the the national spotlight but it's also
the fact that there still room for more
platforming to occur but unless it is
created and it has a unless we have the
ability to pump people through a system
almost like the right-wing media machine
does take a person plug them in and they
become their platformed and they have
success until we start creating that
type of infrastructure politically
you're going to continue to see people
go to the Democratic Party it only makes
sense and I don't I quite honestly don't
understand why people can't see that
there has been material benefit and that
there these people are working in their
best interests and it could fall back
I'll say this and it's not a dig against
Sanders but it could fall back to one of
the primary issues that I have with
Bernie Sanders with the debate he had
with Hillary Clinton when he referenced
black people he referenced black people
growing up in you know basically in the
hood I'm paraphrasing because it's been
years right but it's this perception
that all black people fall into the same
class category and you have to
understand there's quite a few wealthy
middle class upper middle class African
Americans quite a few of them who have
gotten this benefit from the democratic
infrastructure and they continue to get
it so if you can't if you can't put that
in your calculus then you'll
continuously be referring to black
people as a
impoverished monolith when reality
that's far from the case and the people
that you need to win in the South in the
primaries are part of that upper middle
class will to do black democratic party
operatives you know you have to not burn
the relationship you may not have a
friendly relationship with them but if
you want Sanders to win you can't go
through the South and just throw them
aside I will just say this I sat on a
panel years ago on the weekend show with
this guy I think it's Peebles I can't
remember who it was he was a I think
he's one of like Forbes wealthiest
african-american you know entrepreneurs
in the country I don't know if he was
involved with BT I can't remember I
didn't know this until afterwards
because we got into a big argument about
the estate tax and he was telling me
that the the CBC the Congressional Black
Caucus was in favor of relaxing that the
terms of the state tax and I was like
okay but that's fine but doesn't make it
right and he was arguing tooth and nail
and I didn't realize there's one of the
big multimillionaires and so but I
didn't realize you were a
multi-millionaire but I will say that I
will mark that down in my in on my phone
when we're looking for a new membership
level of the say of the majority well
all right Ben thanks so much for your
time today man really appreciate it
thanks so much for having me Ben Dixon
of the Benjamin Dixon show talk to you
later thanks bye I guess he had to go at
one and he was literally going all right
before we go into the fun half I want to
talk about this warren proposal because
we have talked about in the past the
idea of how would you break up how would
you break up these big companies and at
the time I think these big tech giants
and at the time I was like I don't know
I know there is way and there are policy
there's policy apparatus that are that
are working on this and at the very
least this is I think from anti-monopoly
folks
and antitrust folks they would say this
is a very measured somewhat moderate
proposal I think Matt Stiller made a
point on the on Twitter about the
Sherman Antitrust Act actually having
criminal liabilities as well but Warren
announced the the proposal I guess to
today she's announcing it and it calls
for the appointment of regulators who
would unwind tech merger mergers that
illegally undermine competition and it
would also this is sort of consistent
with the the Sinn féin laws that we used
to have the syndication laws which first
I think came from movie theaters back in
the early 1900s or mid 1900s where you
could not be a movie studio and own
movie theaters and the reason was
because obviously you're going to favor
your own movies in these movie theaters
you're going to crowd out the
competition of other people making
movies and so and then we saw this in
television as well
Bill Clinton rolled this back in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 where
studios NBC studios could not sell to
NBC television because obviously they
would be incentivized to only put on
projects made by NBC television and now
you know the theory I guess was that
well and it was problematic for several
years and then I think cable basically
opened it up quite a bit the reason why
you got that Union Cafe show that Jim
fallows did was a perfect example of
like what happens when NBC produces its
own shows garbage I was offered it but
let's not get it there all right so
here's the point
she she's proposing
that you cannot you cannot have a
platform that both offers a marketplace
for commerce and participating in that
market so for instance Amazon
Marketplace cannot every time you search
for something provide you with something
that is an Amazon either an Amazon
product or something that has been
promoted by Amazon right so because
Amazon now is the number one search
function for products people don't go to
Google when they want to buy a hamper
for their apartment they go to Amazon
and they buy a hamper and then Amazon
pushes the product that they have the
most financial interest in that's
problematic on YouTube YouTube if it's
gonna be a marketplace for videos should
not be promoting products or video
products that they have a financial
incentive in you cannot be both the
distribution mechanism and also a
supplier to that mechanism I mean this
is what net neutrality is about
fundamentally the idea that Verizon has
the pipes that they're sending to your
house and they cannot disadvantage
competitors to what goes through those
pipes to what they are sending through
the pipes they build information sorry
how's that going to work with Facebook
because the product there is your
personal information well it would force
back force the rollback of some
acquisitions by Facebook so their deals
for things like whatsapp and Instagram
and/or Amazon's edition of Whole Foods
in Google's purchase of ways are
examples of what they would do to unwind
these things companies would be barred
from transferring or sharing user daters
with third parties which is everything
that Facebook is right I mean that's
Facebook's
model so those are the major element
of this and what would happen in terms
of like how they would determine on some
level which companies are subject to
what level of scrutiny and regulation
Warren's plan creates two tiers of
companies those that have an annual
global revenue of 25 billion or more and
those that with an annual revenue of 90
million 225 billion the yes the upper
tier would be required to be to
structurally separate their products
from their marketplace smaller companies
would subject to regulations but would
not be forced to separate themselves
from the online marketplace so you could
have smaller entities and the thing is
you know what is the what is their
product on Facebook right it it is like
the data and you're you that's it and
it's you and so you can't both collect
this data and monetize it in the way
that Facebook would want to in remain
that big and so there may be other
proposals that are released to this
hopefully this is one of those
situations where like Warren again and I
saw a quote where a foster care who is
now the campaign manager for Bernie had
said just weeks ago before he was a
point of the campaign manager that
Warren seems to be winning in the
marketplace of ideas in terms of rolling
out new policies Bernie's not not quite
there yet in terms of like starting to
introduce new policies of course many of
his old policies have now been adopted
by everybody in the field which is great
sort of but you know also fudge secure
first Muslim porn it's a magic campaign
indeed but you know it's always what
have you done for me lately is in this
business as it were but Eddie Murphy
right I mean that's I mean largely is
what happened like with Woody Allen with
this comedy like you watch a Woody Allen
movie now and it's like all these jokes
are old I hear these everywhere and it's
because they all were basically derived
a whole generation of comedy writers
yeah that's my issue with watching Woody
Allen movies there's other tangential
issues
and to be honest I haven't watched one
in a long time but but that's that
literally is my issue
Woody Allen he's not funny no there you
go I don't want to get too sidetracked
by a warrant but so this is great I mean
this is exactly in a perfect world the
only thing that's different in a perfect
world from this one where we are seeing
candidates tried to outdo each other
with making government a tool to do good
and empower citizens not as consumers
but not just as consumers as citizens
because much of this has to do with
democracy as much as it does has to do
with material benefits for people and
and we should understand that material
benefits for individuals is not just a
function of you as a consumer when you
have this type of concentration of
wealth you there's two things that
happen one being that you you lose
political power or they gain too much
political power but also the economy
becomes far less dynamic and you get far
less development of new companies and
new companies provide more opportunities
for people both in terms of wage
increases and in terms of just you know
opportunity to spread the wealth so this
is encouraging to see this stuff and
this is stuff I think I feel like Warren
would have rolled out two years ago if
Clinton had been named president and she
would be just championing this in the
Senate yep she's gonna make a great SEC
chair under president Bernie precisely
or Treasury secretary or just be in the
Senate and get these proposals in I mean
true she will be if she stays in the
Senate she'll be one of the great
senators I mean that's a given
all right we're gonna take quick break
ahead into the fun half folks you could
join us in the fun half once you become
a member of the majority report you can
become a member of the JEP majority
report by going to join the majority
report calm and when you do your pennies
a day you're like 50 pennies a day
support the free show and gets you all
access now again said this before you
just got to have patience with us
because you know emails back up but if
you are in a financial position where
you cannot afford a membership send us
an email we'll work out a deal with you
at majority reporters at gmail.com we
don't ever lock anybody out for finances
so check us out there and don't forget
just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea
or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off I visited just
coffee a couple weeks ago when I was in
Madison for a wedding and I went with my
buddy Stephen Cheryl who is a producer
emeritus of the majority report from
back in the radio days and Stephen tends
to get excited about things like worked
up about certain things but he was so
adamant for the rest of the trip like I
would have bought their coffee anyways
but now I feel like it's completely
disgusting for me to buy my coffee
anywhere else they're such a great
company that's kind of true though it is
like that's that sounds melodramatic but
it's correct that is the right opinion
it was it was a fascinating conversation
I had with a couple of guys and just in
terms of their relationship with the
farmers and and what they're willing to
basically just what their what their
values are you know I mean just it was
very very impressive and the outfit was
also pretty impressive and what looking
at a roaster I'd never seen a coffee
roaster before so a just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate used
the coupon code majority to get 10% off
today is Friday which means that Tuesday
was Tuesday what happened on Tuesday
Michael Ben Burgess logic for the left
ran a clinic on how to debate and win
also Bernie's launched and Lula has a
visit to his grandson's funeral this
Sunday elicit history of Caribbean debt
dependency theory and marks with Tom
Anisha John from Florida International
University and get your tickets to LA
live show or halfway sold out and we're
real close
we're still several weeks out from the
date if I might do is it okay I'll just
do this aside plug having nothing to do
with me or the show please listen to
Mehdi Hassan's interview a Cornel West a
reminder of why he's like the best
public intellectual we have alive hell
yeah Jamie what's up on the Intifada I'm
so glad you asked this week on the anti
Fattah we speak with Hamilton Nolan up
splinter news formerly of Gawker about
media organizing union organizing in
general the current landscape for labor
in the US and Beyond
and we have a bit of a back-and-forth
about whether we need to reform the
current labor institutions or whether we
need a whole new paradigm also I if you
haven't listened to it yet our interview
with Kim Stanley Robinson the utopian
sci-fi hero from last week we let will
Medicare sit in on it because he's a
huge nerd like us who loves his books it
made me feel hopeful for the first time
in a while so if that doesn't get you I
don't know what will Matt what's
happening on the literary hang what's
happening is listeners are subscribing
to it on YouTube literary hangover
coming up is going to be an episode on
King Philip's War and the captivity
narrative of Mary rowlandson
the captivity NER nice next week though
all right great we're gonna take a quick
break ahead into the fun half six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty is
the number see you there
you
so this is uh this was sort of nuts and
it started to travel around uh on on
Twitter and social media I mean I mean
I'm not terribly surprised by any of
this I mean CNBC is specifically for you
know aged wealthy Oleg archetype an
aspiring all the conspiring and the but
it's there's some times where it's just
like the veneer gets completely ripped
off and they are literally just some
type of tool of the elite to beat up
anybody who who in any way steps you
know on their their narrative and in
this one it's particularly interesting
because the heiress to the Disney
fortune and I don't know if she has any
job in Disney I think she just I'm not
sure to be honest with you yes well
she's the heiress to the Disney fortune
and that's the way that they they
identify her Abigail Disney and it says
on Wikipedia she's a documentary
filmmaker philanthropist and activist
known for her documentary films focused
on social themes yeah okay so she's an
heiress
yeah she's an heir she well I mean you
could be an heiress and also be running
the company in this instance she's just
you know an heiress and I would imagine
also it's not just she's already gotten
a significant portion of that wealth and
she is I'm not sure what organization
she's with or how she ended up in this
situation but she's on CNBC arguing for
wholesale changes in the structure of
our tax code across the board and here
she is getting real
the browbeaten I guess is really the the
best word by Andrew Ross Sorkin Bertha
Coombs and Joe Kernan who I think on
some level there's a certain amount of
resentment that they are are exhibiting
that they wouldn't it's very difficult
because these people worship wealth
right and implicit in their worship of
wealth is this sense that if you are
wealthy regardless of how you got there
there is some moral superiority that is
associated owes better than them and yes
so like when Alex Perrine let's say goes
on CNBC they will they will talk to him
with the Saint with a with a different
type of drippy condensate condescension
then they can with a Disney heiress with
the Disney heiress it's just sort of
more anger then condescension and so
it's fascinating we we could have played
the entire well I don't know 10 minute
clip but we're gonna end up playing
about I think four or five minutes of it
but here is um here is a where they are
now shifting it's it's like they're
trying to find where they're gonna
penetrate this force field and now it's
that she doesn't know what patriotism
really is about if someone masses a lot
of money and and then leaves it to
charity
are they unpatriotic no absolutely not
they're not paying taxes we have all
agreed as a country we have laws that
lever okay then by definition it's not
necessary patriotic to pay higher taxes
posi do you understand that formulation
there is is like somebody who took logic
class and completely did not quite get
it like he thinks he's say he's doing
like one of those you know theorems
right like if a it is to be let me tell
you I remember he's getting it wrong I
remember getting Rajic or Greek
philosophy in college and I shouldn't
say this public
but it was not an easy subject and he
was not only a person who took the class
he was the guy when you're in finals and
no one has any sleep and you're like
alright we just got to meet and have a
study group and figure this out before
the test and he ruins the whole study
group because not only does he you don't
know enough to kill the test but you
know enough to did that he's totally
wrong but he won't he shot chance that
he's right and he's wrong here but here
is with its clever calculation so you're
not unpatriotic to give to cut to to
charity by rest my care for you are
patriotic to have that buddy good it's
not necessarily patriotic to pay higher
taxes of course it's not unless the tax
rates are unfair the problem is that
there's a systematic favoring of people
who have accumulated an enormous amount
of wealth the problem is it's people
should be maybe it's a mistake tax issue
then because the people that accrue
wealth in their own lifetime do it out
of hard work and paying ordinary income
then they're able to own assets which
are then taxed them too but many of the
people in the Forbes 400 inherited money
due to the estate tax well with the
estate tax I would certainly you have to
raise the exemption a little bit and you
have to index the current exemptions
eleven point two million dollars right I
think it where it is right now I think
it's good and and and that whole
mythology about how the family farm gets
broken up and everybody is that it
affects maybe four or five families in
any given year so so that needs to be
that narrative needs to be eliminated
what happens if you lower the estate tax
or you reduce as many people say the
estate tax you get a concentration of
wealth in families and you are I mean
already we have a nonino Kernan went to
the estate tax right as a dig on her
like his whole thing about like people
earn you know they start with nothing in
some cases and then they make all this
money and then they invest in assets and
that's why the income from those assets
is treated differently because
theoretically the money that they saved
the first time
in there wage job was what provided them
with the money for these assets well
first off we know because of the
complete reduction in mobility that more
often than not that's not the case that
it all derived from like he was a waiter
and he saved all his money and then he
invested in our apartment and he flipped
that and then turned it into a huge
building that story does happen but
here's the other point who cares
who cares because the context in which
someone can even place that bet assuming
that every single person who owns a
billion dollars or hundreds of millions
of dollars did it because they worked as
a waiter or a janitor and they saved up
their pennies and they placed a bet on
something that worked out the context in
which that bet happens and pays off is a
function of society allowing for that to
happen right because there are plenty of
societies out there where you can't just
place a bet and get lucky and flip it
and make all this money you need to pay
off different corrupt entities or you
need to provide you know services for
specific areas I mean this doesn't occur
in nature idea that you can make these
bets that that in nature you could bet
this money that you made as a janitor
and it would it would inflate never
honks of society they do that continue
and you are I mean already we have an
education system that favors the wealthy
we have a segregated population of
wealthy people who are further
segregating themselves by living in
gated communities and so forth we are
creating a two-tiered society which we
should fear make the argument that in a
that we're in a much more mobile world
than ever before
that if you look at what happens in
Connecticut for example and then people
have been fleeing Connecticut obviously
for other states in the United States
but yeah if you actually raise the
federal taxes in a remarkably meaningful
way I mean back to this sort of 70
percent kinds of numbers you get bandied
about not people would be on airplanes
yeah moving to other countries yeah you
know
my feeling about that is the ones who
leave because the tax rates go up here
are welcome to leave frankly we don't
want them here because what they don't
want to participate in is a society that
is structured around fairness we do not
have a society structured around
fairness right now and the proof is in
the pudding look at the lives of
working-class people in America
I talked to workers at Disneyland who
can't afford their insulin because
they're working at minimum wage
this is unacceptable and I can't sit
back and in accumulate wealth because I
simply a inherited it and be have the
good sense to simply own it whatever
gets the expensive people you're talking
about a lot of different things I'm
talking about a lot of different minimum
wage being raised whether state taxes
the exemption get brought down whether
the the basic wages are basic tax rates
go up and then also taste is taking a
look at capital gains alright there's
two things one is let's work backwards
she's talking about a broad base of
things but every single one of those
issues are completely implicated by the
wealth inequality we have in this
country every single one of those issues
are a function of what happens when you
go from a Pluto Pluto Namie to a
plutocracy where you have a
concentration of wealth that then begins
to concentrate political power so every
one of those issues are implicated by
everything she's saying and the other
thing I would add is the idea that this
is about fairness is too narrow of a
construct because the fact of the matter
is it's completely about the stability
of our society yes it may be the case
that it's unfair but you don't need to
show that it's unfair to say that we
cannot continue in this way that it
provides it's anti-democratic it is
destabilizing all those people that
Andrew Ross Sorkin knows who are going
to get on their plane again or leave
this country because they don't like the
federal tax rates not only is it a you
know a question of fairness we'll find
we don't want people like that the
absence of their ability to impact the
political structure in this country
right because they're foreigners now and
they're subject to a different set of
laws theoretically any ways in terms of
how they in
fluence our politics and they also we
should you want to leave the united
states and renounce your citizenship to
avoid taxes great you can't invest here
yeah you got to keep all of your cash
outside of this country good luck you're
gonna understand the value or your heirs
will understand the value of the
benefits you had that are designed for
that right like Singapore's pretty much
design that way the Emirates are
designed that way and look if you have
citizenship and you have certain access
that's an incredibly nice lifestyle
those are also undemocratic places that
are built in some cases unlike literal
indentured servitude
so not only and the prices in the
housing incidentally in Connecticut
they're gonna flatten a little bit and
also just that yeah and that and that
that too though a deeper point would be
to say to these people like do you want
America to be Singapore I mean okay but
then you shouldn't keep talking about
like apple pie and elections and freedom
because that's not what's going on here
people do Singapore and Singapore's in
some ways a very for what it is it's a
super successful place but people should
be transparent about what it is and then
they start getting really sort of pissy
about it Joe Kernan in particular he is
really mad he is really mad he was so
mad that he actually even brought up the
estate tax and that that's a really
funny thing about this segment is that
they actually start splitting their own
talking points yes and then the other
question I was gassy was there's a
Disney shareholder meeting today as it
happens and Bob iger's pay has been
reduced by about 13.5 million dollars I
believe how much of this is about taxes
in your mind or do you say to yourself
you know what maybe corporate America is
being paid too much how do you balance
those issues well I do believe as I say
it's hard to separate these things out
because they've been woven together in a
system that you know it's systematically
never do you think that Bob iger's
overpaid I think you know in general I
imagine you a lot of difference to come
out and say that but I will say that if
your CEO salary is is at the 700 600 500
times your median workers paid then
there is nobody on earth Jesus Christ
self isn't worth 500 times his median so
what does he think of this path I really
I don't know I never heard a good answer
this but why don't you just voluntarily
write a check you're worth a half a
billion dollars oh good answer to that
what is it it is ridiculous to say that
in fact okay that's your answer
ridiculous no not my answer might be
free to write to check that the problems
are structural my measly few hundred
million dollars will do nothing to
address
neither one neither will the four
hundred either one or four hundred
Hospital either will taxing the four
hundred richest families as a drop in
the bucket to the tax structure so that
our fifty percent of Americans are not
living at negative debt for paying taxes
paying taxes they will be about income
tax base until II I don't come payroll
everybody says what is what I mean this
guy but first off let me just say this
if you get your pay cut by thirteen
million dollars and you're still doing
okay you're being paid too much
look if thirteen million dollars is not
debilitating to you to be cut that way
like if that doesn't throw you into debt
but you did to be able to get your pay
cut that way there's a real problem and
the thing that Joe Kernan either doesn't
understand or doesn't want to understand
is that the reason why you tax those
four hundred uh you know
billionaires or whatever that class of
people is in this country is not
exclusively to raise money to spend it
is to keep them from having that money
it's not about fairness it's about it is
about stability of society it is about
having a a society that can function and
is fair in is serving the function of
why we organize into society so it
doesn't matter what an individual does
whether they're whether they they can
raise as much money whether it's one
person who has as much as the other 399
or not the bottom line is is that you
need a policy to address the instability
that's being created in our society and
the way you do that is not by one person
deciding one off I'm gonna donate and he
knows this it's just him being pissy I
also want to apologize if Abigail Disney
is watching this clip because I feel
like she might be
but I can't help but say that if Walt
Disney were around today he might say
something like when did my granddaughter
start hanging yeah with so many Jews
getting these goddamn socialist notions
yeah she's a good class trader I mean
it's about democracy - right because
money is power in our society therefore
if you don't want one class of people to
have an inordinate amount of influence
you should take away some of their power
by taking away some of their money I
mean obviously I don't think it goes far
enough but it's certainly better than
the alternative isn't that though also
with a mitt when he had his little hissy
fit on his podcast about doing the the
whole Howard Schultz scam he kept saying
this phrase that's his word as confess
Kotori can Fisk Ettore and that's really
gonna be their new frame actually
amazingly enough it and is to flip the
notion of who's in an exploited
relationship because his um
what's-her-name who wrote democracy in
Chains which is still like one man see
McLean Nancy McLean which read that book
it's a rich people identity politics its
Knollys at rich people identity politics
they actually she points out the some of
these original libertarian crackpots
basically just they tell the Marxist
story they just invert the working class
or just the labor class period the
functionality and then they just flip it
to the capital class that the capital
class is endlessly exploited by
everybody else by sucking their
resources so it's a very so let's
abolish class Society then I don't think
that's direction they take it in but I
think that that you'll hear that
amazingly you will hear a lot more
appeals to fairness and what's right and
what's interesting in addition out
ridiculous it is it clearly is the
emotional truth of like you know this is
why Howard Schultz is having this
prolonged national tantrum is he's like
personally aggrieved and offended that
he might actually have to contribute
nothing and and and the problem that
they're having is that 10-15 years ago
twenty years ago Frank Luntz could get
out there and call it the death tax
instead of the estate tax and make it
about and then they would go to like
sort of the second sort of the the
second readout I guess which was
oh this is about family farms we don't
want to destroy family farms and Abigail
didn't see Disney misstated there's not
four or five farmers they have trouble
finding one in the history of the estate
tax a family farm that had to go under
into this scenario and that's one of the
problems they have is the the flow of
information and things like social media
makes it that much harder to sell these
type of memes and so and I think they're
gonna have there they're moving to like
you know the third or fourth retreat
when they start going like it's really
unfair to to me you know to lose my
thirteen million dollars like at one
point they're gonna realize like that
doesn't sound so good to people who are
not normal CNBC right this is a sound of
people who are either work for a living
and or are sane it's funny this whole
like family farm image because last week
on majority report I had on the great
Milton al-ahmadi and we were talking
about among other things the South
African elections and the need for land
reform there and I did with you know
mindful that this is like an all right
me my said when you talk about land
reform you're not talking about
literally like a small Afrikaner Family
Forum and he goes of course not in fact
there might be more room for them to
have a little bit more property when we
take can reclaim democratically like
massive like expanses of basically white
corporate farm land that has been stolen
from people it is never it's never about
the family farmer should be like a
hashtag it's an awkward one but it's
true and you want to talk about
confiscation a hundred percent of their
wealth is surplus value that they have
confiscated from the people who work for
them so the fact that they're going to
be asked to kick in a little bit of it
back while retaining the essentially
exploitative relationship between bosses
and workers it's actually a pretty good
deal and Abigail Disney seems to
understand that alright let's let's talk
about some of the hearings that we saw
this week Christian Nielsen well
is that the House Homeland Security
Committee and she was being questioned
by was it was it Diane Titus d dina
Titus and the last time Nielsen was in
front of the committee she was asked if
she ever met a dacha potential recipient
these are these are not always children
they're now young adults because they've
been in this country for so long but
these are people who were who came to
this country as minors with their
parents usually under the age of 13 and
often even significantly younger than
that they were brought to this country
they've lived in this country for at
least I think it's ten years they have
had to have gone to high school and
graduated high school and maybe even
gone on to college or served in the
military to be eligible for daca status
and many of these people have no
familiarity whatsoever with the country
of their origin many of them don't even
speak that you know Spanish or and there
or Korean or wherever they they were
they were from and dina Titus is asking
Kristen Neilson to what extent since
your organization more or less
terrorizes these folks to what extent
have you ever had the opportunity to
actually even have any interaction to
get a sense of who any of these people
are and we know that we need
comprehensive immigration reform we'd
like to see it be bipartisan we've
reached across the aisle since I was
first elected here and gotten nothing in
return but it's more than just border
control we need to deal with the
dreamers the daca recipients TPS they're
all living in the situation of
uncertainty you testified that you had
never met a dreamer
last year I wonder is that still true no
ma'am that is you know they have
under the court case right now they are
legally present and we continue to renew
those who are part of the original
application process so have you talked
to this dreamer do you know anything
about their story I mean I've got about
owed me thousands of dream 13,000
actually dreamers in my district I know
their life stories I know about their
families I'm not just sitting across the
courtroom from them have you met within
them I think that's why we agree that
they deserve a legal status which is
what I've said every time I've testified
I support a legal status for the daca
popular but you don't think the dreamers
are a security threat to this country
when they commit a crime or the
otherwise fail background check as you
know they no longer are covered under
the daca program do you feel that they
are security threat to this country some
of them have committed crimes they're no
longer part of daca so by definition if
you are a daca recipient you have not
committed a crime do you feel like
they're a threat to our economy
ma'am I support their legal status so
that means you would support a clean
bill to give daca recipients a pathway
to citizenship no I would not and the
reason for that is because we can't
handle that situation without handling
the situation that brought them here to
begin with I don't want to inadvertently
create a new poll factor I want to make
sure that we secure the border and that
we are able to give legal status to the
daca population this is somebody who's
so desperate to keep her job that she
will not answer these questions directly
because she knows that she'll get in
trouble with her boss and obviously
someone who also has not taken the time
is one of those moments where you can
just like hear her in the back of her
head going like god dammit I meant to
write down go meet a dock or a city just
taking one afternoon just like 20
minutes and I could have answered that
question yes I have he was very nice her
she was very nice well I actually did
meet a daca recipient when I was in
Mexico City last weekend he was brought
to California when he was little his
Spanish is not that much better than
mine which is to say base
he's like a total Cali bro he got a DUI
and he had to self-deport to Mexico
because they revoked his status and it's
a lot better for you if you leave on
your own than if they have to round you
up nuts and there's a lot of I mean
there's obviously hundreds of thousands
of of daca recipients who are you know
just basically here still and living in
a constant state of insecurity waiting
to see how these court cases are
ultimately resolved and the same also
with the TPS folks who are folks who are
here because there was either some type
of like natural catastrophe in their
homeland or some type of civil war that
ended up leading to the destruction of
their homes or making it completely
unsafe or in unviable I guess to to live
there and have come to this country and
have been here in some instances 5 10 15
years and are now wondering if they're
going to have to leave their families
that in their friends that have you know
obviously they've accumulated in the
course of 10 to 15 years and the idea
that there was anybody walking around 3
or 4 years ago going like man there's
just the the the the Haitian population
here you know we're here after the
earthquake they're really just taking
all the opportunities for us there's a
real problem no this is just you know
part of the Trump administration trying
to clear house of folks primarily from
you know non-white countries I guess
it's ethnic cleansing it's white
supremacy as either you know genuine
deep bigotry or just simply electoral
strategy but it's all the same effect
and it's inseparable from voter
suppression everything else it's the
same continuum let's go to the phones
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty you come from a nine seven eight
area code who's this where he come from
978 hmm could be you it could be me
let's go to the next one you come from a
six one zero area code who's this where
you come from hi Sam it's Mike from
Pennsylvania you're in Pennsylvania how
are you Mike what's going on
I'm very well uh you know I was just
listening to the discussion today about
you know the narrative about black
voters and Bernie Sanders position in
the primary right now and I just wanted
to share some thoughts have a discussion
with you if we could
okay something ominous I couldn't really
follow I couldn't really follow Benjamin
points seems like he kept jumping around
and moving as people pointed out that he
was wrong like for example you know
Bernie's obviously doing pretty well
with african-american voters at this
point and not only is he second place
overall when you include Biden he's the
first choice of first second choice of
Biden voters so if Biden were not to run
his lead among african-americans would
grow to near a majority so I don't
really follow how this narrative makes
any sense it seems like people are
trying to force the same conditions that
existed during his 2016 defeat like this
is how he lost last time let's try to
make these conditions happen again by
creating a false narrative of some sort
of conflict that doesn't exist and it's
not reflected at all in any data that we
can look at I mean it it is it is hard
to parse out from these numbers if you
are talking about the and I think well
what he was talking about when he was
talking about a specific you know group
of people who were had transactional
relationship with the Democratic Party I
think he's talking about specific
community leaders who would mobilize you
know who mobilized for Clinton over
Sanders particularly in the south
because of their relationship probably
with the Clintons and with the
Democratic Party you know apparatus and
you know I think I don't need to explain
to you that well you know when you have
community leaders who have that type of
relationship with any you know party
they're gonna be able to deliver the
vote in a certain in certain ways I mean
for the most part right and so well well
I have experienced it it was exactly the
these type of situations personally and
I know what you're saying but in the
primary it's not clear-cut that's not
how it works and everything is very much
in the air in 2016 that was a unique
circumstance where the entire
institutional Democratic Party was
largely behind Hillary Clinton that is
not what's going to happen this time
well wait a second it might be it might
be because we did still a little bit
early to to determine whether the that
establishment it's not gonna line up in
the same way that a different Clinton
Clinton was sort of an overwhelming
force at this point in the election
cycle in 20 you know 2015 I guess it
would have been but it's not
inconceivable to me that you know Biden
doesn't run and they all say it's gonna
be Kamala Harris and we're gonna build
that out it's not going to be the same
as with the Clintons because the
Clintons had a 25 year you know worth of
experience in cultivating you know
specific act you know aspects of not
just the african-american community but
of of Democratic constituencies but I
think there's some truth to what you're
saying about so okay so it's a fiction
that something might happen that's not
reflected in the numbers now so why is
the narrative that such a condition
already exist their problems already
exist that don't actually exist yet
like it's I see what you're saying as a
possibility I think that's not going to
happen and any reasonable like future
projection just because
well Hillary Clinton had a unique
position in the Democratic Party that
Kamala Harris with all due respect does
not have right and Joe Biden doesn't
even have that value able to replicate
her no and neither does Joe no one will
be able to replicate 2016 Hillary
Clinton was Hillary Clinton right that's
the it's almost irrelevant at this point
to keep bringing that up because it was
so unique and it's kind of you know
people show their an ass when they do it
with motivated reasoning and that's why
it's so frustrating because I think
Bernie Sanders could do better on a lot
of the way he talks about some issues
but when you talk about it in this way
it forces people to just reject the
large critique for example like moving
from oh he has a problem with
african-american voters - he has a
problem with wealthy successful southern
conservative Democrats who vote the
primary that's kind of like a big
difference and really shows bad faith
and there's no numbers to support that
by the way it's just an impression that
someone might have it's not backed up by
anything
well well first I'm holding I just I
think that you're I think you're you I
did not get what you got from at least
from from that conversation with Ben I
mean that same poll does show that
Bernie Sanders has a problem with voters
of making over $50,000 over a hundred
over 100 in in the in the Democratic
primary and and I you know I frankly
don't have a huge problem with that but
and but I don't I I think the one by the
way when you say problem you mean you
finish the second or third as opposed to
win without ring right right right right
right
and no I agree with you I agree with you
but I'm not but but I don't think that
that in any way inhibits I mean maybe
Ben is just he doesn't have the data
points I mean he lives in Atlanta I you
know I mean maybe he has a sense of you
know what happens in the in the context
of that community more than
or you I don't know but he is of the
opinion that on some level Bernie needs
to make inroads in that community
because they in the southern communities
may have more sort of institutional
power in terms of bringing out the vote
then not now maybe he's wrong but III
think you're reading too much into the
Jackson the Jackson Mississippi mayor's
race or you know over the past couple
years going down and participating in
local and state elections throughout the
south advancing the cause of many
progressive and and and democratic
socialist candidates who now currently
hold office can I just jump in before I
just jump into this like you're looking
for a fight that is not nobody's having
with you well no I I don't think I think
that's a little unfair i I think and I
don't and I'm I want to make this bigger
than a specific debate because Mike
actually is really important points here
but you know it doesn't need to be
applied to Benjamin right so I don't
think that's so let's enlarge it though
cuz I do think that there is a dynamic
right now where if you keep asserting
something as a problem that there are
two there are three components of it
first all of the data contradicts it
secondly it's mostly just you know like
right now Twitter controversy including
by mostly totally bad faith people and
then some people who are good faith but
are coming from the left and then
frankly we'll see when it comes to how
it plays out in South Carolina but I
totally agree with with Mike though I'm
not gonna keep repeating that talking
point because as of now it's empirically
false and used by people who are
spreading lies and then I think the
other bigger point which I have a really
fundamental problem with is like there's
things that are being conflated like
some people again I'll stipulate some
people in good faith if they're
critiquing Bernie from the left on
social media that that what he would do
to answer their objections
versus get a group of conservative
voters over 60 in South Carolina is
actually very different so the other
problem here and this is again why I do
have a problem with essentialism is you
simply cannot talk about monolithic
electorates like that it's actually
really wrong and it really racially
problematic so I think if you want to
say specifically will he have a problem
in South Carolina which is across the
board if you pull every category of
South Carolinian Democrats to the right
relatively speaking on a whole host of
issues including by the way other social
issues including things like gay rights
and not just african-american I'm
talking white southern South Carolinian
voters as well it will be a challenge
but that is a specific challenge that
they need to address and do in the
primary this broader amorphous narrative
that he has unique problems is
empirically false and and just spread by
a huge amount of dishonesty and I agree
with Mike that we shouldn't feed that
and we also shouldn't conflate the yeah
I don't see anybody was so I think I get
a lot of people are that's what I'm
trying to broaden it beyond Ben there's
an important conversation here I think
we could leave you know whatever I don't
I think Benjamin did more than anybody
frankly to debunk a lot of these lies in
2016 but there is a broader conversation
to the point was it was a different
dynamic because you did have this
juggernaut that had a pre-existing
relationship that was decades old wholly
like week the part of the ingestions we
just don't need to accept that frame
because it isn't in reality right yeah
in the broader conversation the
substitution being made for the segments
of older southern somewhat conservative
Democrat primary voters the segment of
them that are African American are being
taken as a barometer of all African
American voters and I think that's what
we object to I mean I feel yeah I mean I
I mean I think that there's been largely
you know
a understanding that you know younger
african-american voters supported Bernie
and you know korolenko jabal he's
reporting not only younger but by the
time you got to industrial Midwest with
a totally different political tradition
right that started to even out across
age groups and again it's just so
important to of course there's universal
racism and white supremacy but there is
not a universal black electorate just as
there isn't a universal Jewish
electorate a universal Hispanic
electorate it's wrong and it totally
eliminates class and geography and
that's what the people in bad faith were
lying about Bernie and spraying this
mean right but this is all started we've
been talking about a specific group of
people in the South area that's totally
and that's why I'm moving it beyond just
to bring it back to the earlier
conversation and what bothered me was he
didn't start that way he started with
the same narrative that he has a problem
with african-americans and then you guys
rightly offered evidence that he was
actually doing very well and then he
moved to a subcategory and it was a
subcategory where there early isn't a
lot of data and we just have to rely on
our intuition and I don't think and then
you can plate that with oh that's what I
was saying in the beginning well that's
not what you said in the beginning he
said what I think is a very problematic
talking point about Sanders having a
problem with african-americans when on
the contrary as an older white gentleman
from Vermont getting thirty thirty five
percent of the first choice African
American vote is doing amazingly well
it's it's actually the opposite if we're
an upside down universe where he's being
accused of something that's not the case
there's actually a strength in how well
he performs universally across all
demographics I'll go back on Landry
listen I did not interpret it that way
but but I'll go back and relist
imeem I just didn't hear it that way but
but okay I thought he was specifically
talking about the primary voters yeah
well that's the other the other issue is
like making statements about primary
voters is very difficult
you know two pole primaries in nm of
themselves are much more difficult about
I was the one who introduced this
morning consult poll and the
conversation was was based on that
morning consult poll which is a I
believe if I'm not mistaken I mean I you
know all I have is there you know sort
of PDF thing but it appears to be in you
know Democratic primary voters and I
don't know what their definition of
Democratic primary voters are are those
people who are Democrats are those
people who have voted in every
Democratic primary over the last five I
haven't seen it maybe you've seen those
numbers behind there and I haven't but
because I'm just looking at their you
know PowerPoint presentation yeah I I've
been following this one in particular
and there is actually some more data
grim from the intercepts actually
contacted them directly and said hey do
you have any crosstabs about you know
african-american voters and that's where
the stories from the intercept came from
as he went and got internals that
weren't published with the PDF that
showed Bernie you know at 29% to
Kamala's I think it was 12 maybe 13 it's
not here in their peers it's right here
in the PDF Biden is 32 Sanders has 28
who's leading the Democratic primary and
it breaks it down be by college
bachelors post-grad under 50 50 to 100k
but I don't think he raised white race
black okay great okay
I need to pull it up but you know like
that that they're like so basically what
you can say is like Bernie Sanders is
performing about as well as the entire
Democratic primary electorate as he is
with the subcategory of african-american
voters there within a pointer to yes
each other yes and which you would be
surprised wouldn't you what hearing
about how much has the problem well I
think I think the I think underlying at
least my assessment of Sanders chance
is that there is going to be a concerted
effort even supporters now look I know
statistically at this point in this
hypothetical world that if Biden drops
out X percentage of voters go to Bernie
as a second choice or Beto who gets in
and gets out and etc etc but there's no
doubt in my mind that the institutional
forces and the money is going to come
down to we will get anybody well we have
a choice we have a choice between maybe
if there's 15 people in the race we have
a choice basically of 13 that we would
support if it appears that bernie is
going to run so I think that like you
know the while the numbers you're
talking about in a vacuum if every
candidate was similarly situated hold
true I think underlying my assumptions
is that the effort to run against him
he's going to be also in many respects
we generous because in the same way that
Clinton was you know the dynamic in the
last race was atypical the dynamic in
this race will be also be a typical I
don't think we see it at this point
because there's potentially 15 or 18
candidates but if it starts to get down
to four or five or six candidates I
think there's going to be I think
there's going to be a real attempt to
consolidate quicker around one candidate
by big-money forces and institutional
forces because of their concern about
Bernie winning I mean I think that's
that is what underlies you know some of
my assumptions that hit the obstacles
he's going to face are going to be much
are going to be dissimilar than the
obstacles Kamala Harris would face
absolutely without a doubt so all the
more reason to not feed those dishonest
narratives well I mean but what a
dishonest narrative what dishonest
narrative are we feeding I didn't say
you did I look yes no I people should
not feel dishonest now
but why is that coming into this
conversation this is the holy ice yeah
well why did he is calling because he
lost them in the last election okay well
that's great for 2016 you have I mean I
you know I think like the quibbling here
is is is just gets people are just
looking for some type of argument I
don't understand what what what what
it's about like yes the broader
narrative there are people out there who
are making you know broad claims that
are wrong I mean there are people out
there saying like look at look at you
know we have five candidates who are
talking about the disparities in you
know X Y or Z and yes they're ignoring
the fact that that that Bernie's also
talked about those disparities I agree
but that's not that's not the
conversation we were having here it was
coming up in the in the context of
talking about a poll that showed Bernie
doing well with african-americans and so
then the the next step was the analysis
of like you know what happened in 2016
why wasn't this reflected then and what
does it mean going forward that's all I
mean I think like there's okay not an
accusatory call it more of a a
clarifying like you know what I'm trying
to do is just point out that when
someone says Bernie has a problem with
african-americans that's a factory
statement yes that's what he came up in
context of a poll that that the numbers
show that okay I'm glad we all have the
consensus on that I appreciate a wider
moral justification right like when you
say that Bernie has a problem with black
voters in southern states like there's
data to back that up for 2016 and that's
what you're going off of I think some
people hear that and get defensive
because they think that means that you
know African
Americans as a whole don't like him or
that he hasn't done a very good job on
these issues and that's a totally
different conversation
I agree well we're like do you want and
I don't even think that those numbers
are necessarily reflective of what
they're gonna be in 2020
it's just that they existed in 2016 you
assess why that was the case you and
nobody really knows you know because the
the the polling is not narrow enough to
know what's happening in South Carolina
which has an oversized influence on this
campaign particularly since after New
Hampshire and and at Iowa and New
Hampshire you go to South Carolina that
becomes a narrative builder as to you
know if he wins in Santa in South
Carolina or if he comes in a strong
second and I don't know you know to who
it would be that comes in first that's
gonna blow away that narrative and
that's gonna be hugely important going
into Super Tuesday when you have Kamala
Harris who you know California's gonna
be in many respects make-or-break for
her and so I mean this is Bernie when
South Carolina the MSNBC line up will
say it wasn't a hundred percent of the
african-american vote he's got a huge
problem barber shop who don't like him
so whatever right but here's the other
thing it will be irrelevant well yeah we
are voting right these narratives matter
and that's why you know Mike's points
are important but you know of course
when we start voting yeah and sure now
the proof is the proof is in the pudding
here is Sanders in in Iowa do you have
this our revolution clipped and I
hopefully I am you sent the committee I
wasn't the group one I'm sorry and you
know he understands I did it's right
above the mini tweet I'll redo it I just
send it he understands you know that
whether it's just a perception that then
you know maybe creates reality or
whatnot he understands a part of his job
is to broaden his message and to be and
to to to communicate that he understands
that the african-american experience in
the country is not exclusively seen
through a class perspective
I mean keeps repeating this notion of
disparities within disparities and which
is not to say that it's not influenced
by class but it's not exclusively a
function of class and he whether as you
know we want to you know people have
arguments as to whether that is true or
not in terms of an analysis of how he's
running he feels that he needs to
communicate that I happen to agree that
he needs to communicate that but here he
is in Iowa I guess this was just
yesterday maybe communicating at least
part of that story
we are not only going to address the
enormous disparities of wealth and
income that exists in this country but
we are going to also address the racial
disparities that exist it is not right
not right that white families have 10
times more wealth than black families
that the infant mortality rate for black
mothers is two and a half times that of
whites we are going to end institutional
racism wherever it exists
are in the white okay I think the MSNBC
for a second did he say institutional
with enough moral conviction right I was
sitting here with a professional face
reader and we were doing an analysis of
Bernie sentiment when he said that and I
think there's gonna be a lot of problems
with other people who were highly active
on Twitter and overcompensated why
London they're gonna do a split scream
with Jimmy doors as crew saying the same
thing about comma Harris when she was
talking about social injuries right
right of course of course of course and
and and look look the bernie is not you
know discounting the impact of class
politics on on race but what he is
saying is he what he is doing is he's
acknowledging that in the context of the
lived experience of african-americans in
this country your class does not protect
you from these type of disparities that
in the the lived experience of black
people in this country is that their
money cannot protect them from a dynamic
of white supremacy not not only does
white supremacy as practice a practice
implicate the the lives of African
Americans but that that even if you are
if you pierce through these these
obstacles you're still not protected
from a range of disparities I mean but
also I think he's attributing a lot of
the wealth the racial wealth disparities
to white supremacy here which is at
least as important well it certainly is
I mean because we you know I don't know
what percentage of the shows that we do
that outline like you know Social
Security specifically excluding African
Americans all of the stuff that has gone
on in housing since the New Deal and
through the New Deal that has created an
a massive amount of wealth disparity
because we know that homeownership is a
it's largely a function of wealth and so
it's an interdependent overdetermined
process and it's a
look up overdetermined it's really you
know I love that word for a reason but
like I have to say and again maybe we
could borrow you know borrow a couple of
kind of like obvious examples but in
these arguments like Brianna joy is a
good example of this I don't always
agree with her we've had debates but if
you actually do the good faith of
reading her she does painstaking
attempts to integrate and synthesize
these arguments eliminating no variable
all of these people with bad faith
arguments they don't include class or
economics and their arguments ever and
at all also like I've heard people say
that he only addresses the black working
class and not like wealthier black
people but like he addresses the working
class in general so it makes total sense
that he would focus on people who
experience an intersection of racial and
class oppression let's go to the house
resolution that was passed I guess
yesterday in in the house there were 23
Republicans who refused to vote for this
basically this resolution that we
shouldn't hate people because of their
race or their religion or olders their
their sexual identification their gender
their orientation and it is really
sometimes it's really really hard I
guess Doug Collins the representative
from Georgia ended up voting for the
resolution against hate like literally
this should be a gimme right like this
is like should we should you take you
know should you bully children is really
basically you know like it you know I
don't mean to I'm trying to think of
just something that is like just like a
total slam dunk
should we legalize fraud you know like
something like that yeah probably I
don't know a baby yeah trying to find a
a a slam dunk did we have the head of
the human trafficking ring watch the
Super Bowl oh that's right like I can't
I can't find a slam-dunk but one would
think that this would be it where you
just like I'm good but they have come up
with these 23 Republicans have come up
with all sorts of like pretzel twisting
excuses not to vote for this well it's
you know I'm not gonna kowtow or and
here is representative doug collins
decrying the fact that he's gonna have
to end up voting for this yes don't hate
how many chance how many how many you
know pages does it take to cite ill and
evil evil is evil there you go we just
played that cuz we like his place it's
because he's speaking in the same
register that Jeff from Georgia speaks
in when he at the end of his yeehaw
right that's right and he's basically
just saying like this isn't gonna do
anything so why we voted for it hey
there's no gimme eight was he run to
vote for likely gonna do that drop we
gonna do that as a drop yeah well maybe
just don't hate evil have a nice time
arrest a Muslim girl just got blown out
of proportion
oh here's a flashback Friday Bernie
Sanders you know they're digging up all
sorts of stuff and we're gonna see my
understanding is supposedly supposedly
and I have a I'm a little suspicious of
some of this I'm sure there's some of
this but they have like you know Bernie
as a as a 27 year old or a 30 year old
or 35 year old basically you know
carrying Daniel Ortega's semi-automatic
weapon or so that's a good thing we're
supposed to have done that but what
support you suck whatever whatever just
do a 30-second here some people yes the
right went after Bill DeBlasio some
people in 2016
shall remain nameless in defense of
Hillary Clinton became borderline contre
justify errs and I would say that that
actually does have a present relevance
to how we understand her false theory I
I agree I agree but I am talking just in
terms of what is going to get you know
what they're going to throw at Bernie
Sanders the Republicans supposedly have
you know all sorts of tapes like this if
you don't you know like where a bernie
is you know dressing Chairman Mao or
something I don't know whatever I'm over
that whatever
my point is bring it the remove the idea
that we know about this and you know it
hasn't surfaced yet I find a little bit
suspect that to me sounds like you have
no idea how the Republicans starting in
August of 2020 are 2009 2020 are gonna
unload on Bernie and to that all I can
say is like that's not enough time like
this is not enough time if if Bernie
wins the you know I want to give anybody
any free advice here but if Bernie wins
the Democratic primary and they start
rolling out tapes of Bernie you know
both like literally dressing Chairman
Mao and carrying you know some type of a
que as he's guarding Daniel Ortega
that's just that's that's not gonna be
enough in those three or four months
first off you're gonna have to go back
and find people and and re-educate
people because I can assure you the vast
majority whose mouth
they don't know and they don't care hey
man that's a cool gun literally it might
be will tell you what looks like he
knows how to handle a firearm so my
point my point being that these stories
I'm a little suspicious of because I
just I think that people would try and
knock him out in the Democratic primary
you you know if the if the Republican
Party has this material it's hard for me
to imagine that Bloomberg doesn't have
this Mitch
real right okay like just for an example
so I get very suspicious about the the
dire you know dumps that they have
material for Bernie but as people are
digging in the pack in the past right
like because this stuff maybe these are
you know Pro Bernie supporters who find
this stuff maybe it's not but here is a
flashback from 1989 this is the year
that Ronald Reagan or I should say
George Herbert Walker Bush a year after
he assumed the presidency in what you
know some consider the third term of the
Reagan administration here's Bernie
Sanders I don't know what show this was
on but he was on c-span c-span and
because that was probably the only place
that would allow him on television to be
honest with you certainly and that they
volunteered there too yeah right exactly
yeah Bernie the scandal is that he was
actually an intern working on the
cameras on he's talking about greet
these strange things called greenhouse
gases we face as all people know an
ecological crisis and I find whether
it's acid rain the destruction of the
ozone layer the greenhouse effect one
would think that the cbs's and the NBC's
of the world will be doing primetime
specials on these programs having
different scientists talking about the
issues involving people and
understanding what's going on in terms
of our planet they thought the function
of television is to make as much money
as possible for the owners of the
television station and for those people
who advertise the 30-second ads on
television so I would say that we're not
going to bring about serious political
change in this country until we deal
with the media which more and more is
being swallowed up by large
conglomerates there yeah this is uh this
was all incredibly prescient and in and
within five or six years like I said
earlier in the program the
Telecommunications Act consolidated the
media outlets even even more and the
only interesting thing that I would
suggest in that is that the ozone layer
they
ultimately repaired it because of
international binding treaty and be
international binding treaties and
because of work I mean and and that's a
story that does not get enough attention
because it runs contrary to the entire
narrative of like we can't impact
climate change we fixed by by by cutting
down a chloro far a chlorofluorocarbons
excuse me and you know by government
regulation we healed I should say
probably is the word the hole in the
ozone layer this is just another example
of mansplaining bernie is like
whether he was getting arrested as a
student because of housing
discrimination or speaking about climate
change on c-span 1999 or endorsing jesse
jackson or being a single voice against
welfare reform or on inequality or
opposing the Iraq invasion he's always
just been in it for himself on a
narcissistic Joyride yeah like it's
denying a woman the right to get hit by
a car right unlike you know somebody
like Joe Biden who had the courage in
1993 to say I don't care what the causes
of crime are they just need to go to
jail that's the type of unvarnished
truth telling that we really need and if
you look by the way at Bernie's eye
movements there he's clearly not really
sincerely concerned about global warming
we have a face reader now at MSNBC gonna
buy the next house although see you that
has a face reader has MSNBC been
knocking Bernie or there have been some
knocks on bro you guys gotta check out
his public access show
from when he was mayor of Burlington it
is very boring he's just going around to
different government agencies including
a school and ice-skating rink and just
like interviewing people about the most
boring day-to-day it's very
charming he's like walking around being
like how so I was cleaning the ice rink
going it's like cool we're gonna throw
in the gulag segment brilliant kids I
heard that there's a landlord that needs
to be rounded up at shot latest the
Public Works Department equip for that
what do we do boy Fievel
the Iams Gregory from Oklahoma the
Democrats have come out pretty strongly
against Nickelback recently if they come
out against Limp Bizkit I'm gonna have
to leave the party what is this about I
keep seeing this sounds like cultural
elitism to me this is from Saul cedar hi
dad I just wanted to share with your
fans how much I love my birthday gifts
free toothbrush and the new hamper from
Amazon you spoil me believe me that kid
gets it's unbelievable how many presents
they could get Jonathan Armstead Sam
enjoyed the conversation with Dickson
about black voters in Bernie were you
familiar with 2008 great slep movement
young Jewish people visited their
grandparents to convince them to vote
for Obama by using talking points like
Obama's Ivy League education fundraising
skills and reputation repudiation of
Jesse Jackson
I remember Sarah selling actually doing
a video for that which made writer Joel
Stein comment I did not know that I
could be so racially offended by my own
people do you think a similar program
could work for black Millennials and
Bernie I mean I think like it's
conceivable I mean I don't I don't know
I mean the great schlep was just about
like there is a high concentration of
Jewish grandparents who live in Florida
I don't know if you have as much of a
similar dynamic but wide limited to
black Millennials how about all
Millennials try and talk to their
crotchety parents about Bernie my
grandmother I know is a former Penn
Station Union worker is actually this is
funny because when 2016 the only
conversation we really had about the
election in the beginning was she said
she wanted to have a woman president
before she passed away and I said makes
I I have know again like I have no
comment of course that may have you
grandma how dare you well but that
Jannetty politics grandma
well yes but one hand gives the other
hand take is cuz then the day after the
Florida primaries she said oh yeah I I
didn't realize how good Bernie was I
vote
for him he needs to be president we need
health care we can wait another day for
a better woman to run and I asked her
this time and I said who you with and
she's like well it'll be Bernie again
because she's committed um but yes no I
did not go goddamn you grandma
and I didn't talk like you either that's
identity Paul mack max like identity
politics baba you oh pardon me grab all
those identity politics that's my that's
my mic mic I got it
max Eden Phoenix I saw in a Thom
Hartmann video that marianne williamson
is running for president after all would
love to hear your opinions about it I
gotta be honest with you I don't have
really any opinions about it I mean I
just I don't I do not think she'll win I
think that she's gonna be Bernie's VP
Albany I'll be on albino Oh albino ninja
sorry to ask again but you read it never
and never commented on the study of
regulation on business by I believe a
libertarian study Thanks
guess what guess what I'm not going to
West Coast comrade he may give shallow
and short-sighted political analysis but
you never mention the high point of
Jimmy doors career at one time he spit
tea and Alex Jones face give the guy a
little problem as well yeah where's Tim
call I don't know what it was but it was
I think in the in coverage of that I
think we did say we appreciated that mr.
Jimmy a lot of props Colin from Nebraska
the Bernie rally was a success in
Council Bluffs Iowa Bernie said we have
a message for Trump in the fossil fuel
industry and someone shouted fu Bernie
said that's one way of phrasing it left
his best enjoy the weekend Denmark
though he's like I'm a senator here so
I'll put it this way appropriate Tim
from Boston I'm sorry if I ranted a bit
earlier this week when I called as a
disabled vet I can get caught up in my
emotions sometimes really fear for our
society when we
policies as if we're living in a James
Bond film on our episode of 24 complete
with easily identifiable supervillains
which lead us to drop our guard rather
than remain vigilant for rising
neo-fascists as well as the dangerous
belief we received advance notice of
terrorist attacks that make torture
illogical handy quick fix to nearby to
neatly intervene to prevent catastrophe
no I I think it's a very legitimate
thing to get to get exercised over
frankly bud cort Packers pod saved the
establishment with Pete boo judge
episode Budig Edge has a episode at 1348
as a decent alternative to court packing
love to hear some thoughts you really
should just have articulated what it was
I mean III because I'm not gonna listen
to it just I've just got too much to do
but I personally would like to see term
limits I I have said this before I think
the 18 year term limit idea that's been
floated for some time at least on the
Supreme Court is I think in my
estimation far more durable and not
subject to you know tit-for-tat court
packing with that said I think the
threat of court packing is would be very
helpful there was also you know there's
a new report coming out and I
interviewed somebody a guy who really
unhelpfully his name is judge his first
name so I interviewed this guy I think
it's judge Greg who's not a judge it's
just his name is judge no he say he was
just a writer and I assumed that he was
a job as a lawyer right he's not a
lawyer and he it was writing the history
of the court packing and it appears that
the issue was the issue has been at
least in the past I don't know if it's
really as significant now but in the
past the Republicans the reason why the
court packing became necessary was
because Republicans had role
back provisions to provide pensions for
Supreme Court justices and it made a
material substantial difference in their
quality of life and the absence of those
and Republicans had specifically gotten
rid of those that pension package to to
disincentivize they're leaving the court
and that when these packages were put
back in justices were more amenable to
leaving because they were getting paid
and so there may be a you know maybe you
step in and and and this was on ring of
fire people can check that out at rof
podcast.com maybe the idea is you know
we're gonna do one time buyout you know
I think you get at least Thomas off the
court if he hasn't but I think he's
gonna be I think he's gonna resign I
will thank you but like it's hard for me
to imagine maybe like you know there
might not be you know like a Brett
Kavanaugh who's like I've served on the
court for a couple years bit done there
been a you know been there done that
but the 710 million dollar buyout you
know pension walking high-rolling
gambling I could do with that baseball
games baseball games but you could bet
on them I don't know so let's cover
myself it is Johnny Sack said he gave me
a free weekend a big part of the problem
is I would imagine a guy like Korsak and
a guy like Cavanaugh are probably
already it's gonna work on guys like
that but it's but it's interesting
because that was really what was going
on apparently in the first court packing
situation where there wasn't people were
not offended at the idea of the court
packing because it was understood that
the you know it was a way to bring about
an increase in pensions for the justices
at that time make sense
I say short-term reduce the harm with
court backing medium term introduce term
limits long term abolish the Supreme
Court hola
did you or Brendan watch leaving
Neverland
if so what did you think I didn't know
God it really uh I've had me up
I've heard not good things don't watch
it during the weekend I would say if
you're going to watch it otherwise
you're gonna be bummed out and not want
to do anything
check out big Waze and eyes discussion
of poke burrows bomb feed uh black
opinions matter apparently President
Trump is signing Bibles for volunteers
and survivors at a little like ideal
family disrespectful assigned by 2
Corinthians my favorite bible verse
honestly like if it's not considered
offensive I think that's all you need to
know for who for for the Christians just
like guys like never enough Yahoo's
signing Torrez like tossing them out
Adam Koch head do you guys ever get
nervous criticizing Israel considering
how aggressive they can be even from
afar I mean look folks like Corey Robin
and others have gotten like mmm strange
emails that ended up being a function of
that program by former Mossad members in
private sir you know and intelligence
agencies that were looking to target
people who supported BDS I've mentioned
in the past that I you know I wasn't I
don't wanna say that I was freaked out
but I we were a little bit freaked out
we criticized Israel one night on the
majority report in 2004 and literally
less than 24 hours I was probably closer
to 18 hours we had gotten a an email or
a phone call I can't remember what it
was from the Israeli embassy saying that
they wanted the ambassador the Israeli
ambassador on the program we ended up
having him on I think we would debate
the guy a couple of times but there was
an element of like we see you you know
that you know I think you mean it kind
of frightening for me I was like in the
age of my bots and
internet-like Daxing and lies and I mean
yeah yeah I'm terrified that it's going
to impact my Twitter followers
enough threats from Nazis so you guys
could get in line like if I if I thought
about it all the time
I would never be able to do anything so
whatever I'm not scared
gonna be like JFK and they're Bobby
Kennedy in the last few months just take
what comes
that's not if something happens I warned
Affleck at the end of the day yeah that
has a Catholicism about I'm just
concerned about what's going on with our
Instagram follows
Sam goes to like sort of like the
practicalities Jamie goes to like a
certain like Jewish drama and you go to
just like Catholic like so bid that's
what exactly eternity wants and I you
know rapper quietly I'm not gonna be
scared all the time I'm definitely gonna
you know that's why Matt is able to have
pop-tarts be an upgrade in the quality
of food that he eats for breakfast every
day very Catholic boy Matt back if
drinking uh good coca-cola and having
caramels for breakfast is gonna kill me
so--but a few days ago someone mentioned
at Politico is actually a tabloid I had
assumed Politico was a centrist
publishing but it made me think so I
looked at the headlines the past few
days and read some choice crap and I and
you know what I agree it reads like a
tabloid I recommend starting a trend
that Politico shouldn't be taken too
seriously since it's tabloid I mean I've
said for a long time and the the reason
the value largely although I think there
is some decent you know occasionally
some decent reporting in there but the
lar the value from Politico is really to
get more of a sense is more of a meta
sense it is like who wants me to know
what why and and they are a conduit and
so in that respect it's sort of like
it's it's a more effective way of
reading tea leaves you you need to read
it in a metaphor
fashioned to get exactly like the ALC
slam PC says a Ben Shapiro camera 3
operator why is he so hunched over his
desk on a happy note last week Megan
McCain cited a Marxist poll instead of
calling it a Marist Paul so it's not
haunting them I want to go on the view
so bad you guys I feel like if I say it
on the show I might speak it into
existence it's like the what did they
call it the whisper or what is it the
secret let's manifest me an appearance
on the view where I get to own Megan
McCain no Ingrid works
I want the view spot Noam Chomsky vocal
fry' Jamie long time Mr fan listen to my
first episode of anti fada
Kim Stanley Robinson I loved it so much
nice to feel something uplifting these
times might have to transfer my calm
town patreon money to anti-fraud ah we
need it more than they do thank you
Horton Horton PACs court hello crew did
you catch a broadcast ight now exchange
on Crowder's show last night it was like
watching a chimp use a frog to its full
satisfaction
I thought Carter was under the weather
for things like oh wait you know what
that's referring ever I don't even wanna
know I don't I'll let you decide who's
not prouder needed to rest I can't wait
for the info blaze merger now that Jones
seems to be auditioning for the role of
ill Capitano of the rites new network
production of Confederate dell'arte
where free speech and entertainment are
parodied nightly Sam's black Africans
Stein 2020 F Jimmy Dore and Lea camp was
always right I don't get it sometimes
guys we don't like your vision your hell
that talks to every single thing that's
mentioned no Brock from Virginia happy
National Women's Day shout out to the
brave women in ypj fighting religious
fascism with Isis and strong fighting
women fascism everywhere seriously I'm
really glad somebody brought up
International Women's Day it has a very
strong socialist feminist lineage and
history that I hope we can continue into
the future
well tough segue to go into this story I
know I'm celebrating so you'll recall
you'll recall about two or three weeks
ago right Robert Kraft was named as
being one of the John's essentially who
was no busted or patronizing a massage
parlor that turns out to be a you know
to provide I guess what they call happy
endings orchids of Asia orchids of Asia
and it is a chain of day spas in South
Florida and they have gained a
reputation for offering sexual services
and the I guess the police said like
there's gonna be bigger names right I
don't know if they've come out with
bigger names than Robert Kraft but this
is after Robert Kraft you know basically
became the most successful football
owner in the history of football he's
really well know what and apparently the
woman who started this chain of of Tokyo
day spas who claims to have no
involvement in the day spas whatsoever
although her family seems to continue to
own it was at mar-a-lago with Donald
Trump cheering on the the Patriots I
guess to their victory this is the
picture right now the the selfie right
there I think this is the picture of the
selfie and go Pat's
apparently her name is Cindy yang or Li
yang and there is concern that the women
who are ostensibly working or staffing
these
spas are victims of of sex trafficking
to fill the demand here Yang's family
still owned several South Florida spas
the families Tokyo day spa branches have
attracted the attention of at least two
local police agencies over allegations
of prostitution before the 2016 general
election yang offered no evidence of
political engagement she hadn't voted in
10 years so she was not a heavily
political person something politicized
her to have you get any time to get
involved President Xi has now become a
fixture at Republican political events
up and down the East Coast her Facebook
is covered in photos of herself standing
with President Trump his two sons Eric
and Donald Jr that's coming for the New
York Times Florida Governor Ron de
santis Florida senator Rick Scott Sarah
Palin the president's campaign manager
an assortment of other high-level
Republican operatives operators she's
met at charity events political
fundraisers and galas many of which
require hefty donations to attend she
sometimes carries a rhinestone encrusted
Magga clutch PERTs put it back go back
go back right there boom can you zero in
on that gold
Mogga agents are so classy so you know I
don't know and you meet them and you say
happy ending and they say we big deal
there you know maybe it's a coincidence
craft obviously good friends with Donald
Trump there's two Santos there's
DeSantis governor of Florida she's got
two pictures people would never be
involved Oh a different picture with the
sand this is wearing a different suit
that time yep so I have to do a
resistance style if what do you do rock
Obama you have and of boys week I mean
David Axelrod goes to jail his lead
attorney testifies
Congress before going to jail about
lying in Congress and then there's
pictures of him with a Super Bowl watch
party with a potential human trafficker
just let's just like fake hand jobs they
can't job hero to what young they would
shot there was there was a lot of talk
at the time like why would Bob Kraft
a billionaire be going to like a not
pratik I don't maybe I mean how upscale
of a spa that's a good question because
bill another reason to tax them out of
their money it's like a strip mall yeah
that's weird place I don't know it's
maybe like to go so what John in it an
autoloader everything in Florida is in
strip malls I barely know David Axelrod
tangentially I read about this bust and
the alleged trafficking victims were
given a care package that included a
religious text by a megachurch pastor oh
my god in addition to some like you know
shampoo from CVS I thought you were
gonna say like a Patriots like Uzi or
something as part of their care but a
lot of them don't even read English it
was just this guy's ego weird and
horrible so apparently there was a
hearing at the Natural Resources
Subcommittee do we need is is is this
three minutes long is this gonna be do
you have this one oh all right well
let's let's do the laura ingraham clip
first I guess then maybe we can talk
about sherrod Brown who apparently is
not going to be running for president oh
no not my 11th choice now Laura Ingraham
apparently does not want migrants does
not understand why migrants leave their
homes to apply for political asylum in
this country just the other day we had a
story of police officers these are
police officers who are trained carried
guns in El Salvador who have fled the
country because of the violence now of
course as a police officer you are in
one of these countries you are obviously
more in the line of fire
but the reason we know that tens of
thousands of these people annually try
and cross the border in the into the
United States is because they are
fleeing their countries
and anybody who has even the slightest
relationship with the history of US
intervention in these countries
understands that at the very least maybe
the United States is not the exclusive
reason but is a major reason why these
countries are so destabilized and have
become so violent as they have become so
here's Laura Ingraham completely showing
the the empathy and compassion that it
makes America great girls are being
abused raped and in some cases
trafficked as part of these caravans
and it is despicable what is happening
to these young people Congress needs to
get its head out of the sand and stop
this madness once and for all if someone
crosses the border illegally with rare
exception they should be turned back
immediately
family units or people posing as family
units would not make this dangerous trek
once word spread in their home country
pause this narrative has been proven
false over and over again this past
month we've seen a record number I know
there's a record number but certainly a
major uptick right because the actual
numbers are much lower than they have
been in past years in past decades but
this past month has been I think the
highest number of of migrants coming to
the border maybe in a year or two this
is on the heels of the stories that
supposedly were to filter back home that
they are separating children and parents
and there are some people who actually
think that that the reason why there's
been a an increase is because of the
word of the wall and that coyotes and
smugglers are telling people you better
go now you won't have a chance to go
which of course is exact
the same thing that you've experienced
if you went to go buy a house over the
past couple of years where you're a
broker says I would do it now because
rates are gonna go up and which really
has no bearing on the reality of the
situation so we know that the the reason
why people are trying to cross the
border is because no matter how
dangerous that trek is where people die
no matter how much they realize they're
putting themselves in the hands of
smugglers who are not nice people no
matter how much they've heard of the the
dangers that their daughters their sons
their mothers their fathers may be
subjected to in making that trek to the
border their situation as it exists now
in their home country is worse so there
is no dissuading these people by saying
it's bad in the United States it's just
not possible it has been a failed policy
including under the Obama administration
which tried to do the same thing they
weren't they didn't use the same harsh
tactics but they tried to do that same
thing you can google jeh Johnson going
down to Central America and trying to
spread the word that you're not going to
get in they spent money on an ad
campaign down there that does not change
the material experience of people in
their home countries and therefore is
not going to change their behavior but
Laura Ingraham completely disingenuously
makes this case because instead of
saying there are rape and these caravans
there are there's danger in these
caravans and so what we should do is
when they cross the border we should put
them right back in that dangerous
situation as a lesson to teach everybody
that it's gonna be dangerous this is
just absurd this is an absurd if we use
this policy okay with things like hey
Christmas trees are dangerous those
lights
there
dangerous so what we're gonna do is
we're going to let houses burn down and
if enough people but lose their houses
and maybe some people die word will
spread around that you got to be really
cautious with Christmas tree lights
that's the idea that we would have a
policy like that is so inhumane that it
would be laughable yet here she is on
national television echoing the
Republican line that that's the policy
we should have we need to show these
people the horrors that they're going to
instead of alleviating the horrors we
need to make these horrors even more
widely publicized and explicit so that
they don't try so that the horror
they're escaping from is considered less
of a horror than the one that we could
offer them make this dangerous trek once
word spread in their home country
Congress should pass this law if you
want to apply for asylum that's fine but
you should do so in the safety of your
home country or as is beginning to
happen now once you're in the United
States and you declare you should be
sent to Mexico until your case comes up
for hearing okay why would you seek
asylum from a place where you have
safety definitionally to take over the
US and wreck it like this is some Steve
Bannon camp of the saints about
these like invading Brown hordes people
are like tricking us with their sob
stories people seek asylum from places
where they're not safe that is
definitional yeah actually in fact if
you didn't interfere with and cause so
many problems in these places most
people in general would like to live
relatively close by where their families
are and where they grew up they don't
come here pretty amazing culture we're
gonna prove it we're going to we're
gonna put them in cages and see it's not
cages it's really just like steel boxes
that's an incredible formulation though
go to the safety of where you're fleeing
for your life right it's it's
unbelievable and incidentally
the Republicans controlled the entire
government for two years if they wanted
to change the asylum laws that have
existed in this country for decades they
could have all right here is apparently
there are these seismic airguns that
what do these tests for they're there
apparently some test that they're doing
with these seismic guns off of the coast
of South Carolina I'm not clear why
they're doing them but the
administration apparently in the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration allowed for this I bet I
guess these seismic testing it probably
for drilling right and gonna guess over
there and so the you know all these
obviously all the oil interests want to
be able to to test whether there's oil
down there and so they're going to send
these like these audio horns that ripple
through the water and I guess you know
they can measure with sonar the
absorption rate from underneath and it's
probably like you know knocking on a
wall to see if it's drywall or if it's
plaster if it sounds hollow that type of
thing and apparently oddly enough if you
have the ability to project a sound that
can ripple through water and hit the
ground under you know who knows how what
kind of depths and then reverberate back
so that you can measure whether there's
oil there that the living creatures who
exist within those waters who may be
sensitive dismounted sis to sound maybe
get around using sonar right well the
sea comrades like whales and dolphins
and whatnot apparently it messes with
them but not if you're in the Trump
administration where you do not
recognize the that marine life should be
in any impediment whatsoever to the
the fossil fuel profits South Carolina's
first district which is a coastal area
from Charleston all the way down to
Hilton Head it's fair to say that
seismic airgun blasting is extremely
disruptive and loud correct I didn't
hear the last it's fair to say this
seismic airgun blasting is extremely
loud and disruptive is that correct I
don't I I don't know exactly how loud it
is I never actually directly experienced
it myself and when you say disruptive I
can't answer that question unless you
elaborate on what you mean by disruptive
to what okay let's say do you think a
the sound of a washing machine is loud
or disruptive not particularly okay what
about say like an air horn you're
getting there okay
mr. chair I'd ask for unanimous consent
to sound an airhorn in committee I is
there objection to the gentleman's
demonstration without objection the
gentleman mr. Chairman I would assume
that it will annoy us but it won't kill
us hearing no objection the gentleman
may may demonstrate thank you I'd like
to give anyone an opportunity to leave
if they would find it bothersome again
mr. Chairman I suspect that opportunity
also exists for every whale and other
little critter in the ocean pause okay
now listen I just want to go back here
because what the there's one Republican
who showed up at this Committee hearing
and he is the co-chair and he is the one
who's saying that like it's gonna be
annoying but it's not gonna kill us
right the idea being it's not gonna kill
the whales now go back when he says they
sit and watch the Trump official watch
him clap when this guy says it right
there okay right before that watch this
I mean I would assume that it will annoy
us but it won't kill us hearing no
objection the gentleman may maybe I like
giving one of these if they would find
it bothersome now well here's the other
thing too like the little critters in
the ocean they can move
if they don't like it they don't eat in
the ocean they can if they can't find
food somewhere else they can just call
seamless or something like that and have
it delivered to just get on caviar do
you remember that a ridiculous
conspiracy theory that was reported as
like just news that there was some type
of sonic weapon used in Cuba against US
diplomats I turned out to be like
mosquitoes or something again mr.
chairman I suspect that opportunity also
exists for every whale and other little
critter in the ocean I don't think there
they receive advanced notice of the
seismic testing in in cetacean language
but act you told us that they get to ten
seconds with interval between every
blast I think there'll be plenty of time
to go to the gentleman thank you section
all right guys let's move a different
section of the ocean was that disruptive
stralla ver so it was irritating but I
don't I didn't find it particularly
disruptive yeah but every say ten
seconds like seismic Garriga and
blasting goes on for four days weeks
months if I were that close to it yeah
probably yeah well if you depended on
sound for hunting your food and for
communication do you think it would be
disruptive at a distance of 20 feet yes
it would be how much louder do you think
seismic air gun blasting sounds then
this air horn you just heard I honestly
don't know hey you guess ten times at a
distance of how far well say it say you
say you're within a reasonable distance
say with you the earth in quarter-mile
is it ten times twenty five times
honestly don't know I mean can you take
yes
no hundred times you think it's a
thousand times times louder I doubt it
doubt it well if our tell you is sixteen
thousand times louder and what you just
heard here
you see how that would be impactful on
marine species and mammals I do which is
why we put mitigation measures in yeah
Wow
you know what told me every 10 seconds
here's a little hint yeah right here's a
little hint if you're ever testifying
and they suggest to you a number like a
thousand times
don't say I probably not that big
because it's probably bigger than that
if they're raising that number shoulda
said a million well I mean what he
should have started with is like two
times you think it's two times I think
it's ten times but nevertheless I mean
you know this is not in the great scheme
of things it is not the most horrific
thing that the Trump administration is
doing it at the Republican Party
prioritizes or I should say is is is
perpetrating but there is absolutely a
relentless desire to provide profits to
the fossil fuel industry and so there is
nothing that's gonna inhibit that
whatsoever
you know when Posada Streb Aleutian
comes his ass belongs to the sea
comrades yes about that guy I would
actually say before that scenario
exactly if you know I think we could
he's the reason why those Bond villains
came up with that pool of piranhas
that's wrong step into that's what I'm
saying I'm not thinking revolution I'm
thinking Goldfinger all right we got
time for one more a caller we have
callers who have been on the phone for
literally over a hundred minutes and
many many of those callers I apologize
folks come from an AI nato's area code
who's this where he come from hi this is
Michael how are you doing I'm doing good
Michael what's on your mind you know
what I just wanted to bring up something
I think is obviously going to be the one
of the huge issues with the upcoming
2020 election which will be abortion
right I think that it is certainly
possible I mean I think
the Republicans have made a lot of hay
of it or have tried to make a lot of hay
of it as of late yeah but I'm not sure
it might be I mean I think it's
definitely something that if depending
on what's going on with the Supreme
Court it very well may be well it does
seem to be kind like a per perennial
thorn in the side of the Democrats that
there's so many single-issue voters that
just won't vote for Democrats because of
abortion right or why sure I would
characterize it that way I don't know
that any of these voters would would I
don't think there is a huge amount of
voters that would vote for Democrats but
for their their belief that Democrat
that women should have sovereignty over
their own bodies I do think the way that
it implicates elections is that it
motivates Republican voters but I don't
I don't agree with the idea that there's
there are voters out there who want to
vote Democratic but don't because of
their their perspective that women
should have a choice I don't I don't
think that's true but but go ahead okay
well I would definitely defer to you
about what the political winds are but I
guess I the point I was gonna bring up
Mike sound kind of ridiculous at first
but I do feel like it's a problem for
the Democrats and I think there's a
third way that we could run candidates
and it is candidates that are pro-choice
but they believe that the abortion issue
should be a referendum based issue with
the caveat that only women are allowed
to vote on it I know that sounds really
ridiculous on the surface but um I think
it would take some of the sting out of
being a pro-choice candidate if we were
to say I have my own beliefs about
abortion and I believe that we should
have this should be a decision made by
the country but with the caveat that
it's the women that make that vote in
that referendum i and again I listen
with all due respect I think that's a
not good idea and I'm being I'm trying
to be I'm trying to understate
first off that fundamentally
misunderstands the idea of of why people
are pro-choice people are pro-choice not
because there should be a referendum by
anybody as to whether women have
sovereignty over their own body anymore
then we should have a referendum as to
whether you know we should have slaves
at any given time or and I would start
with that I also think the idea of a
sort of like a narrowly selected
referendum of you know by only specific
people can vote in a referendum I think
that's also a bad idea look I think we
state-by-state like women - women would
it would be a state-by-state referendum
or would it be a national it'd be
totally unworkable to do a woman only
election well I just think it's a bad
idea like even if you even if you could
do that I think that's a bad precedent
to set because it's not I mean look
women can have the wrong opinion on this
that men can have the right one exactly
and this is not a I mean it is a it is a
it is a dynamic that obviously impacts
women directly and primarily but it this
is a this is a human rights issue and
you can't you can't
I don't think you can farm that out and
so I even if it was the case that
Democrats would win with a slam dunk if
they had some threaded the needle on you
know you know came up with some fancy
notion about attracting otherwise
Democratic voters with a sort of mushy
Democrat you know abortion stance which
I should tell you in the early aughts in
Oh for Hillary Clinton and there were
others too who were starting to make a
pitch about this leading up to the 24
2004 election that Democrats should
soften on choice because for the reasons
that you state I don't think that those
voters are there but even if it was
I would still think it's a bad idea sure
you know and I think most people I
brought this up two things preposterous
and I just the only leverage I think it
would have would be to put the honest on
saying okay you know we it would put the
onus on the Republicans saying women
can't be trusted with this decision you
know it's just kind of taken the
pro-choice idea to a macro level you
know and and part of this when I say
it's preposterous presumption I don't
think it would ever happen
it just I just think it might give some
political cover I only think the era in
which that that people need political
cover for that is over I think the
people I think the the salience of this
issue is less about undecided voters and
it is about the motivation of the
Republican base and that is why I say
it's tied in to the Supreme Court
because that open seat was a you know
sort of basically like hey this is a
lottery ticket and with very grads of
winning and so I don't think you're
convincing anybody I don't think there's
I think the number of votes that a
Democrat would attract by softening on
abortion or coming up with any whatever
is is is limited and I don't even know
that it would soften the the support for
Republican because I don't I don't think
you mitigate it that way but you know I
think I think your hearts in the right
place but not a good idea
appreciate the call I just just our
weekly sjw reminder not everyone who get
pregnant is a woman we also have gender
non-binary people and trans men yes I'm
speaking and in large generalities that
is true
alright folks I'm not gonna get two
calls I'm gonna take one more call this
is a there's a Gorger pic with the with
her too it's wondering why I hadn't seen
one of those with yang I got I got one
more call to take and then I'll read a
couple IMS and got to go this is a four
eight zero area code who's this where
you come from how you doing okay so I
wanted to follow up on that abortion
discussion actually how did you know
that we were going to have it
okay so there's okay I've got somebody
who's this it's like where you coming
from
I'm sorry who are you how are you okay
my name is Dave Dave from Cincinnati
Dave from Cincinnati of course okay yes
okay so I would okay there's somebody
that's really really anti-abortion
they've got a documentary that's uh like
yeah that that just came out that's like
you know it's on the top of the iTunes
charts and yeah they frequently do
they're anti-abortion talking points on
Barra Ingraham Sean Tucker Carlson's
show and she says it she was a former
like Planned Parenthood director but
then she saw an abortion and it was so
disgusted she walked out and now she's a
leader of the anti-abortion group she
went on her social media account and
said nobody on the left she was on Laura
Ingraham show and they couldn't find
somebody from the left I was willing to
debate her abortion yeah I was wondering
if so I threw your name out there she
says I don't know if I'd want to debate
a comedian so okay I was wondering if
you willing to have that debate on
abortion you know her name is Abby
Johnson I mean I I'm happy to debate
anybody that is true
alright he's not lying that's what yeah
and I will add let me add this I'm not
that funny
so you know she doesn't have to worry
about me being a comedian in fact I
think it's like a failed comedian to you
Sakura I appreciate the call so yeah
arrange it with my peeps I don't know
what that means but alright just harass
me on Twitter until I arrange it it
doesn't take much it really doesn't it's
like high there's a cattle call for
idiots to call in this show yes you can
call into the program we can we can host
at home I haven't had lunch because so I
apologize for being grouchy
he talked what I called her an idiot in
passing and I realized that that is not
the best protocol if you're gonna
potentially have a conversation with now
how many designs a solid a ruin for me
yeah alright that is all the time we
have for phone calls I'm sorry folks I
know we've got literally tens of you
hanging on to the phone I apologize
I'm gonna read six more Iams and then
we're gonna get out of here Ryan from LA
abigail is the daughter of Roy Disney
who was a nice guy and not at all like
his evil brother Walt apologies JJ cool
a substantial part of the value within
the US dollar is derived from the power
and stability of the American economy
these people actually did try and pull
their assets they would be destroying
large amounts of their own wealth yes
contagious chameleon that's like an
executive at the airline who complained
about Labor's getting paid first
JB secretary Neilson makes me more and
more in favor of the guillotine my
concerns are that early primaries in
iron states that never vote Democratic
in the general I think this skews the
selection process to the right dick chat
with Sam can you tell me if this
argument holds water if the Republicans
during the Kohen hearing wanna bash
Cohen for testifying as a convicted liar
to Congress would they not be saying
those previous statements weren't then
not true and his current testimony
they're poor they're by accurate I'm not
sure I follow that came from upstate or
he Sam where his guy Lawson Ben he's
just been he hasn't been the pieces he's
been writing lately he just not want to
come home but yes we I should have
monsoon alright four more of these Scott
Walker Texas Bernie's unpopularity with
the african-american community in 2016
and it's in quotes really boils down to
name recognition at the time I don't see
policy issues he has with the community
I think there's a lot to be said about
that he you know it's late as my
understanding is ladies like March of
2016
he had only 60 percent name recognition
in the african-american community I mean
that's not high and it's higher now
everywhere it grew yes sure he's the
only national politicians
all demographics whose approval rating
has actually gone up with increased
exposure JP Weaver mark Thompson said
that Bernie refused to meet with black
political leaders in the South last
cycle Bernie also refused to appear on
black media for example marks radio show
he's correcting that deficiency this
cycle you know largely at the beginning
of the race like I say he was running to
carry a message and I don't know that he
refused I have a feeling invited well he
may or may not have been but my my guess
is is that it wasn't a question of
refusing to be on these shows as much as
like oh no our strategy is to just hit
these media outlets because we are doing
a message campaign we are not running
for the nomination and I don't think
that changed until later to be honest
with you I mean I said that repeatedly
but I'll ask Mark Thompson about that
next time I see him local pizza
historian like like you say that's
definitely changing local pizza
historian I don't think you understand
how Internet services themselves push
towards monopolization if the Google
algorithm says you're the best thing
than anything I googled then you're
going to monopolize the space and other
top search engines are going to enter
into this feedback loop effective
algorithms with any degree of success
and adaptation will create a monopoly I
think there's some truth to that but the
idea is if there's multiple companies
with different algorithms then you were
spreading the wealth Veronica Kate
Bendixon was talking about middle-class
black voters in the south and he's
correct because those are the people who
work to get people elected militant
apathy the south is different man Dems
don't want to win in Alabama without
don't win in Alabama without activated
black women how does he pull in
college-educated black women Bernie's is
great is vote for him I'd vote for him
but some of these folks are kind of
sensitive Democratic primary and the
voters in the South are black women tmes
is my jam Sam except for the Michael
Brooks show your show the majority
report is the standard independent media
I support both shows on patreon can I
get a shofar in memory of my family's a
bunny big Earl who passed away last
night oh sorry to hear though yeah I'm
sorry to hear that
and Mark take of course
and the final I am of the day doe why
none of MSNBC host sorry Nicole Chris
Rachel not delving into the truth about
Alana I was hoping Sam would be on to go
into it Todd and tour yesterday repeated
lies see you Monday
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah
[Music]
I just see where the choice is made
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
