[Music]
PETA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's thursday what month is it
March 21st
literally space that this is I'm Michael
Brooks on a Michael Thursday and this is
the four-time award winning majority
report five-time award-winning blue Sam
is rubbing off on me five-time
award-winning majority report were
broadcasting live steps from the
industry ravaged Gowanus Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on today's program Richard back
associate editor of n plus-1 we're
talking about the Korean peace process
understanding the deeper dynamics at
play North Korean political history US
military policy the role of the South
Korean president condescended to in the
u.s. press but essential and fighting
for peace on the peninsula we'll get to
that North Korea's prime New Zealand's
Prime Minister Jacinda our Don our Dern
showing real leadership immediate bans
on assault weapons after the
Christchurch terrorist attack that
killed 50 worshippers at a mosque
Mozambique rescue operations underway as
over a thousand have been reported dead
and women and babies are trapped in
trees there's a race to rescue people
who sought refuge on higher elevations
john mccain he might be passed on but
he's still bothering donald trump
Andrew Gilliam proving once again that
not only should he have been governor
Florida but he is one of our most
promising and important politicians in
the United States he is unveiling an
amazing voter registration effort and
voters civil rights protection effort in
Florida would it be awesome if beta or
worked at something like that instead of
wasting everybody's time GOP governor of
Kentucky doesn't believe in vaccines
essentially apparently that's
interesting not particularly surprising
actually and credit where credit is due
beta will Rorick slams Benjamin
Netanyahu for playing to racists I
wonder if people will go after him the
way they did in law no Marc guessing
probably not for a variety of reasons
Joe Biden continues to make his play
Mike Pence used to talk real dirty real
spicy behind Donald Trump's back a
campaign to free Lula relaunches in
Brazil as new questions surround the
lava jato investigation that put him in
jail in fact they just got several
million dollars hundreds of millions
dollars from the Justice to me Justice
Department the United States civil fines
rebated to them without any oversight
even as michel temer the brazilian
president who took over against the
after the coup against Dilma Rousseff
was arrested today on lava jato related
corruption charges he served his purpose
and they need to reclaim their
legitimacy Iranian human rights lawyer
is sentenced to 30 years in prison and
30 lashes we stand in solidarity with
her after that obscene policy that
obscene decision Iran's president says
their economy is in a serious problem
serious danger and president air21
heading into regional elections in a
couple of months increasing his
authoritarian grip makes his play to
shore up the Turkish economy all that
plus youth protesters across the globe
take action on the climate crisis all
that and more on today's majority report
I think
when John McCain died we were all as you
should be with a public figure really
focused on his public output but as much
as I was not a fan of John McCain
politically or militarily and as much as
I am I'm an anti fan of Megan McCain
I've come to agree with the Brendan Finn
position that Megan McCain's existence
in the public sphere is a walking
argument against oligarchy inherited
wealth position and dynasties so I guess
in a weird way she's sort of serving an
anti purpose but I you know I I just
want to say this and of course what I
think of Donald Trump what we think of
Donald Trump is a whole other thing I
mean he's one of the worst people on the
planet
a grotesque buffoon racist who is
harming the country every day world
historical tragedy that he's in power is
a world historical tragedies in power
but I will say this and this I guess
also implicates we're gonna actually
there's a teaser for some stuff we might
be doing tomorrow possibly but I know
there's a lot of atheists on the show I
know there's a lot of people who don't
believe in the non-material world I'm
agnostic on these things but I will say
if John McCain is in any capacity still
bothering Donald Trump he should stop
and you know because it's enough the
fact that Donald Trump needs to come out
here and speak about John McCain I don't
know is it because the Donald Trump is a
milk brain who can never let go of a
grudge is it because Donald Trump is so
out of it that he thinks John McCain is
still alive or is there some you know
way that we can't speculate that maybe
Donald Trump is actually still being
bothered by John McCain we really don't
know but whatever it is it needs to stop
this is Donald Trump yesterday taking
the very much not with us anymore John
McCain to task and I got to say frankly
I think he has a point I endorsed him at
his request
and I gave them the kind of funeral that
he wanted as president I had to approve
I don't care about this I didn't get
thank you that's the way but I wasn't a
fan of John McCain so now what we could
say is now we're all set I don't think I
have to answer that question but the
press keeps what do you think of McCain
what do you think not my kind of guy but
some people like him and I think that's
great the only thing that separates
Donald Trump from being a complete
sociopath is that most sociopaths were
socially conditioned to feign basic
human etiquette well yeah but what you
don't have if you're born really wealthy
you'd never have to learn that stuff
it's not there's not the Selective
pressure right that's true I'm trying to
find it I think I think Jake Tapper
might have deleted tweet Briana tweet
about how like one of his veteran
sources was texting them and it was like
how could
isn't there any Republican gonna stand
up to this how could they hurts my soul
no no the point is like Jake for Jake
Tapper is like you shouldn't be just
passing that tweet along or that text
long through tweet it you should be
wondering why one of your viewers
especially one that has your number is
so confused about what to expect from
the Republican Party right that that
text should be oh my god I'm totally
incompetent and not doing my job I'm on
TV I'm a national cable every single day
talking and pontificating for hours and
doing my my serious concern face and
somehow you have still not conveyed to
your viewers that the Republican Party
will never I mean there was like you
know with Ben Sasse voting for the
border wall emergency thing right the
market of and the pinnacle he isn't even
there anymore and I honestly forget his
name but who was the nothing Berger from
Arizona who was always Jeff Flake Jeff
Flake the a please
you know if a snake he's burned snow
flake New Mexico literally that's great
the aptly named Jeff Flake like there
was a time a year or two ago certainly
two years ago and someone a year ago
where there was a big market for I don't
do anything to stop the Trump agenda in
fact I support making the environment
worse I support increasing poverty I
support handing America to corporations
I support legally establishing a full
oligarchy and reversing democracy but
boy gee golly I will get on the Senate
floor and talk about how rude
Donald Trump is uh and now you see what
Ben Sasse I mean Ben Sasse he had an
opportunity to cast a little bit of a
vote there and I cuz he's the the the
whole mantle of oh I'm so concerned
about this and we're not all a bunch of
friggin racists went on to him and there
ain't a market for that anymore so if
jock it Jake Tapper can't even follow
the trend of a lot of people pretending
to disassociate with Trump while voting
with Trump all the time
or ninety-nine percent of the time or
ninety percent of the time this was the
moment where you know you've just fallen
into a complete and utter oh this is
great
just total not only Arella I mean I mean
just pure incompetence Jake Tapper
combat vet always with the combat vets
with this guy combat vet text me
Trump's McCain comments hurt my soul and
by the way I just want to say I'm sure
they did you know okay that they were I
can't even call them graceless you're
right Matt they're just in the I mean
Donald Trump is a is a horrible wretched
human being
Trump's McCain comments hurt my soul how
have we arrived at a place where this is
even possible and how can the Republican
leadership stand though this have we no
decency well let me do in reverse order
no you don't and secondly the Republican
leadership has stood there while Donald
Trump has actually done stuff and they
want to do things that will harm a
replica rekha bleep a rep perk ibly
irreparably Jesus tens of millions of
people
they are with it so okay you know so the
fact that Jake passes I mean is just
delusional he's the journalist this
other guy could be the deluded citizen
but Jake Tapper has no excuse I mean
imagine if you knew Jake Tapper you knew
a premier news man and you just believe
this like maybe we will have
Jeff Flake or Ben Sasse do something to
right the ship like no it's never
happening never never I I think the the
nice little like side story here is that
I get I report to that Johnny Isakson
and Mitt Romney have been the ones who
said this is wrong sir how dare you have
you no decency meanwhile like John
McCain's best friend his little buddy
Lindsey Graham's kicking off his 2020
campaign with pet Mike Pence in South
Carolina and everyone's asking what's
going on and he's like you can't say
anything when John McCain was here I was
with him
yeah with Donald Trump it's like the
cheese my log in the wire
yeah no loyalty means I'm trying to get
those Fox and Friends hints same about
love John McCain was around I looked at
pictures of him in his Navy uniform and
I loved him man but then I don't drop
one and then John McCain God and now I
love mr. Trump you know consistency to
this grow up oh my god I mean if you're
still waiting on something from Lindsey
Graham I mean you are clinical that
Lindsey Graham is I think essentially
said to you I'm not like a moral person
yeah borderline you know like you go
where you give the influence
all right folks we're gonna take a brief
break and we will be right back with
Richard Beck
you
[Music]
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Richard Beck he's an associate editor at
n plus one in his new piece the Korean
peace process or actually this piece was
published a bit ago but he's a sort of
premier watcher and analyst of this
process Richard thanks for being here
thanks for having me so what happened in
Vietnam how did that process unwind
itself as far as I can tell there's a
fair amount of blame to go around for
what happened in Vietnam I think that
you had some misconceptions on both
sides going in to the second summit that
resulted in its failure so you have
Trump going in with the sort of expected
overestimation of his own abilities as a
negotiator right I think that I think
that Kim and his team might have gone in
with sort of unrealistic expectations
for how little the US would be willing
to accept and I've also read quite a bit
suggesting that John Bolton really might
have thrown a wrench into the whole
process kind of at the last minute I
don't think it's any secret or any
surprise that he doesn't particularly
want to have peace with North Korea and
my understanding from an article I'd
read I think in The Guardian but it
might have been somewhere else is that
he tacked on some demands at the last
minute or convinced trunk to make these
demands just before the actual
negotiation started and that this was
you know surprised and sort of totally
unacceptable to the to the North Koreans
so I think that there's a lot of you
know a shared responsibility for what
happened it wasn't a totally useless
summit insofar as specifics to get laid
out on the table specific demands
specific requests which hadn't been a
case in Singapore Singapore was this
kind of you know very very general meet
and greet let's celebrate our
relationship sort of event
but coming out of Vietnam it's a big
setback but at least both sides now have
a more realistic understanding of where
they're at what is um actually let me
just do this one first where how does
the president of South Korea fit into
this because it from my read he's very
important and is extremely positive
force you kind of point out that he's
been sort of treated either a bit
condescendingly
kind of as an afterthought how does the
failure of the process in Vietnam affect
his domestic position and what do you
think his role in all of this has been
well here's the mix his domestic
position is somewhat weaker than it was
at the beginning of the process and a
lot of that has to do with the fact that
the South Korean economy has been
struggling recently but certainly the
peace process with North Korea is the
centerpiece for one of the centerpieces
of his domestic policy the centerpiece
of his foreign policy its enormous
enormous ly important to him that
succeed and I think that he's the one
who really jump started the whole the
whole thing when you had this episode a
year or two back of something ten
exchanging these dire threats and
missile tests and you know the missiles
being launched you know flying over
Japan that opened up some space
maybe a little counter-intuitively for
South Korea to step in and say to take a
leadership role in trying to calm things
down because it was obvious that Trump
wasn't able to do that but he wasn't
interested in doing that and I think
that uh around East Asia you know in
South Korea certainly but also in China
to some extent people lost a little bit
of faith and their ability to trust that
the US would be a stabilizing force sort
of loud South Korea to take a more
active role what are the sticking points
what did--what or maybe more
specifically what are the poison pills
that Bolton put in there to undermine
this process in Vietnam
the the big sticking point and it's kind
of a big general one is this idea of
complete verifiable and irreversible
denuclearization and the US demand that
North Korea completely denuclearize shut
down all of its facilities dismantle its
facilities let in inspectors give them a
detailed list of everything they have
before any sanctions are going to be
removed
north Korea has come in saying we want
sort of a step-by-step effort at
approach we'll shut down some research
facility you lift a sanction we will
dismantle some other facility you lift
another sanction and they have proposed
this as a kind of trust building
exercise you know let's see if you'll
take these baby steps in good faith and
then we can move on to bigger and bigger
stuff and so far the US has been
unwilling to consider this graduated
approach their demand is you shut
everything down and then we'll talk
about getting rid of some sanctions I
think that North Korea is justified in
being suspicious of the u.s. when they
say you shut everything down and then
we'll lift sanctions because all they
have to do is look at the experience of
Libya and Gaddafi who did shut down his
weapons program and got killed in
exchange for it and also of course we
had a successful and working Pro deal
with Iran which Trump just you know
actually hasn't entirely blown up
because the Europeans are maintaining it
and the Chinese and the Russians as well
obviously in India but it has seriously
undermined and shown that basically our
commitment and our word means nothing in
these types of negotiations I think
that's actually a really important point
maybe that does overlap even in some
ways particularly with understanding
Iran or even Libya and of course these
are all very very different governments
different regimes and there's a it's
difficult to communicate about this I
think in in in in
press here because some people sort of
you know radically overcorrect and
they'll say well actually you know
Qaddafi didn't not only was Qaddafi a
rational interlocutor but he didn't even
have human rights problems and that's a
you know that's ridiculous or you know
Iran I would say of the three actually
Iran is definitely the most complicated
in terms of assessing their human rights
areas but of course I mean we just
talked about it an activist an attorney
who's just sentenced to 30 years in
prison and 30 lashes for doing her work
in Iran just this week it's a obscene
you know an abomination and of course
North Korea it's you know very well
documented the sort of scale of abuses
that take place in North Korea on the
other hand the problem is is that in in
the discourse here it's conflated it's
like oh well if they do that here then
obviously they're irrational actors
abroad obviously they would sort of blow
themselves up in a flame of glory and
you know in each of these cases that's
clearly not the case these are rational
governments and leaders that want to
survive and that might be the hardest
case to actually convey to people about
North Korea because we have such a kind
of warped view of them I mean even even
some of the ways that we actually talk
about real abuses in North Korea are
very dehumanizing it's like oh well look
at this other you know totally insane
thing that they did and you know look at
the the bouffant hairdos and all of this
when it's like well no actually it's
extremely brutal and people are actually
really suffering and then on the other
hand no there's a strategy in place here
and and these people know how to survive
and they know how to play their position
so I I mean first of all I gave you a
lot I don't know whether you agree with
that frame or not but I think that might
be a good starting point when you talk
about their legitimate demands to talk
about the ways in which the North Korean
leader is actually quite different than
Donald Trump for all the kind of
superficial easy comparisons and what is
where is North Korea coming from in
terms of solidifying themselves and
surviving as a regime like what are
their rational self-interest positions
in all of this
um I mean you're right that that was
there was a lot there and what you said
just to go back to part of what you said
earlier to start off with the way that I
read when American commentators bring up
North Korea's human rights record which
is very bad and try and use that record
as a justification for not entering into
this peace process not supporting it I
basically don't think that kind of
commentary is worth very much I think
that when you have human rights
activists people who actually are
committed to these problems into solving
them talking about it you can take that
a little bit more seriously when it's
coming from you know John Bolton or any
of the other Trump administration ghouls
who are totally happy to support the
invasion of Iraq would like to invade
Iran one day I think it's okay to say to
those arguments are being made in bad
faith definitely it's also just even
outside of it being in bad state there's
a kind of surrealism to it we're like
okay yes I I acknowledge that the human
rights record is very bad what do you
want to do about it
isolation sanction demonization that
doesn't seem to be improving much
obviously what would help open up North
Korea to the rest of the world help the
regime to adopt less of a paranoid
stance is to be kind of integrated into
the community of nations as you know an
equal functioning member I think
everyone knows at this point that there
is no military solution to this problem
that anyone would be happy with Kim
doesn't want war to erupt because his
regime would be immediately destroyed
the u.s. doesn't want war to erupt and
South Korea doesn't want war to erupt
because of the hundreds of thousands of
people who would die as a result it's
just obvious at this point that anyone
talking about starting a war
is he's bluster as for the Kim regime
itself and what its interests are the
thing is really once is security
guarantees it wants to be able to
believe in a real way that the u.s. is
not going to try and overthrow the Kim
regime and it once these sanctions
lifted so that its economy can begin the
process of catching up to the rest of
the developed world those are the two
things that are really driving and and
howdy and so and you have a really good
graph where you you really outline like
the differences between Trump and Kim
for all of the superficial similarities
and I maybe could elaborate on that
because I think it again the reason I
brought the human rights stuff into it
is because it's not like a moral
justification of somebody you know but
it's like this isn't just like a
character or a meme or something this is
somebody who comrade you know that's
what I'm so maybe could you could you
kind of break that down like the lineage
of this family and and what's going on
here in terms of you know how to
understand these people I mean that was
one of the first things that really
frustrated me about the media coverage
of the peace process when it started up
with this kind of easy this drawing this
like very very easy comparison between
Trump and Kim here are two sort of brash
loud but foolish characters they both
have awful hair they're both overweight
they both see themselves as little
despot and so now we have these two
clowns you know going to Singapore to
congratulate each other and how great
they are and if you actually look at the
political position of both leaders it's
totally different him is in a ruling
line that has controlled North Korea for
decades and decades that has deep
historical roots in the country struggle
against colonialism throughout the 20th
century the entire political
in North Korea revolves around his
family's rule he's at the very very
center of it the Kim regime were to
collapse it would mean a total and
complete upheaval of North Korean
society whereas Donald Trump is
essentially a media figure who was able
to take advantage of the fractured
character and the weaknesses of one of
America's two major political parties to
assume its leadership
he has no roots in the political system
whatsoever I don't think he particularly
has many deeply held political beliefs I
think that his motivating forces are
sort of his narcissism having people say
nice things about him on television so
he's just Trump is it very politically
sort of superfluous figure in the u.s.
despite the fact that everything seems
to revolve around him right now
whereas Kim is you know totally central
to the political system in North Korea
and to its history just I want to loop
back to where we go from here relative
mainly to the u.s. and North Korea in
the last couple of minutes before we go
there we talked about the really
important role that the president
president moon has played in South Korea
and you know part of that my read is you
know he represents the center-left in
South Korea and that party historically
even under you know like Kim dae-jung
and when Clinton was president they
pursued something called the Sunshine
policy which was definitely not as
far-reaching as what they're talking
about now but it was some type of
diplomatic arrangement and then
obviously the right way yeah yeah
actually you want to explain that for a
second that could be helpful I did the
sunshine policy with a policy pursued
between North and South Korea during the
Clinton years and this is sort of before
it's sort of hard to remember that it
happened
because everything went so sour once
Bush took office and then North Korea as
part of the axis of evil but the
years did see a real improvement in us
North Korean relations in North South
Korean relations Clinton wasn't quite
able to make progress on his own but he
sent Jimmy Carter over to meet with
leadership over there and it was it was
real progress by the end of the decade
people were very optimistic not
necessarily that the war was going to
you know peace treaty was going to be
signed imminently but the things there
was a base had been laid down to work
from and then Bush just blew the whole
thing up once he named North Korea as
part of the axis of evil but sorry you
can go back to actually no I maybe could
and then did Obama I mean there was this
sort of approach of like what did they
call like sort of strategic patience
that he it wasn't as yes yeah what did
Obama do what was the Obama years like
Obama didn't do a whole lot he
maintained economic sanctions I think
that his efforts were really focused on
Iran that his administration's
calculation was that it was more
important to address Iran first and I
think that he was kind of happy to punt
a little bit on North Korea in part
because he assumed that another Democrat
would be handling the problem right if
you had told Obama in 2011 no man in
five years it's going to be Donald Trump
I think there would have been some more
urgency from his administration Odom in
North Korea right right but yet he was
he was leaving North Korea to whoever
was going to follow him and he expected
that that would be you know his
Secretary of State what are the weeds we
contrast the kind of constructive role
of South Korea under moon now these are
obviously very very different positions
and they have their own complexities but
is there a way to kind of top-line
China's role as the kind of main patron
of North Korea and then also Japan which
has its own sort of right-leaning kind
of nationalist sort of insurgency or
government what did their roles been in
this process so China has a very
complicated role with North Korea which
is that China has been North Korea's
major patron but not out of anything
that's much like friendship it's been
more out of fear China and North Korea
share a border or any kind of war to
break out involving North Korea China
would immediately have a gigantic
refugee crisis on its hands and so China
when Trump and Kim initially started
ramping up their rhetoric and
threatening to annihilate each other
China it was sort of paralyzed by the
whole thing
it actually cut down its trade with
North Korea I think by something like
ninety percent to try and help the u.s.
really intensify its sanctions so it
wasn't really contributing much in the
way of ideas of its own once South Korea
stepped in and got this peace process
going then China became sort of a more
active active player in it and its role
has been as kind of facilitator Kim has
traveled to China to talk about he
traveled to China before both of
Singapore and Vietnam sent us to talk
about negotiating points and to make
sure that China was going to be onboard
with what he was proposing and also
North Korea has been telling China that
they see the u.s. as a greatest security
threat and therefore would like to be a
little bit closer to China this way of
soliciting Chinese support now
apparently they've also been telling the
u.s. that they see China as the greatest
security threat so there's a little bit
of strategic manipulation happening
there but I think that as the process
has unfolded China has started to like
the idea of peace on the Korean
Peninsula more than it would have
initially because ultimately peace on
the Korean Peninsula would it diminish
American role the American presence in
East Asia would make it a little bit
easier for China
operate in China right now has really
embarked on this project of becoming not
a global hegemon but certainly a
regional hegemon it would like to be
kind of the only hegemon functioning in
East Asia right and Japan Japan their
government is a little more right
leading they have not been as excited
about the peace process there their
relationships at the US is obviously
much closer they're going to be less
thrilled about a diminished role in East
Asia so so far their approach has been
relatively cautious as far as I can
understand but they haven't seemed to be
particularly enthusiastic about it final
couple of minutes I mean here's the
where do we go from here question like
is is this ongoing or has Bolton
destroyed the process like what what are
them or I mean yeah what do we what can
you expect to kind of seen in upcoming
months it was really hard to know what
to expect because the u.s. is in this
position now where the US can't dictate
events in East Asia anymore like it may
be used to be able to it does not have
the clouds to you know make North Korea
to denuclearize
it cannot mobilize the support for any
kind of invasion or attack on North
Korea but the u.s. is still on
unfortunately an indispensable part of
the process and I say unfortunately just
because of the kind of unpredictability
and volatility of the people who are
doing the negotiating right now I think
that part of what makes it so
unpredictable is that left to his own
devices I'm sort of would give away
whatever you needed to to get himself a
Nobel Peace Prize and it's crazy and it
is I don't think that would be a
terrible outcome for the world I agree I
agree completely right and if what it
takes to get a formal end to the Korean
War signed it
cries for Donald Trump like I don't care
if I do it sure the problem is that you
do have these people from the real you
know sort of right-wing foreign policy
establishment people like John Bolton
whose influence seems to increase or
decrease depending on the day or the
week or whether you know Sean Hannity
has said positive or negative things
without John Bolton on his previous show
and if those people are in a position to
influence Trump's negotiating like they
appear to have been in Vietnam then yeah
this thing is going to get tanks well I
think that's good that Paraguay
don't know even if the u.s. decides to
be you know totally unproductive like a
complete non contributor to this process
northern South Korea South Korea
especially seem to have invested so much
in opening up their relationship that
it's hard to see them going back to
where they were before so I think that
you're going to see I don't know what
the relationship looks like
if the us ends up tanking the process to
the extent that is able but the
relationship between North and South
Korea is going to be different coming
out of this than it was going in and I
think it's going to be better well
that's a positive note and as now is
good time then he I mean I'm sure
President Trump is not watching this but
um there might be people who are you
know producers at Fox or whatever and I
think all we can say is you know I
thought and what I've heard and what
many people are saying is that John
Bolton has been very disrespectful and
not treated you with the proper respect
and I think it's very unfair Richard you
know we both think you're doing a
tremendous job frankly unlike John
Bolton who thinks you're doing a
terrible job and others who have said
many things but we all say many great
things about the negotiations and I
thought it was very sad and you're doing
a great job and but you know why and
John or something I don't know
backstabbing John
tough stuff backstabbing John he's up to
it again he's try
to keep you from a Nobel Peace Prize and
could you imagine the look and Ivanka's
face when you win that prize I mean the
problem with I you know I agree with
what you're saying but even if John
Bolton does fall out of favor it's not
like there are 10 15 other people just
as bad way sure late well we just got a
run through all of them to be like yep
it's just you got to get him into a
Pablo Escobar mindset
he's just just everybody no I I mean you
know that that is one of the really I
mean I think more broadly I think the
instincts to white supremacy and to just
kind of general oligarchy to the extent
that Trump thinks about anything or
sincere give rich people money and stoke
and people racism 100% but I think
besides that I think you're totally
right and that this is all a media show
and pure narcissism
but the shell around him is this
far-right extremist party and that's
another distinction in the discourse
right a lot still you know one of the
main arguments I would say between the
center and the left is how real they are
about what the Republican Party is and
you're totally right yeah I also wanted
like yes John Bolton is a an extremist
on the right it's not like the support
for the peace process coming out of the
center of the Democratic Party has been
much more meaningful right 100 percent
actually think that the Democratic Party
does need to shoulder some of the blame
for what happened in Vietnam because
they have done everything that they can
to undermine the peace process to
denigrate Trump's outreach efforts
you know they staged the Michael Cohen
hearings on the day that he was in
Vietnam and Michael Cohen you know
specifically address Donald Trump being
in Vietnam at the hearings so it seems
obvious to me that those hearings were
the timing of it was designed to
undermine trans negotiating position in
Vietnam which I think
honestly shameful I I agree entirely and
I think that you know the letters from
Schumer and the sort of general
hand-wringing from the kind of MSNBC
types were stunning
I mean stunning both because all of a
sudden it was either just a sort of
knee-jerk commitment to literally
decades of failed and actually highly
militaristic u.s. foreign policy or in
other cases I mean it was just you know
I'm all for taking as many shots at
Trump as you can but I mean if you're
actually implicating something that
might interfere with ending the Korean
War you might want to reassess and focus
on literally the thousands or tens of
thousands of other things that you can
hit this guy on without interfering with
that so I agree with you completely
Richard Beck he's an associate editor of
n plus-1 read all of his writings on the
Korean peace process Richard thanks so
much I really appreciate your time Colet
Thanks
all right folks we're gonna go to the
fun half and with just the boys we have
that video on the days that it's
Thursday and you know Jamie does four
days a week Sochi and usually Sam goes
No Jamie comes in on the other case but
sometimes she's here sometimes she isn't
and then of course you know Sam isn't
here so what does that mean it means
it's the three boys and it looks a
little bit something like one second
looks a little bit sick burger just
tweets a little bit too often it burgers
a very active tweeter does a lot of
tweeting folks
Sean Saturdays afford the booth
Saturdays for
[Music]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Laughter]
for the masterpiece Thursday's it for
the boys wicking Rick golf's alright
folks become a member of the majority
reported a majority dot F M slash become
a member that's how this show happens
less than a cup of coffee a day check
out just coffee co-op order the majority
report blend it's a win-win-win-win-win
for all concerned
check out the Michael Brooks show this
Sunday in a listen history of Joe Biden
with sat Carter get the whole thing
patreon.com slash TMDs we appreciate all
of you and definitely get your tickets
they're starting to ramp up again we're
over halfway sold out with several weeks
left for the April twentieth live show
the T MBS live show at the bootleg
theater in Los Angeles with special
guests big waz ana kasparian and Nando
Vela and of course the whole Michael
Brooks show team go to Michael Brooke
show on YouTube subscribe there we have
a ton of clips so now it's we're about
three four clips a day so you can get a
real flavor of the show obviously
similar to the majority for it but very
history focused covering some different
beats and you'll really like what you
get over there Matt yeah literary
hangover we talked about King Philip's
War the 1675 war that people might want
to check out it's pretty formative for
colonialism and that sort of stuff and
coming soon we're gonna be talking about
oscar wilde's the soul of man under
socialism and he has an interesting
quote actually maybe I should just pull
the sides do and also who is going to be
featured uh david Griscom of the
economic minute of at EMBs fame is gonna
be featuring he's actually done a theory
reading to think on the soul of man
under socialism but i have this this is
from a 1894 interview with oscar wilde
it's with the theater magazine it says
he likes jews he has many friends
friends among the Hebrews he think he
thinks Spinoza is a very very fine
character he see
who knows it was a very first grape
smells great
he seems to have some doubt as to
whether Spinoza was really the founder
of the pantheistic sect and then he said
the conversation drifted into politics
we are all of us more or less socialists
nowadays he remarked our system of
government is largely socialistic what
is the House of Commons but a
socialistic assembly I think I'm rather
more of a socialist he added laughingly
I am something of an anarchist
I believe but of course the dynamite
policy is very absurd indeed so it
doesn't seem like a lot of these
conversations have changed a whole lot
in like a hundred and you know twenty
years
that's fascinating alright folks we're
going to take a break we'll see you in
the fun half
you
alpha males are back back I am a total
can we bring back the ug theater yeah or
a couple you put them in rotation these
your dance well the problem with those
is they're like 45 seconds long so I
don't know if they're enough with a
break that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males all cycle
Oh almost says what what watch watch
[Music]
back
on the back
the back
back
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
locked alpha males
bye-bye
because
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadis
happy birthday to me
I have a thought expand atticfoil the
alpha males are black black alpha males
are
come on somebody needs to pay the price
of class we around here I am a total
[Music]
welcome to the fun half Michael Brooks
here not sure I don't see us on the
phones even though I've called it okay
there it is we are good to go all right
let's take one call out of the gate
you're calling from an eight one three
area code who are you where you're
calling from hey Michael how's it going
good how are you what's your name where
you calling from hi this is Manny from
Tampa Florida hey Manny what's on your
mind yeah yeah I was not actually glad
that um I forgot that you're always on
Thursday but I'm glad that you uh you
picked up I was wondering what you think
about Florida politics are and how the
2020 election is going to come up
especially since there's a lot of
[Music]
Venezuelan people coming and there's the
Cuban people here that they're very
active in mystic against you know
anything that smells like socialism or
anything there really is that isn't
there a big age gap in the Cuban
community like every other community
because I know like traditionally yeah
the Cubans in Florida that was a very
that was a very very right-wing base but
I thought younger Cubans were kind of
like also sort of just like everybody
else you know looking to get health care
jobs and kind of get on with stuff I
don't know about I mean I guess you're
talking about I don't know if people
leaving Venezuela going to Florida I
mean I don't know first of all I mean
one of the ironies it's not as if the
Trump administration xenophobia is
changing like well they're deporting
plenty of Venezuelans back to Venezuela
even as they kind of yak about how much
they're concerned about the situation so
if they still have oh he can well I'm
memory to be recalled I was just gonna
say if they still have that sort of
memory to be anti-communist then that
have
the memory to realize that they're the
Venezuelans coming to Florida are coming
for the same reason that they're you
know parents did or grandparents came to
Florida I mean right oh no no no no no
hey I'm going based on empirical
evidence but what impure every Cuban I
talked to they have they're always they
have such a bad taste with no warning
what are you i ne all duh
my mom owns some cleaning business and
she has a lot of Venezuelan people
working for her that you know literally
they're like a year in here and they
just hate anything that even smells
sodium or hair of care what's the
empirical evidence excuse me I guess you
said okay so you mean when you say
empirical evidence you mean
conversations with people that you know
okay um yeah yeah I mean look I I have
no doubt that particularly if you know
Sanders is the nominee but frankly again
I any Democrat they're gonna try to make
hay of it in that community and frankly
I also think Florida is a place where
first of all I'll say more broadly I
don't I think there might be more much
more fruitful to focus on flipping back
the industrial Midwest and looking at a
map of places like Colorado and you know
I don't know when Florida might be
pretty red for a variety of reasons
certainly keeps flipping red and but I
but I also think that the most important
political news out of Florida is Andrew
gillum's voter registration project
that's the most important thing
happening and I think that bottle text
they responding to it with the
responding to it with I don't even okay
we got a yeah find something we had to
cover that so I didn't even so I would
say the bottom line is is that in
Florida if everybody can vote with no BS
and there's always BS I mean Florida's a
notoriously corrupt and racist state
from the stolen 2000 election to you
know people frankly clearly lying to
pollsters and
voting for someone as grotesque as
DeSantis over a you know very appealing
young politician like Gilliam you know
that's the major issue so and for what
it's worth as far as demographics go and
I I hate when people kind of rest on our
laurels about this because the colonial
status of Puerto Rico and the treatment
of Puerto Rico is one other you know
really profoundly important thing which
requires all of our attention but the
truth of matter is if you're just going
in a really crude way of like new people
who are US citizens moving to Florida a
lot of those folks are from Puerto Rico
and they're definitely gonna tend
Democratic so I'm not terribly worried
about it but I'm also not terribly
confident about Florida generally thanks
for the call man appreciate it
you are calling from a four one six area
code who are you where you're calling
from hello this is Eric from Toronto
here what's going on again from earlier
hey man well actually I owe you an
apology on Monday I I listed off the
people in the office and she probably
left you out I actually meant to leave
Matt out but that's the side effects of
way too much chatter in the morning wage
too much what in the morning oh never
mind
okay oh man what's what he got in your
mind alright
actually um I have a slight bone to pick
with you on a number of occasions you
actually said some pretty ignorant
things and I'd like what go and I'd like
to hear your perspective on it okay on a
number of occasions I quote you said
that there is no good political rap like
what's with that man there's no good
political rap I think I said there's no
good cool yeah yeah conscious rap I said
conscious rap no there's definitely good
nas has political rap that's actually
biggie I ready to die is I mean look
I'll do the cop-out everything is
political
there's no good there's very little
conscious rap self consciously conscious
rap is bad you got anything else
oh no that's fair enough
actually yeah
I just wanted to shout out like low-key
soul deejay pain one like they have a
lot of good stuff and we read okay is
like a lot of really great like just um
like anti-imperialist stuff out there
you know and okay I know people watching
can check it out um okay alright low-key
I own talk to the trouble sorry a
low-key soundtrack to the struggle came
out in o8 but it's like really good
in-depth stuff and yeah I definitely put
it on my list for like favorite album of
the year but um alright so anyways
thanks for taking my Coleman alright no
problem and I was just joking by the way
I just wanted to share it from good
music out there oh that's cool
appreciate it you have a wonderful day
bro and I'll see you again soon cool
cool awesome man alright so because you
imagine if beta or Roark
well beta or work should run for Senate
or if beta well Rorick started even just
like a you know before I ran for Senate
did a year of like organizing to flip
Texas blue imagine running for president
because you'd know you'd lose the Senate
race
that's what Betty was doing that's
precisely what he's doing right now but
still wants to be in the center of
attention
Andrew Gilliam was leading in the polls
was running against a absolute full-on
odious racist Trump Republican with all
sorts of ties to white nationalism which
is the par for the course and his return
to the public spotlight has been one of
the most practical smart important
things happening right now in American
politics which is a massive voter
registration drive in Florida and it's
just incredible it's so necessary and
clear that it's sort of
stunning that more people aren't taking
up initiatives like this across the
board whether it be protecting the
voting rights of Native Americans in the
Dakotas or more broadly flipping state
houses or even a national campaign on
automatic voter registration and things
like that and one of the things that's
interesting is that of course we've
known that the Republican Party has been
waging a war on voting rights for
decades and they've accelerated under
the Roberts Court and so on with gutting
the Voting Rights Act and obviously Ari
Berman is on that to beat one thing that
happened in Florida was Gilliam came up
short to De Santis in the governor's
race but then Flor Floridians voted
actually pretty overwhelmingly by a
healthy margin to restore the Voting
Rights of felons and when you do things
like that you give the opportunity for
the Republicans to show just how
fundamentally anti-democratic they are
and get even more transparent about who
they are this is a report from Eric
Levitz in The New Yorker Florida GOP
readies poll-tax to nullify X voters
voted X felons voting rights earlier
this week Elizabeth Warren argued that
the United States should abandon the
electoral college and elect its
presidents by popular vote instead of
course she's absolutely right I'm glad
she's making that call South Carolina
Senator Lindsey Graham lambasted her
proposal arguing that it constituted
nothing less than an attempt to make
rural America go away politically many
other conservatives echoed this charge
now of course rural America would be
infinitely better represented by an
Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders and
any serious agenda against
agribusinesses and Agri conglomerates
but being that is that as that may he
skipping head and we have this up in
screen meanwhile in Florida Florida's
republican-controlled legislature is
moving to rollback parts of a historic
November constitutional amendment that
reinstate instated voting rights for
convicted felons drawing sharp
opposition from Democrats in a 2020
nakey 2020 presidential battleground
state the House bill that
Tuesday defines what crimes would
disqualify someone from being allowed to
vote and it also requires ex-prisoners
to pay any court court costs fines or
fees before their sentences can be
considered quote unquote complete and
their rights restored the Florida GOP is
latest Mecca nations are even more in
fair nefarious than this expert excerpt
in Politico makes them sound for more
than a century Florida's Constitution
FIB aid ex-felons from casting votes in
recent decades this provision
effectively disenfranchised hundreds of
thousands of Floridians where it's were
it not for the state's felon
disenfranchisement law Al Gore would
almost certainly have prevailed in the
2000 election so this of course needs to
be fought every step of the way and
defeated and Andrew Gilliam as I keep
saying is absolutely one of the most
important leaders we have in the United
States right now but this is one of
those data points for any people that
want to pretend that this is anything
other than it you know it is what it is
this is a fundamentally anti-democratic
party it's a it is absolutely like an
air diwan's AKP party in Turkey they
believe in elections if they can trim
and shave the rules in their favor
that's the voter suppression and
disenfranchisement go to the ballot box
vote and these already increasingly
illegitimate elections because of how
they are rigging the system and this is
an appropriate use of the word breaking
and then flowing out of that zero
transparency oversight and democratic
accountability while they do it and we
don't have time to get into it but if
you bring the state initiatives at pro
aimed at non-violent and other forms of
protest into that conversation which
could do things like as an example make
it legal for somebody to run over a
protester with their car or make
protesters personally incur the costs of
profits loss during of something like
the Keystone XL protests you see an
infrastructure
of bureaucratic democracy elimination
and if you read a book like democracy
and chains which ignore all the
libertarian whining is one of the key
books to understand how the right wing
works in the United States and globally
you'll see that all of these patterns
fit together and so that there's no
difference between some old-school
scumbag hick racist like a steve king
who wants to disenfranchise people
because he's a white supremacist and a
bigot and uh you know people who might
not have any you know Paul Ryan I'm sure
doesn't I mean he has personal animus
towards anybody that isn't rich clearly
because he's you know a vindictive
capricious cruel human being but I don't
think he's got any kind of particular
racial chip on his shoulder but he wants
power and part of the strategy for power
is making sure that people that will
vote against you have a increasingly
hard if not impossible time voting so it
all fits together and you're gonna see
more initiatives like these like literal
poll taxes one of the things that's been
interesting about Bernie Sanders
campaign so far is that he has been
taking aim at Donald Trump his bigger
broader message is this correct call of
essentially the 99 versus the 1% there
still is just the fundamental class
divide in American politics and nobody
articulates it better than he does uh
and he specifically talks about the CEOs
of insurance companies he talks about
Amazon he talks about where the money is
going who it's getting taken from in the
forms of people's wages and lives to pay
off and endlessly self enrich America's
oligarchic class but in that frame he's
actually built in a compare and contrast
with Donald Trump which is really
effective and one of the signs that in
some key respects he is the Democratic
frontrunner is that he is the first
person that's actually put consistently
Trump front and center of course
everybody doesn't like Trump and they've
all taken their shots at Trump but each
of his stuff
speeches he never represents his
Democratic rivals except toward the
Democratic Party other than to say that
he respects his colleagues and he'll
support whoever the nominee is and by
the way we're gonna need to see um other
candidates starts to say that pretty
soon but he goes right after Trump and
so here is a video it's a it's a mash-up
of a great Bernie rally in Nevada I'd go
to Bernie's site and watch these rallies
his speeches are very I mean you know
it's it's nothing you would expect but
they're increasingly good but also he's
bringing up local Aintree gentrification
activists he's bringing up people
talking about health care he's bringing
up people talking about student loans
he's bringing up people talking about
you know structural racism as well as
his own personal history which is of
course really important and it's great
people like Nina Turner but also people
that you you know you haven't heard Roe
kana but it's also local activists that
you haven't heard from before so I'd
watched some of these rallies but this
video is a mash-up of Bernie and Nevada
and talking very specifically about all
of trumps lies on things like Medicare
and Social Security and this is really
quite effective when Donald Trump he
talked about being a different type of
Republican a friend of working families
and I will be your champion
I am your voice on May 7 2015 at a tweet
Trump said my quote I was the first and
only potential GOP candidate to state
there will be no cuts to Social Security
Medicare and Medicaid and the fourth you
remember he said I am NOT going to cut
Medicare and Medicaid or social security
I'm not going to cut Social Security
like every other Republican and I'm not
going to cut Medicare or Medicaid every
other Republican is gonna cut every
Republican wants to do a big number on
Social Security they want to do it on
Medicare
Medicaid save Medicare Medicaid and
Social Security without cuts have to do
it well I know I will shock all of you
to tell you the Donald Trump life and
that's really how I won the election in
the first place
Donald Trump told the American people he
was not gonna cut Medicare Medicaid and
Social Security I am going to protect
and save your Social Security and your
Medicare be defending your Social
Security which the Democrats will
destroy fast forward to the budget that
trump introduced just last week that
budget calls for a cut of one and a half
trillion dollars in medicaid eight
hundred and forty five billion dollars
in cuts to Medicare and 25 billion
dollars in cuts to Social Security and
you know what a 845 billion dollar cut
to Medicare means it means for those
seniors who are struggling with health
care today it's only going to be worse
you can't get rid of Medicare you know
Medicare is a program that works you
don't get rid of Medicare you can't do
that people love Medicare and it's
unfair to them during the campaign
Donald Trump said as you all remember
that he was going to provide health
insurance for everybody with much lower
deductibles you have to take care of
people well guess what
they lied again the budget that he just
presented would end the Affordable Care
Act throw 32 million people off of the
health insurance they have Trump's
budget is a budget which will make it
harder for our kids to get a decent
education for our young people to go to
college auto for working families to get
the health care they need harder to
protect the air we breathe and the water
that we drink every
day I wake up determined to deliver a
better life for the people all across
this nation that have been ignored
neglected and abandoned Trump's budget
is basically about the Robin Hood
principle in Reverse it takes from the
poor and working people and gives more
tax breaks to the rich and large
corporations with it so that's exactly
right and you should spread that one far
and wide I think look the only other
thing I'd button this with is it's in
its the empirical debate about what
trove the Trump vote is basically over
in terms of again most of what he did
was activate a base that is driven on
white identity politics and of course he
played to them with misogyny and
xenophobia and so on that's obvious on
the other hands there's no doubt as Bill
Fletcher jr. says one of the ways of
synthesizing these volt correct
realities of a resurgent white supremacy
and the crisis of inequality and
diminish life prospects from vast
majority of people is as the great Bill
Fletcher jr. says right-wing populism is
the herpes of capitalism so you can
synthesize these intelligently without
reducing one to the other and I would
say it is useful particularly when you
talk about places where there was that
small but hugely essential margin of
people who either stayed home which are
the most important or people that flip
to Obama and Trump because they fell for
Trump's lives because they were so
desperate and that also requires frankly
an accurate understanding of the
Clinton's record and Hillary Clinton
which we can't you know sugarcoat either
I'm sorry it's terrible for working
people I but you can he be reminded
there that Trump was relentlessly lying
and hustling and one of the reasons that
we the two reasons that this show called
Trump well in the primary we were wrong
on the general but we knew Trump would
do well on the primary was because he
did racism without subtext and also
because he said everybody gets health
care and Medicare for all
because there are no people in this
country there's no normal
and that has david from politics that
thinks you know overt racism is
tasteless but wants themselves to be
poorer so a rich person get a tax cut
nobody has that politics there were
plenty of people who were in ignore
accurately legitimately left behind
neglected abuse one hundred percent and
also had xenophobic sentiments and he
played to both of them that's reality
here's a hot take i think that was a
much bigger or more worried fraud
against democracy the way trump lied
about this stuff than anything to do
with russia and emails of course 100%
hundred-percent jr bolson ro was in
washington i will say don't sort of you
know forgive me because on we covered
some of it yesterday and we covered the
virulent homophobia and also just the
the you know sort of fascist bromance or
whatever you want to call it I will say
on t MBS we did about a half an hour
kind of run-through of different
elements so there's a lot going on here
from the assassination of Mariela Franco
who was a hugely important activist in
Brazil please everybody look up and
honor her legacy the cartel that
assassinated her is directly materially
connected to the balsan ro family from
all available evidence we don't know
more than that
and um you know a variety of other
things some of which will actually touch
on in a couple of minutes but there is
no mistaking the facts I mean the fact
that bolson ro went with Sergio Moro is
also very suspect and questionable and
almost certainly corrupt justice
minister which we'll talk about a couple
of minutes that they were at CIA
headquarters tells me first of all that
this broader project that began in the
Obama era of reversing pink tide
governments across Latin America is
highly coordinated and directed with
link to u.s. foreign policy
even things like the political
imprisonment of Lula might go above the
Brazilian oligarchy and judiciary and
that secondly even though Brazil's
military does not want to engage in
Venezuela militarily there is absolutely
a serious appetite in the United States
to continue pushing this process and
bolson ro is the stupid fascist steward
she is is open to it this exchange on
Fox is you know okay Stuart Varney is an
idiot um and it takes a kind of you know
libertarian from the Cato Institute not
to morally object but to logistical II
object but these converse but this is
actually a microcosm I think of exactly
the kind of arguments that are taking
place in you know us and Brazilian and
Colombian situation rooms right now
should we use the CIA I realize I'm
going back to the lake that like the
1950s or something but I mean why not
why not well first of all you're going
back to always CIA has been involved in
coos across the globe conservatively
over fifty nine in Latin America from
the 50s through the attempted coup in
2002 in Venezuela the 2009 coup which we
backed in Honduras the and then if you
broadened out from CIA the Justice
Department's role in the judicial and
and political coup that's taken place
targeting the Workers Party in Brazil
but just really Zone in on that just
face value for a second I'm going back
to the 50s when we deposed a Social
Democrat Jacob Arbenz in Guatemala
because he would slightly cut down on
the profits of United Fruit we deposed
him and set off a mass killing wave of
which was echoed actually in the 1980s
when the Reagan administration in the
say literally supported an actual
genocide in Guatemala so I guess at
least it's good that Stewart knows what
he's calling forth should we use the CIA
I realize I'm going back to the lake
that like the 1950s or something but I
mean why not
one
the guy is a corrupt socialist dictator
he's killing his own people in the
street why can't we have the CIA have a
quiet word with a couple of generals get
him out the country why not well if it
was that simple it'd be nice to do the
challenge of course is who replaces him
we can't be certain that whatever
follows him is going to be something
better you know the question is how can
we make it easier for the people there
to overthrow him what we're doing now I
think has had extraordinary success of
building international support other
Latin American countries are actually
willing to push on this we need to keep
this up he needs so what's interesting
there is that actually that is the
strategy that we've been doing going
back to Bush through Obama and
accelerated under Trump which is try to
make this situation they're so miserable
that the people will overthrow them that
is not happening and I say this as
somebody again people have real
difficulty with cognitive dissonance the
Maduro government is absolutely engaged
in abuses 100% there are also structural
problems in Venezuela that implicate the
military that existed through Chavez and
they existed before Chavez there are
institutional realities and countries
that if you don't fundamentally change
they persist and fundamentally changing
them is basically impossible which
ironically most you know credulous
moderates who all of a sudden support a
coup in Venezuela will tell you about
the United States sometimes they have
some defenses of people like Obama that
I disagree with but they're actually
somewhat institutionally correct will
apply some of that same measured
thinking to completely reordering the
Venezuelan government so there's real
problems in Venezuela some of which are
self created by the government and the
US has squeezed and attempted to ferment
Akua to instigate a coup there for at
least a couple of decades under three
administrations and there's still a
critical mass of Venezuelans primarily
Venezuelans of color primarily poor
Venezuelans who have absolutely
benefited from Chavez and some of those
benefits maintained under Maduro and
they would all be totally stripped away
and destroyed by some us back puppet by
guido like wydo and so an
also there's others that are just
nationalists you know believe it or not
other countries have a right to have a
nationalist sentiment Americans and
there are some people who might actually
there's contingents of people who
critically support Maduro because they
still believe in the Bolivarian
revolution for very justifiable reasons
and correct runs and then there's also
people who may be actually totally loath
Maduro would love to seem go but don't
want a right-wing us engineered coup
that would almost certainly send the
country into even deeper crisis that guy
pointed out even the libertarian pointed
out that what how do you know what
replaces him is better well i could tell
you from a left perspective there a
diplomatic process mediated by people
like mexico and irwin the vatican might
produce something that is more
responsive and better a us-backed coup
and military intervention back with
Elliott Abrams orchestrating if you
don't see that that will automatically
make the situation of Venezuelans
infinitely worse and mostly the most
poor and the most vulnerable who the
boulevards have delivered for it some
degree you're delusional
and if you're also interested in things
like corruption or the military tied a
cartel business you think that a
right-wing us-backed government is gonna
be the government like you know anything
about Latin American history you think
that the us-backed right-wing government
is gonna be the one so we really gotta
go to know the cocaine trade it's not
who we are you are again are stupid or
delusional hello hello Thank You Dennis
Prager and that leads us to this and
this and this this pivot to power
outages so first of all I'm not you know
what about ISM has a complicated history
and actually what about ISM was
initially used by people to shut down
has always been used by people to shut
down the critique of US Empire right and
at the same time I think sometimes it's
fair to complexify a conversation that
being said to see the likes of Marco
Rubio who is a dangerous empty suit he
manages to pull that fusion off tweeting
first of all showing the ball by
tweeting out a photo of a sodomized and
murdered Muammar Qaddafi the transparent
face of the sociopathic US empire that
he is the pointman for in Latin America
and then to say oh well there are these
these these power outages in Venezuela
they're terrible what word did you have
to say for eleven months when Puerto
Rico which is an exploited US colony and
I mean that in a literal sense a colony
was without power for 11 months and now
people in Puerto Rico are having their
food stamps cut so there can be a
massive austerity wave to pay off
vulture funds no word about that but
there's some problems in Venezuela now
again in the long term is there problems
in Venezuela is infrastructure which is
the result of all the things we already
know US sanctions us interference and
governmental mismanagement yes we
already know that is the timing of these
blackouts a bit suspicious yup
some people with information from people
like Snowden and who are sort of tuned
to that world they say it is possible
that the United States can do something
like this obviously I would put nothing
past the intelligence services the CIA
or I mean after Stuxnet I mean yeah I
mean it right we right precisely we blew
out we created a global computer virus
because of something that was supposed
to target Iran specifically so or Israel
did was that US or Israel or apart we I
think is a partner she's a partner she I
think it was Israel maybe people taking
point so yes we could be doing this it
also could be an organic problem in
Venezuela which is why the answer is and
if you actually cared about the
well-being event as well in a diplomatic
process you would immediately remove all
sanctions on everything to do with food
and services to the population and a you
could help get their infrastructure
going again or be if the problems
remained exactly the same without
constant US economic terror
then you could actually definitively say
this is all medoras fault which is
totally impossible to say now but here
is Elliott Abrams who should be only
known for lying to Congress about
iran-contra and spinning war crimes mass
murder and genocide from Latin America
and human rights abuses from Latin
America to the Middle East
here he is these exchanges are
interesting first it's on the power grid
and secondly it's just the ongoing u.s.
Imperial approach to who gets recognized
as the legitimate power and then as well
and yeah we come in after he asks the
power grid question and second could you
explain to us the article under which
mr. Vidal declared himself president say
it is said that it has expired
last month you don't explain that to us
yes on the blackout we're not there I
believe there is a consensus now that by
far the most likely explanation these
extremely high voltage lines which tend
to bow as the months ago and years ago
by that is they are not straight they
tend to fall sag is a good word into
trees and bushes and that creates the
possibility of a fire that is what more
I would say more experts have given as
the explanation so how do you avoid that
it's simple you cut and prune and keep
trees and bushes from approaching the
lines and they haven't done that there
has really been no maintenance not just
for years but for decades tonight so
stop terrorizing their economy well
there's that and I this may be too
conspiratorial this is just me
spitballing here but the way that he
says over months and years and they
haven't done this over decades
makes it seem like they've like
intelligences agencies have noticed that
they're like oh this would be a really
good thing to blame when we need to
right no I don't think you know I think
that's just get out it's a good out
there's really been no maintenance not
just for years but for decades on those
they have three high voltage lines
coming essentially from the gooery dam
that's our best explanation it is not
formed obviously by examination but
rather by reports that we've seen from a
fair number of experts as to the
Venezuelan Constitution the National
Assembly has passed a resolution that
states that that 30-day period of
interim presidency will not start ending
or counting until the day Nicolas Maduro
leaves power so the 30 days doesn't
start now it starts after Maduro and
they that that's a resolution of the
National Assembly after they did that
this is roughly a month ago we could we
could try to find the date for you what
he was when when he was took the mantle
yes when when president that wasn't
there that's correct
when people asked a question how do you
know I I was elected for four years to
be president and then two years in it's
you changed the rules so that your term
didn't start you know hasn't even
started yet
exhale me that's cuz you don't get a
vote because you're not in the National
Assembly but we yes I mean we're taking
the the National Assembly is the only
legitimate Democratic institution left
in Venezuela and their interpretation of
the Constitution as you know is that as
of the date of this alleged term for
Maduro the presidency is vacant but they
have also said that that 30-day period
starts when Maduro goes
president of an interim that doesn't
exist yet
the 30-day end to his entry interim
presidency starts counting because he's
not in power that's the problem
Maduro is still there so they have
decided that they will count that from
when he actually is in power and Roberto
is gone
I think it's logical he is interim
president but he's not able to exercise
the powers of the office because Maduro
still is there interpretation is that
until and unless he actually has the
power to run the country he's not
actually no in turn there is their
interpretation is that the Constitution
requires a 30 day interim period but it
those 30 days should not be counted
while Maduro was still there exercising
the powers of his former office so this
is the actual bureaucratic spin of us
couse there is a technical rule which
we've made up on the fly because we've
made up on the fly that we recognize one
source of power overriding all other
institutions and legitimacy z' in
venezuela and we then make up an
imaginary rule to justify the other
imaginary source of power that we've
recognized it's almost like if you've
ever played with you know like a niece
or nephew or something like that where
you're like oh here's this world i've
made up and these are the rules by which
you have to participate in my game and
you're like okay sure here's i guess
we're gonna do that except this guy is
the power of the entire intelligence
apparatus right so those guys actively
trying to institute a coup right now
looks like as well it's like all those
old like that old Chomsky book like what
we say goes or those sorts of titles
like yeah we can just basically
this into reality that's it who knows
that better than Elliott Abrams really
Elliott Abrams says I mean Elodie Brahms
covered up some of the worst I mean the
types of things that the Reagan
administration with appointment of
Elliott Abrams backed in places like
Elsa
Guatemala would make Isis look twice
alright let's just we'll finish this
kind of global tour go to Brazil the
Latin Americans were okay well uh first
I want to just say about a little over a
week ago the afl-cio gave Luiz Inacio
Lula da Silva it's Human Rights Award
and they recognized him for what he was
a president that brought tens of
millions of people out of poverty left
the presidency with record approval
ratings and also was somebody that
because he was a poor illiterate
self-made until he was an adult he
learned to read you you know organizer
who you know lost fingers working in a
factory who helped end the military
dictatorship in the 80s through his
activism and was a very very successful
social democratic president the grand
scheme of things including especially
what was possible and the years he
governed from 2000 to 2010 so everybody
look part of the reason I talk about
Lula a lot is because he is this
incredibly important figure and because
it is genuinely extraordinary and
horrifying that you can put somebody in
jail and wage a ruthless campaign
against them in their political party in
the democratic apparatus of the
center-left in Brazil with no material
evidence is mind-boggling especially
from my perspective because like look
I'm a person of the world and I have no
doubt that wall the charges against him
of taking things like a apartment after
he was president which isn't even
illegal anyways and his pales in
comparison to like the speaking fees and
consultancy I mean Tony Blair is hopping
across the globe making literally tens
of millions of dollars advising
dictators and oil funds and all the rest
of it and we're putting an incredible
leader in jail for a economy middle
class apartment on the beach that there
isn't even any evidence in terms of
writing or legal documents to connect
them to it's all based off of the
testimony of somebody who pleaded out so
I think it's terrifying in and of itself
and I think it's a great wrong to a good
person and a great leader but I also
think especially as Brazil comes more
alive in u.s. discourse
all of a sudden people are sort of taken
up by the horror show of balsan ro who
is just you know I mean he's like Trump
he's one of the worst people on planet
Earth and whether you're concerned about
the environment or the Amazon or
indigenous people or LGBTQ people or you
have a concern and understanding of
labor and pensions I mean this is a
relentless assault not to mention what
might the crisis that could be set off
if they continue to instigate with that
as well so it's first that there is a
context that gets bolson out of power
and you can't understand it without
understanding the totally illegitimate
removal of Dilma Rouseff from power in
2016 you can't understand it without the
jailing of lula da silva who led bolson
ro in the polls could you imagine if
lula was at the White House with Trump
instead of bolson ro no crisis in
Venezuela no Amazon on the chopping
block
no clawed back protections for LGBTQ
people and I think that there is a
certain type of person and part of it is
because of the just atrocious and
unpardonable coverage from The Guardian
in The New York Times and Voxx and
others and I'm not saying like look
they're not in the opinion business of
course it's not their job and their
reporter's job to say he's innocent free
him but it is their job to say to report
the facts of the case instead of just
repeating the pablum of the discredited
Brazilian judiciary and Brazilian elites
there's no material evidence and the
person who put him in jail without any
material evidence is the justice
minister and this fantastically
fascistic balsan ro government so in any
country wouldn't be an interesting story
from The Times or The Guardian to report
oh the lead candidate who was the former
president who was universally respected
and regarded was put in jail without any
material evidence by an independent
prosecutor backed by the United States
who then became the justice minister and
a new far-right extremist government
that has its own already within a couple
months infinitely more serious
corruption allegations maybe that's just
an interesting thing to write about
maybe that's just worth looking at and
the last thing I'll say - if you want to
have solidarity if you go to the
Brazilian left and if you're on social
media obviously upper-class Brazilians
mostly and people speaking English have
you know they're gonna be part of the
people who have been propagandized on
this issue but if you want actual
solidarity with the left they will tell
you we need to free Lula this is part if
you want to be solidarity with us
against Bolson ro you need to deal with
this issue and not you know bail on it
because it's actually fundamental to
understanding what's happening in Brazil
and also the u.s. role of what's
happening in Brazil I don't know I am
increasingly convinced I know that the
DOJ backed lava jato I know that US
foreign policy was moved towards
reversing these pink tide governments I
think it's quite bizarre bolson arrow
visited the CIA and I am not convinced
that the ongoing imprisonment of Lula
and taking him off the board and D
legitimization the Workers Party was not
part of that conversation this is a
report from Michael Fox the real news
network and I want to highlight this
because this is the new social movement
that's brewing in Brazil to free Lula
and these activists will tell you
themselves that you cannot separate this
broader struggle from that imprisonment
[Applause]
social movements and left political
parties met in Sao Paulo over the
weekend to relaunch the campaign to
fully form a president who resubmission
Lula da Silva it's important to free
Lula because he represents each and
every one of us he represents our
victories if he's in jail each of us are
in jail it means our rights are going
down the drain
they need to put more than a thousand
people attended the event at the meeting
the organized plans for a series of
actions to coincide with the one-year
anniversary of Lula's imprisonment on
April 7th under Lula's presidency
millions were lifted out of poverty he
left office with an 87 percent approval
rating he's still one of the country's
most popular leaders but he was jailed
last year after he was convicted of
accepting a beachside apartment from a
company seeking government contracts
judges ruled against him in a second
conviction earlier this year
involving this time a country property
in our north of South Paulo but his
supporters and many legal experts say
he's innocent and that the convictions
were means of blocking him from
returning to power they say judge Sergio
Mora was politically motivated Mauro has
long held connections to the country's
right wing he's now president jarba son
Otto's Justice Minister we in the
Brazilian association of lawyers for
democracy have been following this case
for a long time from the very beginning
with lawyers from across the country and
we consider both rulings against Lula to
be complete judicial aberrations there
is no evidence against Lula so that's it
and it was great that the letter a
couple of weeks ago that the group of
Congress people sent out registering all
their concerns about balsa Narrows
assault on Brazil it's at least included
a paragraph on how the barring of Lula
from the presidential elections the most
popular politician in the country
undermine democratic institutions but
this needs to become much more clear
much more aggressive and much more
robust he is a political prisoner and
you cannot separate that from a broader
concern set about Brazil in where's I'm
sorry this in Houston or yes Deer Park
Texas stepping by Houston Deer Park
Texas in Houston a really terrible story
basically there's been a fire at a
chemical plant and people need to be
indoors you know look let's politicize
this
in a way so maybe this might actually
not happen in this country someday this
is gonna affect thousands of people's
health this is from the city city of
Deer Park go inside immediately seek the
nearest enclosed structure whether it's
a house business garage or vehicle if
you know of any unintended child in your
neighborhood call them and tell them to
remain indoors keep any pets indoors
also gather emergency supplies like a
going on portable radio flashlight and
extra batteries close all doors windows
and other sources of outside air turn
off air conditioning or heating systems
and close the fireplace damper to keep
chemical vapors from entering ceiling
fans or rotary fans inside the
building's can be you be safely used to
keep cool cover any gapes holes or
cracks wet towels or sheets to prevent
vapors from entering your home if you
have trouble breathing contact 9-1-1 so
I mean we're gonna play a couple clips
of it we have a we are a massively under
regulated Society where companies can
regularly disregard and jeopardize
Public Health and Texas who is held up
as a pinnacle of how to live by the
right well I don't want to live like
this let's check it out this is a Mia
savage of ABC 13 this is my show we're
coming to you of course upwind from the
ITC a containment facility we're right
now at least seven containers are
burning and you know we've seen plant
officials say hey everything is under
control we monitor the air it's all
within the limits we talked to some
environmentalists including the man with
Airlines Houston he says hey your eyes
are not deceiving you well I think you
know just by looking behind me you can
tell that this is not normal this is not
fun and like I said the only thing
that's preventing preventing this from
being a major catastrophe is a favorable
weather conditions everything is not
fine that's why it's important to stay
on top of the information about what's
in these chemicals we must have
transparency
from the government and from the company
involved and we will be keeping on top
of this to give you the latest
information um and then we have just
more raw footage of this I mean again
deregulation kills Bravo on that report
too but Bravo and that report incredible
reporting from Michelle che che Maia che
yeah sorry Savage on Twitter Maya che my
ashame is a excellent reporting
excellent local reporting their eyes and
their and they and the company is
spinning that this is ood food under
control there's a massive chemical fire
of course several years ago there was a
fertilizer explosion in Texas that
killed several people and then of course
we get more and more disclosures every
day of PG and E's conduct in California
I would say look more provocatively you
know capitalism this is a fundamental
logic of capitalism all right but if you
want to even keep it in the bounds of
that is my fundamental diagnosis if I'm
being you know transparent but if you
want to keep it in the bounds of a more
sort of narrow debate deregulation kills
your calling from a seven to four area
code who are you where you're calling
from hi hi Jeremy
yes who are you where you calling from
hi hi hey my name is Wu I'm from
Pittsburgh okay whoo what's going on hey
so I kind of wanted to get a your take
on a well I feel like a lot of people on
the shot are gonna be rolling their eyes
on at this but the whole andrew yang
phenomenon that you all might take I'm
Angela I've been thinking not so much
not so much yank himself but the I mean
I I have mixed feelings on the UVI
proposal as well as being interesting
but not really the way it's implemented
I'm more interested in the whole
phenomenon surrounding him and how so
many of these all right guys who were
totally supporting Trump seem to have
completely shifted in our full-on
full-on yang team right now here's my
thought here's my you know it you not to
cut you off but it's like I just want to
say first of all most Trump guys don't
know who the hell you Andrew yang is
right like this is a total internet
thing so and honestly if we're gonna
really narrow it to just a question of
what people are doing with their
internet time I'd prefer yang memes to
trump memes so that's a slight Monica
mum improvement I guess I mean yes it is
it is but I mean did you have but I
think it makes sense I mean there's a
perception among some people that they
can get a catch I check grant can't
transfer to be on 4chan and play video
games all day I mean it makes sense well
it definitely makes me a little bit
happier to see people moving towards me
mean something that's uh you know not as
outwardly hateful or just based on a
completely asinine terrible rhetoric as
much as you know the Trump stuff has
been but it does make me wonder like
what do these guys even stand for in the
first place like did any of these people
ever even actually have any real values
behind supporting like a conservative
movement or is it just all I'm like the
probably not I don't I don't I don't
know I don't know I don't really care
yeah but I will say this I think that
and I've tried to be I went off on
Andrew yang for the first time and we
guess we'll probably post it on T MBS
soon but my until very recently my basic
call and yang has been what I just said
which is like I prefer you mean free
hang the Trump so cool whatever
substantively it seems to me that if you
dig into his proposals and watch his
interviews which I've done a little bit
I should say me seems like a very nice
guy but it's a Trojan horse for
libertarianism and even if it's an
opt-in system it's insane that you would
opt in for a thousand bucks a month and
get rid of even food stamps alone I mean
if you actually crunch the numbers on
this is not good for poor people he
indicates what we've been saying about
you be yeah he vindicates our concern
and critique of ubi for longstanding and
then the other thing is when he said a
couple of weeks ago that there's some
people in you know elite circles that
discount the suffering of like a laid
off white worker and that's wrong I
happen to agree with him now I wouldn't
frame it that way because I'm not
interested in the frankly the worker
could be black could be Asian could be
white could be what you know that
doesn't matter to me a worker is a
worker but he's there's no doubt that
he's right that there's some people in
this sort of like woke Twitterati you'll
get some garbage take from of like oh
well I don't want to hear about it right
like you know the opioid crisis is white
people or whatever first of all that's
not any type of official policy from any
type of leader or anything but you know
just like you can catch a bad take from
any you can always catch a bad take so I
didn't really have a problem with that
but the other night on TMDs and granted
it was one tweet but it was a tweet that
he put out about birth rates and America
becoming majority minority and as soon
as you started talking like that I'm
done I done you know the politeness is
gone because whatever it is you think
you're whatever is you think you're
doing what you're playing to there is
the most dangerous disgusting sentiment
by the way he's going on ben shapiro
show it looks like right of course is
gonna go on Ben Schmidt and again I
don't I don't really begrudge him that
either but I just think we got to
realize that this is a center-right
media exercise and people should get a
little bit more sophisticated about
policy thanks for the call now that
makes me skeptical of Yang and I do feel
like this is gonna eventually really
turn around to hurt him with like those
sayings like saying those kind of
statements some of the people he's
associated himself with well well hurt
will it hurt him though if his goal I
mean I guess I'm not too it rubs you but
it's like if his goal is to like get a
great email list and go on Joe Rogan and
be a meme I don't know he's already
achieved that goal like I'm sorry I'm
not trying to be an but it's
like he's not trying not as yeah he's
not he's not a stupid guy he knows he's
not gonna
so what is he doing he's doing I had no
idea your gang was four months ago now I
do success more or less yeah I mean I do
think the one positive that could come
out of this is the fact that somebody
from this kind of more sort of
center-right perspective is pushing
conversation about wealth inequality not
so much wealth inequality but just like
wealth in general to like a larger
portion of people that might have not
have been receptive to these arguments
before and it can maybe push the left
more to talking about getting more of
radical more progressive and talking
about how they would address the kind of
thing yeah I don't yeah I don't agree
with that yeah I think he's muddy in the
waters I think if he was doing this in
the GOP it'd be better for ya he's
running you know that's exactly right if
he was challenging Trump in the
Republican primary he would be great but
coming in and again even like the work
that needs to be done in this country to
D ideologized people from like the idea
that capitalism is just a metaphysical
force that you just have to let do its
thing and the only thing you could
possibly hope to do is like clean up the
mess in its wake
requires so much work and that's all
this guy does I mean the truth of the
matter is I mean again I'll get what's
really provocative I mean Tucker Carlson
who's doing the opposite sort of game
and making faints to the but he actually
used that example himself Tucker Carlson
said I believe to Ben Shapiro I watch
this he's like if you told me that a new
driverless car is eliminating twenty
million jobs I would say no I would
regulate it out of existence and that it
frankly is the right answer not
companies can do whatever the hell they
want here's a little tech cash transfer
I mean if you really think out the logic
of that that's extraordinarily dystopian
and behind the smiling face of Yang
icier the I see the leering face of
Peter teal thanks for the call we'll all
right one more call you're calling from
a 972 area code who are you where you
calling from sorry
I can't hear you I can't hear you man
the connection is all very strange good
yeah yeah it's not where I'm sorry sorry
about that
sorry it's like a videogame like from
the 90s Gattaca no yeah I wasn't working
you're calling from a nine one three
area code who are you where you calling
from
hello this is me I am Edward goose from
Kansas City Edward what's up what's on
your mind
Hey first-time caller so I'm kind of
nervous oh my gosh oh I wanted to talk
about the steak the Abrams clip the e
plate what's up we didn't play any
Stacey Abrams clip from blend oh no not
the Stacey Abrams the cliff he played
about Venezuela Elliott Abrams sorry Oh
Ellie
so yes I'm sorry such a hole right there
no worries so I don't know if you guys
noticed but the guy's body language
while he was talking was so nefarious
look Jimmy and I saw this until it's
heard yesterday um can I just say like
made me very nervous
that is like guy from the Midwest kind
of would be about fascism but I'm trying
to understand like how it is so easy for
somebody to pull something so like
obviously such a lie like he's sitting
there talking about well you know Maduro
has to leave and then the process can
begin if that already in the
Constitution well this guy his I mean
this guy lied about you know I mean
literal massacres where children were
banned two year olds were bayonetted I
mean I
this guy has of course my god his zero
conscience I mean really look him up I
mean this guy is I mean this guy is a
tremendous amount of blood on his hands
I appreciate the call man thank you and
he could it is true just know he does
he's right the caller Jeff Dunham puppet
Jonathan
brought to Lu John Swartz from the
intercept has a lot of good pieces on
Abrams and like tracking him through the
Contras - now you got to read yeah John
Schwartz is indispensable on Abrams
Stacey Elliott Abrams in Atlanta that's
a good that's a good bit maybe chicken
vote and I wish that that's how it would
be like Alexander Colburn had one of the
most fun theories of who Jeeves is in
the Worcester and Jeeves books and
Colburn said it's like I think it's Iago
is that the character in Othello who
poisons Othello and he said Jeeves is
almost like a repentant Iago just sort
of like quietly doing penance by doing
like small pieces of good for like dumb
British aristocrats so Elliott Abrams if
he wanted to watch some of the blood off
his hands could apply his sociopathy to
voting rights in Georgia yes that would
be a very nice redemptive arc that will
never happen
train boy breaking Dane County judge
issues temporary injunction blocking
laws passed by the GOP in a lame-duck
session limiting the power of Governor
Evers an attorney general Josh qua qua
that's what's happening in Wisconsin
that's important Steve derv UVI can be
cool but people need to know that Andrew
Yang's ubi is a dubious libertarian
leaning and the candidate himself seems
to be a white supremacist I mean I think
this is there let's not it's hard to
know it in his heart but yeah Italy not
sensitive to like not playing footsie
with well this is what I'm saying is
that but i think is actually a good
lesson for the left
let's stay let's save those like that's
an ultimate punch show let's save that a
little bit whereas i said i said
yesterday on twitter he's nice guy dog
whistling which is 100% true like that's
objective-c as soon as you say that then
i can get into an argument with somebody
about whether or not he is and i don't
want to get into that what i want to
just say is why the was he tweeting
that about birthrates that's all I care
about like it's like playing dragon ball
fighters fighters and doing
heavy attack all the time you need to
mix some light attacks right and now I
agree with you he specifically talked
about Americans being underdogs in their
own land white birth rates how
immigrants shouldn't be here and there's
a reason why there's a white supremacist
mean culture around him he's directly
speaking away for supremacy I again I I
increasingly think that's true Fran from
Philadelphia Michael you mentioned maybe
on TBS an interview with someone named
Daniel Moines regarding critique of
liberal rights discourse you know I'm
talking about and you have more details
so I can find it
Samuel Moines I yeah Samuel well if you
are a Samuel Moines not Daniel Moines he
wrote Daniel - Samuel Moines and if you
are 80 mb/s patron you can find it it is
human rights rights are not enough in
elicit history of human rights and the
problems with human rights as a
discourse and also a history of Western
philosophy from Aristotle to Marx it's a
great patron accomplished EMBs John
McCain's parachute
I'm just glad no one is blasting me for
once saving his life Mitch McConnell's
egg solidarity with splattered brethren
in Brazil and Australia I sit here with
my clutch awaiting deployment I lay here
contemplating in which his Chin's shall
my protein splatter Colin from Nebraska
hey Michael who do you reference after
you mentioned the Nebraska flooding
yesterday Lena Khan I tried to look her
up but not what I couldn't find anything
oh well Lena Khan is someone who writes
on monopolies but it's not CEO and n
that's if you spelled it like that it's
KH a n Lena Khan KH and Brock from VA I
just re-watched City of God the other
day the DVD extras they have it's a 1999
documentary called news from a personal
war that documents a Drug Task Force and
police corruption in 1990s Brazil and
one police commissioner talks about how
it was appointed to combat corruption
but when he prosecutes a wealthy farmer
for murdering his wife he suddenly not
invited to any big galas and social
events where he was formally celebrated
its up for free on YouTube and
interesting pre Lula era doc well that
era is not so pre right now bolson ro
water from a water boat from Kashmir
speaking of glorified government
contractors the facility where Elon
Musk's assembles his rockets
specifically designed and built in the
late 90s and early 2000s for assembling
rockets that would replace the space
shuttle the cost of building this
facility was close to 10 billion in the
1990s and this is before PayPal and
before he dreamed of rockets this guy
couldn't assemble his Rockets let alone
get them off the ground if there was an
existing infrastructure 100% of course
Wow
Jim he just tweeted this out yeah about
hour ago so Israel withdrew from the
Golan Heights under Golan Heights under
a hood Barak I believe in like the late
90s I don't I mean I I need I need to
know more about the Golan Heights but
it's very weird Donald Trump after 52
years it's time for the United States
recognize Israel's sovereignty over the
Golan Heights which is a critical
strategic importance the State of Israel
and regional security
I mean regional stability okay yeah the
Golan Heights is our a settled issue
maybe they're implicated again from
Israeli thinking because of the Syrian
civil war but you know look I'll talk
more about the Israeli elections and go
more over Israel but I mean there's a
complete synchronize their all
synchronized Israel is a far-right ethno
state that administers apartheid and
they get more transparent every single
day so you're all ready to do those
things right so the real question is and
I'll mug up on that and get that covered
but like the real question is is you
know again I've heard that Elizabeth
Warren isn't gonna go to AIPAC that's a
good small step beta or orc specifically
said that Netanyahu placed a racist but
then also he said some nonsense about a
boss which just is a total false power
equivalency but you know if you have
pretensions of even sort of just basic
center right center left sort of anti
bigoted leadership it's totally
untenable to support Israel totally
unscented
okay names Darwin Michael the Golan
Heights were unilaterally annexed in
1981 after being occupied in 1967 and
they are still occupied
oh you're right oh this is totally my
bed Barak evacuated self Lebanon but not
to go on okay you're right you're right
my bad so yes this is area that Israel
still illegally occupies and just like
moving the capital from you know to
Jerusalem this is just more of the Trump
administration formally backing Israeli
Apartheid and similar policies you're
calling from a 408 area code who are you
calling from hello hello 408 are you
there hey hi I'm Michael I'm gonna
first-time caller I'm calling from the
Big Freedia
calling from where the Bay Area the Bay
Area what's wrong yeah Eric hey Eric
what's on your mind man thanks for
calling hey thank you madam so I just
wanted to call in and you brought did a
great piece on the PG&E stand over here
that hit all of California how they've
been rising the prices on us here
constantly and you know one of the
things I never got is why does the top
just continue raising the prices but
their lack of funding to actual pruning
of the trees close to those wires that
got affected in all over California and
the neglect from those top-level
continue to get paid and continue to get
bailed out on a constant basis when us
the people suffer is if it isn't bad
enough that you got all these tech
companies ruining the job market the
regular sector in people living here in
San Francisco and and all that and then
PG&E is another level but the government
is actually back in them and they're
gonna let these top-level executives
like walk out well you know I mean I
totally agree right I totally agree with
you
and the reason that I would say is
because of corruption oligarchy
capitalism I mean this is where it
becomes broken record like but that's
the only answer I mean yes PG&E has
executives and has people they are not
even I believe there there's some type
of public-private hybrid David Griscom
is the guy who's covered that
extensively for the Michael Brooks show
and you should look up those videos on
our YouTube channel because he's again
it's it's important of itself but it's a
great case study for understanding how
our world works and the reason they do
is because they are connected with
politicians because they fund campaigns
and because elites are not accountable
in this society and because there's also
a mythology about markets so with that
principle that you're saying I feel like
these tech companies have all bought out
the politicians in this area - ROH
Khanna which is right up the way where I
live right in the South Bay um so he's
in Fremont but here in San Jose in the
South Bay you know we're seeing levels
of poverty of hope it's occurring
because houses that used to be even just
ten years ago you could be three hundred
four hundred five hundred thousand now a
single-family home thousand square feet
over here in the South Bay will run you
1.6 million you know you know and that's
part of is this all stemming from that
same where the politicians are allowing
these people becoming run wild with it's
capitalism again honestly like this
really is a case that is it if you have
unregulated markets and you let
quote-unquote markets do what they're
supposed to do you will concentrate
wealth uh you will create centers and
peripheries so right now we're in
economic cycle and what's you know of
course it's an irony of history maybe in
30 or 40 years Silicon Valley will be
like Detroit because the sort of base of
economic production will migrate right
there are different types of
cycles of geography and types of
capitalism we practice but right now you
have an unregulated totally untamed
market when you do that it doesn't
create more competition openness it
creates self dealing monopolies and ever
greater and greater economic but also
social concentration if you read Corrie
Pines book he's like you know the there
was still people even a couple years ago
huffing the glue of the Silicon Valley
dream and he was like no if you go here
the way you get into a Silicon Valley
startup is you go to Stanford and you
know an incredibly small handful of
people and then actually no matter how
dumb your startup ideas you probably can
start get some venture capital if not
you won't get it and the money
concentrates and then that leads to
gentrification and again if you don't
impose rent controls if you don't impose
you know if you don't have mass public
housing I know other people think that
the you know NIMBYism is the big problem
maybe that is on some level but it's a
second order problem you're gonna get
middle-class working-class and
increasingly even a place like the bay
in parts of New York like upper-middle
class people simply not able to afford
there and then you're gonna also create
a whole others yet where it's an
inviting market for oligarchs to just
point you know park their money there's
apartments all over Manhattan that I
guarantee you they're occupied a week of
the year it's a place to sit money
should be seized they should be seized
they should be made public and
redistributed to the population a
hundred percent so that's it you feel
the same pain in New York you feel the
same pain in New York as we do in the
Bay Area with looking good Cisco you
know and every everybody everybody's
feeling that to some degree or another
every every place that isn't and then on
the flipside you know a place like
Detroit literally has areas where
wildlife have like like Ecology's have
grown back up in the land and city and
kids you know I was listening to this
piece about Detroit the other day and
this journalist pointed out that there
was a you know a small family home
next to you know some like unfinished
construction site or something basically
something we're like the little kids out
playing they could seriously hurt
themselves and there's no you know
there's no mechanism from the city to do
anything about it because it's an
abandoned periphery and that has always
been the cycle that's how markets work
you have centers where the capital flows
into and then it's either extracted
ruthlessly from the peripheries and then
it's abandoned I mean that's the cycle I
agree I totally I I feel like just this
part of the Bay Area got really messed
over with Adobe and Google out buying
everything in our congresswoman I don't
even think she represents the majority
what's her name a day you know what's
her name is Zoe Lofgren my Lofgren no
Zoe Lofgren yeah and I've never ever
seen her around here see but yet Domenic
she was one of the people grilling
people on on google asking about those
dumb Trump questions you remember that
right yeah they're like oh they're right
you know they're banning it they're
making all this stuff and social media
about but she was one of the ones that
asked that good all right I got it I got
it I got a cabin move in Eric but I
really appreciate the call man I'm just
at a time no no that's a great call I've
just seen we have to end pretty soon so
I got to keep it going but thank you so
much man appreciate it I appreciate you
taking the call
hang on no go back in please do Thanks
all right let's just go through a couple
more pieces of sound because we we got
to end soon but we should do a few more
pieces let's do both of these Elizabeth
Warren clips and then if we have time
we'll do that Union clip so Elizabeth
Warren had her Town Hall the other night
um Sam played the main takeaway
yesterday abolish the Electoral College
excellent she's a hundred percent right
I'm glad she's putting points on the
board like this and I think this was a
pretty good answer on white supremacy as
like an actual security threat and again
on one hand I want us to kind of
introduce way less securitisation
discourse into our politics in general
the other hand obviously things like
Christchurch
or tree of life synagogue our white
supremacy based terrorism good evening
since the election of Donald Trump the
number hate crimes has increased and
white supremacist have become more
emboldened online and in public what are
your plans to unite the country oh good
thank you for that question you know it
starts with the fact that we've got to
recognize the threat posed by white
nationalism white supremacists posed a
threat to the United States like any
other terrorist group like Isis like
al-qaeda and leadership starts at the
top and that means you've got to call it
out
and then when you call it out as
president of the United States you've
got to use the tools available to you
and that means get the Justice
Department when they break the law to go
after them with full prosecution that's
what I can do I think that that's a good
answer I think she also mentioned the
stuff Obama was doing with the DOJ and
police departments in another part of
the town halls okay that's good because
that's was a connection that I was going
to draw it has to be a part of a whole
you know again it's a very weird balance
to pull off because I generally think
that the you know obviously something
like the Department of Homeland Security
is an enormous ly problematic thing
whose power and access I do not want to
expand but obviously to the extent all
of these agencies have power and have a
role to play in legitimately disrupting
crime and terrorism
obviously right wing and whites firms
terrorism needs to be at the center of
that because that is objectively what
the biggest threat is right now inside
the United States and in fact of course
has been historically but in additions
that you need to connect it to a whole
broad sweep of police violence of racial
discrimination policies and violence
across the board particularly with
regards to law enforcement that's
dialectic he needs to pull off but
that's great that she connected those
themes and that's a good answer here's
the problem with Elizabeth Warren uh she
keeps equivocating on Medicare for all
uh and if you listen and talk to
somebody like Jamila missioner who is
one of the premier scholars of Medicaid
in health care in this country while
balancing this nuanced and brilliant
history of the compromises of things
like the New Deal in the Great Society I
asked her I said you know what do you
what do you think about the Sanders and
Jay Paul bills and you know her basic
perspective was if these bills get
passed we are light year like Americans
are in another planet in terms of better
off and the only concern that she has is
the robustness of long term care and
both of these bills
so the
I'm bringing up by saying that from a
serious scholar and a real humanitarian
like that frankly is single-payer is in
some respects the compromise and the
only valid conversation the only mount
valid moral conversation you have about
this
I think valid political conversation you
have about this is the extent to which
you were going to fully fill out from
from mental to dental to every type of
conceivable care universal health care
and completely get rid of the parasite
HMO insurance company model period . so
on the merits this is so disturbing that
she equivocates about this and then the
politics how she understands politics
Bernie totally understands in order to
pass any type of even remotely
progressive program you need a totally
mobilized society and so when she
equivocates like this it's like is she
thinking about that mobilization or is
she thinking about some wonky
negotiation process and that's a big
concern for me so let's play that here's
a question about Medicare for all all
right senator Warren thank you so much
for being here this evening and your
tireless advocacy for universal health
care as a supporter of universal health
care and an advocate for organized labor
I do worry about the current bells
elimination of private health insurance
oh yeah as that would eliminate the
private health employer base plans but
so many unions have advocated for so
clone question can you explain how
Medicare for all would be better for
workers than simply improving the
Affordable Care Act okay so it's good
question let's start with our statement
that we should make every time we start
to talk about changes in our health care
and that is health care is a basic human
right and we fight today
and let's put these in order because I
appreciate that your question starts
with the Affordable Care Act let's all
remember when we're talking about what's
possible let's start where we are and
the difference between Democrats and
Republicans right now Democrats are
trying to figure out how to expand
health care coverage at the lowest
possible cost so everybody is covered
Republicans right this minute are out
there trying to repeal the Affordable
Care Act they've got a lawsuit pending
down in Texas where they're trying to
roll it back what they couldn't do with
a vote they're trying to do with the
courts HHS every day is doing what they
can to undermine the Affordable Care Act
so we're talking about health care in
America right now the first thing we
need to be talking about is defend the
Affordable Care Act protection under the
Affordable them part - let's make the
improvements that are what I think of is
low-hanging fruit for example let's
bring down the cost of prescription
drugs
we have lots of ways we can do that we
can import drugs from Canada where the
safety standards are the same that would
cut costs dramatically classes under
neck hair that would cut costs
dramatically and I've got a proposal to
help bring down the cost on generic
drugs which could be about 90% of all
prescriptions so let's get those costs
down and then you know what you're going
to hear from a consumer advocate and
that is we need to hold insurance
companies accountable and that means and
then when we talk about Medicare for all
there are a lot of different pathways
what we're all looking for is the lowest
cost way to make sure everybody gets
covered and some folks are talking about
let's start lowering the age maybe bring
it down to sixty fifty five fifty that
helps cover people who are most at risk
and can be helpful for example to the
labor's plans
some people say do it the other way
let's bring it up from everybody under
30 gets covered by Medicare others say
let employer's be able to buy into the
Medicare plans others say let's let
employees buy into the Medicare plans
for me what's key is we get everybody at
the table on this that Labor's at the
table that people who have to buy on
their own everybody comes to the table
together and we figure out how to do
Medicare for all in a way that make sure
that we're going to get a hundred
percent coverage in this country at the
lowest possible cost for everyone that's
our job
so look okay all of the stuff about
prescription drugs that's great in fact
she didn't even mention her most
interesting plan which is government
producing its own drugs that's actually
a great proposal that's fine she's wrong
uh the midterms were the vote on
protecting Obamacare and those of us who
are a hundred percent Pro Medicare for
all and understand that is the only
moral and policy answer . period that
Obamacare made great strides mostly on
the coverage end it was the expansion of
Medicaid and then it was a row but it
was essentially consumer protections now
I could tell you it which is also really
important and I could tell you if you're
on the exchanges yes it's of course
better to possibly figure out a way to
have health care than not but it ain't
good and if you're in many different
categories of people even with subsidies
paying a lot of money for crappy private
plans and you think that that's durable
first of all the companies will always
push back and always eat their way out
of obligations because they're parasitic
their business model literally is built
on taking your money and then denying
you care that's how the profits work and
then on top of that even though the
Republicans of course are liars and
their alternative is worse and horrific
and obscene and we pushed it off in 2017
they'll always have a talking point as
long as they're a 10 I in the beginning
of Obamacare I'll be transparent I was
so broke that I still the financial
calculations did not make sense then I
got some point where I kind of figured
out look I do it I'm not thrilled like
that that actually hurts me financially
what I have to pay and what I get
ain't nothing yeah it's ridiculous so we
were you're paying for a card if you're
on any of these programs yeah like our
worker provide our job provide it at
this point that's it or if you're on
Medicaid it's ludicrous and that's me
and that guy it's a very weird question
because okay you have employer insurance
lovely I thought you're a union
organizer and you're aware that jobs are
like this and like this and like this
and one of the biggest agreements even
around Obamacare was people like Nancy
Pelosi of all people saying if we
decouple your ability to have health
care from your job you'll have more
freedom which is true so still negotiate
other things or even supplemental health
insurance like they have in a lot of
countries right so it's a very weird
question so so first her timeline
just off we and I I accept those of us
who are Fuhrer Bernie did this perfectly
Medicare for all's the long-term goal
the short-term fight is is fight the
Republicans effort to destroy Obamacare
right now and until 2020 and certainly
if Democrats win Obamacare is protected
unless the courts do something insane
which is a holder set of questions so
wrong time line and then the bottom line
is is that it is not about a negotiation
it is not about this and that at the
table it is about these companies do not
provide value and every single category
of conceivable human being in this
country needs full complete no nonsense
no point-of-contact health care
and also quickly it's in we do know how
we can get there the Sanders and Jay
Paul plans are real plans they may not
be perfect as nothing is perfect but
those are not goal setting bills those
aren't like a paragraph that say
everybody should have health care those
are detailed scored out plans for how
you do this and they're the bare minimum
they're both good bills particularly to
Jay Paul bill that's it the way she says
the goal is to try to get everybody
covered as cheaply as possible like how
does she think that sounds appealing
because it's clear what is gonna suffer
in that calculation it's gonna be what
you define as covering everybody right
hundred-percent
cheaply as possible is not my goal right
and it doesn't fit like I don't know
what lane she thinks she's playing in
she's got a genuine claims to
progressive and moral leadership why is
she compromising that on health care it
makes no sense this sort of hedging
towards well we got to be able to
deliver something once we get into the
room it's like you're not in the room
yet so go in as aggressively as possible
and she was somebody sort of leg up and
she set this contemporaneously she was
someone inside the Obama administration
saying what the hell are you doing so
she already knows this I it's very
peculiar to me all right a few more
items then we gotta go Greg from
Oklahoma
I'm done hearing about how bad
Millennials have in terms of economic
prospects us Gen Z kids are even
more so
well how about class solidarity instead
of generation warfare but I hear you
Kentucky Fried comrade hey mr Cru you
just gotta say I'm disappointed in the
coverage of beta work yesterday yes he
may be a milquetoast politician with a
bad record bad instincts but there's
something about him something comforting
I've been imagined being held in these
gangly arms and those white long white
teeth or mining of the look of America
just saying a square you want to be
hashtag me too
you've been saying you want to be held
by Beto Brendan I want my wife to look
at bado the way that she's never looked
at me I want her to look at me the way
she looks at beta AG me to a square mic
sorry to not be able to make the west
coast show but it sounds great I listen
to the last few T MVS you really think
Warren's time has passed I see her as a
strong progressive not as progressive as
I would be but a very viable candidate
and it looks like she's in it for the
long game I just think that 2016 was her
time Bernie waited for her to run and
she didn't and he ran and now he is the
progressive leader so so even if she
stays in it for the long term and I have
my questions about that I'm not sure how
long she can last I actually think I
would like her to last but it's
predicated on something happening to
Bernie
so Barney's ceiling we'll see how far as
ceiling goes but his floor is I think
the most clearly defined of any
candidate and you know now especially
that you add a serious foreign policy to
the mix which of course he needs to get
better on I mean you know again it's
like I get like there's smart critiques
of Bernie that I appreciate and are
necessary and then I think sometimes
there's a little bit of kind of cosplay
action I was like hey well why didn't
Bernie say that he actually loves Maduro
and wants to build a co-op you know like
okay cuz he's running for
president I'm sorry
right but I just think the bottom line
is is he is
and more importantly the argument and
coalition he represents his running
point and it is a difference between a
serious social democratic argument or a
class-based argument or a class-based
momentum and I can also telling you this
anecdotally from talking to people that
I would deemed and a broad set of people
not people who are like coming in as pro
Bernie but people who are totally smart
on point people who are not political
junkies and even honestly like I'm a
little embarrassed to say this but like
going even doing like mini focus groups
like not you know like what I want hey
what do you think of this here's a few
seconds of Warren here's a few seconds
of baito here's a few seconds of Bernie
and I'm telling you across the board
with the obvious exception of the people
you'd expect which are affluent white
people who are like everybody else is
like yeah that sounds like what we need
and he just stands out and I I don't I
don't I think if Warren ran in 2016 I
would have been all about it but it's
2020 fate beats bill Billy woods and his
collaboration arm and hammered or making
great rap and political okay I don't
even know if that is cool one bit of
news before Joe 2020 Democrats who have
confirmed this a he'll Kapoor that they
won't be attending a PAC drumroll Bernie
Sanders Kamala Harris Elizabeth Warren
beta O'Rourke and Peter Budaj so I just
want to say cut the the hutzpah of Carla
Harris because her her APEC speeches are
some of the most Craven apex pages I've
seen in the history of Earth which is
say I mean outside of of course you know
someone like Chuck Schumer who still has
the crown but that's great well we'll
see how people react to it after in
worth compared to how they react to Omar
Josh's mom can you it's all right wing
Mandela to come over he's goes to Meeks
probably shouldn't have read that one
all right okay final I am of the day
uh Jeffrey Michael are you ready to join
the hashtag Revell gang I've been seeing
a lot of establishment Dems asking for
one donation one dollar donations to
reach the DNC's donor threshold funny
how they can't seem to hit that magical
number organically grevilles way better
than yang oh yeah I mean if we have to
have like a you know meme worthy like
kind of irony candidate Mike Greville
was a great senator he's I mean yes like
all energy that goes to Andrew yang
should be immediately pulled the plug on
and go to right straight to Mike Ravel
he's great I hope he answers the debates
alright folks see you tomorrow
to get to where I want
no son
I was late I just got
[Music]
feel any better yeah
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
