here is and this you know I mean this
speaks to it's just a coincidence that I
mentioned during this interview with
David Wallace wells that maybe we need
someone who is talking about relieving
student debt and then also happens to
have a strong climate change perspective
to to win into office and actually do
something about climate change at least
to the extent that the United States can
influence it it was a coincidence but
there was a report that was just
recently put out I mean I think like
literally within the past couple of days
maybe it wasn't in the past couple days
but I've been seeing it more for some
reason that the economic case for
canceling all student debt and there is
a report out maybe it's a very recent
actually that that suggests that
canceling student debt one point four
trillion dollars of student debt would
end up bringing far more in economic
activity because of course student debt
holds you back you don't buy a house you
don't buy you don't have kids you stay
stuck in one job and you maybe maybe
there's a couple of entrepreneurs out
there that will never know about because
they have to continue their crappy job
at a podcast say because and they can't
go out on their own because they've got
to pay their student debt
here's Jacob Sabra he's in UC Irvine
this is in Orange County
this is California's like sort of I want
to say Ground Zero but one of the hearts
of republicanism in California he went
out there to see what motivates students
to vote in
sting bus stop at UC Irvine there I
think 26,000 kids that go to school here
and if the Democrats can get all of them
to vote for them then maybe Republicans
will be in trouble in this district but
I don't know sorry not to be annoying
but we're with NBC News and I'm just
trying to figure out anybody you're
gonna vote in the election on November
6th anybody anybody nobody's gonna vote
is anybody gonna vote in the
congressional election in November you
are thank you sir what do you care about
school what about you I'll walk you to
my stuff you guys get on this bus yeah
so if you were gonna vote what is the
thing that's gonna get your vote
probably school expensive I was gonna
say you're not talking about the issues
that people talk about in the news all
the time the Russia investigation or
Supreme Court's you know watch that
stuff are you registered to vote
how do you get 18 so this could be your
first election yeah and ultimately you
could decide whether or not the House of
Representatives isn't democratic or
Republican control are you thinking
about all that not currently maybe if I
took more time to like get informed
about like what's going on right now in
politics I assume that the people voting
have at least some idea of who they're
voting for
are you gonna vote I should we're like
the most unreliable voter demographic so
I should vote to like increase those
numbers you know well that's what the
Democrats want but they can't count on
you guys necessarily
slowly you keep passing those these
questions the rest of people our age are
gonna keep doing or like oh man
better go all the old people to my old
no boy I mean I it's hard to get people
I think to tune into this stuff one year
in college and I did run on the things
that the college kids care about right
yeah but I think it's also just hard to
get them to even be aware like you know
I don't know how much any of these folks
would even know like that there was
somebody suggesting that they're
addressing their and their needs or
their interests I mean in college
anyways I think people are far you know
just not necessarily engaged in the same
way I mean I think for some students
it's almost it almost feels like -
they're too young I mean I know people
are adults secondly at 18 but like a lot
of these kids especially freshmen they
were what just under their parents house
roof like last year like they they're
still figuring stuff out like I I don't
expect much from and they don't even and
to be honest like the student loan stuff
hasn't even really kicked into that
right that's not even real oh yeah yeah
you know what radicalized me and made me
politically active trying to survive on
my own in the world well yeah that
that's exactly the point
