so Eric I am scrolling through a YouTube
as I often do looking for what the the
latest the folks on Fox News are saying
and I have noticed as of late maybe you
know the last I don't know maybe six to
twelve months that a strange phenomena
has been taking place inside of Tucker
Carlson or at least that is in
manifesting it outside of Tucker Carlson
the some of it I just rode off to
trumpism Donald Trump as you know at
least made some I guess tiny nods to
economic populism over the course of his
campaign to the extent that he did he
hasn't really carried through on that
stuff but Tucker Carlson is the heir to
if I'm not mistaken the Swanson frozen
dinner fortune he is not someone that I
have associated with the working class
yet as of late he has been saying things
that have been sort of you know
surprising for Furtick Carson and and
certainly I'm not the only one to notice
a lot of people wrote about this you
wrote about not only a Tucker Carlson
what he had to say but also those who
critiqued him from the from the right I
guess but but first what what is it that
Tucker Carlson has been saying as of
late and I think in particular there was
one 15-minute segment he did on his show
where he talked about the the problems
with free-market capitalism in the way
that it's impacting American families
what did he say exactly yes so Tucker
for a while now actually he had this
book last year ship of fools which
elaborated the argument for a while he's
been putting
out the most intellectually coherent
version of what early primary trumpism
seems like it could be sort of he's
doing what Steve Danon would do if he
had you know hadn't killed quite so many
brain cells with cocaine or whatever you
know it sort of the sophisticated and in
some places insightful arguments for the
ways that a worship of markets and a
prioritization of markets above all
other values has actually undermined the
kinds of cultural social and family
values that that really motivate the
Republican base so in his monologue
which was inspired partially by Mitt
Romney's condemnation of Donald Trump
Carlson said that you know did basically
a huge part of the reason why families
are breaking down in rural America why
we're seeing in rural America today a
lot of the same problems that we saw in
Detroit and newer 30 years ago with
rampant drug abuse single mothers break
down a family permanently unemployed
people you know conservatives used to
say this was all about big government
and you know that's part of the story
short but now we're seeing in white
rural America and it's clear that part
of the answer here is that manufacturing
jobs were outsourced male wages declined
and that you have just a crisis of
blue-collar working-class employment and
low wages and that contrary to
traditional conservative rhetoric it is
not the case simply that the culture
determines economics that so long as you
get married you will have and do the
right thing you will have an
economically successful life but rather
that under certain economic conditions
it actually becomes harder to form a
family and harder to have a make the
right decisions
personally and that this is a problem
that that conservatives must take
seriously and sort of his his flourish
was that you know market capitalism is
not a religion human beings aren't meant
to serve markets markets should serve
human beings and that if our economic
system is not helping families stay
together and is not you know keeping our
nation happy and United and you know
preventing the outbreak of identity
politics and keeping immigrants out of
the country if these things are not what
market capitalism has to offer then we
should change our economic system now
there's a lot there that I agree with I
mean particularly you know the you know
the first parts and the I think you know
from a from a leftist perspective the it
is helpful that a guy like Tucker
Carlson is dispelling the notion that
there is a culture a specific culture
that breeds poverty I think that's
rather helpful and that there are sort
of material realities that create
poverty and it's aware where along that
trajectory does he go off the rails a
bit or do you perceive you know or or
are we not there yet well I mean it's
sort of starts today I mean and in or I
should say yeah yeah where does he go
off the rails and give me a sense of
what you think is his well yeah let's
just answer that one for now
sure well so his his narrative is
inflected with you know all these
culture war grievances that he weds and
threads in with his economic narrative
and so when he's talking about when he
was blaming
outsourcing and he doesn't say unions
but some mysterious force made it so
that blue-collar jobs don't pay good
or he knows it has something to do with
capitalism but he doesn't say exactly
what but when he's framing that argument
he says specifically you know here's the
problem
male wages declined manufacturing a
male-dominated industry all but
disappeared over the course of a
generation and all that remained in
these places with the school's the
hospital's traditional employers of
women and because of this before you
applaud this as a victory for feminism
he says consider the effects that when
women earn more than men they don't they
don't want to marry men who earn less
than them and now that women are doing
better economically they're not marrying
men and so family breakdown is rooted in
economics but it's also rooted in
feminism and so you know if you're not
with Tucker on the sort of
anti-capitalist stuff then you'll follow
along with him on the misogynist stuff
but he makes sure to give a little bit
of a cultural cultural war conservative
reactionary grievance flavor to all of
his economic critiques I mean that is I
mean that in that he starts to give away
a bit of the game doesn't it their the
the the idea that what is being undercut
is not the that that's the way that he
prevents this from coming into some type
of like class consciousness in a in a
meaningful way right that he is this
critique is not a function of we're
creating or perpetuating an underclass
it is that we are undermining classic
traditional and I think you know I could
even be we could have language that was
even a little more anachronistic you
know family structure all right well
Eric let's take a break when we come
back I want to talk I want to talk about
more about what game Tucker Carlson is
playing and I want to game it out
because I think there's a lot of people
I know who are listening to what Tucker
is saying and they're saying you know I
I subscribe to
that this is encouraging maybe we're
moving in the right direction
but in some respects the we are if we
follow the trajectory that Tucker
Carlson is espousing it takes us back
literally 50 60 years we got to take a
quick break I'll be right back with Erik
Levitz after this I'm Sam cedar this is
wearing a fire radio
