you're calling from a nine to eight area
code who are you where you calling from
hello
nine to eight are you there uh yes hello
what's your name where you're calling
from hello my name is Joseph calling
from Navajo Nation
hey Joseph how are you thanks for
calling hey first time caller been a
patreon supporter for almost a year
oh thanks so much appreciate it yeah and
on the Michael Brooks show thank you
very much so yeah I just wanted to call
in and say you know I like you guys
Michele thank you and I also did
appreciate you guys talking about the
you know how the North Dakota
Republicans are basically trying to
approach yeah Native Americans from
voting back you know absolutely uh with
the the
peel box thing because out here it's
kind of like a similar story growing up
on the reservation we don't have any
physical addresses at all no street
addresses I don't know anyone who has
one so we use peel boxes as well so that
is concerning and also just wanted to
voice this because they don't really see
I mentioned very often but basically
it's kind of been concerning ever since
the Cavanaugh confirmation because of
his you know history with Alaska Natives
and already kind of starting this be the
bad happening like with that you
know that a voter ID thing that happened
in North Dakota but there's also the
currently there is the Indian Child
Welfare Act so one of the most important
pieces of legislation for American
Indians in the United States and it
regarde
you know family protections and
adoptions were Native children in the
u.s. recently it was struck down by a
federal judge in Texas and as the result
a bunch of tribes like the Cherokee and
yo nada are trying to challenge it so
that means it might go to the Supreme
Court a Supreme Court where you know
Cavanaugh will be the swing vote on
right so yeah yeah yep and again it's
this is everything they do is self
reinforcing right you yeah right a piece
of legislation targets the Native
American community you disenfranchise
Native American voters then you get
people like Cavanaugh who attack voting
rights on the court then that helps win
more elections to see we we got to adopt
the left wing version of thinking
structurally like that and the
triangulating Bill Clinton move to the
right take corporate money is not gonna
work strategically and then conversely
the moralistic you know people just need
to vote for you know Jill Stein it's not
gonna work they have a plan they have a
strategy and we need to think in those
terms with regards to elections with
regards to the courts and with regards
to the self-reinforcing decisions I mean
that was one of the things that you know
made card checks so important it was
great it was vital for labor unions
which would make a big dent in fighting
inequality and helping workers and then
it would also give more money to
Democrats and also make Union people
more excited to vote and it would just
be self reinforcing and then you would
get more good judges which would protect
labor rights like that's why you need to
do it and of course a lot in that case
when they didn't do it back then because
obviously a lot of Democrats are
absolutely you know in that case that
was about them being compromised by
corporate money for sure yeah because
it's like I said it does feel like
there's we're in dark times right now
yeah and I did appreciate how you guys
and you know you and Sam we're talking
about how important the courts are
because for
Native Americans the federal courts are
very very important it is it's one of
those weird cases where your best and
worst friend is the federal government
because you know they do it is their
responsibility to keep a lot of our
tribal sovereignty and rights intact and
in this case this guy I didn't get his
name but this judge in Texas he just he
just basically just kind of threw it
into the turbine so now we I guess we
just have to wait and see because I
usually follow these cases because uh
the ICWA it it's not something that's
brought up
well it's brought it quite frequently
especially with adoptions and states
like Oklahoma and South Dakota where you
know American Indians make up a very
small percentage of the population in
South Dakota I think it was like less
than ten percent but Native children
there make up almost 50 percent of the
kids in the protection and adoption
agencies so yeah it it is pretty
important and I yeah I just want to say
a good that you guys talked about how
important the federal courts are and
you're right there is no structure for
it because there is no less than the
equivalent of the the Federalist Society
right now yep right exactly
yep like like it was it was brought up
by Sam and that you know we have a lot
of less when you're saying you know pack
the courts but like Kim I wondered with
who because unfortunately the structure
just isn't there and you know I'm not
I'm not professional life I don't really
follow it I don't really follow this
thing very closely and not a lot of
other people feel but otherwise yeah I
just wanted to air that out and thanks I
think you guys this shows great I really
appreciate Joseph hopefully hear from
you again soon thanks so much
yep
