[Music]
um here's somebody who I know uh also
has a problem with certain morality I
love the the morality that we're being
preached it's just the whole set of this
is a woman who apparently is a shin the
City Council is it
oh she's running for City Council
hopeful oh okay
are you sure I think is she candidate I
think is she not a member of the City
Council you sure about that at the very
least she's uh running for reelection in
Marysville Michigan and the my sense of
Michigan largely is about white people
wanting to make sure that black people
don't get their tax dollars is like an
animating factor in Michigan and it
breaks down on city lines and when you
get stuff like these emergency takeovers
of cities and what not so much of it is
about that there is a story I have about
Flint that the those kids who grew up
during that era of the lead poisoning
the number of kids in special education
today versus five or six years ago is up
by 56% it was a 10 or 11 percent I think
about seven years ago and now it's at
about 20 25 percent kids needing you
know basically with special education
needs and of course the system is
completely taxed the teachers are
completely taxed I don't mean actually
paying tax I mean that they're
physically overtaxed one in five
students in Flint's public schools are
eligible for special education
the
special education students is increased
by 56% rising from 13.1 in 2013 - which
is the year the school year before the
water crisis began to 20.5% last year
schools are understaffed teachers or
overwhelm parents are frustrated and
here is a a woman a former candidate for
the City Council in Marysville Michigan
since with drum she has dropped out over
the week based upon her sense you know
her
keep Marysville great again here it is
exactly what you said yesterday you
talked about you didn't believe in you
wanted to what if what did you want to
happen with Marysville you didn't you
wanted it to stay a certain way tell us
about that well we like Marysville the
way it is but as far as having a black
couple moving in we have no problem with
that but where it's wrong is when you
have a white white woman in a black
husband a white wife and a black husband
together that's wrong and vice versa
well advisor it's simple what it's
simply against the Bible like I was
telling her God created Adam and Eve
same kind same race all around and
that's how he wants that example I am
NOT an expert at the Bible but I'm
pretty sure it wasn't like Adam and Eve
same kind same race I don't think that I
do remember where it said that they were
lily-white and when the Bible said
something the effect of like it's we
said Adam and Eve not Adam and latisha
or something like that
what is this West Side Story nope I bad
you don't know about that yet
just keep this in mind when you're a jet
you're a jet all the way you'll
understand this thousands of years from
now telling her God created Adam and Eve
same kind same race all around and
that's how he wants that he's our
example right there
talk about what you want what what is it
you want Mary's Mother's Day you said
something in particular that you wanted
it to stay white tell us about that well
just that is it's a nice city the way it
is
we have meaning white if if black people
have a black couple wants to move in
fine but to but they have the mixed
marriage no talk about though but white
why then say it should stay white then
talk about thee and that's okay if you
feel like that I mean as far as a
journalist you know what why do you
think I mean you're entitled to your
opinion why do you think Marysville
should stay white we like it the way it
is we move to more we moved here we
didn't know anything about it initially
and we have just been comfortable with
the way it is is there anything I change
your mind well like I say if if a black
wife and a black husband move in no
problem it's just the inner marriage and
the form boards and the form boards
right of course because you know how God
said in the Bible we don't take
immigrants there's no stories in the
Bible at all about foreign-born people
coming into let's say Egypt right
there's nothing nothing along those
lines or coming in from the land of came
to the land of Canaan I only know the
old the old version
we only know the best that lady should
start a great wing podcast I honestly
don't think she really has the charisma
for you oh I don't know she's got the
line down like we accept the black
people are here so we'll deal with that
but no foreigners I'm not it's not the
race I'm concerned with it's the mixing
of the races and I'm concerned with so
I'm not racist I'm just for clarity
organization that's what I like I don't
like chaos why is everything about
graceful I don't understand why she had
to drop out why can't she have a
conversation about this and present her
ideas what I don't understand is why
everything's about race for young people
she's talking about matters you make it
about race exactly what obsessed exactly
