[Music]
so a meanwhile while we were all
enjoying our families there were
families at the border several hundreds
of people I don't know what the
percentage of families were some were
families some were just children of
parents or some were just parents of
children and they have traveled through
Mexico they were at the border
attempting to cross and then of course
you needed to disperse them to protect
this country you understand these people
some of them had rocks some of them may
be trained in martial arts we don't know
and so we need to protect ourselves and
of course what did the Border Patrol do
well they fired high-density pepper
spray and tear gas according to the AP
there were some who I guess this
according for the AP US border agents
fired tear gas on hundreds of migrants
protesting near the border with Mexico
after some of them attempted to get
through the fencing and wire separating
the two countries American authorities
shut down the nation's busiest border
crossing from the city where thousands
were waiting to apply for asylum Mexican
police had kept the the migrates from
walking over a bridge leading to the
Mexican port of entry but migrants push
past officers to walk across the Tijuana
River below the bridge migrants walked
along the river to an area where only
earthen levee and Constantina wire
separated them from u.s. Border Patrol
agents and an AP reporter saw a u.s.
agent suit several rounds of tear gas
after some migrants attempted to
penetrate it along several points along
the
border and here is some guy on Fox and
Friends this is Ron Colburn Colburn is
from the Border Patrol foundation he's
the president of the foundation that
supports the Border Patrol I'm not sure
what they do the tax deductible
organization I would imagine
everybody's got a got to work folks and
here he is going on Fox and Friends to
explain all we did with the little kids
is put a little pepper in their eyes
there was a small hole they were able to
puncture through the border wall and
they hurled all sorts of rocks etc at
the Border Patrol agents and then they
fired the tear gas is that warranted
absolutely and to clarify the the type
of deterrent being used is OC pepper
spray it's literally water pepper with a
small amount of alcohol for evaporation
purposes it's natural you could actually
put it on your nachos and eat it so it's
a good way of deterring people without
long-term harm oh so those Mexican and
Honduran and Guatemalan people could put
it on their nachos they should be saying
gracias yes
gracias that's what I say
gracias unbelievable couldn't couldn't
miss the opportunity couldn't miss out
can I just interject something briefly
here it just occurred to me I know we
don't really debate the use of the word
fascism on this show this month that
much but we're all I think we're all
basically on the same page but it's like
a manufactured fake crisis which is the
caravan and then the actual barbarism of
this is I mean you're starting to get
extremely textbook now very textbook
very textbook here's some photos of some
of those lucky migrants who are able to
get some of that pepper spray and I
guess theoretically put it on their
their nachos as you can see the kids are
in diapers
and that's the most dangerous type of
child I can tell you that and there's
the mom wearing the frozen t-shirt which
is also you know obviously incredibly
dangerous to the American people and and
I think actually in the background I
think yeah there you go you can actually
see a stroller back there across the the
the ravine there crisis child actors yes
of course
and thank God we're being protected from
these folks listen we don't need more
children running around in strollers I
can tell you that coming from stroller
central in Brooklyn I'm very very glad
that we are firing a pepper spray at at
parents and their children so that they
they can't make their way up here and
endanger all of us fabricated that from
acute train stops oh yes absolutely and
in fact here's Thomas Holman he is the
former acting director of the US
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and
I think he's now the is he still the
executive director are now of ice he
stepped down but there's speculation
that he will take over for Nielson when
she's Hassan Eric so of course he's
going back on Fox News truth yes and
here he is saying that that these asylum
seekers this is all just a game for
these people or is there is there's
heartache when you see those pictures
pictures there's the rule of law the
president continues to hammer down on
how do you address incidentally the rule
of law would also have
Jared Kushner and others in prison right
now for their disclosure forms the rule
of law not so not so rigid when you get
to that point yeah going back to our
discussion on fascism when the rule of
law is invoked maybe start to wonder
does this look like fascism
opportunistic opportunistically using
the law I mean it's a shame that those
people had to have children to make it
so dramatic when they were getting
pepper sprayed yeah well first of all
I've said many times I certainly feel
bad for the plight of these people but
they're not a silent they're not true
asylum seekers they don't qualify under
existing law to claim asylum because
they want to come here you see cause you
know you know a funny thing about
existing law and you know you keep
bringing up fascism I'm not gonna say
what country it was and when but what
they managed to do was all legal because
they changed the laws to make it legal
to oppress certain minorities in their
country now you'll recall that Jeff
Sessions changed so much a law the
regulations I guess you could call it
but more or less the same on what
constituted a legitimate ask for asylum
we simply changed it we simply basically
banned all the reasons why you could
seek asylum if you were coming from
Central America domestic abuse gang
violence the fact that your country was
almost non functioning in terms of
dealing with crime and violence that
your child or your husband was murdered
by a gang and you are under threat and
there was no recourse in your own
country we just simply said it's no
longer a legit reason for asylum but
let's listen to the game that's being
played Island 4 they want to come here
you seen their Karen sighs I want a job
that doesn't qualify for asylum so I
certainly understand the play these
people I can certainly understand them
want to be a part of this country but
there's a legal way to do it and they're
not
finally legal process there use positive
they are using the exact legal process
which is you go up to the border you say
I am seeking asylum and then we have a
legal process to determine whether or
not your claim warrants asylum that is
the only legal process to get asylum for
these people are they all have
legitimate claims statistically no but
we don't know which ones do and that's
why you have a legal process that is
edified in US law to make that
determination theoretically this guy
knows it you're using this item system
which which harms real true silent
seekers I really are escaping in fear
and persecution but on your first point
I want the women and children escaping
tear gas we got to look at the facts
here a minority of this of this Caravan
a small minorities actually family
members women and children most of them
are adult males but the media some of
the media out there are getting shots of
the women and children to try to pull
the heartstrings of America and you know
and and even the caravan itself the
people that are coordinated whole event
they'll put the women the children up
front to make it seem like this is 5,000
women children what it's not they're
playing the game some of the media
outlets are playing the game this is
this is a vast majority of a male
seeking employment in United States not
women and children
now of course males don't have families
we know this right they're not family
members they're just males they're just
males looking for work looking for
looking for for probably very very fancy
and exotic jobs I'd actually suggest
that it's some pretty anti male
chauvinism right they're not not to
raise money for their families because
of course they're males and couldn't
possibly have families no I have no
family I'm here to start a patreon right
exactly I want to become a youtuber and
abandon my family yeah
that'll be a silent please what does
Homan have against males yeah what does
he have against men it sounds like it's
a war on men from Fox News headquarters
