meanwhile in Georgia and this is I think
for me some of the two most important
well I shouldn't say that but Georgia
and Florida are gonna be huge and
there's another race Keira Eastman
running in Nebraska it looks like it is
going to be out of reach for her she was
facing a huge amount of Republican money
that came in late and the Democrats just
did not step up to help her part of that
is it's so maja Nebraska and so on paper
anyways you wouldn't want to put a lot
of money in another part of that I think
she's running in Nebraska not as a
center as a moderate but rather as a
full-throated progressive and I think
there may be institutional money that
doesn't feel so comfortable with that if
someone wins in Omaha with that kind of
platform it creates pressure points all
along the line for more moderate and
corporate friendly Democrats but we
shall see what happens
in the coming days meanwhile in Georgia
Brian Kemp who is the Secretary of State
who has been on a relentless mission to
disenfranchise voters in the waning days
when the story comes out that their own
Secretary of State website is insecure
in terms of allowing for voter data to
leave leaked out this is what camps job
is his response to this is by claiming
that the Democrats have tried to hack it
I mean it's really basically the what
he's trying to do is
deflect from the fact that he can't even
do his job properly so here was stacey
abrams response are you concerned these
races appeals are gonna work what I'm
concerned about is that his overarching
architecture of voter suppression of
ostracization of demeaning and
dehumanizing people that that can cause
people to think that their votes don't
count which is why we've been so
aggressive about telling people the best
antidote to his antics is to actually
turn out and engage and we've seen
unprecedented voter turnout because
people understand that education and
jobs and access to affordable health
care are on the ballot this year and
that I'm the only candidate with a
comprehensive plan for how we move our
state forward together so there it is I
mean she's just maintaining the high
road and I can't go to his antics right
that's good I'm like this racist kid
incompetent people deal with his antics
by beating him apparently part of what
she's responding to is that there's a
robo call going out in Georgia that
sounds like this this is the magical
Negro Oprah Winfrey asking you to make
my fellow Stacey Abrams governor
of Georgia then it spews nearly 60
seconds of racism coupled with a dash of
anti-semitism here is the audio of the
robo call going out in support of Kemp
in Georgia and you know this is the
tables been set for this guy type of
stuff so who knows Oprah Winfrey this is
the magical Negro Oprah Winfrey asking
you to make my fellow Stacey
Abram
the governor of Georgia years ago the
Jews who owned the American media saw
something in me the ability to trick
dumb white women into thinking I was
like them and should do read and think
what I told them - I see that same
potential in stacey abrams where others
see a poor man's aunt jemima I see
someone white women can be tricked into
voting for especially the fat one and so
I promise that every single person who
votes for Stacey Avram you're going to
get a new car so you get a car and you
get a car can you get a car and you get
a car everybody gets a car and as far as
the ways to where whites who are in the
way don't worry about them like I said
in that famous interview in 2013 white
racist just have to die it's message
painful by the road to power dr. Nam
there you go God yeah road to power calm
apparently is an anti-semitic video
podcasting website so apparently Brian
Kemp apparent has a history of falsely
accusing opposing campaigns of hacks he
claimed that the Obama administration
tried to hack them in 2016 and he's sort
of wield this out in several other races
so this is his go-to and we should add
no evidence provided never any evidence
who needs evidence evidence evidence
folks seriously
