here is uh let's look at this clip of
Elizabeth Warren who is going on
Bloomberg and and talking about her
brand and I am curious there I'm sorry
do you remember Bloomberg's book title
speaking of good book titles it was
really good
any guesses the bloom is off the Rose
let a thousand flowers bloom oh god no
it was Bloomberg on Bloomberg it's
really that's good that's him
they rejected Bloomberg Bloomberg
Bloomberg as the that was the working
title
here's Elizabeth Warren talking about
taxation on I think this was on
Bloomberg and it's interesting well
let's play this clip first capitalism
without rules is theft encouraging
companies to build their business models
on cheating people
that's not capitalism that's not
competition in the marketplace that's
not producing consumer surplus so what I
believe is capitalism with serious rules
and that means rules where everybody
gets a chance to play the surplus is the
theft well alright so let me just ask
you the so the Bernie Sanders obviously
running on or at least his pedigree
right is democratic socialism socialism
they are you know
hers is reformation of capitalism that
said she's suggested that the government
seize the means of production when it
comes to anything when it comes to
generic drugs she her proposals how much
at the end of the day do you think their
proposals land differently from each
other and how relevant is that
difference I don't know because she's
been throwing up a lot of stuff in the
past past few weeks now and I mean the
the legislative proposals from Democrat
senators have all been for show for the
past few years now that being said you
know I'm excited by some of the things
she's proposed for instance opening up
corporate boards and having Labor
representation on them which would
actually I think be a sea change in the
way that American capitalism works
the thing about warren is in contrast to
the other reformist candidates she's the
only one who seems actually reformist
she actually seems to believe what she
says she seems to actually position
herself in opposition to the interests
of capital which is not something we've
seen from any Democratic nominee for a
long time now so that being said I as
far as the left goes Warren is a
perfectly acceptable candidate I guess
it depends how much it matters to you
how much you think the rhetoric matters
right because there are people who would
support Bernie over Warren people on the
Socialist Left because Bernie is coming
from a place of democratic socialism
structural reform critique of capitalism
yada yada I think he's more of a social
democrat than any kind of anti
capitalist but whatever at whereas
Elizabeth Warren is coming from a place
of reforming capitalism so the outcomes
might look relatively similar but it
just matters if you care that people are
hearing those words you know I'm very
glad with what Warren's doing and if he
doesn't run I'm happy to push my support
over but I I mean I think there are
these subtle differences that do matter
in terms of how you frame I'm less
worried about the words but I I'm I'm
like to me there is also just some
unmovable facts here that like because
she opted not to run in 2016 where maybe
she could have very well actually
defeated Hillary Clinton yeah it would
have been incredible but it's like
Bernie did it and Bernie has an entirely
I mean all right well yeah I don't want
to get I want to let me say on this I
want to stay on this point though I
don't want to get in I just want to stay
out specifically on this point you know
what whether he deserves it or not or
whether he's the most popular politician
yeah I don't know that's no I'm talking
about I want to talk about like in terms
of at the end of the day is she going to
be able to even gopher
there in terms of her Reformation
proposals then Bernie because she is
making it like it's reforming capitalism
as opposed to rhetorically speaking I
want to replace the system o capital
does not care about that I mean I
couldn't tell you I have absolutely no
idea what the next thing was Warren is
going to say I mean that being said I I
mean it's she could have you know roll
out you know I proposed the
nationalization of every major industry
right and it's just sort of something we
all accept that she believes it would be
the constituency that that would because
because in terms of the base they don't
care and in terms of elites they don't
Bernie Sanders came out with we should
have the government make generic drugs
right I feel like there would be
people's hair would go on fire
III think from from I think we're gonna
hear that from other candidates I think
we could hear that from a Kamala Harris
conceivably or receive ibly but I mean
at some point they're all gonna critique
each other's proposals but in terms of
the voting public and then of course
like Wall Street doesn't care either way
who in like an actual mass body of
voters without any difference with well
I I don't know that anybody's proposals
or any of the rhetoric will make a big
difference with anybody but I'm just
saying that the question is is that can
Elizabeth Warren go further under the
guise of capitalist reform than Bernie
Sanders can go because he he is labeled
as a socialist I guess we'll see well
okay then
we could have week and a half hours ago
like she is more acceptable to the
mainstream of the Democratic Party and I
think that is something that will help
her in the primary if not in the general
okay and so if that's the case is there
a substantive difference substantive not
rhetorical not pedigree just I want to
isolate it varied where I'm trying to
get at a substantive difference in terms
of their proposals at this point
and to the extent that there is our hers
you know and I would say putting aside
foreign policy because I think that they
clearly can you though but well no no I
mean her the course of the conversation
we can't answer this in two ways first
neither person has announced that
they're running for president right now
there's no we there's no one has
announced that she's gonna announce
something right she'll do it but there's
no you know kind of two column
comparison that we can make right now
and and then you know take a microscope
and say oh well this one's actually more
left than that other one what we do know
about the two candidates is that Bernie
Sanders has never been a Democrat in his
life he is currently being in the
Democratic Senate leadership he is a
socialist proclaims a socialist and
ostensibly this means he wants to be a
part of a burgeoning socialist movement
in the country that can operate as a
political force
Liz Warren of course says she's a
capitalist though but I believe also
she's very serious about reform and
government intervention there and
perhaps even challenging the power of
capital no great authority then Jonathan
che actually pointed this out and was a
hundred percent correct when he said
that socialist view the Democratic Party
not as partners or something that they
want to build but as a marriage of
convenience right now and with liberals
and with sadly some quite a lot of
conservatives in that party I believe
that one priority right now and that
that socials have the best opportunity
to do this is to take over the
democratic party into clean house and
that means getting rid of that right
flank and getting rid of the influence
of capital within the party and that
goes back to my earlier point about
challenging the power of health
insurance companies and not having any
Democrats take money from health
insurance companies and pharmaceutical
companies and defense contractors in
Wall Street and so on so part of it is
how you're measuring the power of the
bully pulpit like maybe part of my bias
is that like part of how I don't see the
question working for me is I just think
that
where it does matter rhetorically is
that his baseline of that kind of
fundamental challenge already puts the
goal posts so far in a different left
direction that that's a that that's a
parameter resetar in and of itself and
we'll see whether or not it works but I
don't you know yeah and I also object to
divorcing it from foreign policy because
really you can't if you're going to have
like regulated capitalism and welfare
state in one country someone has to pay
for that right and it's going to be paid
for by imperial plunder like a socialist
vision is the vision that has to extend
to the whole world
and we've seen Bernie ladies are very
positive steps in the right direction to
form that like progressive International
which Gianna's verify and Warren
actually does have she put out a decent
Liberal foreign policy manifesto but
it's very interesting because it
parallels like essentially we should get
back to almost like JFK stuff in the
early 60s which is like don't be such a
dick and help people develop and have
some fair trade agreements but when you
don't talk about global oligarchy when
you don't talk about Lula when you don't
talk about restoring the Iran deal
you're leaving so much on the table and
this certainly matters when we're
talking about something like a green new
deal which thank really we are talking
about now Mike Bloomberg says he's going
to announce his green New Deal plan aoc
he's gonna announce it or a green new
deal plan iiiiii obviously don't like
Bloomberg and if he were the Democratic
nominee I would probably be opposed to
him I'd have to say that being said I'm
very curious what's in his green new
deal because just from reading some of
his past statements the outline of it
sounds like something that you know a
lot of people get behind environmentally
I have a feeling we're we you know we
he'll be good live to transition away
from a carbon-based economy and you know
that's has to be matched with replacing
those jobs that are lost and economic
investment in places like West Virginia
ok the outline of that sounds good even
if we were gonna avoid the question of
how do you pay for it you know without
any sort of wealth transfers which
Bloomberg is opposed to the thing is
we're just talking about a green new
deal in a domestically as
way to eliminate our emissions which is
which is possible it's very feasible we
have the capital we have the labor we
have know how any of the material inputs
to do that if we were the only country
that does that that does absolutely
nothing Yanis is campaigning on agreeing
the deal across Europe right now and
he's coordinating with Bernie so that
also adds the answer I would just say
well here's my green new deal I'm gonna
buy China public offer to China to buy
all of them that's a good example you're
been reducing emissions for the past two
decades several European countries are
our admissions neutral and that has done
nothing that's exactly right and also
not only that I mean I think as far as
Bloomberg's green policies environmental
policies go and again I don't mean this
all critically at all but just look at
what jerry brown's done in california
actually on the transition and tech side
he's done some really good things but if
you have a concept but on the drill and
supply side he hasn't and I doubt
Bloomberg would either and if you also
conceived of the environment as being
connected to people's needs and whole
and things like environmental justice
and other things that would be part of
an AOC vision Jerry Brown's not been
particularly good so I mean there's a
like look if the choice is Trump you
know or Jerry Brown or Bloomberg you
picked Jerry Brown or Bloomberg but
we're trying to put forth something
different here and I would say that any
by starting position in terms of green
New Deal or any sort of policy which
again is this this protein concept right
now would be the seizure of every energy
company in the country right that has to
be it and you would have to use their
capital that they've accumulated
destroying the planet for the past
century in order to repair the planet
and if Warren comes out tomorrow and
says ionization I just think seizure
just seems a little bit abrupt a
nationalization just sounds a lot
metaphor when the right wing got very
scared or their I guess they're still
scared of it right now that all Trump
was gonna sign this executive order and
he's going to do that which is going to
make a large as outlay and we're going
to seize land at the border
what's going to prevent a socialist
Democrat president from signing
executive order day one saying well it's
an actual climate emergency as we all
know at this point I'm just go we're
going to seize the assets start with the
refineries every single energy company
we're gonna redirect those resources and
I think that has to happen that would be
great the most fun candidate would be
someone like Tony Blair or Bill Clinton
or Akama Harris explaining why the real
Third Way position is seizing all our
company's assets that's what I would do
if I ran for office I would explain that
it's a new form of a public-private
partnership while I'm well I'm lining
people up against the wall back to the
question of party uh it's really not
totally clear to me I am more skeptical
than some of my more like Orthodox
trotskyist comrade DSA on the question
of the party right because I think you
know these these are folks who think we
need a socialist party we need a
socialist party that is also a Labour
Party is not this bizarre cross-class
alliance that we have right now in the
democratic party of workers and bosses
you know labor and capital but like
every time we've seen a Socialist Party
succeed at taking power they have
ultimately failed like look at what
happened with syriza in Greece like the
it's everything is just so over
determined by the wider political
economic climate that said I would still
prefer a uniquely did not have the
ability in their position to do much
more yeah exactly but you need but
Jeremy Corbyn has more room to move
Bernie Sanders would have more room well
we'll see why but to be fair nothing has
worked yet so I can't totally write it
off but that said all of that said I
would still rather have a socialist
party in the u.s. then the democratic
party that we have now here's sick but
here's a good counterpoint to that a big
reason why these left electoral
movements have failed is precisely
because they even getting elected on a
national level in a place like Greece or
Venezuela does it give you the actual
levers of power that you need to make
fundamental changes to society and an
interesting news story for the past week
is the
I believe the the the British Royal Bank
which has control over Venezuela's gold
reserves is being urged to assign that
over the country's wealth to this
insurrectionary who's calling himself
president they are and they are they are
doing that do that yeah if you're the
President of the United States and
you're picking the chairman of the
Federal Reserve you are picking the head
of the World Bank in the head of the IMF
I think you have a bit more power at
that point also especially with an
emergency united states armed revolution
appoint to what I just said again which
is that you know a lot of the time it's
US intervention that is the primary
factor in killing these movements but
like you know we'll see
