[Music]
reminder if you still really need one
why Joe Scarborough is trash listen to
his band listened to as well don't
subject yourself to that that's a lot
but here's here's a guy and I'm not
gonna see jet like let me just say is a
baseline Joe Scarborough is not known
specifically for like a history of like
race-baiting oh for sure
he was elected as part of the Gingrich
Republican class of 1994 which could
absolutely I mean there's slightly less
overt than Trump but that was a class in
a campaign on the dog whistles of crime
and welfare that could absolutely
compete with anything that comes out of
today's overtly white nationalist
Republican Party and Joe Scarborough I
mean again another failure of certain
resistance mindset it like it is so bare
minimum to get that Donald Trump is an
incompetent scumbag who should not be
managing a Friendly's let alone the
White House that I mean is this really
what we're giving credit for and this is
the fallout from that credit Joe
Scarborough
saying disgusting ridiculous things like
this questioning Jews loyalty to America
and suggesting that Jews can't be loyal
to both America and Israel at the same
time or that someone like me who is pro
Israeli cannot be loyal to America while
also being loyal to to Israel in
believing that a strong Israel is good
for the Middle East I mean and by the
way even while I'm disagreeing
profoundly with Benjamin Netanyahu's
leadership there so it just it's very
offensive and I mean unless this party
wants to dissolve into a left-leaning
version of party of Steve Kings
and a party of David dukes they need to
call her out any time this anti-semitic
trope is trotted out and if that means
condemning those statements every day
they should she did not say that period
we can play that statement again from
yesterday
where she did not say that at all
yeah same thought there was another clip
as a result of after that yes that's the
clip that they're lying about Mars Mark
Ruffalo who's a Jewish activist and he
said I was there I didn't hear anything
fought against anti-semitism my entire
life this is literally a party we played
it yesterday where Steve Scalise who
campaigned I mean David Duke without the
baggage is calling into question her
patriotism the security of her being on
the Foreign Relations Committee which is
the play of these people to get her off
Foreign Relations not only because of
Israel Palestine but because of Elliott
Abrams because of Venezuela because she
talks and his courage about speaking on
u.s. foreign policy and Joe Scarborough
takes up all of this fake currency he's
built up after enabling and promoting
Donald Trump by the way for over a year
Donald Trump had the easiest most cushy
appearances on Morning Joe it was a
great joke you can look at that clip
when when Donald Trump did that
impression of that reporter with musk oh
think was muscular distrophy check out
how funny Joe Scarborough thought that
was uh and you know I and I'm someone
who makes who has never hid how funny I
think Trump is okay that was actually
even the one where I was like is this
 really gonna work like I get the
racism and sexism is gonna fly with
Republican voters but this is a type of
thing that as a any type of even semi
developed sixth grader you're like maybe
I did that but that kind of feels wrong
he so Joe Scarborough has zero moral
authority
and he is taking this woman who is the
bravest member of Congress who's already
under threat who's already literally has
Republican local officials putting her
face on a 9/11 poster and he has the
temerity to compare her to Steve King
who has never been condemned by the
house who still is retweeting white
nationalist on a what seems like an
almost weekly basis and David Duke let's
play this this is a hot mic cuz Donald
Trump again is the biggest racist troll
in the country he's the President of the
United States and this was no secret
this is he launched his campaign on this
this is him in a hot mic with Joe and
Mika yeah that makes Joe look really
good you should call and send a
respectful email to MSNBC and tell them
what you think of a guy who enabled
Donald Trump's uninterrupted propaganda
when he was running for president and
occasionally strategically condemned
things before having a monoghan to yuk
it up what'd you think of him calling a
Muslim immigrant woman of color who is
speaking on the foreign policy of a
sovereign nation state and comparing her
to the worst most objectionable member
of Congress any person that everybody in
the United States disavows oh except for
Donald Trump Joe Scarborough man
that's disgusting these
people yep Democrats showing their asses
right now if they side with Trump on
this versus you know a Muslim woman of
color you just heard that you just heard
that you should say that again what's
the choice here you're siding with Trump
or a real progressive who speaks the
truth who speaks truth to power it's
you're siding with Trump an advisor to
Trump called her a piece of you
excrement and and I've said a million
and I will continue to say this across
the board by the way with all of these
things there are so many more
conversations that could be had in good
faith among people who are allies in
movements when people make mistakes in
their words or actions weary and if you
wanted to have a conversation with elan
omar particularly about the 2012 tweet
say hey this is a better approach
strategically you might even be
unconscious you know genuinely making a
little bit of a misdial istic mistake
whatever if you actually care about that
you would talk to her privately and she
would listen to you and everything would
be better if you're out in public doing
this you are an enemy of progress and
you were siding with the worst people in
this country yeah it's like a friend of
mine said Ilhan Omar might be on the
9/11 poster in the Republicans booths
but she's on the 9/11 poster in the
Democrats hearts I mean well it's I mean
right now we're pushed back we're at an
interesting point because it now looks
like we might have actually won this
battle they seem to have backed off of
the the statement I mean the more
important thing if they want to release
that statement if they have to release
that statement to keep bill Han on the
committee then fine but that's that's
the only thing I really care about I
mean they shouldn't Elliott Abrams has
said as of now he's not making any move
to take her off the committee or not
Ellie dangle who is the chair Elliot
Elliot angle is is the very right
leaning Democratic head of the Foreign
Relations Committee
