[Music]
this is when the rubber meets the road
because of Howard Schultz's president
there is no doubt I mean he would align
with Republicans and he would probably
be able to chip off although be
increasingly hard but there's certainly
still a lot of terrible Democrats and he
would make a play to destroy Medicare
and Social Security and it may or may
not work and then he might do a couple I
you know maybe he would do like a
presidential proclamation saying slavery
was bad or something as it has an
example of how he's he's in the center
and then pretty much besides that
basically absolutely nothing would get
done except for actually probably the
same types of executive orders and
regulatory rollback that any Republican
president would do so here's Howard
Schultz's this idea of what he would do
about the Supreme Court is an idea that
anybody who has been reading the top
lines of the New York Times for the last
five years ago that's a dumb idea
I would not nominate a Supreme Court
justice unless he or she could be
confirmed by two-thirds
two-thirds of the United States Senate
the courts have become yet another
battlefield in the ongoing war between
Democratic and Republican leaders that's
not how our democracy should work these
battles have undermined our faith in the
rule of law and the impartiality of the
entire judicial system and all of this
has to change you are a douchebag I
don't have anything else of that I think
it's an MIT it's it's so fascinating to
me that his whole project here is that
I'm going to garner just enough of the
popular vote and electoral college to be
elected president then when I appoint
someone to the Supreme Court I'm going
to get 2/3 of the elected officials in
the Senate to support him the math is
just insane and it's so weird like the
further this goes on the more apparent
it's gonna be that this is like
a make-a-wish thing for a billionaire
toy we can just like oh yeah he can go
be present run for president hard you
got it buddy that's an it that's an
interesting idea and like have these
people just Pat them on the back the
whole time because they want his money
right and then and then and it's also
like I'm the one I've said look I think
in general the left needs to be in a
better relationship to the needs that
are served by things like self-help
thinking and I do think generically like
you know what actually positive
psychology yes there's a huge downside
to it I know don't please don't get
pedantic with me but the truth of matter
is like in people's lives having things
like goals and and meditating and
exercising and you know mapping your
life like these things can be super
valuable and what's but what's so
interesting is like as you scale it like
magical thinking might be helpful when
you're trying to sell people overly
sugary coffee drinks and certainly in
politics you need to set vision but like
this is just pure magical thinking
applied to a realm where it's like I
mean you had a president like Obama and
a dete and it took a different
historical moment who's just better than
Howard Schultz in every conceivable
metric he's infinitely more intelligent
he you know was ready to be president
he's has a keen understanding of law and
history and policy you know every way
Barack Obama is better and even he one
of his fatal flaws was the delusion that
he could that this Congress and American
politics was like a Harvard Law Review
debate and not a brutal material
conflict mostly populated by profoundly
racist people or just unlimitedly
cynical people on the other side who
even though he was pursuing a centrist
to center-right agenda would do
everything they could to destroy him
favors gonna break right so the
brilliant Barack Obama I mean this is
the thing that's amazing about this what
we have right now we have
baitoey Roarke I'm gonna copy Barack
Obama completely except I'm actually
just like a rich white kid who has no
there's nothing unique or interesting or
overcoming about my story and I don't
represent any type of historical
breakthrough but I do a good an
impersonation of him and then we have
the oligarch who's like I'm literate
like we talk about that I mean I don't
know but Howard Schultz might have
actually had the staff of The West Wing
make a private movie with him that only
he and his friends watching his practice
screening room this guy it's like this
is some like you know this is uh this is
almost like the tracy Jordan character
on 30 rock I mean he is a group of
enablers that are acting out his fantasy
life for him and we all gotta listen to
it man I that's almost reason uh for me
to actually watch 30 rock together Tracy
Morgan Howard Schultz I mean Tracy
Morgan's way cooler than Howard Schultz
tracy Jordan tracy Jordan with the tracy
Jordan character but it reminds me
there's one where like he wants to go to
space so really all right we got a fake
a moon launch that's how our that's
Howard Schultz and I'm sorry I'm just
not impressed by somebody who discovers
that coffee is a saleable commodity like
this has been happening since like the
1650s folks it's not like he's like oh
look at this guy he figured out a way to
like sell sand for thousands of dollars
like no it's George Washington Carver
this is need to discover the peanut or
whatever the hell like he didn't didn't
break this isn't this isn't like you
know this isn't the guy who designed the
Toyota Prius this established business
models in the world in world history
right and also I'm and I am sure without
knowing much that the breakthrough in
the business models was like let's make
a bunch of disgusting mass-market drinks
that are like have more calories sugar
fat yeah that have more calories than a
burger and what we'll do is we'll
ruthlessly exploit a supply chain
overseas and then will undercut
mom-and-pop coffee shops there you go
there's Starbucks what a genius but by
the way let's
the imagination of a new imagination
whatever the all the time being
subsidized by the lack of public spaces
in cities right because libraries are
closed and because there aren't nice
parks you go and huddle in these like
dingy depressing hell where you where it
actually literally is a chore to just
say can I just get it you know I'll meet
you halfway forget just even a cup of
coffee can I just have a latte and can I
call it a latte and could it be small
instead of a tall whatever the I'm
never getting into the most leery
territory here I know I know I'm sorry
I've become a character myself but still
like Jesus Christ get the out of
here but keep running keep doing what
you're doing keep speaking you know it's
very funny to watch to think about
Bloomberg and cuz Bloomberg again no one
hates Bloomberg more than me but like
you wouldn't you could watch any number
of speeches and think wow what an
authoritarian egotistical but
you never would want and and of course
delusional just because of his money and
disconnect from reality but you would
never watch a Bloomberg speech and just
go wow what a you watch Howard
Schultz you're like dude you're an idiot
you're an idiot
