[Music]
do you think I needed to apologize to
have Marcy wheeler on the program no no
I do I I do not I don't that is not I do
not look my god you know what you know
let me do but let me just say but let me
just say this about those of us who have
been expressing skepticism about the
overriding narrative that the non Fox
media has more or less unanimously
embraced and there were people inside of
these news outlets I heard from them all
the time who also had a lot of
skepticism about what was being reported
and what was being said and kind of felt
like they weren't able to express them
because they saw what happened to those
of us who were doing that we were
banished from a lot of media platforms
that previously we had regular access to
I think the last time Matt TI Taibbi
was on that MSNBC was like December of
2016 or January of 2017 I don't think
Jeremy Scahill has been on in three
years I haven't been on since December
2016 when I talked to raml burr about
the need for skepticism
but you know I that I think that a lot
of us who are expressing the skepticism
we're vilified not just for being wrong
which is fair enough that's what happens
in political debates but for being Trump
apologist or even Trump supporters or
even paid agents of the Kremlin I don't
mean by random trolls on Twitter I mean
by like really prominent people so I can
understand why after three years nerves
are kind of raw Mike Matt Taibbi and and
and and Michael Tracy talked about the
psychological toll this is taken on them
but you know you can kind of dismiss and
mock but at the same time but you know
it is real when when you're trying to
kind of push some dissent into you you
feel like you're standing in for kind of
in front of a trait a freight train and
when you feel like at least some of what
you've been doing has not not been fully
vindicated but at least somewhat been
affirmed like at least the need for
skepticism all along I think there's a
recognition that at least Rachel Maddow
and
like that went too far I understand why
people are being a little overly zealous
and I also think the issue that about
what Marci did with turning in her own
source to the FBI not be in the face of
a subpoena but proactively and
voluntarily and then got celebrated it
for it by the media it's something that
we ought to revisit at some point I
don't want to talk about Marci when
she's not here but I'd you know I did
but no I don't I know I think Marcy is
an extremely intelligent diligent
reporters she's one of the first people
I tried to hire when we started the
intercept who we did hire I would divide
a show I would put Marci on so no I
don't think putting Marcy on has
something that you ought to apologize
for but I do think there's we should
revisit that issue about that turning
and of the source I have a feeling we're
gonna were you know that will be ample
opportunity in the future I don't know
if we've we've you know maybe we'll see
the investigation when we see the report
we'll have a sense of what the
implications of that are and I imagine
that's a story and that certainly I mean
from my perspective when I came in on
that Monday after the report had been
dropped I was like I guess we're gonna
have to talk about this today and and
push our you know I don't want to
counter program with somebody's talking
about the implications of slavery and
politics you know Antebellum civil war
but having Marcy on it seemed to me
would be more apt when we have a sense
of what the the full report says but but
I I appreciate that and I do appreciate
the the that there has been a an excess
on the side of people who you know
really wanted to believe that Donald
Trump would be removed from office over
this and maybe other things I don't
think so but I don't think it's
impossible I'm gonna be possible to get
him out of that office in that way but
but yes I think that there's been
excesses on on both sides of this
argument that I think have been you know
inappropriate frankly but but Glen I
appreciate your coming on and talking
about it
and I guess we now wait to see what's
actually in the report yes alright Sam
great all right
