Donald Trump is in a bad mood he at the
reverse himself from hosting the g7 at
one of his own hotels and as Mick
Mulvaney said I mean he still really
thinks of himself as being in the
hospitality business I mean well it's
murder hospitality didn't being
president in the United States ah
this clip is great one I just want to do
and I'm loathe to do this as everybody
knows I'm not into this stuff but I do
want to give a trigger warning his face
is horrifying I'm not gonna do like a
fake woke thing about people's bodies
whatever is going on here whatever
bleach he's using and how that's
counteracting with the thing on his head
is it's a tough deal well Oba lupus are
a historically marginalized group so you
might want to be a bit sensitive I mean
I fair enough if he comes out and owns
his identity is whatever that is I will
try to be more sensitive as of now this
is just a really terrifying tanning job
which cannot be adding to a already I
mean this is not theirs Trump when he's
funny there's Trump when he's dunking on
Jeb there's Trump when he's talking
about you know Democratic candidates and
he's loose uh this is I just had to
cancel the hotel shrimp
very Trump and when Trump is
 there's one person that comes to
mind they ran their business hey Obama
made a deal for a book is that running a
business I'm sure he didn't even discuss
it while he was president he has a deal
with Netflix when did they start talking
about that that's only you know a couple
of examples but other presidents if you
love other process where wealthy
not you 12 George Washington was
actually considered a very very rich man
at the time George Washington they say
had two desks he had a presidential desk
and a business desk I don't think you
people with this Oh Nehemiah Ernst laws
and by the way I would say that it's
cost me anywhere from two to five
billion dollars to be present oh my god
okay definitely being president is
absolutely the first solid look Donald
Trump is a businessman as a failure
Donald Trump is an entertainer is pretty
successful and being president is by far
I think that is originally why he ran
for president was probably because this
is a way to actually reach oligarch
status not just like in my vision board
would be my guess so that's great
now you know look do presidents leave
office and do they even know that
something in the future is gonna
influence their decisions today even if
it's not as naked and obvious as Trump
yeah probably and this is like the
classic Trump pattern where he's sort of
like in his own narcissistic self
victimizing whiny way makes like a third
of a point but the fact check is really
funny and I also do like the idea that
like what's the difference between
getting a book agent after your
president and booking people to stay at
your hotels it's all the same thing
George Washington they say chopped down
the cherry trees say chopped down the
cherry tree he owned slaves that's a
significant business I love the
projection like Obama had Reed Hastings
in the White House you know what's gonna
happen when I'm a hat read over did a
great deal great business guy Netflix
look great business people don't want me
to make deals we're supposed to be
incredibly cynical about Obama but all
these instances with Trump and all this
his emoluments issues were supposed to
act like just like yeah it's asking the
Saudi royal family if they want to stay
at my hotels before a major arms deal is
the most innocent commonsensical thing
in the world Barack Obama getting a book
deal is
sinister and like how does he make off
of any of these stays like it seems like
a little petty I don't even know I just
know that I'm in the hospitality
business I had I had one desk for
business one desk for work a monuments
clause ridiculous fake news many
thousands Jim Begg News sat down with
Netflix they're a great company I'm a
great president we do great business did
deals give him a really good reality
show and tell him that you know being
president is going to be more like you
want it to be now and then you know we
can have another place where the real
president is if they if he loses they
should pretend that he wins and get him
into the simulation yes okay yeah yeah
so he thinks no but I'm saying he needs
to think that yeah yeah whole time yet
like we need to get him into this wine
you won and now all of a sudden you have
a 95% approval rating and all of the
best entertainers want to come this time
and it's a reality show and that part
will be real because it'll be hilarious
oh yeah we'll definitely watch that
it'll be like The Truman Show I'm
totally into that concept because I look
I'd still want Trump to have a highly
active Twitter account until these until
he died it's big time big league I just
want to say I just apropos of nothing
this is a trump quote from 2013 and this
is a good example of why I still want
him on Twitter and why and why what
comma Harris is saying this is just a
not only a problematic politically it's
just a huge assault on entertainment
this Donald Trump from 2013 New York
Fashion Week it's really bad you used to
be so glamorous that exciting no stars
no fun just boring they need serious
help
hashtag New York Fashion Week I'm sure
he does you just walk into the dressing
room
it could
