[Music]
Chris Collins came up in the
conversation today with Digby to the
extent that he was going around Congress
while back bragging about how many
millionaires he had made by giving them
inside stock tips on legislation that he
was promoting of course the voters in
New York they were and they brought him
back despite the fact that I think at
that point had been indicted correct I
just say good for him you know I respect
that hustle well that's like chapter 3
of my voters are to blame book but
blaming here is AOC on the House Ways
and Means Committee explaining this
dynamic that you can basically you know
and look this is how it works in local
governments all across the country small
towns and maybe not so small towns state
Reps state like New York why am i state
Rep it's good for business my business
I've got a blank business and it's how I
get clients and this is how I get me
people and I self thinks this state I
mean just theoretically on the federal
level you don't want to see as much of
it but now that seems to be not the case
ok great so green light for hush money I
can do all sorts of terrible things it's
totally legal right now for me to pay
people off and that is considered speech
that money is considered speech so I use
my special interest dark money funded
campaign to pay off folks that I need to
pay off and get elected so now I'm
elected and I'm in I've got the power to
draft Lobby and shape the laws that
govern the United States of America
fabulous now is there any hard limit
that I have perhaps mrs. Hobart Flynn is
there any hard limit that I have in
terms of what legislation I'm allowed to
touch are there any limits on the laws
that I can write or influence especially
I'm based on the special interest funds
that I accepted to finance my campaign
and get me elected in the first place
there's no limit so there's none so I
can be totally funded by oil gas and gas
it can be totally funded by Big Pharma
come in right Big Pharma laws and
there's no limits to that whatsoever
that's right okay
so awesome now now mr. Mara Bonnie the
last thing I want to do is get rich with
as little work possible that's really
what I'm trying to do as the bad guy
right so is there anything preventing me
from holding stocks say in an oil or gas
company and then writing laws to
deregulate that that industry and cause
you know that could potentially cause
the stock value to soar and accrue a lot
of money in that time you could do that
so I could do that I could do that now
with the way our current laws are set up
yes yes okay great
yep there you go she then goes on to
clarify and confirm that there are even
fewer laws constraining what the
president can do yeah it's yeah what the
president can do just about anything in
that respect and I mean the emoluments
are supposed to clause is supposed to
prohibit some of that but have a hotel
yeah it's a little bit tough to get
charged a real problem yeah yes so
that's I thought it was a transition
yeah money in politics is bets all right
go ahead breaking news yeah but that's
not just that's not money in politics
right that's just that's enriching
yourself that's not the influence of
outside money in terms of it's simply
just using politics as an extension of
your business and that's just that's
just pure corruption that just happens
to be legal in this country yeah she's
so good at breaking that stuff down in a
way that people can understand she's
really good at doing that and also like
the me
he follows her so it's not just that
she's really good and maybe that's me
you know it's maybe a little bit of
chicken in the egg but I think she's
just exceptional at doing that and
fortunate that the media is following
her around and she's superstar and so we
get that message broadcast in a way that
like we haven't in decades
I mean I'm I imagined Henry Waxman must
have said that same thing ten years ago
and no one cared
he's pretty life only dorsey knows who
I'm talking about
I see the yeah he was a California and I
think it was government I can't remember
what committee it was but it was a big
Oversight Committee he's really at the
cardi B - is he know me good
he's not on Twitter talking about cardi
B
