[Music]
let's turn to something that's a little
bit more disturbing coming out of the
White House and that is this guy Hogan
gay Gidley
right and if I remember this guy Hogan
Gidley he was an obvious Rick Santorum
you see he worked for somebody else in
the primary I can't remember who it was
and I'm quite sure it worked for
centaurum at least in one primary he was
in 2012 he was the main santorum talking
points guy and here he is on Zee on
MSNBC and part of the reason why I think
the White House does not feel obligated
in any way to provide support for Puerto
Rico part of it is that Donald Trump
doesn't like the mayor part of it is
that he doesn't feel they vote from and
part of it is they just don't consider
them Americans they just the it just
runs contrary to their perspective of
who should be Americans and who should
not be Americans and it is not just
Donald Trump who feels this it they it
infuses the I'm convinced the entire
White House they all share this this
that's how they all have that's why this
guy's been there since day one he's
still their common bonds they have a
common bond a common perspective on who
is a real American and who's not a real
American and Hogan Gidley just just if
you don't focus on this stuff sometimes
some of the the truth seeps out they
received more money than any state or
territory in history for rebuild that's
not true a hundred percent there is no
where that's not true have not come to
91 billion dollars with all we've done
in that country they have had a systemic
mismanage I'm sorry all we've done in
what
can we go back a little bit after that
it's not true have not come to 91
billion dollars with all we've done in
that country they have had a systematic
mismanagement of the goods and services
we've sent to them you've seen food just
rotting in the ports
their governor has done a horrible job
he's trying to be critical that country
well I agree so it's time to immediately
decolonize them leave the occupation and
allow them to govern their own economy I
mean you know it's so depressing and
sickening about it is that were taco is
a literal colony obviously and if the
United States actually stopped
colonizing them we would still
financially colonize and terrorize them
the way we do the rest of the Caribbean
in Latin America so it's two orders of
colonization but it is incredible to
actually go to a place that it's like
like is Haiti essentially a colony of
the United States and Canada yes but if
I'm really strong functioning it is it
is still a mind blowing through actually
in a place which is like no that just is
it's frightening
we're not even we don't we're not saying
that it's functionally we're not we're
not just here to be exploited we're
actually literally like we just that's
what we do and if you're lucky we'll
stop testing weapons on one of your
islands and and accidentally killing
people and yeah I mean could bring
economic activity there right I mean
they need to look I think you know
ideologically I support Puerto Rican
independence but at the very bare
minimum every single Democrat for even
very crass reasons needs to campaign on
giving them full states
