this is a great clip of Reverend William
barber and oh this is incredible I could
vote for this guy for president fine
exactly what we said last night why
can't he run yeah I mean this is and the
beauty is like this is a guy who
understands a where his power comes from
and B how much he has and he's going to
use exactly as much of that power as he
can without losing it I mean that's
what's what is that is what makes such a
powerful leader is where no he's not
putting he's not saving any of this and
that's why he's so successful in these
moments there's no reason why he has to
be there right there's no reason why
he's he's on he's at the Tennessee State
University on that stage with the
Tennessee Governor and a couple of
Congress people I guess the reason like
he they didn't have to invite him no I
was eating from Tennessee's from North
Carolina but he has become such an
important figure and he's going to use
that power to basically just shame these
people and this is pretty amazing
so politicians know positive one say I
should just say that he's there
obviously he was speaking this is on
Monday and it was a celebration of
Martin Luther King's
life so politicians can't say they love
dr. King and how he stood for love and
unity but then you deny refused to
support his agenda right government I
[Applause]
mean since you came
right congressman so let me show you
what I mean governor dr. King would not
have been for a wall and heard it how
many of y'all are not against the wall
everybody here is not against the wall
politician everybody and will tell
dollar truck you don't need to be
building the wall to separate people we
need to be spending money to get me by
health care stand on your feet now
anybody that doesn't stand on your feet
you get to see minute believe like dr.
King everybody ought to have what Teddy
Roosevelt a Republican ask for a hundred
years ago and that's by every citizen
believes that stand up say you love dr.
king
[Applause]
you may be seated
I'm just saying I'm too old to play now
[Applause]
and preachers don't just think I'm
talking to politicians you can but then
they can for you that guy's amazing
where do I whatever that right well
let's another argument against all that
wack New Atheism nonsense now now MLK
was in favor of getting more black CEOs
at fortune 500 companies and that was
that was it right that was the point I
want to see about a thirteen percent
ratio on the Apple board its food
commensurate with our population I'm
going that's achieved dance a rap I'm
gonna make a prediction and that is that
Governor Bill Lee will never go on a
stage again with William Barbour for the
rest of his life I appreciated what he
was saying but I thought it was very
uncivil you know President Trump is
pausing the whole discourse so rude so
rude so on one hand you have Steve King
being unfortunate in his rhetoric within
Rashidah to live using a profanity and
by the way I've no support of the
President Trump but you can't speak that
way so important so yeah the Democrats
be the party of not being stupid you got
a lot be stupid and you got to think not
only who will feel your love tank but
who looks at me and bill kristol
[Laughter]
I'll see you in the four o'clock block
as well Thank You Andrea Mitchell
