I was Howard Schultz I would have a
little bit of a timing conversation with
Bill Burton and Steve Schmidt that
probably should happen a little blood I
would go I mean I know this business
people off but I am NOT above Warren
bass jokes around the Native American
thing that one's really lame and Kamala
Harris gamla Harris who I have plenty of
criticisms over I actually would
recommend the new woke bros dropped
today waz and I did a deep dive on her
as well as Howard Schultz and Davos I
mean I think it's no mystery what I
think for a political profile but to
hear her as shrill would be like I don't
even know like actually the only
comparable example I guess I'll make it
serious would be like the type of people
who would say like Barack Obama just
sounds so angry
yeah like you're hearing yourself yeah
and what you're hearing from yourself is
sexism when you say that yeah like how
do we get the least benefit of the doubt
right now that we're not just being
sexist I know
shrill I mean it's just unbelievable
that's just isn't I mean look cuz
sometimes you know frankly like you know
Hillary Clinton received a huge amount
of sexism but is it an accurate
statement to say that she is not
charismatic in the way that that word is
traditionally used and understood yes
and some people don't like to
acknowledge that reality but like Carla
Harris shrill hmm okay she's so
emotional she is none of these things
and actually I think when I read about
the in if you look at the New York Times
piece on her prosecuting record called
calmly Harris was not a progressive
prosecutor and you read about her
arguing to uphold and almost certainly
false conviction I felt a lot more
emotional than she did about it that was
some cold-blooded stuff so anyway that's
what Howard Schultz said Howard Schultz
on the one hand you have belligerent men
who talk about assaulting women and
putting children in cages and then on
the other hand
a calmly Harris is on her period which
is why I need to run as an independent
an independent man with a well-balanced
nervous system all right let's make fun
of Howard Schultz some more this is
gonna be all fun and games
unless the Democratic Party nominates
Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren
potentially even sherrod Brown and then
he will continue his race and they will
pump a huge amount of money into a
delusional oligarch campaign which will
not perform well but could serve as a
spoiler here he is on MSNBC though I
mean until that event I think we all can
definitely I mean just keep laughing and
dunking away here he is talking about
his two favorite presidents one favorite
president it makes sense his reasons for
it are hilarious and the other favorite
president well he should keep that
presidents name out of his mouth
Republican president in the past 50
years best M I've great respect for
Ronald Reagan just came from the Ronald
Reagan Library the thing I took away
from Ronald Reagan aside from all of the
wonderful things he did that really
struck me especially compared to the
current person who is despicable in the
Oval Office Ronald Reagan never took his
jacket off in the Oval Office in eight
years why because of his respect and the
dignity of the office that needs to be
restored
however correct FDR how much resistance
MLK that's exactly right he may have
voted against my birthday and supported
apartheid but he never wasn't snazzy in
the Oval Office
I heard that Nancy told him that the
astrologist said that he would be cursed
if he took his jacket off but
nonetheless he did it and it was the
right thing to do now his other favorite
besides the laughable Ronald Reagan line
was FDR and I believe it was it was FDR
as a birthday was it yesterday I think
we had an FDR birthday recently and I
said would always say about FDR which is
that we already we know and there's
serious critiques to be had if the
really obvious things like the
internment his appeasement of
segregationist in his party and also a
critique from the left we know all these
things Anytus and that's important and
then conversely a
I'm not gonna throw the baby out with
the bathwater here I mean this guy was a
very successful president and there's a
I did a lot of good things for a lot of
people things that are still benefiting
people today like in 2000 his 1930s
legacy has a more positive impact than
almost anybody in modern politics in
2019 and here he is um this is this is
the economic royalists speech and think
of this as an indirect response to the
the coffee guy is guaranteed equal
opportunity in the polling place he must
have equal opportunity in the
marketplace
[Applause]
[Music]
in other words Howard Schultz keep my
name out of your punk mouth before I
have to take my cane and slap the taste
out of it
my wife will kick your ass too now go
get us an overpriced over fat disgusting
latte which we will buy grudgingly so
that we may use the bathroom at the
airport
Howard is just an utterly content list
person like he might want to make it
look like he's creating some kind of new
synthesis of like all the greatest ideas
of the past but like no you picked two
pictures off of Wikipedia and you said I
like this guy and I like this guy like
it reminds me of a capitalist realism by
Marc Fisher I want to paraphrase the end
because it's kind of long here but he
wrote the power of capitalist realism
derives in part from the way that
capitalism subsumes it consumes all of
previous history one effect of its
system of equivalents which can assign
all cultural objects whether they're
religious iconography pornography or Das
Kapital a monetary value flattening them
all into decontextualized artifacts well
and that's why when a Hillary cited FDR
as her favorite politician and Bernie
cited Winston Churchill as his favorite
a foreign leader it was kind of
embarrassing for everybody Yeah right
everyone's just like everybody's wrong
here and being really ridiculous but to
paraphrase Marc Fisher father how about
we synthesize my fist on your stupid
face if I could have designed public
housing programs that made it illegal
for someone who grew up in
one of them to open up a avec price bean
chain that exploited laborers in the
developing world and those at home I
would don't ever mention my name again
Howard FDA probably opened up a lot of
those markets for coffee beans that is
probably true that is probably true um a
good neighbor that is true although the
illicit history that we did with Derrick
Davison was and it was very practical
right like Roosevelt was actually decent
on anti-colonialism in some ways because
the patent was being passed from a
different world order from the British
Empire to the American Empire which is
branded differently right
