[Music]
here's the here's another clip this is
pretty good
oh do we have Oh people should check our
Instagram thing John Benjamin and Larry
Murphy made a great graphic that we put
up on our Instagram cam you know we have
an Instagram account now did you know
that Matt I was aware yeah it is we
retitled it it's the majority report
with sam cedar it's we our Instagram
specialist was mmm I saw the Instagram
specialist came in and cleaned house and
yes they did
and if you head over there now now it's
it's a little bit cleaner and each
little morsel of Instagram is precious
we don't but it's a very funny graphic
that shows ostensibly a Fox News poll
those who oppose taxing people over 10
million those in favor 70%
those against well you'll have to find
out that's a little tease but meanwhile
here is what was know who what is this
this is clip number what that you have
up there oh this is Maria bark to mow
bartiromo and she is on fox news with
shannon bream that's her name and bill
hemmer is hammer sleepy today I don't
know sleep is euphemism a little bit
less loosey-goosey
okay okay he's alright sometimes he gets
a little bit he's real demeanor change
these days anyways here they are they're
talking about you know why you shouldn't
tax wealthy people on their wealth
here's the headline Wall Street Journal
New Democratic agenda sure looks like
government control over the means of
production so they went through Medicare
for all endorsed by 16 other senators
Kamala Harris had the line last week
let's eliminate all that meaning the
employer insurance yeah because the
green the new Green Deal endorsed by 40
House Democrats guarantee government job
for all kirsten gillibrand has tweeted
in support of that vastly higher taxes
is now being debated in the House Ways
and Means Committee to raise taxes even
there's some of the headlines from that
yeah exactly and when you're looking at
Medicare for all it's actually as James
James Freeman says all the time
Medicare for none because you're
replacing private health insurance
companies we're the new self payer one
pair government assistance Medicare
program so that's of course that's
socialism closet wait a second but I'm
not clear on why it's Medicare for none
or why it's self payer because it's like
it's just because it's just like
Venezuela I get it now
Chicago politics so that's of course
that's socialism and then the Green Deal
you know this is an idea where the
government is in charge and the
government is allocating resources to
individuals everybody has the same what
does that do for productivity we talked
about that in the past you know why
would you want to work really hard to
think that you can in fact achieve
success if you know that no matter what
you do it's all the same as the next
person it's hard to believe it and that
Wall Street Journal piece also posit you
know this is an interesting theory
because we have seen worker productivity
rise so exponentially over the past
thirty years or so that forty years that
the minimum wage is about if you if it
followed productivity would be somewhere
in the low 20s an hour so this concept
of and these are people I Got News for
you they're they're they would never be
in danger of paying the top top marginal
tax rate as they work yet their
productivity continues to go up
maybe that's why because they're not
afraid of paying the top marginal tax
rate same as the next person it's hard
to believe it and that Wall Street
Journal piece also took on Elizabeth
Warren's proposed wealth tax and said
this MS Warren's wants a new two percent
wealth tax on assets over fifty million
dollars and three percent over 1 billion
dollars including assets held abroad
France recently junked its wealth packs
because it was so counterproductive and
such attacks has never been levied in
America this is government compass
Gatien merely because someone has earned
or saved more money than someone else
socialism yeah exactly I love the way
they wrote that actually and it's true
it is confiscation because the truth is
is you could work your whole life work
really hard achieve success make money
and then get it taken away confiscated
by the government
these policies more times lead to
unintended consequences where people
will actually see that they're being
overtaxed see that they're being their
money is being confiscated and they will
come up with various structures to hide
income and so at the end of the day the
government's not getting that revenue
anyway I'm positive now you know what's
amazing about this here is she's a
business news right and she is
conflating wealth and income like
they're gonna hide their income because
of a wealth tax no they would hide their
income like they do now because of an
income tax which we also incidentally
have a wealth tax
I guess she's arguing that they'll hide
their income well the wealth as long as
we can see the wealth or at least part
of it we'll get two percent of that
wealth on I'd be happy to take a much
more aggressive punitive approach to
that as well so if the issue that she's
concerned about is like lack of
regulatory authority and investigative
powers by the IRS to get that money I
think we could take care of that stuff
on crime and tough on the causes of
crime is there another area where
they're like oh people might not follow
these laws therefore these laws
shouldn't exist why would you have three
strikes laws people still shoplift
exactly well I I would actually maybe
we'll really need to do is bring in the
ATF for this forget about the IRS let's
just get the hardcore SEAL Team six well
actually see that they're being
overtaxed see that they're being their
money is being confiscated and they will
come up with various structures to hide
income and so at the end of the day the
government's not getting that revenue
anyway I'm talking about legal
structures in in some ways where people
will try their hardest to change the way
their income is measured and that's one
of the unintended concept it will
clearly be an issue during the primary
for the Democratic campaign ya know all
these candidates going to be asked about
it were they
where they stand exact I saw a business
Network yesterday afternoon it was not
Fox Business at the the banner on the
screen said attacking socialism
attacking attacking socialism with the
president's face behind and say the
Union now segment well I was double take
a dump of take oh no no he didn't take a
double take he took a double take
can we could just go back in there I
mean no this is getting petty here but I
just want to say the Union now I took a
double take he is so scared of socialism
he can't even talk right now it's great
socialism come in a bottle
well maybe why does he drink well there
you have it the itself it is pretty
funny though to hear them like read this
off as if like they're almost like
holding back laughs laughter and the it
just doesn't match up with the words
when they're saying like proposing a two
percent wealth over fifty million
dollars I think if it went for too much
longer they'd probably start crying well
I know what they say we will have to
keep from crying of course but it when
they deliver their stuff and they're
attempting to make it sound bad and
stupid it can't help but resonate with
people just go I'm not sure what's so
funny about two percent on fifty million
is that gonna be there they're relying
on tone of voice to make the argument
exactly
