[Music]
let's talk about this because there's a
lot of there's a lot of issues involved
in this too apparently there's this guy
Stephen Ross who is a private developer
and a very very wealthy man
and he has done some wonderful things
like he has headed something called what
is it that he calls it like a rye rise
arise and this is an anti-racist
organization which is great that he's
doing that work and he's putting that
money in there that is that is a very
nice thing for him to do I would prefer
confiscatory taxes but that's not you
know if he's gonna have that money it's
and he considers himself quote a
champion of racial equality inclusion
diversity public education and
environmental sustainability that's
great because a lot of rich people are
jerks that's right nice it's nice to
hear about someone who you know who
supports good things now maybe a little
bit early to make the assessment about
the jerk part he also happens to be the
owner of the Miami Dolphins and here is
Kenny Stills he is a wide receiver with
the Dolphins Matt tells me he's
replacement value no he's above he's
above a replacement value so he's a
quality wide receiver and he has become
aware of the fact that Ross is holding
according to the Washington Post an
event I think it's in the Hamptons I'm
not sure where to raise money for Donald
Trump and Tom I don't know about you but
I cannot afford to go yeah the it starts
at 2,500 bucks I don't know I think
actually tickets are priced at a hundred
thousand for a photo opportunity yeah
there's a there's a big escalating scale
like I feel like it was it was if I
remember the
prices alright it was like 2500 to get
in but then you're getting into the five
figures for to be in the VIP section and
then for the photo it goes crazy yeah
and then everybody has access to the
photo that's right every axis two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars for
the package that includes a roundtable
discussion so we're looking at millions
of dollars being raised
you would think unless it's very lonely
in the tent unless it's very lonely
maybe it's just hundreds of thousands
for for Donald Trump being raised and
Kenny Stills has a message for who
amounts to be basically his boss and you
it's weeded out in response to mr. Ross
holding the fundraiser for President
Trump your thoughts after that tweets
still and the fact that he's holding
that fundraiser tomorrow yeah I mean my
thoughts really haven't changed the
tweet is what it is so what I said now
for somebody who's so active in the
community especially for the Dolphins
and the rise initiative do you kind of
feel like it's almost a betrayal or a
hypocritical sense in a sense that's
what I was saying in the tweet that I
just didn't really make much sense to me
for what the mission statement was for
rise and you know what they're setting
out to do doesn't make sense for me to
to or to me for him to be trying to are
to be supporting the man's campaign who
is seems to be against all the things
you know he's trying to work towards
Steven Ross has stood armed is stupid
I'm sure at some point
I mean the same thing that I've already
said it just doesn't make sense to me it
doesn't align you know to be running a
non-profit focus on equality and talking
about sports and equality and then to be
holding a fundraiser for a man that we
know you know isn't standing up for that
stuff cause or champion that's
impossible
good for that guy seriously say that
about his boss I mean it's pretty
straightforward it's pretty
straightforward and apparently two
people should know that
Ross sits on the board of or he's the
CEO Z the CEO he sits on the board of
the company that owns SoulCycle and
Equinox
which are two I don't know if they're
national brands but they're big in New
York City and I'm served expensive
this also Briggs meets I did I interrupt
you I interrupted you didn't do well I
wanted to just say that the equinox and
solstice you do statement saying they do
not support the Trump fundraiser and
this is what's sort of stunning to me
okay he responded to criticism in a
statement on Wednesday saying that he's
always been an active participant in the
democratic process and this is what he
said this is what this is this is a
stunning statement I have known Donald
Trump for forty years and while we agree
on some issues we strongly disagree on
many others and I have never been
bashful about expressing my opinions so
here it is you're doing some bad stuff
here's several million dollars to keep
on doing it yeah what Sigyn is he gonna
like rake aside half the money to go to
the people against Donald Trump to
reflect that parts that he disagrees
with or is just all the money go into
Donald Trump that's right like I I could
have raised a hundred million dollars
but as you know I disagree with 60% of
what you do so here's a check for 40
yeah and this is the real base of Donald
Trump by the way like I didn't mean to
imply earlier that poor whites are
voting for Trump in large numbers poor
whites by and large do not vote poor
people by and large do not vote the
people who are voting for Trump giving
money to Trump and supporting Trump are
the same people by an
you always vote for Republicans which is
to say people who own gyms and gym
franchises and whatnot I mean this is
this is you know this is this is the the
the bottom line you know the I I don't
know why people would necessarily be
surprised about about a guy like Ross
supporting him but it's this this notion
of like I'm a billionaire and I've
criticized him to his face and so my
giving him several million dollars that
me giving him three hundred thousand
dollars to sit at a table with him and
like no no he's not giving the three
hundred thousand dollars to sit at the
table he's probably already giving him
that no he's he's supplying the table
all right you're the one who's getting
all the other rich people to come in and
pay that oh yeah the other guys were
gonna pay three hundred you also may you
know they probably also disagree with
him on important things who they very
well may they feel bad about it but I'm
willing to pay him two hundred fifty
grand so I can sit at a table and tell
him I kiss agree with his trade policy
and here's the thing is that and I
already here Dave Rubin on Twitter
bemoaning the fact that everything has
become so politicized like you know like
their friends and I think this should be
the rule you could have friends
sure and you can be friendly with Donald
Trump if you want you're behind my beer
well I am the beer I am at bimah soda by
now you know exactly but when you do a
political fundraiser for him
that's a political act I mean it almost
goes without saying since the word
political fundraiser is part of the word
Politico the words political it's not
even just like well he you know he's my
friend he's running for office I feel
like I should give him some money you're
you are bringing other people in you're
asking people to come and give him even
more money right it's not you know
that's that's not I mean I I wish my
friends would do that for me and you're
at your ability to do this is predicated
on all those businesses that other
people buy or pay for and so
cannot divorce the enormous amount of
money that you are arranging and
providing for Donald Trump's political
campaign from the way that you raise it
and so the the idea that you know that
these things shouldn't be politicized is
absurd yeah I mean I'm not a big sports
head but it seems to me if ever there's
an industry very ripe for being taken
over and run by the workers it's
professional sports right because these
people have a skill that is very
difficult to replace and what are the
owners do like nothing well that's not
true
they're the ones who get the tax breaks
and the funding from the cities oh right
yes sir they're the conduit they're the
ones who show up in a sweet-ass car and
convince some some local bureaucrats
yeah actually we should try to get
athletes to take some more initiative on
that sort of thing there's really no
reason why like they couldn't do it yeah
it was like the stage is set like you
just have the the unions basically just
say like guess what we're gonna set up
our own and I don't know at first what
you need I mean you would I mean you'd
think that but I just feel like there
was a I think that there were some
really grim lessons to be learned from
the Colin Kaepernick situation right I
feel that I think it just seemed like
you mean in terms of who the other
players are know in terms of like what
owners and fans are willing to sacrifice
for the sake of their politics you know
I mean you've had lots of there's such a
rich history of teams and playing like
terrible people and being like look you
know I don't I don't like what he's been
serially acquitted of but you know he
helps us win and we got to make it
happen and you know that they had really
effectively created this idea of sports
is this a moral realm where like if you
could contribute to the team you were
gonna be being no matter what and then
NFL team chose to lose games rather than
employee Colin Kaepernick right they
like right they chose to bring out guys
who were objectively terrible
playing quarterback and Toulouse
football games and to have like you know
tens of thousands of people sit in the
stadium and watch some schmuck throw the
ball into the ground rather than let
Colin Kaepernick have a job and so when
you see that I mean it's it's the the
owners in the league but the and you
know the fans kept showing up the fans
kept showing up right so that's a really
sort of grim measure of how much they
feel like they can damage the product
for ideological reasons and not suffer
for it
so well the the idea of the players
taking over though is is a different one
like you end up with the same product
and they would just like they would just
own equity like it's almost like the
argument they make about things like
uber like if you could get it's harder I
think in some ways it's harder to do it
with uber drivers well yet all of the
uber drivers who don't know each other
they don't show up at the same place to
work they don't hang out in the same
place if you could get them to get a
loan to develop to an app developer then
boom you're in business it says then the
drivers are losing five billion dollars
a quarter
what's it well probably not not needing
to do the the same they don't have the
same sort of like editorial for
expansion exactly
and yes the NFL outlawed for instance
what the Green Bay Packers situation
with their City there and I think if a
city like Green Bay can do it I mean
maybe it's easier if it's smaller but I
mean financially they can rattle it all
right but it's not just this is not
theoretical the idea that people don't
like the idea of political boycotts
