the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any of these apps
they are unanimous in hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam c
de it is Monday September 9th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
reporter Christopher Leonard on his book
Copeland the secret history of Koch
Industries and corporate power in
America
[Applause]
also on the program today Trump invited
the Taliban to Camp David in a failed
rushed peace deal gambit Betsy DeVos
unveils new rules to protect fraudulent
for-profit colleges Democrats to launch
a broader corruption investigation into
the Trump administration as
formalization of impeachment inquiry
begins all this as Congress returns and
face a government shutdown within three
weeks the Air Force is now probing a
rash of Trump resort overnight stays by
Air Force personnel
and a big special election in North
Carolina tomorrow can the Democrats
steal a heavily Republican seat Donald
Trump headed down there to make sure
that doesn't happen we'll see if that
backfires and on the eve of the eve of
the eve of the democratic debate Joe
Biden to the extent that he can hears
footsteps the MIT Media Lab rocked by
Jeffrey Epstein controversy you know a
Joe I told the director of the Media Lab
tweeted in 2008 the former want the
formal one yeah he tweeted don't take
money from a-holes right there you go he
either had a real trouble with
assessments of a-holes or that he had a
change of heart
Republican gerrymander Godfather
turns out use race-based analysis and
his work for North Carolina among other
places and we wondered why the
Republicans weren't going to pursue that
ruling last week now we know ladies and
gentlemen and lastly well not lastly and
the Department of Justice is weaponized
in the automaker investigation and
you've heard of disaster capitalism that
excuse me now we have disaster fascism
as we refused to take in refugees from
Bahamas all this and more on today's
program yes ladies and gentlemen welcome
thanks for joining us Jamie is out today
we'll probably be back tomorrow and
everybody else is here with bells on
another week Congress is back we are
officially in
the in the political season as it were
we've got a big democratic debate
tonight or not tonight this week I
should say we have a big Democratic
Republican race in North Carolina the
the North Carolina race is really one of
those things that's just going to give
us you know it doesn't mean much in turn
in practice what it what why people are
looking to it is because it's an
indication of just how dramatic Donald
Trump's bleeding is North Carolina too
is about a week away now maybe a week
and a half away from a deadline which
was imposed upon them by a Superior
Court to redraw their districts and
Republicans are not contesting this I
would I would argue it's probably
because of these revelations that they
must have had a heads up about by the
guy who had drawn the maps for them this
is the famous guy who we talked about
him a lot in the context of the census
question this guy who feller who
apparently and now these documents are
out would give lessons to state
legislators on how to redraw maps using
his data and and literally told them
never ever use email no one can see this
stuff and apparently he thought he was
gonna live forever and that his
estranged daughter would not comb
through his things and give up the ghost
and reveal all of this in literally
gigabytes of documents that she found so
a fascinating turn of events and we'll
see it's gonna have broader implications
it could have implications at the
Supreme Court although I imagine they're
not going to revisit these cases
remember
the Supreme Court will weigh in on
gerrymanders that are racially based but
they won't they say they can't they
don't know how to do it on a partisan
basis now state courts have shown they
can do it on a partisan basis but if it
comes out that all of the contested
districts that we've been talking about
for years in these cases were
undergirded by a racial analysis it's
going to have some broader implications
and to a certain extent it's hard to
imagine they couldn't when you think
about the states that we're talking
about and you think about the fact
that's simply a fact there is one party
in America that is all-white that is
based around an identity of whiteness
that is the Republican Party that's
simply a fact they talk about identity
politics the reason why they don't have
to talk about identity they only have
one identity the Democratic Party is
made up of white people and black people
and Latino people and Asian people and
if you're going to try and figure out
how to give a Republicans the advantage
in many of these states and you want to
maximize it chances are you're probably
using race as a factor and that's
certainly what this guy did so that's a
big deal
this race in North Carolina the debate
coming up there's data showing that
Biden or at least stories that we're
hearing that you know even in Biden
Ville people are a little worried do not
think that his lead is
terribly durable I think if you look at
some of the stuff coming out about
Warren that you see whether it moves you
or not I think a lot of that's coming
from the Biden camp at Rendell going and
saying that I had Elizabeth Warren at a
at a fundraiser a year ago she had no
problem with the big money that we have
now she only has a problem with it now
two different ways of looking at that
one is she was doing big money a year
ago the other is she's no longer doing
big money so but nevertheless ed Rendell
is not out there fighting for anybody
but Joe Biden part of that old man white
guy club that wants to reach those
people in the suburbs but is this just a
picture of huff oh yeah all right well
let's uh since we're talking about
odious people what do you do if you you
can tree run for mayor because you
participated in while you've crapped all
over your citizenry in many respects you
have participated possibly people seem
to think he did I don't know how he
couldn't have but it's possible I guess
that he was completely hoodwinked by
everything that went down with the
laQuan McDonald's case and if you were
the guy who said you know after the left
let's destroy all the outside agitation
during the Obama administration if you
were the weak kneed guy in the Obama
administration right like if you if they
look around the room they're like who's
the first guy to retreat from any any
taking any advantage of the destruction
that george w bush left in his wake the
first guy to retreat it was this
beautiful eat and and cloth
jackass if I do the risk you said which
is appropriate and it measures up is oh
I should tell people because that's
probably not in his official title Rahm
Emanuel folks here he is
health care is a single issue that
Democrats have a 35 point advantage on
President Trump was trying to do
everything can to narrow that down we've
taken a position so far mechanics have
through the process if you have not
about on basically Medicare for all
which is we're going to eliminate 150
million people's health care and we're
gonna provide health care for people
that does come over the border that is
an untenable position for the general
election as you know George I just biked
around Lake Michigan nearly a thousand
miles through Michigan and Wisconsin two
really important states nobody at a
diner ran at me and said take my health
care away nobody this is this is a
reckless as it relates to and you don't
have to take the position to what I
wonder how many people ran up to him at
a diner just said hey your nail or had
no idea who the hell he was if they were
lucky right position to win the primary
and you're basically literally hindering
yourself for the general election to the
governor's point I mean it there is a
question about whether this comes down
to electability and this return to
stability that the Biden is running on
or whether voters want someone like
Warren who's gonna shake up the whole
system and when you look at our poll
particularly it shows that that there is
this boost for Biden because of the
electability argue yeah first of all
there's so much with that exchange that
is just stunning now of course you know
when when chris Christie is you know
when rahm emanuel supposedly bringing up
the left here on this panel the this is
the the the conversation that you're
gonna get it is impossible to find in
this country in our history an example
of a presidential candidate who came out
with a proposal that was in any way
unpopular and wrote it to the white
house you cannot find it in history
except for the last presidential
election where just about every proposal
that donald trump offered
had a net negative perspective with
polling so just that frame itself is
just absurd and again and this is gonna
be the theme that we're gonna hear about
or you're gonna hear about because I'm
going to keep talking about it
for the next 12 months the model that
these old idiots are using this idea
that there are people out there
voters who lean Democrat and lean
Republican and sometimes they vote
Republican and sometimes they vote
Democrat that model is done surely you
can find those people there are some of
them but this is all about return on
investment and opportunity cost those
two dynamics the data shows that in
purple districts in 2018 where people
ran towards the center as a Democrat
they lost and the reason is is because
Republicans are getting record-breaking
turnout and so Democrats need to have
record-breaking turnout the way to get
record-breaking Democratic turnout is
not to cut against polarization but to
not worry about polarization and provide
things that animate Democratic voters
and lean Democratic voters there are not
voters staying home saying I think this
these policies are too too far to the
left at least on the Democratic side
they're just saying does this impact me
enough and that could be material and it
can be an emotional impact but they are
pre disposed to everything that the
Democratic base is predisposed to they
just need to know that it's actually
going to impact them it needs to impact
them in some way
so when you talk about immigration how
much does it motivate the people there
we know from data that the the question
of immigration in the wake of the donald
trump election the left is far more
energized by it than they were during
the obama administration without a doubt
it became an issue in many ways in the
same way that what happened with
right-wing voters where everything
became racialized so too for the left
it's just that they now support these
these things in a in a in a more
polarized fashion you want to bring more
people out you hammer those things
you're not going to depress your your
turnout by supporting things that
marginal voters don't necessarily want
they're just waiting for things that are
going to push them out that are going to
motivate them to get up and electability
and shaking things up are not
diametrically opposed these are not
opposites you can you have to go all the
way back to 2016 to see that they're not
diametrically opposite cuz it turns out
that the guy who was promising to shake
things up one incidentally it's
obviously a self-selected audience but
the greatest applause line we had after
celebrating David Koch's death at our
live show in Chicago was definitely
roasting Rahm Emanuel yes people and a
lot of folks in Chicago beyond that room
if you look at polls right really hate
him right right and and which is why he
is up there representing Democrats in on
ABC television I mean it's sort of
fascinating I mean it's all you started
the Claire McCaskill the same it's
precise exactly I know thirty percent
with the voters of Chicago eighty
percent with ABC right brass right there
it is and and and we could probably
spend six months trying to delve into
what what creates that dynamic but
that's just the reality
ah meanwhile we have two sponsors today
both of which I use on a regular or semi
regular basis which one do you think I
use in the regular basis and which one
do you think I use in the semi regular
basis fun game one is a toothbrush
one is blankest Linkous no I use well
first off I don't know when it was maybe
it was about three or four years ago
just completely coincidentally I got
very very obsessed with my dental dental
hygiene I just got very obsessed with it
because I started becoming aware that
like I'm not that far out from from
having dental issues and I just got
obsessed by it I read about it and this
net turns out toothpaste it's good for
you to use for your breath but that's
not the key the key to maintaining good
dental hygiene and this is crucial not
just for your dental health but your
entire health there's a lot of research
they're starting to suggest that like
you know things start in your mouth and
and in your heart and I started getting
into the idea of an electric toothbrush
and I tried to I tried to get an
electric boat but then it you know I had
to plug it in it but left it on the
counter of the sink we only have one
bathroom in my house we have multiple
people in there thing would fall and
then it's dirty then I don't want to
deal with it and then it's heavy I
couldn't travel with it and then one day
quit becomes a sponsor and it is an
electric toothbrush that is more or less
the same size as your normal toothbrush
it is beautifully styled does not need
to be charged every night it's created
by dentists and product designers to
focus on what actually matters for your
oral health which is healthier habits
like you got to brush your teeth every
day you got to do it when you travel and
you can't get out of the rhythm and
quimp qyp has a built-in timer to make
sure that you do it for the full two
minutes that you're supposed to do it
meanwhile it has a service where
delivers you the dentist recommended new
brush head every three months the new
charge for your phone has a travel cap
that doubles as a thing that you stick
on to your mirror and you can hang it
right there it's not cumbersome it's not
gonna fall over the place doesn't matter
if you have a small you know thing
around your sink I've ordered a kid's
quip for Saul he's super psyched we're
gonna be doing this together quip starts
at just $25 you get the first refill at
quip dot-com slash majority you will get
it for free this is a simple way to
support the program and your dental
hygiene go to get quip dot-com slash
majority to get your first refill free
that's get quip qu IP dot-com slash
majority to get your first refill free
and folks I'm not gonna lie to you I
don't have time to read a lot of the
self-help books I want to learn terms
like return on investment in 80/20
dynamics 80/20 dynamic exactly love it
exactly
stoked and if you are like me and don't
feel like you have the time to read all
the books that are on your list
well bling cast is an app that has made
your day your life a little bit easier
it compiles the key takeaways from
thousands of non-fiction books
everything you need to know is condensed
into 15 minutes that you can either read
or listen to on the app it's unique it
works on your phone it works on your
tablet works on your web browser to find
everything from health and cell pelv
titles to history and business books
included in blink its library you can I
know check out the 4-hour workweek by
Tim Ferriss that's my favorite I'm
that's basically what I'm trying to do
try to get there I can't you know
obviously we do two and a half hour show
every day but what I'm going through I'm
listening to like the seven habits
be honest with you in a million years I
would never pick up the seven highly
effective habits of other people I would
never do it leave you but you know what
15 minutes to listen to it all right
walk away one violent speech you have to
say Steve Jack come on mister covey hit
me with motivation the fire and fury you
want the key takeaways about how insane
the Trump White House is boom there's a
lot of stuff like that with blankets you
get unlimited access to read or listen
to a massive library of condensed
nonfiction books you get all the books
you want one low price right now blinka
says a special offer for majority report
listeners go to blink Asst bi lnk st.com
slash majority to start your 7 day free
trial
that's blink accom slash majority all
right we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back I'm gonna be talking
to Christopher Leonard
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program business reporter
into author of Copeland the secret
history of coke industries and corporate
power in America
Christopher Leonard a welcome to the
program thank you so much for having me
I appreciate it
the the book is gotten wild reviews and
jane mayer who wrote a book about the
dark money and the koch brothers says
that if there was any question as to the
role of the koch brothers in the climate
denial movement in this country that
your book basically puts it to rest
which is pretty amazing praise from
someone who spent so much time working
on on the on the koch brothers i want to
get to that but let's just start with
and obviously it's we recently lost one
of the Koch brothers we will we will get
to that as well obviously David Koch has
passed away but let's just start with
the title it's a coke land it's a double
entendre of sorts do tell that's exactly
right
okay so I mean first of all coke land
describes this institution really well
and in really surprising ways you know
quickly this company has been led by one
person for over 50 years Charles Koch
has been CEO of this institution since
1967 when Lyndon Johnson was president I
don't know if any organization in
private sector that has had one leader
for that long Charles Koch has a very
particular philosophy about how to
structure corporations and frankly how
to structure all of American society and
he teaches all of his employees this
philosophy called market-based
management and it's no exaggeration
people who work for cokes speak their
own language they have their own
vocabulary to have their own whole way
of seeing the world so that's why it's
Copeland but the reason I wrote the book
and the reason I was attracted to this
is that this one company helps us
understand so much about what's going on
America today economically and
politically the reason is that Koch
Industries is company it's embedded in
our daily life I mean this is a massive
company with annual sales bigger than
that of Facebook goldman sachs and US
Steel combined and it specializes in
these businesses that you need to
survive fuel fertilizer clothing
material building material the sensors
in our phones and computers coke makes
all of these things and so when you
write about coke you really are writing
about the entire spectrum of the
American economic experience from
blue-collar manufacturing workers to
high finance derivative traders to
private equity deal makers it's all
there in this one institution and we
should say that that I guess the the
argument is it's not just that from a
product standpoint they have embedded
themselves in within American life but
they obviously have in a political sense
I mean you know like I've been talking
about the Koch brothers probably for 15
years and it is it's sort of fascinating
because on some level they've been
siloed you know but they have more money
than gates they have more they they do
more business like you say then all
these other companies combined there's
they're so massive yet in some ways
they've always been sort of like it's
always it's almost like you know when I
talk about Bill Gates in the context of
education right it's it's not even
remotely controversial the impact that
Bill Gates the Gates Foundation had on
education policy for 10 years in this
country but yet it's it has been and you
know your book is part of changing this
I think but this sort of notion of like
Oh to talk about the Koch brothers and
their influences is you know sort of
like is marginal and almost you know
almost conspiracy theory Lading but the
fact of the matter is they haven't
there's no entity that has a greater
single influence probably on our country
well there's a couple things going on
here and I agree with you totally and
first of all this story of Koch is very
reflective of what's going on they are
there okay you talk
politically let's get to that one of the
big things I wanted to talk about this
in this book is corporate power and
corporate influence over our public
policy literally our laws and our public
life corporations have more power today
in America than they've had in a hundred
years since the Gilded Age the robber
baron era and so in so many important
ways we are back there again and Koch
Industries it's the poster child of this
but it's also a driver of it as you say
yes they are they reflect these big
trends in corporate influence but they
drive them as well Charles Koch has
built a political influence machine that
is unrivaled by any in corporate America
and I say that sincerely and and I'm a
business reporter but you look at
Walmart General Electric Lockheed Martin
they all lobby
they've got big lobbying shops Charles
Koch built something totally different
it so it's like this 360 degree
political influence machine that has at
its heart one of the biggest registered
lobbying on America but then you couple
with that a donor network that Charles
Koch put together that raises more money
in some election cycles than an actual
political party does then you've got
this constellation of coke funded think
tanks a kind of mainstream Charles cokes
very libertarian anti-government ideas
and finally one of the pieces that
really sets it apart is this nationwide
activist group called Americans for
Prosperity that is Koch build and Koch
controlled it's in almost all 50 states
I believe and that's where you get
people knocking on doors
Americans for Prosperity will fill
charter buses full of angry voters and
deliver them right to the doorstep of
the of the lawmakers that cokes lobbying
shop has targeted to be pressured so
taken together you see a corporate
influence machine that is just really
powerful and when Koch sets that thing
against issues it cares about it truly
does win a majority of the time it gets
its policy preferences on climate change
regulation taxes environmental
regulation you name it can we just add
to that to the I haven't seen as much
reported about this in
in a couple years but they basically
have a more robust national political
operation than the Republican Party like
literally in terms of like the the voter
files that they maintain is that still I
mean is that still operative we just
don't hear about it as much but this
their ability to say you know all the
assets you need to run as a Republican
we provide that for you better than the
Republican Party does without question
now one thing we need to get to there's
no question the Republican Party is
drifting from the libertarian
free-market coefficient because of Trump
okay but you are exactly right the Koch
has built this nationwide infrastructure
that rivals and at times surpasses the
actual Republican parties and okay
here's what's fascinating to me I as you
know I'm really fascinated with the
corporation itself the most mind-blowing
element of this whole corporate Empire
is the the financial trading desks Koch
has built a global network of
commodities trading desks that rivals
anything on Wall Street why am i talking
about that right now because the way
koch trades commodities has informed the
way it affects our politics these
commodities traders are deep analysts
who suck in tons of information and they
know the system okay when these
commodities traders are betting on oil
they're betting on like the nuts and
bolts mechanics that the price of oil at
the Gulf Coast is going to go up against
the price of oil in the Northeast really
complicated stuff coke approaches
politics in the same way it is built a
map of American political power there's
like a map of a big pipeline network if
you will they're looking at state
legislatures they're looking at the
court system they're looking at the
United States Congress they're looking
at the administrative agencies like OSHA
EPA they're down there in the actual
pipes where lawmaking is happen what's
happening where legislation is happening
that's where Coke is influencing things
so yeah they've built a nationwide
effort that that really rivals any
political parties all right let's
let's just go back for a bit and step
back in and look at the the the way that
the company grew starting with with Fred
Koch who famously you know I guess made
his first big cash working with the the
Nazis and the Soviets I mean he was very
I guess willing to do business Fred Koch
was yes and I got you know so Fred Koch
the story he tells his family as he went
over and did business with Stalin and
after doing it for a while realized the
horrors of communism and came back home
and tried to fight communism but this
guy Fred Koch who started this company
was a millionaire industrialist real
driving personality and a hardcore
right-wing conservative Fred Koch was
one of the cofounders of the John Birch
Society which was the secretive
right-wing group that literally believed
the federal government had been
infiltrated by communists and that these
New Deal programs Americans kind of
relied on were were sort of a Trojan
horse for communist tyranny and so I
think what Fred Koch imparted to his
four sons was a view that politics and
economics are not separate things
they're the same strand of DNA
intertwined with each other and and
that's why you see Charles Koch his
Fred's son that eventually took over the
corporate Empire and CEO today Charles
Koch from the beginning has been very
active in politics because he
understands that public policy in
Washington really affects how how
economics and and corporations work in a
very fundamental way which is why he's
been so focused on corporate lobbying so
I think Fred Koch passed on to his sons
a very anti-government point of view
that the true I mean Charles Koch you
look at the memos involved in his think
tanks and the speeches he gives there's
there's a not just a skepticism of
government but a disdain and a true
loathing of government programs which
they consider to always create more
problems than they solve well one of the
things that I as I look at this and I
want to get through you know I want to
talk about their role in in the in
climate and the Tea Party and cap and
trade and and a couple of the other
examples that use pine been in Minnesota
but this this dynamic I mean one of the
things that I've understood in terms of
what came from Mount Pelerin which was
sort of the the the the the nascent
beginnings of libertarian philosophy was
that in fact it wasn't just simply about
the free market it was about controlling
the the government apparatus to set up
specific players in the industry I mean
because and and as I've experienced it
you know through the years and seeing
sort of the political end of this stuff
the idea is that government shouldn't
pick winners and losers but everything
the Koch brothers does in terms of the
way they interact with the government is
about making sure that they get picked
the winner is that tension I mean do you
see that tension in in in in your
reporting I mean that tension is
everywhere when you get down to the real
deal the business how coke makes their
fortune the politics breaks apart
immediately immediately and I my brain
is racing with examples right now first
of all I would like to say that coke and
other companies really celebrate the
fracking revolution well you know
hydraulic fracturing that has unleashed
all these crude oil and natural gas
supplies seen as sort of the savior of
the free market fracking was created by
the United States federal government
fracking was a ward of the state for
decades as kept alive through massive
tax subsidies the government did the
basic research there were public private
partnerships at universities that
figured out how to do fracking and it
was the the private people that kind of
came in at the end and commercialized it
so talk about picking winners and losers
fracking only exists because
the US taxpayer but when taxpayers want
to subsidize solar wind or other
renewable energies now it's crony
capitalism but the other example that
comes to my mind is that cokes bread and
butter for decades has been oil refining
okay and that business is so deeply
enmeshed with the government with
subsidies that there's no disentangle in
it and and I want to point out that will
refining is tremendously
anti-competitive today and one of the
reasons strangely enough is the Clean
Air Act you know the United States
passed this clean air regulation back in
the 70s and we have not built a new oil
refinery in the country since that time
because the existing oil refineries and
this is all proven in the book the
existing oil refineries gamed the system
they gamed the regulatory system so that
they could stay in business and
basically block any new entrants through
clean air regulations what I'm saying is
cokes business benefits from government
subsidies government regulations believe
it or not and the company wins because
it is the entrenched status quo player
in a lot of these businesses so so yes I
mean it's not even like hypocritical
when you get down to the ground level
you just see that this is a firm
operating deeply enmeshed with
government programs all the time well
how do they I mean to the extent that
and I know that you you sat down with
Charles I think - yeah - to the extent
that how do they respond to that like I
mean how do they respond to that notion
of because they've explicitly said we
know government should not be supporting
solar energy and government should not
be you know the supporting wind energy
they should they should live or die in
the marketplace and and I would add not
only did the the US government
essentially build fracking but for a
long time and maybe it still exists
statutorily things like well you don't
have to reveal what's in your fracking
fluid so folks have to sort of randomly
test for stuff to see if their drinking
water contains
you know chemicals that shouldn't be
there which is a lot harder than people
I think probably imagined but what how
do they respond to that that that you
know tension is not really its only
tension insofar as there's a a pretense
to this right I mean it's not tense if
you just say like ya know we go out and
pretend like we don't want government
influence and stuff because it's all
working just for us here's how I would
answer that here's how I think they
respond I would put basically that
question to Philip Allender the top
lobbyist of Koch Industries I sit and
interviewing him and they're lobbying
office it's a block from the White House
in DC what he says to me is you know
Chris we don't have to be happy with the
game but we're going to play by the
rules of the game so if they're going to
give us subsidies we're going to take
the subsidies because if we didn't that
would be like playing basketball and not
taking three points because you disagree
with the 3-point rule we're not going to
do that well okay so there's an answer
for you from Koch Industries it does
reflect the advantages of being the
incumbent and I can't emphasize enough
when I look out at the political
landscape you see this bitter bitter
bitter dispute between the blue team and
the red team the Democrats and the
Republicans
I mean no-holds-barred bitter dispute
during the Obama era particularly now
during Trump tip that leaves the
government essentially handicapped can't
do anything well in an environment where
the government can't do anything the
entities that win every day are the
entrenched incumbent players the biggest
of the big corporations that benefit
from the status quo and that's coke so
coke can get up and and legitimately say
we are opposed to subsidies don't give
subsidies to ethanol don't give
subsidies to wind power what they just
don't have to bring up is the massive
programs underlying their existing
business as it exists today so you can
just sort of let that stuff go and
continue to benefit from it that's sort
of how I think it works today did their
perspective evolve as they I mean cuz
they weren't you know 30 years ago or
were they
the were they in that as similarly were
they similarly situated they were I
think I mean from the very beginning in
the 60s oil refining oil trading oil
processing the fossil fuels business has
been the bedrock of this company now
they've diversified dramatically their
they own georgia-pacific there's a third
biggest nitrogen fertilizer company on
planet earth they've grown a lot and in
fact I mean we can get into this but I
described it as like a giant private
equity firm now they're just a big pool
of cash looking to invest itself
constantly to earn profits but you can't
deny at the heart of it is the fossil
fuel business and then more broadly
these really complex really expensive
businesses that are at the foundation of
modern civilization fuel fertilizer
clothing material building material the
sensors and electronics Coke's
specializes in those kinds of business
and they have from the beginning and
also I would say from the beginning
Charles Koch has had his very firm
anti-government views that he's been
pushing for and it's all it illustrates
itself in get the government out of out
of our business you know fewer
regulations lower taxes no regulations
on greenhouse gas emissions etc that's
how it tends to exhibit itself all right
so let's talk about this dynamic of the
company being private because there was
opportunities for them to to to go
public to make a big sort of pay up
early on and then presumably you know
follow the way that it and they didn't
and that allowed them what exactly well
so it's very important I mean the book
opens in 1981 when these bankers from
Morgan Stanley come to Wichita and they
try to convince Charles Koch to go
public which was conventional wisdom go
public sell shares on Wall Street make a
lot of money Charles Koch turns them
down flat turned down a twenty three
million dollar payday that he would have
gotten and you know today that's like 60
million dollars
stay in private did a lot of key things
again Charles Koch has had a very
specific vision of how to run this
company and frankly how to run the
country from the very beginning and by
staying private he did a few important
things the first is that he is not
beholden to outside shareholders so
Charles Koch can control the company and
make all the key decisions as he does
but secondly he's not enslaved to the
short-term incentives that most public
companies are I mean I've seen this I've
covered public companies for decades and
they're subsist with the next three
months what's the next quarterly
earnings going to be Charles Koch
doesn't have to worry about that I did
the company and the people who run it is
thinking about the world in a timeframe
of two five even ten years out I mean
that's the chess game they're playing
it's measured in years and decades they
don't care about quarters and you know
interestingly when he decided not to go
public I got the memo that these bankers
wrote when they got back home and
Charles Koch told them if we go public
people are going to figure out how much
money our commodities traders make and
if they figure out how much money we're
making they're going to stop trading
with us that to me illuminates why this
company is so secretive their whole
strategy is to simply know more about
the world than anybody else and to trade
off that knowledge and to gain and when
that's your line of work you don't want
other people to know what you know or
know what you're about to do and that's
one of the big reasons they're so
secretive I will say that the there's a
there is a sort of a lesson there for
what is what ails much of of corporate
America at least or one element of it is
that short-term thinking right like
because the Koch brothers are so we're
so intimately tied to the long-term
success of their company that they were
not making decisions that most CEOs
would who are simply tied to their own
compensation package which is tied to
stock options which is a fun
action of short-term profit margins that
that could come in simply by cutting
workers no doubt about it and this this
book if anything it's a case study in
long-term strategic thinking and I think
long-term strategic thinking is actually
in desperately short supply today so
let's you know whether you agree with
the Koch brothers are not whether you
hate their business or love their
business it is instructive to watch how
they think and to watch what they've
done over the decades and I could walk
through a million examples I'll just
give you two I mean in 2003 these
fertilizer plants had gone belly-up in
the Midwest big big plants that were
losing millions of dollars a year nobody
wanted to buy them Koch quietly swooped
in bought these things at bankruptcy
option because Charles Koch knew people
are still going to eat they're still
going to need fertilizer energy markets
were going to stabilize and change he
was playing a game on a level of years
snapped these things up for pennies on a
dollar now they're one of the most
profitable pillars at the company the
second thing I want to say is that this
strategy this approach applies equally
to politics I got a copy of a speech
night that Charles Koch gave in 1974
where he lays out a political playbook
of how he wants to make America more
libertarian and it is really stunning
the level of patience and discipline
that Koch used over decades and stuck
with that playbook I mean that was the
blueprint that they still enforced today
was it wasn't just we're going to hire a
bunch of lobbyists it was we're going to
fund thinkers universities we're going
to use litigation we're going to use
corporate lobbying on and on and and and
they stuck with the plan so it really is
an example of long term strategy I would
add in terms of that fertilizer thing I
would imagine the the irony is is that
fertilizer obviously becomes far more
essential and not may be far more but
significantly more essential in an era
of climate change where growing
conditions are that much more difficult
across the board and they certainly have
done their part to slow down to stop to
you know put off progress in dealing
with climate change talk about you know
I started by saying that Jane Mayer said
that your book basically lays to rest
any you know sort of doubt as to the
incredible incredibly outsized role the
Koch brothers have played in creating
the climate science denial movement I
mean I don't know how else you refer to
that but exactly yeah well walk us
through that how did they do that and
when yeah and let me tell you why I'm
even reporting on it I wanted to know
how Koch lobbies I'm super interested in
the in the whole topic of how to
corporations win in Washington its own
no doubt about it they are winning more
often than they're losing today and
they're writing our public policy so I
wanted to know what does Koch - how do
they do it what are they doing right why
are they so powerful in Washington and
when I started interviewing these
lobbyists at the company and the
political operatives they pointed me in
one direction I remember asking this guy
what was important to you what did you
lobby on what woke you up in the morning
and the answer to that question was
carbon the issue of carbon was a
paramount importance to cokes political
machine what they're saying is that you
know coke as a fossil fuels maker is
just deeply enmeshed with the fossil
fuel system which is categorically
putting Giga tons of greenhouse gas
emissions into the sky every year for
free it's not considered a pollutant
really so if you put a price on those
emissions as many people around the
world want to do because we realize you
know the just the costs of doing this
are going to be enormous I know that
that seems like stating the obvious but
I just can't over emphasize it enough
but coke realized really decades ago
that if we limit greenhouse gas
emissions it's going to put a cap on the
future of the fossil fuels business and
that is going to cost coke at least
billions of dollars I mean think about
the amount of money they have sunk into
these enormous refineries pipeline
networks global energy trading systems
if if we put a cap on carbon the value
of all those things decline and so I'm
sorry to go on so long about this but
how did they do it I mean they employed
that 360 degree coke political machine
I've kind of referred to here they
funded think tank studies that made it
look like it would be absolutely awful
if we regulated greenhouse gas emissions
they hired their lobbyists to figure out
who the vulnerable lawmakers were when
the tea party came along in 2010 coke
was there as as a concierge basically to
the tea party they helped the tea party
organize events they charted buses to
take the tea party members for free from
wherever they live to Washington DC and
as they did that coke in check did its
own rhetoric and its own concerns of the
tea party when it would host a big rally
the people would get up on stage and
tell the crowd hey if we regulate
greenhouse gas emissions that's the
first face of government tyranny you
know this is what Thomas Jefferson
warned us against is that if you
regulate greenhouse gas emissions the
government is going to turn socialist so
they they harnessed they harnessed that
populist energy and helped derail a bill
that was frankly a Republican bill a
conservative bill that involved trading
and they derailed it in 2010 and I
imagine too that they're you know
they're like so much of like when I
think of you know because this has come
back in the news the lightbulb
controversy you know this was it's hard
for me to express to younger people in
my office like the the idea that and
this came up under Bush actually the
idea that we would legislate as to you
know incandescent light bulbs as
constructed now are going to be you know
legislated out of existence was
literally like I don't know we were
sucking the personalities out of people
out of the back of their heads and we
were gonna drain them of all their
bodily fluids and I imagine on some
level like the Koch brothers understood
that if we fund that stuff that is just
upstream from all the other stuff yes
and I must emphasize what a threat that
is to the fossil fuels business it is
pretty remarkable ten years ago there's
a lot of conversation about
quote-unquote Peak supply of oil oh my
god we're going to run out of oil or
reality okay the threat now and this is
real you talk to these oil industry
investors and analysts it's peak demand
they realized that the alternatives are
getting cheaper the the cost of
greenhouse gases are becoming more
apparent and so it we might shift and
demand for oil will drop that is a
catastrophic outcome for these big
fossil fuels companies and yes they do
realize that these things are going to
chip away at the armor
frankly the massive monopolies the
fossil fuels have over the energy system
interesting let's just talk about a
little bit of the work that they have
done in attacking and demonizing unions
and and we should also say that I mean
it's interesting because you you you
give them they apparently were pioneers
in this and I want to start with this
with the way they track their warehouse
employees because I spoke I interviewed
a woman who had spent some time working
at Amazon and had talked about this the
that that happens there that they that
the tracking of employees at literally
every 60 seconds they have to clock in
to the thing that many of that dynamic
was in many ways pioneered by the Koch
brothers the Koch brothers practiced
this to the hilt
and I am so grateful you brought this up
it's a huge part of the story that
surprised me was how important it is and
oh gosh you look at the history of it
you know back when Charles Koch took
over his company
33% of Americans in the private sector
workforce were in a labor union that had
an enormous effect on the entire economy
because even non-union shops the owners
were scared that the workers would
unionize
this was the era in America that stands
apart as the time when when we had
economic growth people gained you know
we're ending now about a decade of
economic expansion and the vast majority
of Americans have not even advanced one
bit economically okay they're taken on
debt their wages haven't significantly
increased that's not how things were the
book shows labor unions had their
problems we've got to be real honest
about that they used intimidation they
used violence there was corruption okay
that's real but let's look at what life
is like today you know and I spent years
reporting on cokes factories where these
labor unions are being beaten back and
taken apart you brought up a perfect
example without the labor unions being
powerful coke dictates what the work
life is like and these employees at this
warehouse in particular in Portland
spend ten hours a day being told what to
do by the minute by this software system
but even worse a few years ago coke
would publicly post the employees
performance as tracked by the software
system and so it literally you know
divided and conquered the workforce by
making them compete against each other
every week and the low performers on
that chart would be disciplined or fired
so they're systematically dividing
workers against each other and I got the
labor union contracts for these
employees going back to the 70s and it
shows they're earning less money today
than they did in the 1980s when you
adjust for inflation so they're working
harder they're getting paid less and
that that's really the story of the
American worker today and and coke
reflects that and it also drives that I
mean they've been working across the
country to dismantle into some power
labor unions for decades and it's been
working so david has died recently he
was the you write of him as being the
the more public of the the billionaires
Charles is the one who stayed back
in Kansas I guess it was and continues
to to get up early and you know work the
grind but he is in his 80s if I'm not
mistaken what happens to the the
business and - I guess it's because it
you know you talk about at one point
they had suffered a lot of fines from
the EPA because they were dumping stuff
and they didn't they didn't care and
then they realize like this is too
expensive we're better off spending the
money up front and changing society so
that we don't ever get we don't get
fines because we we now have tailored
the regulatory state to just suit the
way that we do business what what
happens to this machine both the sort of
the to the extent that one can delineate
between the political and corporate
which it seems like you one really can't
but what happens to this machine after
Charles dies let's say and I think
you're right you cannot delineate the
politics and the business are tied up
together and look this is unsatisfying
but as a reporter I just have to tell
you I don't know it is it is a huge open
question mark what happens when Charles
Koch leaves he's in his early 80s he as
you mentioned I firmly believe Charles
Koch is the center of this story I mean
he drove this organization David Koch
while he was more public was more of a
silent partner Charles Koch is a
meticulous planner I mean this is a guy
with three engineering graduate degrees
from MIT he doesn't leave stuff to
chance so if anybody's thinking hard
about the future of this organization as
Charles Koch the end of the book has a
chapter about Charles Koch son Chase
who's been really cultivated to take
over the company and the political
network I believe since he was a kid
since he was seven furthermore I think
Charles Koch would argue that he's
basically institutionalized his view
inside the corporation through this very
detailed philosophy he has called
market-based management which is taught
single coke employee when they start
four days and I've never seen anything
like it
I mean coke employees literally speak
their own vocabulary that has a special
meaning to them it's one of the reasons
I called a book coke land it's like its
own little world so he Charles coke
would say that even when he steps away
his instincts and his strategies have
been institutionally baked into this
organization now I just have to be
honest it's an open question is Chase
Coke going to be different from his dad
is the company going to drift without
this leader at the helm only time will
tell but it is absolutely guaranteed
that five years from now ten years from
now this institution is going to be just
as large and just as influential as it
is today it's just so big it's so
embedded in our in our economic and
political system it's not going away
the book is Copeland the secret history
of coke industries and corporate power
in America Christopher Leonard thanks so
much for your time today really
interesting stuff thank you I appreciate
it thanks bye-bye bye-bye all right
folks
there you have it I don't know I maybe
it's maybe it's wishful thinking but I I
loved the idea of they always think it's
embedded in their institution they
always think it's going to outlive them
and then the sands of time
why wipe it all away one can only hope
yeah people start working on that Chad's
guy right now chase Chaz I'm sure he
calls himself jazz I'm almost sure I'm
worried about Wyatt wait is he one of
the cookie
he's a hurt some like son yeah
he's the maker of the shirt you
should've known yeah I know I know I
know I should have a shirt than that one
oh yeah damn dammit I'm looking at it
right now looking at actually especially
after that interview I feel like Wyatt
we should just cut some slack right or
on all if the entire family and
basically said I'm just gonna follow my
passion
one guy's like I'm a guy have a vision
for baked goods another guy have a
vision for a clothing line another guy
like I'm gonna I'm gonna raise you know
Arabian horses or something ooh no no
what something that involves the care of
a living being well that's probably if
you look at the production value you
want those shirts let's stick to like
Potter right Yeah right
maybe May I mean how about a nursery
high-end nursery no bad deal not a good
deal folks just a reminder this program
relies on your support and you can
support this program by becoming a
member at join the majority report calm
when you do we give you extra content
every day did we release the Hannity
thing no I well
me and Brendan have something to clear
up yes no comment we're going to we're
going to we're just gonna drop it up
we'll drop it on the feed today yeah we
can easily it'll be in the members feed
buddy but not only do you get deep
archives deep archive of the week we'll
do that and we're gonna start doing that
this week in a certain sense right just
hang tight but you also get extra
content every day I joined the majority
report calm also don't forget just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code Maggiore
to get 10% off of all the coffee buns
get the majority part blend it's a nice
cup of joe as it were also I am quickie
every morning people are loving it
actually I got honked at by somebody in
a car today Wow they said Sam loved the
quickie then say I love the quickie I
he's gonna say he's so good I sort of
felt like I just introduced content I
there was something about as a point of
view there was something there was
something about the way that they said
that that I thought that
and no it was awkward it was on Flatbush
and one guy guy was going up I was
walking down the down side and I'm
walking next to some lady and the guy
starts yelling at me and she's just
looking like she has no idea what it's
like excited about it starting its own
new feed yeah yeah well feed happening
just tell me honey he's about to launch
two new feed is that the guy that was on
Sex in the City yes yep there it is also
a folks just a reminder this episode is
brought to you by blinking
you know honestly a would during the
interview I was gonna say like I was
gonna say no one's really the whole
thing no well you should do a you should
do like a you know sort of small book on
market based management cuz that's
something I would go to blink Asst I
wouldn't read the whole book cuz I'm not
that yeah but I want interested in the
principles just to get a sense of how
they're operating and blinka should be
the perfect way to digest that
management and I just thought that was
not the appropriate way to approach that
I don't think so my understand of market
based management is kind of like don't
be diligent in inspecting pipelines
right right be very diligent and well
that's a term that's the exactly that is
sort of like the extension of Michaels
business theory which is don't get good
at a job you don't want to do the blinka
stap oh that's that's smarts been very
it takes it hatchery on dock takes the
key yes baby blink is tap takes the key
takeaways from thousands of best-selling
non-fiction books and condenses them
down just to fifteen minutes for you to
read or listen to ten million people
ten million are using blinkin
right now right this moment has a
massive and growing library from
self-help and business to health and
history books that's true I don't even
know if they had history books when I
started blinking coined the trademark
right now you can get 25 percent off
your first year at blinkin
dot twenty five percent off your first
year at blink accom slash majority check
it out blink it's calm slash majority
Michael yes
tomorrow's Tuesday tomorrow's Tuesday
kianga Amata tailored
we're talking about the tension and
potential really reinventing the
conversation between reform and
revolution how that fits into the Bernie
Sanders campaign and we also might be
touching on the Kombi key woman's
collective as well come be collective
then Bosch Garson Cara and Napoleon the
legend join us both in studio we're
talking about the legacy of Robert
Mugabe a throwback to Christopher
Hitchens on socialism in the 1980s and
the state of the 2020 race and the
coalition's the different candidates are
assembling plus of course a whole bunch
more than that as always patreon.com
slash team vs michael brooks show on
youtube where we've just cracked their
first seventy four thousand subscribers
thank you
check out the anti Fattah patreon.com
the anti fada max are you familiar with
passenger pigeons they're sort of the
East Coast version of bison and that
they were hunted to extinction early on
but they're like these big giant pigeons
with like colorful necks and stuff what
and they accounted for like a six or
something crazy of North American birds
in the early colonial time they would
they would fly in massive flocks and
basically blot out the Sun for multiple
days and things like that and what no I
hadn't heard anything I just I feel like
my son would be on top of that type of
stuff it was really like biblical sort
of thing and then we massacred them all
well in james fenimore cooper's the
pioneers that massacre is illustrated in
one of the chapters where the newly
appointed sheriff dusts off some old
military equipment and shoots a cannon
into the giant flock of them and it's a
it's basically a book that meditates on
conservationism versus you know
commodifying the country in terms of
settlement and things like that so it's
interesting very same book and the
passenger pigeon was something i learned
about from it i had no idea
fascinating check it out folks all right
see you
fun half
left is that Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you you're nervous a little bit
upset you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defensive idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right yes five times five six
[Music]
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seat I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we could double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no wait what you
make under a million dollars come here
not bad use me
 you you alright gonna take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some ability Ria's out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber silastic I'm feeling
more chill already Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready to ride these people Shitler
what's such No
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly let's let's just start in with
with this it is this is our country
folks this is our country there was a
massive I'm sure you are all aware a
massive natural disaster that took place
in part of the Bahamas Bahamas is series
of many many islands I don't know how
many a lot some of them were completely
untouched by hurricane durian others
completely wiped out it has been the
case with the Bahamas that you do not
need a visa
we visa requirements no not every
country is required to have a visa to
come in you need to show your passport
port there may be other documents that
you might need you don't need a visa to
go from America to Canada and this is a
story reported by Brian Anton I don't
know exactly who he is
he's a reporter in Miami I guess for
WSVN I don't know if he was actually on
this boat as a
Porter I think maybe I'm not sure but
nevertheless he documented this travel
this trip basically of a folks who
completely lost everything in this
hurricane and we're headed to the United
States maybe they have family probably I
would imagine that they can stay with as
they attempt to rebuild and people are
on the boat they're getting ready and
then this this is an evacuation of the
island and then this announcement on the
boat is recorded so basically what it is
it's an announcement that the u.s. is
going to require a visa
now look imagine how difficult it would
be to get a visa into these
circumstances
everything you own has been destroyed
you have kids where do you stay while
you're trying to get a visa it's not
like you go and you you know you're
getting a metro card you put some cash
in it it comes out you got to go
register you're gonna there's probably a
a consulate and it's a new requirement
that didn't exist before this natural
disaster they don't want to allow these
refugees from this hurricane to come
into the country that's it bottom line
that's it and so they instituted this
new requirement so late the game that
people are being kicked off the boat the
evacuation boat
this guy Brian Anton did a couple of
interviews with people now this guy is
Renard Oliver he has a baby in his uh
his hand they were headed from the
Bahamas to Florida he was told he could
leave the Bahamas with a Bahaman
passport and a police record
apparently they you know like my
understanding is you can't get into
Canada if you have a DUI oh this is the
police will just record his Bahama ass
work like normal I guess right they just
basically say like okay you know we're
just acknowledging that you are who you
are or whatever your records clean
whatever it is and here he is responding
to the fact that he and his baby have to
be kicked off this evacuation boat they
just got a call from CBP everyone that
doesn't have a US visa
who's traveling on police racket has to
come on and normally you can travel
right with please right yeah normally
you can use police record by we have
airplay and at least yeah so you have to
take your baby up yes I have to take off
yeah I mean how do you feel at the last
minute like this you know it's kind of
disappointing sorry please because I'm
watching my daughter's cry but
it is what it is we have another clip
from the same guy Brian and as the boat
is leaving and parents and kids now
stuck on the island nobody understands
why the rule was changed at the last
minute I think they should allow
everyone to come into the u.s. they are
in it originally said that you can come
without a police record and without a
visa and now they're taking that back
that's really ridiculous how many people
do you think had to get off did you see
they said 130 people had to come off
130 people had to come off the ship
tonight now release now we are leaving
them and it's only night 200 people
yeah Brian Anton's rights nobody
understands it I'm now it looks like
they're like the CPP is blaming the
ferry company and the ferry companies
blaming the CBP well right because they
it basically comes out
here's CPP Florida fortunately for the
cruise line for the buleria to state
that is is really heartbreaking because
these people have suffered enough
through what they went through and then
for the buleria to go ahead and state
that and break these people's hearts I
think they raised their expectations
without fulfilling the requirements that
if they had done that with us and worked
with us we would have been there to
facilitate that process however they
didn't there's we would have basically
made sure that everybody was properly
documented and facilitated that process
working with the cruise line so why they
said that I would have known it and it's
really heartbreaking for them to say
that to these people that had really
suffered more than than beyond beyond
comprehension
now I'm unclear as to really what went
down here but it what it sounds like is
CPB did put new restrictions on and the
boat the the boat company felt like they
weren't capable to how to administer it
all but this is why you put these
restrictions on when people have to
understand this
there are bureaucratic ways to make
things harder to have happen we see this
every single time from whether it's like
the the census question whether it's
voter ID you just create obstacles and
human beings are human beings companies
are companies there are certain
obstacles they will not climb there are
certain obstacles they won't be able to
climb it's disgusting
the reporter wonders why do really
do we really gotta wonder why why the
response from CBP is like whatever just
have them on the boat we'll figure it
out when they get here
it's gonna be a hassle we'll figure out
on the boat no it's we're gonna change
our policy because this reflects our
ideology here a hostility towards
refugees
maybe we'll get a test case to see what
happens if we were to get refugees from
Greenland but it's disgusting that's who
we are folks that's who we are
I mean then we get to hear about here
the people responsible talk about how
big of a shame it is right this is the
what I mean this is exactly how you do
it right we just simply asked for one or
two new things and the people who put
who who put that in the pipeline know
why they did that
it could eliminate up to fifty percent
of the people and it did least on this
boat
at least on this boat that's disgusting
okay I mean I don't know what else to
say it's it's it's just it's just
disgusting here's Mike Pompeo on ABC
News I mean clearly what happened is
with this with the whole Taliban thing I
mean aside from the fact that like it's
bizarre timing we should have been
talking to the Taliban should have been
talking to the Taliban 15 years ago
frankly probably what
gotten bin Laden at that time but they
didn't want to get bin Laden
of course because had the Bush
administration successfully captured bin
Laden then there wouldn't have been the
same urgency required to invade Iraq I
mean I think that's just the case I just
don't think there was a sense of urgency
about that a lot of people you know have
this opinion not a lot of people I don't
know some people have this opinion that
we should have been talking to the
Taliban much earlier people forget we
were talking to the Taliban in the
spring in the early spring and in the
summer of 2001 Dick Cheney's energy tax
force was over there you can go back and
Google this there were reports at the
time some former envoys I think we're in
these meetings and oil executives where
the Taliban was told we can try to think
of what the quote was we can carpet your
country with riches or with bombs well
it never I don't know how mainstream
that were those reports got at the time
but I remember tracking down
contemporaneous like maybe in no 405
interviews with people who were who were
attributed as saying that and they would
not deny it that they said it at the
time in those meetings and I've always
postulated it's quite possible that the
Taliban came back from that meeting
there was a sense of like the Americans
are coming for us and that's what
created the timing for bin Laden I'm
gonna strike before they strike us don't
know but clearly what happened here is
Donald Trump wanted to get a political
win and not too dissimilar from what
Bill Clinton did at the end of his term
think in rushing peace between the
Israelis and Palestinians Donald Trump
tried to do that here it is backfired
hopefully it doesn't ruin the deal that
that envoys have been working on for
months if not years
to extricate us from the longest war
we've ever participated in
but here's Mike Pompeo going out and
basically willing to flush all that down
the toilet so that the Mad King doesn't
put him in the doghouse it's and we've
been making progress we've had a
commitment from the Taliban that said
that they would break with al-qaeda
publicly and permanently we had a
commitment that said that they would
reduce violence so that they would for
the first time George you know this year
an administration that tried to get
Afghans to sit at the table together we
had a commitment that they would meet in
Oslo to begin reconciliation
conversation and then the Taliban
overreached they killed an American in
an effort to gain leverage at the
negotiating table president Trump said
enough but there have been periodic
attacks throughout the talks well I
pulled the plug after this one in the
past when there have been attacks you've
said that was a reason to continue the
talks yeah it's it's true there have
been attacks during tuks attacks from
the Taliban and Americans and enormous
attacks from American forces putting in
real pressure on the Taliban George
we've in just the last 10 days alone
killed over a thousand Taliban we have
been fighting and talking in a way that
America often doesn't do it's what's
driven us to be able to have the success
at the negotiating table that we were
beginning to have but we finally reached
a point where we were close we'd made
real progress and then the Taliban
failed to live up to a series of
commitments that they had made when that
happened president Trump said I'm not
going to take that deal I'm not going to
work with someone that can't deliver on
their commitments because in the end
George you know this a deal an agreement
is just a piece of paper and we have to
actually see that change of behavior and
when we saw this activity when we saw
this action my applause because the the
key point is the lie that he told in the
third place they had no commitment yet
that's the whole point they were
negotiating they had terms but they had
not made the commitment yet which is why
he can he can bust through that and brag
about killing a thousand Taliban this
week
and still say the president to say no
what happened was they effed up they
made a deal with the Taliban and they
did not let the Afghan government know
about it so when they were gonna have
this secret meeting the Taliban was
gonna show up but the Afghan government
wasn't because they weren't involved in
it because they don't know what they're
doing and so they screwed it up and so
the Donald Trump needs to protect his
fragile ego I mean I think it's this
reductive it's not like this was
headline news it's not like they report
every time an American soldier gets
killed in Afghanistan nobody pays
attention to this stuff anymore we could
have probably and we probably have
killed hundreds of civilians over the
the months that they've been oh it's
been document that there's record levels
of civilian deaths no one here no one
reports it
it's just that John Trump we had its
Fifi's hurt and he's insane and so then
who knows maybe we get out of there
maybe we don't at this point longer than
world war two oh my god well longer
multiple way three four times I think
though I just want to add to I mean the
relation when he says a thousand Taliban
at this point I don't even know exactly
what that means because I think at this
point Taliban there's a Taliban in
Pakistan which is connected but separate
and it basically could just mean like
any militia group that wants occupying
NATO forces to leave right which I'm
sorry that is an internationally valid
position you can't have a never ending
occupation of a occupying forces that
it's deadly or just roulette
relentlessly killing civilians I also
want to say and this is complicated but
it is worth mentioning that during the
you know Bush administration - there
were at least factions of the Taliban
that basically said we will hand over a
bin Laden if you don't strike us oh yeah
provide us with evidence of his direct
role in the attack and that
dismissed out of hand and reported as
like oh this is part of right you know
crazy terrorists they are but those are
not illegitimate requests don't carpet
bomb our country provide material
evidence and we'll give you the guy you
want and probably I mean at that point
he might have already been gone into
Pakistan frankly but you know that's
another context for what what happened
there oh we uh we were offered yes bin
Laden by the with very low minimal
conditions very early on but no that was
not the agenda they wanted to go to war
I mean that was the bottom line they
wanted the war and they got it go to
heaven yep
they still have it will go to the phones
in a second but ben shapiro finally got
around to should we listen to the reagan
tape first or should we listen to i say
we listen to shapiro okay so here's ben
shapiro how do you deal with and it's
i'll tell you something it is stunning
to me that it's taken this long for this
tape to come out apparently this is a
tape that was in the Nixon Library the
curator refused to release it because it
dealt with the personal it was like a
personal thing was about personal stuff
for Reagan this is when Reagan called
Richard Nixon upon seeing which African
nation was it headed to to the UN I
think it was a People's Republic of
China versus Taiwan sort of thing and
the Republic of China was going to be
acknowledged by the UN right and and and
so Reagan calls Nixon and but the idea
that this was well we'll talk about that
in a minute does he actually play the
line in this I mean ben shapiro
basically trying to sort of poopoo it
yeah it looks like he was asked how do
you respond to some brightness and i
think it's a great question so for folks
who missed it there was a story in which
somebody revealed an old
from President Nixon's term is like 1973
and governor Reagan who's then Governor
of California called up Nixon and used
an ugly slur talking about African
leaders and it was it was a racist slur
used on this phone call and this has
been used by a lot of folks on the Left
to suggest that Reagan was a
thoroughgoing racist and therefore his
policies are racist and rekey I honestly
think that the the best way to approach
these issues is with a simple
recognition that human beings are human
beings and are multifaceted that some
people may say ugly things behind closed
doors and some people may say dumb
things and some people may say bigoted
things but if you are going to jump to
make a decision about policy on the
basis of human beings are flawed and are
sinful and do sinful things well then no
one's ever gonna make policy because it
turns out everybody says bad things
behind closed doors everybody has made
terrible jokes everybody has friends
they they regret having had and has said
things they regret having said and
people change over time a little
forgiveness would be necessary and if
they don't believe you then you then
it's it's pretty easy to point to people
on the left and that's not what about it
Sam I'm not positive for a second first
of all well let's play this but I want
to remind you as you listen to this and
we'll go back to a bent apology for that
making policy around people's failures
and and shortcomings is all that
policies for frankly there's a reason
why we need a Civil Rights Act because
of the failures of human beings to allow
people of different races to maybe sit
at the same lunch counter that's one
point I want to make the second point is
Ronald Reagan never apologized Ronald
Reagan never regretted saying this you
never expressed any regret from it no
this is really hardly wasting thirdly
nobody's saying that oh my god we had no
idea we have to reevaluate Ronald Reagan
this is the guy who launched his
campaign at the Neshoba County Fair in
1979 whatever was
or the presidency within a couple of
miles of where did a movie on this
Mississippi burning for you young uns
where three civil rights workers were
killed by some local sheriffs in
Mississippi and he went and talked about
states rights which is I don't even know
is it code I mean do people do people to
even perceive it as code anymore it was
explicitly about an argument about how
the locals should treat their blacks and
he went there and promoted it I mean
this was the only the only thing that I
think people gleaned from this was like
oh not not that we reinterpret his
public policies based upon what we hear
privately
it's that oh those racist public
policies we're actually reflective of
his personal feelings it's not the
opposite well this is the crucial point
I mean also let's also add vetoing
sanctions against South Africa and the
way it's a direct point and it's so
frustrating because I I actually
completely agree in of a good-faith
version of that public culture should be
much more focused on people evolving and
changing and not sort of endlessly re
litigating things but this is what ben
shapiro does in his own rebrand and i've
had to go over this for my book and it's
exhausting he has a page on his website
which is here's things i all the stupid
things I've said and it is all like this
is an obnoxious way of conveying it's
either something like yes I probably
shouldn't have fallen for a chuck hagel
like being friends with Hamas that's a
little embarrassing okay sure but all of
the other things are appalling things
that he's had no substantive upgrade on
it's all just like I put it in a
juvenile way fifteen years ago not now I
do recognize that Palestinians are human
beings right exactly I just shouldn't be
so vocal about saying they're not
per se and here is Ronald Reagan what he
had to say at that time President
Richard Nixon recorded himself talking
to then California Governor Ronald
Reagan in October 1971 the day after the
United Nations voted to recognize the
People's Republic of China Reagan had
phoned Nixon at the White House to vent
his frustration at African delegates who
celebrated the vote to see those monkeys
those African countries damn them
they're still uncomfortable wearing
shoes remember what this tells us about
Ronald Reagan is not that his he had a
whole host of racist policies and
remember all of the your Supreme Court
justice who sat upon the reversal and
the destruction of the Voting Rights Act
was in his civil Civil Rights Division
of the Justice Department John Roberts
coming up with these ideas was basically
commissioned to develop these racist
notions of how to get rid of voting
protections for black people and John
Roberts says in 2007 or ice excuse me mm
uh whatever was 14 or 13 or do that
excuse me 2010 Racing's over we can get
rid of the Voting Rights Act but he
first conceived of these ideas 30 years
earlier I also like the notion of
personal conversation you think of like
you know I'm having a really hard time
with Nancy because her astrologer says
we should have fewer days exactly and
that's really difficult and incidentally
these goddamn monkeys at the United
Nations do you think owning on
recognizing the People's Republic of
China I'm governor of California so
obviously talking about international
relations is a personal come right right
of course I mean if he had said I'm sure
they would have said we're not gonna
release this thing where he praises the
courage of the African nations coming to
to the you I would just like to say even
though I disagree with him ideologically
Kwame Nkrumah's a fantastic leader but
please keep that off the record yes it
because it's a personal conversation
Africa equals personal yes friends day
they regret having had and has said
things they regret having said and
people change over time a little
forgiveness would be necessary and if
they don't believe you then you then
it's it's pretty easy to point to people
on the left and that's not what about
ISM game that saying it's bad when it
happens on the right it's bad when it
happens on the left but we're talking
about which policy moves the country
forward
we need to instead of looking at the
people which is a character attack we
need to look at the policy that moves
the country for it after all we're not
electing these people to be our friends
or even really be our moral guidance
counselors we're electing these people
to implement policy and I think frankly
that that's the best way to argue in
favor of politicians because let's be
real most politicians are Schmucks right
so there you have it he completely
ignores the public record on Ronald
Reagan talking about the the welfare
queens in the Cadillacs and the young
buck getting his welfare check and his
welfare check and you know South Africa
we need constructive engagement and the
idea of states rights right around the
corner from where are we where are you
good you guys had to kill those civil so
the rights workers I mean and the list
goes on and on a you know the the DOJ
Civil Rights Division that is plotting
on how to get rid of the Voting
protections that have been put in place
at that point for about 15 years 15
years when you get to 1980 15 years
worth of voting protections after almost
a hundred years of Jim Crow laws guess
who took photos with Michael Jackson
go screw yourself Jew oh whoa I mean
last thing was on in the privates person
that was the person I mean that by Matt
I mean per you shifty Jews on the
majority report that's the personal part
folks precision you should also be aware
of of a podcast called the information
er which was the basically the there
were two reasons why a Matt works here
one was his mechanism for reading a
hundred and fifty books the year before
he showed up and then him telling me I
my own podcast where I take Reagan when
I take Nixon tapes and put them to music
so my friends here's a little taste of
actually did record this conversation
but when I did this remix the part about
the Monkees that didn't like to wear
shoes was not that was release it was
bleep dope person yeah he still trying
to sleep on or you know that's personal
I said oriental try oriental means
personal I'm still in the chopstick
continent personal personnel calling
from a 308
area code who's this where you come from
Davis Kowalski from Nebraska Kowalski
from Nebraska well how are you sir well
not too bad just got back from Colorado
the Huskers lost miserably that's
depressing
anyhoo I was just calling in to say that
if any of your viewers are gonna be in
the area for Tuesday Wednesday or
Thursday a act shows going on in my
hometown of Grand Island called Husker
Harvest days it's a pretty good time if
people want to go out and just see
what's up with like the AG industry so
Husker Harvest Days and are you going to
be out there campaigning um probably not
I usually go out there and I I know the
guy who manages the show and we usually
help them with some mods and stuff so I
guess you might see me out there
who knows all right well Husker harvest
it is nigma campaigning exactly maybe
I'll shake your hand well maybe I want
people around here weird when I couldn't
painting but that was all I wanted to
share with so all right appreciate the
call there it is folks go keep your eyes
open for Kozlowski there kawalsky
keslowski I'm thinking of Paul Kozlowski
hi
the Coen Brothers movie Paul Kozlowski
is to have a big theater in in LA
fake theater come from a 702 area code
who's this where he come from
hey Sam is pro Flamengo from Las Vegas
bro Flamengo from Las Vegas what's on
your mind hey how you doing today sir
I'm doing great how are you doing doing
pretty good um I just wanted to touch
upon like two things real quick the
first thing was you know there was a
reparations hearing a couple of my
things maybe two months ago and it
didn't really get there was so much
going on I didn't get a lot of media
coverage but the reason why I'm bringing
it up because there was a guy I'm sure
you've seen him on MSNBC but a guy named
Jonathan Capehart yeah he wrote an
article he wrote an article in The
Washington Post you know he forgot the
exact title but I read the article
there's something to be said though
black people don't need a check they
need an apology and I'm reading this
article and it's just like oh wow so and
the reason why this relates back to the
arm the reparations hearings because the
one thing that all these people hadn't
come in and there's a lot of clowns
they're like but one thing I didn't like
was in Chinese he coast it was there too
but I feel like he I don't know I have
my own problems with Don Eazy coach but
my main problem was all of them
advocated basically for you know almost
no economic reparations it was that that
topic was avoided entirely and him he no
Jonathan Capehart
you know two maybe two months later so
they're advocating for you know no
economic reparations for black people
and you know that that kind of bothers
me yes I was wondering I was wondering
if you notice that or anybody else
notice that because II was just I'm not
saying that's it that should be the only
thing that's right advocate for
reparations but there she seems to be a
steady phalanx of people out there
pushing tomorrow you know economic
reparation you didn't apology or you
know or government programs or there was
either one guy named Coleman Hughes on
the reparations panel it was this guy
named Coleman Hughes any and by the way
he
Colette in hit Colette but this guy
anyway was just who is just sitting here
but see me talking about you know we're
not you know black people aren't victims
we don't need economic operations you
think I'm from the left and everything
and you know to be honest with you like
I haven't followed that and I think that
there's probably some people who are
nervous in the context of the upcoming
election to talk about it which i think
is sort of you know I suppose I
understand it but I think it's sort of
silly but you know the thing that I
think people don't understand
broadly speaking about reparations I
imagine all the people you're talking
about do is that this is not a new idea
this is an idea that was offered and
voted on at all in during Reconstruction
in the immediate years following the
Civil War and the the ideas arranged
from I don't actually think there was a
mule but the 40 acres there was a bill
that was voted on I think it was Johnson
who vetoed it there was an idea to
provide low-cost loans because you had
all of these freed slaves who had no
access to capital whatsoever
there was an idea of having government
subsidized loans and backing of loans
that was also shot down there was an
attempt I think Frederick Douglas a I'm
on the present got to it I'm sorry I
real quick but no I see what you're
saying what you're saying boss I need to
point something out also to besides all
the racial politics aside from that I
also saw an article for Megan McArdle
taint hint yes a not only was this
garbage okay Jesus
how does this person have a job with
like not only was it stupid she it was a
same old tired argument of how will we
pay for it you know I'm hearing that too
by the way that came up in a hearing to
how will we pay for it I mean it's just
you know I I see I see the you know um
is the carpet
coming coming around from both sides now
I think the racial politics that's being
overcome because there was a poll
actually on Oh God the name is name is
missing me but it's one of the you know
premier ones but he said you know
support for reparations is that like an
all-time high right right now amongst
amongst the American population but you
know only thing I just want to point out
saying was that that that that kind of
you know it's coming from all sides by
the way Megan McCombs from our
Washington Post I don't that's this
that's kind of you know how many people
have a freaking job Sam I'm sorry
well my my thing is my thing is Sam it's
just like you know maybe you guys will
talk about it maybe you won't but it's
very interesting to me that they really
did really try to head this off for the
past you know oh you know black and only
did like to believe that but you don't
particularly economic reparations you
know it's like you figure point then
nothing all right it is nothing wrong I
I'll let you go but the the you know I
mean personally from just a strictly a
political sense I think they're you know
they're should we should set up a
reconciliation committee and you know a
legit one I would frankly wait for a
different president to a point that
committee you know a different Congress
but and I think that's the way you come
out of it I mean you you do it as a
process and you know to a certain extent
bills in which include funding for
historically black universities I don't
think that's sufficient but I do think
it's necessary in the context of the way
that you would construct a reparations
bill injecting and creating access to
capital in in the african-american
community is another way of doing it
direct payments is one way of doing it
as well I mean I think this is not a
controversial idea
it certainly wasn't controversial back
in the day and we've just seen
essentially the interest grow on this
debt frankly take another call here come
from a to10 area code who's this
come from two one zero two one zero
hold on two one zero where you come from
good afternoon Sam is John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio what's on
your mind buddy
yeah contrary to mainstream media report
Bernie Sanders had some phenomenal
results yesterday the latest YouGov a
CBS News poll for the first time Bernie
Sanders is leading in Nevada with 29
percent of the vote
Biden leads and had led in all six of
the previous polls released there
Biden received 27 percent and Warren
gets 18 in New Hampshire Warren leads at
27 Biden with 26 Bernie at 25 which is
an improvement of 5 points as a
percentage five points improvement from
the frontrunners lead and Iowa bio it
Biden leads with 29 Bernie's at 26 which
is his highest percentage in Iowa all
year and you go up old and Super Tuesday
states but does not release individual
results from those states but they did
release total delegate projections and
this is a the third projection of the
summer and Bernie is closer than ever to
Biden and so is Warren so there's a lot
of talk two weeks ago about the Monmouth
so-called
outlier poll but if you look at the
states which are obviously more
important you know Bernie has leads in
Colorado and Oregon it's super tight and
in California Maine Minnesota Washington
Wisconsin Indiana New Jersey and even
Texas maybe not super tighten some of
them but but tight and I expect that
Pennsylvania Michigan and Massachusetts
to get even closer so the only reason
you know Biden's up in national polls is
he does have large leads in the south
and some parts of the Midwest so I mean
I tell
all the reporting is starting to reflect
like this sense of of concern within the
Biden camp and a sense outside of the
Biden camp now that everybody everybody
could be wrong it's all it's all
conjecture and you know maybe some
measure of educated guessing but there
the everyone it seems seems to to
believe that Biden's lead is going to is
incredibly shaky and I think it's gonna
be interesting because here's the
dynamic that I think is that I'm seeing
in the couple of days before this
democratic debate I think the Biden
people are very worried about Warren and
I think they're worried about her
because I think they dig that they know
that she's probably gonna come after
Biden we over the bankruptcy bill or
they think that she might I would not be
surprised if Bernie basically just
stepped aside and just let all his
policies do the talking he doesn't I
mean Warren and Biden have some I think
genuine at least professional acrimony
and and I wouldn't be surprised if
Bernie steps aside and you know lets
them fight head-to-head and and does the
extent that he's fighting just do it on
a policy grounds and it's gonna be
really interesting to see because I the
the Biden people are clearly worried and
these polls are I would imagine are just
like reflecting what they've probably
seen in private polling prior to this
yeah I mean I think that you know
there's a there's a stark difference
between the internet polls in the phone
poles until Bernie does a lot better in
the Internet poll so I mean you know but
we'll see once once the things start
happening you know in it's less than
five months now so it would be
interesting to go from there
as far as
you know some of the crosstabs that had
the question you know why did you
consider a candidate and they listed
several individualized and some
Universal questions at the top for
candidates Bernie had 85 percent of the
voters are considering supporting him
because of his policy stances Warren had
90 percent Harris 76 Biden only had 59
percent and that his highest totals were
because of his time with his vice
president with Barack Obama 87 percent
also in the in the North Carolina 9th
district race you know it's a toss-up
race between Dan McReady Democrat and a
Republican that Dan Bishop you know
unfortunately Macready made a terrible
decision to return money donated to him
by Ilhan omar and so you know that just
it just reinforces you know my belief
that even in swing districts moderates
and conservatives should be primary now
I do hope he wins and I'll be following
it closely I'm already looking at all
the individual counties and everything
to that extent but in the bigger picture
you know we need to get more progressive
people and you know even if it's a tough
task you know we need to keep you know
building up getting our message out and
eventually you know we can we can win
districts like this and so so that's
kind of my take on that so what I'm just
you're you know I'm we've talked about
your theory about Republican
gerrymandering district we've had slight
disagreements about this you know one
example is did you keep ringing up is
the Wisconsin State Assembly elections
right which Democrats won 53% of the
vote and Republicans won 64 percent of
the seats so but you've got to consider
that the context of the you know there
were 99 seats you know up in the state
assembly and Republicans didn't run
candidates in 30 seats mostly in
Milwaukee and Madison
and in Democrats didn't run eight seat
in eight seats in rural voice in
Wisconsin so that's a total of 22
percent there are 22 Republicans seated
they didn't run a candidate for you know
cumulative ly and so you know that's
obviously over twenty percent of the
races that they didn't run a candidate
so I that really you know excuse the
statistics and her gonna make vote and
makes the art right right and so just
you know just I just I'm not sure about
that I mean actually you know the North
Carolina gerrymandering could could
actually be you know even more extreme
they did the actual you know us hi folks
so so we'll see about this district
because you know we'll just like in the
2018 election you know many people said
that the Democrats can never wait win
the house the way it's a gerrymandered
now I mean it's just impossible yet they
won 41 seats you know in 2018 picked up
and you know maybe 42 you know after
Wednesday so so we'll just we'll see if
Jarrett how much gerrymandering can be
overcome I mean I I think it's a great
that they did make this decision you
know in in North Carolina and I hope
they can pick up more seats you know in
2020 but you know it's I'm not I'm not
sure to the degree you know it's gonna
because there's gonna be that much of a
difference right but I mean tonight's
been our tomorrow is going to be a big
big bellwether though to see what's
going on all right Thank You San
Francisco yeah
yeah debate is on Thursday calling from
a come from a 847 area code who's this
where he come from hey whoa my voice
just went up hi Sam it's Josh from
Chicago Josh from Chicago your voice is
changing hello Josh how's it coming
along
puberty yeah gratulations on the rock
you've not been there
did it really I want to make a tribute
to the cokes and say that I think that
Chris and Jill Burns problem is that she
didn't run her campaign well or with
passion just saying more an opportunity
hear that sound drop again my friend
white oak I I want to talk about the
green you diem okay I think the thing
that was really impressive that Bernie
did with the green new deal and putting
it out there as I think one of the
things that I think there was criticism
criticisms over al cheese green new deal
is that it was more of a resolution than
it was policy and I think the thing
that's really impressive is that and a
lot of candidates are you talking about
quote-unquote I support a green new deal
is that bernie is now defined what a
green new deal actually is supposed to
look like good policy and I think this
was very helpful especially because he's
starting to separate the sort of a lot
of these fake progressives or people who
pretend to advocate for green to deal
with what agreed to do is actually
supposed to look like I think he's
actually also in a way he's drawing I
mean I again I don't think endorsements
are that important in the long run but I
think he's also pulling AOC towards his
side when he talks about policy
especially separating the policy that's
between Bernie and Warren to me other
candidates cannot now say they support a
green new deal if they don't include
what Bernie is put in his green new deal
which is also very deep
and I know he doesn't get a lot of
credit for being a policy person but
this is a very detailed and well
thought-out plan you know this isn't
just like four pages or something this
is a very well thought-out
very detailed lots of different policy
proposals and very all-encompassing I
think especially from a climate justice
perspective and also you know an offer
for labor terms of labor organizing and
stuff yeah I mean and frankly I think
that's you know I don't think it's very
controversial to say like that's been
the dynamic with this whole field I mean
short of Biden and you know and I guess
John Delaney but he's still in exactly
but but the the whole terms of the
debate are really Bernie's policies are
being used as a watershed and everything
is being measured against that and you
know it is I'm sure there are examples
of dynamics like this but not not on the
Democratic side you know I think
probably you know something like you
know around like Reagan on some level
you know have the ability to reorient
the whole party in many respects and and
and and Bernie has done that and yeah I
agree with you I think like you know
he's you know the idea of like the green
new deal being substantively even
debated and considered as a benchmark
two years ago a year ago five years ago
I mean it's not you know it would have
never existed yeah it's it's pretty
exciting it's can also the International
dimension that he put on the table to
that was another critique of the lack of
specificity and the lack of recognition
that this is obviously gonna need to be
a global effort you have a multi-billion
dollar fund to help transition
developing countries you have
partnership with China and Russia on
technological development and the
protocols from
I earn mental justice movement and the
UN 1992 protocol and indigenous peoples
rights all built around the foundation
of a federal jobs guarantee I mean it's
it's a next level it's obviously I think
between medical debt and single parent
everything he has the best policy set
but this is even for me as a fan was
surprising how extraordinary this bill
was appreciate the call Josh peace out
mm-hmm Josh yeah let's take one more
call come from a seven six five area
code who's this where you come from
hey Lucas from Indiana Lucas from
Indiana what's on your mind Lucas I'll
have two quick things for you one is the
I live in a small town called Townsend
middle class lower class area and
everyone's here is about making $18 now
or they're making twenty plus pretty
much as how the dam goes here with the
kind of impending economic crash coming
what would be the best way for people
like me to try to prepare for it to
survive and then I have a toss to
Michael after that well I don't know how
severe you know our next recessions
gonna be obviously I I don't think it's
gonna be you know what we experienced in
2008 how do you turn teenagers
perspective on that
I don't what's that he's I mean he's
somebody who obviously understands that
the structural problems in the economy
and a really fundamental way cuz he's
left you know progressive ken's Ian but
I think he's not he doesn't even think
we're gonna have a recession Ryan I mean
I don't know biggest takeaway is because
there isn't an analogous thing to the
housing market to burst like well that's
I think his main argument the I think
it's possible we could get a technical
recession but we're not gonna rival
anything in 2007-2008 because frankly
there hasn't been enough time to inflate
whatever that balloon-popping would be
you know I mean we had we had a
recession
or near recession in the early aughts
and when the housing bubble was still
just like starting to inflate and so you
can go through that theory doesn't seem
to be an asset class that is so over
leveraged that could create the type of
financial meltdown that we had in 2008
and so I mean it's always good to be in
cash I mean the the but you know the the
only trouble that we'll have if we do
have a recession is that the tools that
they normally use spending and monetary
policy and like loosening the money
supply there's not a lot of room on the
loosening money supply side because our
interest rates are so low as it is and
on the spending side if a Democrat wins
in particular the Republicans are going
to pretend like the deficit debt is out
of control and we need to not spend I
wish I had a better answer for you but
you know you know I'm not help save
money don't buy stuff on credit then I
don't know no I avoid credit if I can if
somebody like there's a bill o'reilly is
endorsing an investment club steer clear
of that i started into full blown
political learning kind of by listening
to powell kolinsky at first in 2016 and
I listened to this show more now I think
but I thought look how he does some good
work he like you know who a little bit
too much
give me draw okay but he just announced
that he's going to put it on again this
year and that you'll be on Joe Rogan
again afterwards is there any chance you
be able to get him on either here or
TMDs afterwards to talk about advances
there well I have him on
TMDs from time to time in fact we're
gonna be doing a TM vs last weekend of
last Tuesday of this month but yeah I
don't I very unlikely that I'll have a
specific debrief like that because I
just don't to be honest I don't find
that sort of thing to be particularly
interesting but I like having
conversations with Kyle I like Kyle will
do more I've been meaning to have him on
a Friday for probably two or three years
but there's a half a dozen of people
like that
that I always forget to do but yeah I'm
someday I'll have mine again like you
know politican I'm not if I had the
opportunity to debate someone who I
really wanted to debate I would go but
you know I'm not no Dan bungee no just
doesn't do it for me folks I mean I
would if I didn't have travel you know
what I mean but like I don't when I look
at the landscape I don't see Dan bungee
know as like a threat to sort of
stealing the hearts and minds of young
people frankly but appreciate the call I
don't even care about those guys does it
really just honestly doesn't matter we
really don't have any clips of tulsi in
Dave Rubin I mean I'm not really ever
watched yeah man we're gonna watch this
thing all right let's uh well here let's
let's do some Pam Anderson on the view
now Pam Anderson is an interesting
figure there's a lot of things that she
has to say on Twitter and whatnot that I
find I'm in total agreement others less
so
there's been some weird I get I heard
some like peripheral talk about like you
know sort of her disposition on I don't
know a juicer
I don't know exactly what i i i my read
from everything i've seen of her and i
Devin I don't follow her that closely
but I read a really good interview with
her in the Jacobin like a this is
somebody who's actually super oh she's
not just
patiently the right take like she's on
top of it and I agree you know with the
parts of her support of WikiLeaks in
Assange I agree with frankly but I so my
read would be that she is somebody who
has criticized the policies of Israel
and sometimes I don't know you know I'm
looking at it actually a real thing it
looks like she like honeymooned in
Israel and like there's pictures of her
was from Aleppo Tech and I forget that
Horus God who knows yeah but and and I
am not as much of a fan of Julian
Assange as she is but I think the things
that he's been indicted for is
reprehensible and I the the publishing
of the materials that Chelsea Manning
got were massive in fact I was on every
week on MSNBC at that time in the early
2000 I think teens or 11s or whatever it
was and I remember like you know every
day someone would say these are not
important you know this is not important
information we didn't need this
information and it's endangering the
lives of people well it endangered no
one there wasn't a single accusation
even vague one certainly revealed a lot
of endangering that we did yes without a
doubt but there wasn't a single
accusation that any sensitive asset
person system was in any way endangered
a be the idea that it didn't tell us
anything new was absurd because
literally every day there would be
multiple stories in various publications
New York Times The Washington Post The
Guardian Times of London whatever it is
they're Stern based upon the cables that
were released
so clearly newsworthy the mainstream
media dined on this for years
for years I'm talking about that
original dump which is what Julian
Assange is being charged with and so in
that regard Pam Anderson is talking the
truth and then to see her run into Megan
McCain who you know undoubtedly like
sorry you mean John McCain's daughter
yeah that's totally clear what it is
whatever whatever you know like her Town
Hall husband you know talking points
gave her then this is this is what she's
you know Seth Meyers you're a Jew pansy
talking point right he was allegedly
kicked out of the Ecuadorian Embassy
because he was defecating everywhere and
creating that oh that's a snack thinking
but it's not true there was video of
things that happened I mean what would
you do with here locked in a room for
just for the quick Sears well I wouldn't
be a cyber terrorist which he is he got
information he leaks included classified
documents that put our national security
at risk our military you know in the
lives of the guy isn't a LeMat in the
military how many people have the
military federal government killed
innocently and how many has WikiLeaks so
you think the military is putting calm
down sir I'm actually genuinely crying I
really should be with it we have war
crimes need to be punished and they
haven't the the war crimes that he's
exposed no one's no one said anything
about it but they put him in jail to
shut him up to ten video of the
helicopter right fire killing civilians
in Iraq yeah well that's one thing but
there's so many other things that he's
exposed and it's not just America he's
exposed well suppose Russia he's exposed
all sorts of different countries yeah I
mean there's Meghan McCain just like
she's just up there like honestly they
could just do a ticker tape like a
literally just like type in the talking
points and just you know play it on a
scroll so that she doesn't have to
you know undermined her own points by
having such an attitude about it the I
mean honestly like you know I mean it
makes for a better TV but the the
reality is is that there is no evidence
and you know she would cite it she would
say as in the CIA inspector general
report or as
the Senate Select Committee's special
and security report no there is no
report and ah maybe the guy defecated
all through this embassy maybe he didn't
but guess what that's not why you
charged someone with espionage I do have
to say - in addition to that just the
really specifics one of the stuff coming
out of Ecuador it's worth noting that
this Ecuadorian government of Lenin
Moreno has shifted to the extreme far
right even though he was elected on a
center-left platform and there are some
at least one equity you know one or two
Ecuadorian Embassy employees who
basically are saying what she's saying
which is that this is a
misrepresentation of his conduct there
and you know he didn't do stuff like
that but regardless it doesn't matter
well the thing that all's that actually
does matter is that is that it's it's
like so amazing and unusual to hear
somebody just sort of state that
civilian casualties matter on a national
television broadcast right I mean the
that is the the broader point I just
think it's extremely dangerous from a
press standpoint to be pursuing him in
this way I mean if you want to arrest
him for defecating in the Ecuadorian
Embassy and maybe you can bring him some
type of like public indecency charge but
I don't you know and let him go on trial
for that but this rather stuff is just
sort of like talking point BS and you
read I remember reading that indictment
it's terrifying I mean that the hack
charge there is one thing that is like
maybe I'll help you find a access to a
password which he does not achieve
that's in the document and everything
else that's in the document is stuff
that if you follow any good
investigative reporter like chem clippin
Stein like hit me on whatsapp share this
on Dropbox that's what the indictment is
right exactly exactly it is the idea
that they have a Dropbox a secure
Dropbox on their website here is Meghan
McCain asking well what would you tell
the
Neri spies who were endangered by these
leaks else I mean the question I'm
asking else she wrote would you say - I
know that doesn't mean everything should
be the question I have though is like
spies that go out and put their lives at
risk like congressman will hurt who
you're just I've met who's dedicated you
know decades of his life to helping
fight terrorism it's classified
information I believe is classified for
a reason I do have some faith in the US
government although as it can heaven if
I have less faith normally than liberals
do so what would you say to the spies
who are putting themselves at risk for a
national security with your relationship
with him well I don't think he there's
nothing proven that he's actually put
anybody at risk they've gone through
this over and over again and I just I
think that people like Edward Snowden
Chelsea Manning are heroes and and
Julian as long as a publisher Hooten all
he thinks that yes oh the Putin insult
really is the first refuge of a I
looked into his eyes sighs ma'am
integrity remember what that's above it
I think McCain and Biden both have said
things that are literally I looked in
his eyes and I said nothing that's a
dead shot saw Lucifer it's not the most
important of that clip but that whole I
trust the government to keep important
like what's classified is meant to be
classified what if anything if anything
the entire leak from Chelsea Manning is
evidence that stuff is over classified
that I mean if I was going to make an
academic argument about the
over-classification
in this country that would be exhibit a
there'd be a cover a couple other
exhibits but basically it was do not
embarrass us this is this is honestly
this is using the classification system
for basically the for a high school
mentality right like we can't be seen as
being human or weak or we don't want to
tell everybody that we didn't use the
best China for you know to see the
ambassador of blankety-blank I mean I
the the news value of this information
was proven by how many literally
hundreds of stories it generates or that
we're terrorizing the Haitian government
to not raise minimum wage right like
these are some really substantive things
too but I also just love the
juxtaposition though of like I'm a
conservative so I have some distrust for
the government and what I mean by that
is when it comes to like pretty
transparently making sure that like the
water is drinkable I'm not into that
what I'm into is secretive global
killing programs right that's the part
right and I'm going to give them more
deference I don't want the government to
mess with my light bulbs but they it's
okay for them to go and kill world
leaders as made to take and kill people
without Ward's across the globe and not
take account of civilian casualties but
if they tell me about what I can dump in
my backyard that we're really crossing
the but all right head to the IMS
Janeway every billionaire is a potential
Bond villain indeed secret identity
politics thank you for mentioning
lightbulbs after Laura engrams weird
hamburger art I had been starting to
think the light bulb issue was a fascist
thing from context clues so thanks for
confirming that market-based manhood Sam
I find it remarkable that the cokes are
so patient and so focused on the future
yet so attracted of fossil fuels you'd
think that poisoning the planet for
short-term game will be the sole
strategy of public companies thinking in
terms of quarters and not like the koch
industries in it for the long run in
long term well I mean look the fact of
the matter is long term is really more
of like a 5 or 10 year horizon and they
are probably correct to say that if our
family lineage has 160 billion dollars
that it controls we'll still win during
a climate during a climate disaster Sean
from NorCal if you think it's sick mind
and not a gun that kills people give one
crazy guy again and a handful of bullets
and another crazy guy just a handful of
bullets and see who does more damage
banished for cuck jokes 4/20 like
Michael I too intentionally bad a jobs I
don't want to do that's why alphas
dutifully okay
pyjama boy I don't even understand but
it sounds good Alfa's dutifully plow
pajama boy so I still hate to watch I
still hate watch Bill Martin but man oh
man is it getting worse by the week Mara
seems to always defend guys like Frank
and him Biden being handsy and it makes
you wonder if he's concerned about
something I used to like him more when
he had better guests but lately he they
have been as busy abysmal is the recent
talk of Clinton helping out warrant
political suicide for Warren and if it
does happen and she drops out would she
endorsed Bernie
well first off second question last I
imagine she would endorse Bernie it
would be shocking if she didn't frankly
if she dropped out I I don't know I
think the I would imagine the the this
story about Warren helping our Clinton
helping out Warren I imagine is at least
founded in some reality I mean part of
what Warren sales pitch is that she
works the inside game as well so I would
be surprised if she wasn't you know it's
not like Hillary Clinton is gonna come
back and do anything but I it is also of
concern you know when there are areas
that Warren is soft on that Hillary
Clinton is bad on as well you know if
they were meeting about you know like
how you know I've come around on the
bankruptcy bill Elizabeth how could I
make they could have made that better or
you know I liked one aspect of your
debt-free college thing and I'm gonna
incorporate a if these are the things
they were talking about but when you see
a clip like this
Emma big hland was down in Russia and
Houston Thank You New Hampshire's New
Hampshire you know covering early
primary state and here she is I think
she's up in Concord New Hampshire this
is the Democratic convention in Concord
and she got a question that she asked
Elizabeth Warren and and I have to say
that you know like I think it's quite
clear Elizabeth Warren's worst
attributes are in regard to foreign
policy and the military in this does not
in any way swage those concerns here it
is I asked senator Elizabeth Warren
about her record when it comes to the
military budget and foreign policy which
some from the left have criticized her
on I think with with legitimate cause
and this was her answer you have focused
a lot on progressive domestic policy you
also voted for a military budget
increase in 2017 how does that square
with your progressive politics when
we're talking about foreign policy if
the question is do I think we should
have military budget the answer is yes
and I'm now in the Senate Armed Services
Committee I'd had this fight over and
over but there's another part to ative
we need to stop the control over our
defense budget that's exercised by the
giant defense industry as you know we
now have a secretary of defense who
spent seven years as head lobbyist for
Raytheon I asked for some simple
conflict of interest rules that he would
abide by for example not to make
decisions that involve Raytheon and
Raytheon's bottom line and he refused
the Republicans confirmed him anyway but
this is what corruption is all about
putting lobbyists in charge of our
government agencies a lobbyist further
lobbyist in charge of the Environmental
Protection Agency this is the heart of
corruption and the moment has come to
call it out and to fight back that's
what being in this room is all about so
she starts by saying if the question is
what do I want a smaller military budget
the answer is yes that's great
I'm in favor of that the question was
when you were in a position to reflect
that desire by your vote why didn't you
vote that way now I mean I I suppose she
could have come up with an answer you
know well we had to vote for that
because we had other set of priorities
that we want
or whatnot but the the the way in which
she avoids this question is problematic
it's problematic I mean at one point you
cannot decry the corruption that exists
there and then vote for the product of
that corruption I mean that's the point
right
like it's not just that there's
corruption and we're worried that we're
sending our boys and girls out to war
with you know faulty body armor which
which in some instances we do and
there's a problem but it's basically a
trough an ever-expanding trough where
interests that don't really help anybody
except for themselves keeps feeding at
and I don't understand how you can vote
for the continuation of the expansion
and the feeding at that trough and then
say I'm going to stop the things that
are driving that well it ends all of the
problems you have just listed ends with
senators voting to increase the budget
and she's voted that seems to point
every single increase under including
there was one budget under Trump where
they actually gave them more than was
requested and I want to give people
there was a really good piece that was
written back in 2015 called Warren takes
care of defense business back home and
it actually goes especially into her
direct relationship with Raytheon which
is a major you know it's a massive
industry in Massachusetts but it's a
huge contradiction and it's structural
to her career which is why she I mean
just literally didn't answer the
question she didn't even say look you
know I voted the wrong way like he said
I've had parochial interests but now
there's something else I'm trying to do
she just did the classic kind of
disingenuous hard pivot hey speaking of
disingenuous hard pivot Mark Sanford
was on Morning Joe I just read a really
amusing
about how mark halperin apparently got
into a fight with with phil griffin over
at MSNBC because the Morning Joe people
wanted to have a some type of like
relaunch of Mark Halperin career on sort
of like a internet channel and he said
no Griffin said no and then Mark
Halperin was like you're the worst you
know I don't mind being judged by
perfect people
I'll let perfect people judge me says
Mark Halperin
how about you just let people who didn't
essentially you know show off their
erection to people that work for them
how about they judge you
how about sort of like just basic human
decency with the people you work for in
some measure of respect and not a
decision that you don't have to respect
somebody because they're a woman how
about you let those people judge you
unbelievable I'm there were so many
aspects of that story that I really
appreciate it but here's another and
this is you know look this is not the
same thing this is not the the same
thing as rehabilitating the career of a
serial sexual harasser but the dynamic
is similar because what you're doing is
you're just creating a bunch of BS to
promote a perspective that is also full
of BS and you're all ostensibly doing it
you know for a good reason what I'm
talking about is Mark Sanford announcing
his primary run against Donald Trump on
on Morning Joe as if the problem was not
the Republican Party and here's Mark
Sanford talking about what he's gonna
run on which is also just absurd it's
such a you know like a lie
it's it's unbelievable here it is when
we got to Congress everybody was saying
we could never balance the budget we
balanced the budget for the first time
in a generation we balanced it four
years in a row for the first time in a
century we passed welfare reform we cut
taxes we actually reformed Medicare
extended its life by seven years by
making some difficult choices
that's what I always thought
conservatives did that's what I always
thought the Republican Party stood for
and yet you're running against a
Republican president who's given us the
biggest deficits ever it certainly in an
expansive economy the biggest federal
debt ever the biggest spending budget
ever a that even Rand Paul said a couple
of months ago was the biggest boondoggle
in the history of the Republic and he's
get because he's a protectionist because
he doesn't believe in free markets free
trade he's got this 16 billion dollar
socialist scheme to pay off the biggest
agricultural interest industrial
interests in America like how do you run
against a guy like that when 75 80
percent of Republicans support that the
party has changed markets well I would
say this that's the central premise of
the campaign the thousands of
conversations that I had over 25 years
both there's two terms in the
governorship and twelve years in the
House of Representatives the thousands
of conversations I had with folks
whether it's a small business level
where they were trying to make it or
whether you talk to folks around the
kitchen counter and they're talking
about that struggle or they had with
finances I believe that those people
have not disappeared I think that they
haven't been talked to they haven't been
appealed to but I don't think they've
disappeared now if I'm wrong on that my
campaign will be short-lived but if I'm
right I think that this campaign will
have legs short-lived
excuse me not only will be short-lived
the delusion involved in this
conversation is stunning and and it's if
I give them if I give them credit for
being deluded it is I am literally
giving them credit I'm giving them
credit for not completely disingenuous
are they lying to everyone who was an
earshot of what they were saying there
may be thousands of people that
mark Sanford has you know seen on the
Appalachian Trail as it were and has
talked to him about the deficit but when
you talk about conservatives and the
deficit and debt and I don't have the
issues with deficits and debts that they
do but I don't pretend that I do Ronald
Reagan increase the debt by a hundred
and eighty six percent it was the third
largest increase the other two I should
say this biggest in terms of percentage
way wise was during the Great Depression
because obviously revenues died and
during Woodrow Wilson's presidency
having to pay for World War one so rut
in peacetime to the extent that we can
say that or non depression IRA's Ronald
Reagan coming in a fourth George W Bush
then Barack Obama who came in under a
massive recession again where revenues
were completely caught conservatives
don't care anymore about the deficit or
debt maybe less than others until it
becomes a means in which to prevent the
government from inhibiting in any way
their malfeasance or for providing for
people who don't vote for them and I
will remind you the people who vote for
the Republican Party nine out of ten
times you can put them behind a curtain
I can guess what race they are nine out
of ten in a different direction with
that one what's that
nothing curtain well it's just
unbelievable what a sack of horse manure
is involved in all of that that they're
pretending they're also like the phrase
I've had a thousand conversations on the
deficit I don't know what that supports
other than you've wasted a lot of time
right indeed
they do that people are sitting around
their kitchen tables talking about the
deficit as the means to help them out of
their economic anxiety is just insane
it's not true all right there's two more
Clips here I want to get to before we go
folks up sorry we're not gonna have time
for any more calls
well maybe I'll do that quickie thing
don't anybody else call I'll go through
everybody get that crispy let's let's
we'll hold the the the ad for later I
want to play this cuz it's pretty
stunning it's just a clip from a
football game in Alabama it's a team you
know a high school football team and
they're at Centerpoint high school I
don't know where in Alabama just
Jefferson County I guess and they're
playing and and then all of a sudden
apparently there's the sound of gunfire
and this happens here well though one
second
[Music]
yeah something's going on in the field
basically what happens is they hear
gunshots they're celebrating that
towards the end of the game and then all
the players on the field
literally lie down on the ground
cowering in fear for their lives now it
just turns out that I guess somebody was
hunting in the neighborhood and the gun
goes off if you live in a rural area you
used to that sound
I certainly have in the past you get
used to it
you hear gunshots all the time at first
it scares you and then it doesn't these
guys I'm sure they're they're
comfortable hearing gunshots when
they're at their homes or out you know
but this is the society we live in now
we're the first assumption is oh my god
there's a sniper who's shooting
everybody in the football stadium get
all these kids down on the ground so
what do you think they're gonna be
talking about the game they just won and
they were celebrating or oh my god yeah
that's right at any time we could be
shot at because of our gun laws in this
country you don't think this implicates
the the psyche of people like this the
psyche of a nation oh yeah I mean
perfectly reasonable to assume that
there's somebody shooting a sniper
everybody down it's the price of freedom
it's the price of freedom folks yeah
that is a very very narrow definition of
freedom
I'm not feeling free with that we've
just got so much more free as the ar-15s
gotten more populous so much more free
you will not take that away from me
alright I'm tired of this virtue
signaling look at all these players
versatile yeah they're on the ground
caring for 30 second works you
signalling I'm sorry
30 seconds for everybody here we go
calling from a seven six Oh Erica
where's it who's this where you come
from
hey Dad it's the Kentucky Fried comrade
from California you got 30 seconds go
a be 5 in California they're gonna
reclassified independent contractors as
actual workers rideshare companies are
pissed off and Darryl ices back and
trying to run against Amara in
California 50 disaster F eisah
appreciate it what's the matter no no
car Diaz called from seven area code I'm
just doing people if you've been on the
phone for more than an hour I'm taking
you and picking you up otherwise hang up
now I call him from a 607 area code
who's this where you calling from you
got 30 seconds go hmm not very well done
call from a seven one five area code
who's this where he come from seven one
five okay you got 30 seconds going okay
I'm a quick question I did have a lot
more but I was wondering why you guys
don't cover the utter nonsense the
sputtered by stefan molyneux enough uh I
used to and and perhaps maybe will will
dive back into that but yes he's a
lunatic and it's marginalized right he's
pretty marginalized but I appreciate the
call Thanks okay but it's truely's if
we've just interviewed the Brazil's
Environment Minister to explain what's
really happening the Amazon though I
will say right okay call from a 76 out
area code who's this where he called
from 8:00 a.m. the Sudan from Portland
Oregon da 30 seconds go they that yeah
yeah uh Dominic Dominic anyway uh
calling to say we need to have a
powerful movement for rent control
nationally
because uh your call earlier we talked
about a housing bubble it's real
important we're could be percent higher
than we were at the height of 2008
there's stats but locally about that so
I'm a tenant organizer just want to say
if you are in a city with the tenant
Union join it because it's important and
you may need it in a couple years thanks
to the call tenant unions folks call for
a four oh nine area code 409 who's this
where you come from mister Toro from
Texas and what's on your mind you get
thirty seconds
they say well I applaud your mission to
make sure that the people are aware of
mr. Rubens and sir grift apparently we
have a lot more work to do because a
young presidential candidate for the
United States win on that show and
proceeded to allow every dishonest
right-wing flame from breathing with
very little pushback I think I kind of
see pushback once
it's obvious what this guy stick is he's
the level-headed centrist yeah yeah yeah
but someone told you they should have
known better and be more aware of the
online thank you Sam
thank you yeah we're gonna get dig into
that interview come from a 503 area code
who's this where you calling from got 30
seconds hey this is Joe in LA are you
guys doing good
Joe you got 30 oh okay um I just wanted
to let everyone know about the soon to
be released dennis prager movie no safe
spaces between all-star comedian Adam
karela sure to be a huge hit I encourage
everyone to Google the poster because
preggers face looks like he's in the
middle of taking a huge dump he's
arguing currently with the MPAA over the
gradient of its movie because the First
Amendment character gets violently shot
which is supposed to symbolize the less
attack on free speech right yeah and you
know I just wanted to express my
sympathy to the parents you know find
another documentary featuring a freakish
propagandist and then over the hill
comedian talking about the lack of free
speech on campus that we should put even
less the best bend the knee we will
leave ray and stop being a pederast damn
petty strong call Joe straw we may have
to do that one to put to the horror
movie picture oh my god he's right call
from a 266 area code who
this where you come from you got 30
seconds go hey hi wait who's this where
you come from
do you hear me yeah who's this oh sorry
just Peter I'm in New Zealand so there
might be a little bit of a delay I
apologize for that it's okay um kind of
been on since that uh I thought I
actually missed the call chance because
that Ben Shapiro clip was on earlier I
can't stand that guy's voice at all I
understand I'm really quick
sounds like a vibrator that can
enunciate the Ivanka Trump just came
back her she's uh she's in South America
currently and they just announced a
billion dollar deal for female
entrepreneurs out there you know fine
that's great
well female entrepreneurs the issue I
have with that a Citibank is putting in
five hundred million dollars for this
now I mean after years and years of
Money Laundering claims and major issues
down in South America or Latin America
I'm just kind of concerned that there's
no oversight for this whatsoever
so I'm just Conda would you talk about
that a little bit but my night for 30
seconds but thanks for all right
interesting chatting today appreciate it
thanks all right we got three more
callers with 30 seconds callin from a
385 area code who's this were he calling
Sam its Josh from Salt Lake City Utah
hey just wanted to call in and
unfortunately we're not going to be able
to get into it obviously but I wanted to
ask him a libertarian one of the asks is
why you want businesses to subsidize an
individual's bad Detroit bad choices
with the minimum wage but doesn't sound
like we're gonna get a few I would love
to waste time right now call back call
back tomorrow and I will I will find
your area code and and put you up the
front you promise I promise
oh dude he promises incidentally oculus
Li disappear before my show tomorrow
I hate the call okay I call back love
the whole second half to himself what
exactly
call from a 304 area code who's this
where you call him from get 30 seconds
Jennifer from st. Louis you got 30
seconds go okay I got three things Sam
you and I are in a member of the same
Club and that we were both born three
weeks late okay and I've never heard of
anybody else like never met anybody in
my life
that can say that so I think that's kind
of weird yeah it's pretty rare um
second thing I sent an email a couple of
weeks ago like before vacation like I
need a mailing address because I have a
little present that I need to send in
for Michael oh okay well I'll get
Michael's address and then and then but
I don't feel comfortable with that
what's the third thing
and then the third thing is just kind of
a general big-picture observation like
if we on the left think that middle
America rural America quote unquote real
Americans are upset about letting go of
their guns we're gonna be really really
amazed by the sight they put up when we
tell them they have to give up their
trucks yeah because I live easy they've
already got an electric f-150 don't
worry it'll be fine they can they can
get we can get I Got News for you
they're gonna develop don't trust me
it's nothing Sam but nobody I've already
invested in third-party aftermarket cold
blowing smoke devices that you put onto
your electric vehicle so it'll sound
like it's actually uh and they'll come
up with a big smoke that's what saying
she gets it you never will Samantha it
doesn't matter if you read you see man I
appreciate the call I had an electric
train set that you could just put a
little pill in the thing and it would
get blow smoke will we get developed
that car companies will come up with
something to say about electric engines
like hyper energized yeah
boom we put in a new it'll be like one
of those those like things that we had
on our bicycles where you could actually
put on new handlebars that make it sound
like a motorcycle and all these big
macho guys will be able to go room on
their car yeah this isn't an electric
150 this is it has lasers in the engine
we got it all right call from a four
seven eight area code you are the final
call the day sir
or lady fantastic how you doing Sam this
is Georgia Jeff and Georgie you got 30
seconds buddy fantastic so indeed man
yes photolyze was came upon so early
yes something very much boy and folks
may not be aware that about nine of
chance features who those no
clothes and clothes this block there's a
toxic algae bloom a lot of water
police assumed those Mexico's got two
parties to one full night fertilize to
its first water so water is this stocks
now thousands people losing their
livelihood it's federal government as a
Republican mr. scary thing about that
you are a mistake we need more so sorry
but there was funny
Wow there you go Jeff from Georgia with
a final call the day folks see you
tomorrow
[Music]
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm going
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just
choices made so the option when you
don't get paid
rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
