[Music]
it's jim bakker thing and then we'll
save some of the other stuff authors a
 there's lazy
arthur waltzes pound flesh red road the
red the red he asks the other road it
like the normal animals pay the rent
author and author comes on with his
rodent like mail husband and goes the
red they'll rent ladies and gentlemen
there's a culture war going on and it
really is a fight for your dollars here
is lance wala now and jim bakker on the
jim bakker show basically telling you
we're living in prophetic times ladies
and gentlemen what more would you need
to face the oncoming apocalypse well jim
has an idea how many of you been praying
all across america I've been praying
this coin is our point of contact when I
ask the Lord why the coin the Lord said
because when you take the coin it's a
point of contact so your faith is being
released with a million other believers
to pray protection and peace and wisdom
and counsel over the president the
United States and over his family that's
our point of contact every day when you
see it remember god puts something in
your in your hand that you have a role
in that's why we've got to pray because
they think we're crazy but we're
actually the sane ones right that's and
so we're praying we're gonna pray that's
the teaching that is here this coin has
a point of contact this 24-carat
gold-plated coin God has told them
charge $45 for that gold-plated coin
great synthesis of Christianity and
American capitalism like God it's
believed
it's unbelievable how smoothly they can
transition into we need this this is
this symbol by binds us together we're
all praying to this it cost 45 bucks
it's gold-plated if you lose its take
out a credit line yes exactly you want
to have an extra connection to God get
three it's unbelievable when I'm at home
one for your car and one for the office
exactly
