[Music]
just an incredibly frustrating day
already I'm already super irritated
enough that's coming across a little bit
we got to turn the fan down in here it's
a little bit a little bit loud but
that's all so it's running in parallel
with the grinding noise that is in the
back of my brain right now when I see
the just utter there you know over the
past six months I think one could at
various times make reasonable arguments
that the Democrats have a strategy that
favors the 2020 elections over a lot of
things that they should be doing I
thought my feeling would be that that
would be at least a somewhat rational
argument to make I think it's not a
particularly strong one but it's
becoming apparent that there is to the
extent that there is any strategy here
it seems to be basically let's just go
away and hope that Donald Trump and
Republicans are bad enough that people
vote against them like let's not even
forget offering some type of other
vision there in some respects they're
doing that the Democrats have passed 55
pieces of legislation they're going to
pass a $15 an hour minimum wage every
single piece of this these pieces of
these legislation die before they get to
the threshold of the Senate because
Mitch McConnell knows there's no reason
for him to even hold a vote on these
things
in fact it would be stupid for him to
hold a vote on these things why go on
the record as being against them two or
three weeks ago Cheri Bustos the head of
the d-triple-c presumably one of the key
architects of this strategy was
bemoaning the fact that voters don't
seem to be paying attention to anything
they're doing and of course when you
make that assessment right what they say
there's like you know awareness of the
problem is 50% of the solution
apparently it's about 5% of the solution
because the Democrats seem to be and by
the Democrats I'm talking about the
leadership of the Democratic Party in
the form of Chuck Schumer and Nancy
Pelosi and maybe it's more chuck
schumer's fault may I
I mean it's it's hard to make that
argument when you see that not only are
they not pursuing impeachment they are
not pursuing the low-hanging fruit of
just basic oversight they're not even
pursuing rhetorical oversight yesterday
Andrew Cuomo signed a bill that allowed
for the Ways and Means Committee as
dictated by the chairman of that
committee to see the taxes of any
individual at wants in New York State in
other words if you want to see Donald
Trump's state taxes you can see them you
won't have the federal taxes but it's
going to give you a very good notion of
what's in there broadly speaking and
Richard Neil response was no thank you
he waited months to file a lawsuit to
them out of a federal court after
minuchin said no waited months to ask
and then waited to file the lawsuit and
then when given the basically given the
taxes he says that I know it's in that
envelope not gonna open it when the
Miami Herald does a story that
implicates Alex Acosta and then is
subsequently found to have basically
broken the law
Alex Acosta as a US attorney in the way
that he made a sweetheart plea deal for
a guy who's running basically a child
prostitution ring one would think that
as the sitting Secretary of Labor the
Democrats might say hey that's a bad guy
you're a bad guy for letting a pedophile
to seemingly walk away and also letting
off his co-conspirators who apparently
had to serve no time
remember he served time in a County Jail
I imagine if you're a billionaire you
can make county jail pretty pretty cush
and I think he got to go out six days a
week
yeah he's able to work every day and I
imagine that must have been some hard
work he was doing at his home office and
when asked yesterday do you have any
comments regarding Alex Acosta of
Democrats including Chuck Schumer who is
the leader of the Senate who opposed
Acosta now that Jeffrey Epstein has been
indicted in by the
in New York are you going to say
anything about it no that might draw
attention to him in some fashion here's
the question when bill bar tells Donald
Trump you can go and put and change this
question on the census even after the
Supreme Court has said you cannot and if
Donald Trump does it what are the
Democrats gonna do how do you let this
stand how do you let like what is left
this is a real problem because they seem
to be hell-bent I mean there's one thing
with like okay the circumstance is six
months ago it looks like we shouldn't
impeach and we shouldn't impeach the
mall report comes out it doesn't bill
Barr did a great job of spinning this
thing beforehand we shouldn't impeach oh
they're completely obstructing every
single reasonable ask for us to fulfill
our oversight function we shouldn't
impeach oh the Secretary of Labor was
involved in some type of large cover-up
that could very well implicate the
president incidentally we may take some
time to go into this but you all
remember there was a woman who filed a
lawsuit against Donald Trump in
California claiming that she was
sexually assaulted by him in Epstein's
house shiri filed in New York in the
run-up to the election and then was
supposedly intimidated away but she
names people who apparently are also
named in the epstein scandal now maybe
she did some research and she's out
absolutely crazy and decided to do this
that's I mean I suppose stranger things
have happened but Occam's razor would
suggest that maybe actually there's a
problem here maybe there were
co-conspirators involved and where are
the Democrats on this we're just we're
not even it's not even a question of
being on the sidelines they're leaving
the stadium they're leaving the state
they seem to want to go into a different
time zone completely backing into this
stuff looking at what they're doing
seeing it's not working and then doing
absolutely nothing about it absolutely
nothing okay at what threshold I mean it
really is honestly as if they've dug in
so much now that there is nothing that
this administration could do that would
cause them to exercise oversight in a
meaningful way they have apparently this
concept of oversight overreach what it's
based upon I have no idea because we had
was it seven different investigations
into Benghazi maybe it's more I don't
know millions upon millions of dollars
what was the last time a Republican said
the words Benghazi the only thing that
came out of Benghazi of all of it there
were 10 10 different unique
investigations into what happened in
Benghazi can anybody remember what the
inciting incident was in this it was
there was an attack
on what turned out to be well was
theoretically a the embassy annex in
Benghazi the first assessment of this
attack was that it was a part of a
protest that was going on in the Arab
world to a video that had been released
about Mohammed this was going on and
about if I recall on that day in seven
or eight different locations some places
where these places were overrun where
embassies were people broke through some
of the the compounds I remember this
distinctly because I think I was doing I
was hosting Chris Hayes's weekend
program that and I remember the graphic
of the different like little dots on
there and when this was indicated when
was happening and because the State
Department thought it was part of the
video they didn't send people and I
think it's also quite possible that it
was CIA affiliated that there may have
been a weapons cache their cache a and
so they weren't so the government wasn't
the US government wasn't fully
transparent about what the was why that
place may have been attacked
regardless ten different investigations
one material thing came out of these
investigations one material thing that
Hillary Clinton had a private email
server which as you know ended up
implicating the 2016 election depending
on who you talk to significantly or
quite significantly
that is what the Comey ladder was all
about so and recall if you if you can
find a single person who said they voted
against Republicans in 2016 or 2018
because of the Benghazi overreach I
would like to meet that person if you
could find anybody the most partisan
Democrat who will list the Benghazi
oversight overreach as the top five
reasons why they don't like Republicans
today without any prompting I will send
you uh I don't know sticker or I know
what do we got over there I see some
bolts I don't know got lots of books
it's not an audio book I'll sign it
there you go
but I need I know don't rig it the point
being that what the Democrats are doing
are complete completely without any
foundation in the real world and it it
is a total failure of leadership it's
not even a skittish leadership it's not
even a terribly lacking in imagination
strategy it's just complete and utter
abdication of any role in our government
it is both political malfeasance and
just governmental malfeasance like you
need to serve your role as oversight it
just so happens that there's probably a
huge boon politically involved in that
but nothing I mean it's it's stunning
well that was very inspiring can I ask
you a question however Sam do we have a
moment or do you need to riff more well
go ahead we're gonna continue tell me
how to do my job have you talked to
anybody recently about their experience
with Invisalign treatments
I have not you have not have you well I
could tell you that there were a lot of
good common sense middle-class Americans
who aren't obsessed with partisan
warfare or child sex trafficking or
whatever go as audit your head who are
quite upset they think they're gonna
have a hassle-free path to a perfect
Smile I'm not getting that return that's
the kind of common sense everyday
American thing that we're gonna continue
to work out of the Senate and if you
don't like that and you leftist partisan
extremists broadcast and there's nothing
I could do to help you oh I'm sorry my
wife said the other life guarantee
there's a parking space by the Brooklyn
Public Library's she doesn't like going
to honestly like okay you know and then
I'm even talking about Tom Steyer yet
it's like I that's too much to take on
it one no kidding like honestly like all
I can think if it's like I just want to
take a hammer over there and just like
it just pounded on my hand till this
feeling goes away this is something that
he so you're literally millions of
places the guy could put his money more
effectively
Tom Steyer oh yeah yeah no no no I mean
I will get into that later
