[Music]
Imedi brought this up in our
conversation about Donald Trump and you
know the reasons that we have to impeach
this guy far beyond anything in the mall
report although there's a lot of damning
stuff in the model report not just in
the obstruction side frankly that I
think would be perfectly suited for an
impeachment indictment but also one of
the things that is quite clear is going
to happen is that you know if you create
a vacuum in other words if you do not
hold Donald Trump to account something
will fill that vacuum and it appears
what's going to fill that vacuum is
Attorney General bar being able to go in
and selectively declassify information
from the investigation on Russian
interference including the Trump
campaign but also just broadly speaking
a Russian interference and you know that
he's going to leak selectively stuff
that in some way ends up forming the
basis of if not criminal indictments
political indictments of people who
supposedly were out involved in a
witch-hunt and a hoax to get Donald
Trump and Donald Trump was teeing that
up and he's obviously had these
conversations because he's obviously
thought about it and so I mean from a
political standpoint impeachment is
going to be important because it is a
way of making sure that you're not just
letting Donald Trump run free to create
whatever narrative he wants to create
but here he is asked about about his
charges that folks like Comey and McCade
committed treason by
investigating him that's even that's a
weird construct but says treason is
possible by death you accused your
adversaries of treason who specifically
are you accusing of treason well I think
a number of people and I think what you
look is that they have unsuccessfully
tried to take down the wrong person if
you look at Comey if you look at McCabe
if you look at probably people hot
people higher than that if you look at
stroke if you look at his lover lisa
page his wonderful lover the two lovers
they talked openly you know they didn't
use their private server because they
didn't want to get caught so they used
the government server that was not a
good move he talked about the insurance
policy just in case crooked Hillary
losses and that didn't work out too well
for them so you look at them they want
an insurance policy so that should she
for any reason lose remember 100 million
to one maybe he said 100 million to
nothing but should she lose will have an
insurance policy and we'll get this guy
out of office and that's what they said
and that's what they meant that's
treason that's treason they couldn't win
the election
and that's what happened and that's
what's happening right now because
without the treason word I guess but
that's what's happening now they don't
feel they can win the election so
they're trying to do the thousand stamps
keep stamping let's have a financial
let's have and if you look for forty
million dollars I would think seriously
that Bob Mahler and his group of
eighteen killers have gone over my taxes
they've gone over my financial
statements to a level that nobody has
gone over them before and they were not
discussed even they weren't even
discussed or brought up I have great
statements okay what well now they
weren't discussed because that was just
simply they weren't tasked with that so
if they found nothing in those taxes
that appeared to be related to the
conspiring with Russians then they
wouldn't be brought up in those now they
could be referred to other places in
fact maybe they happen
we still have several ongoing
investigations but we shall see but
there it is folks Donald Trump I mean
he's just giving you the roadmap of
what's gonna be done you know he's he's
talking about all of that is was
basically his briefing with Bill bar
right before he gave bill Barr the
ability to access all of these Intel
documents and you know it's not like
bill bar wasn't going to use this stuff
what is this one here with home video
okay similar theme so here is Sepp Korca
in the lab in the Gorka dungeon I mean I
wonder if he that's what the theory I
don't like what is going on here with
this I got one of is called sunlight
never heard of it you scurry from the
Sun like what all framed up with one
dark room behind me but a lighting room
off on the side I'm gonna do the classic
noir lighting for this YouTube stream
that I put yes I can find your husband
damsel in distress but you here is SAP
Gorka referring to the the treason
charges and to Bill bar being able to
investigate the investigators I am NOT a
communist I knew this day would come but
I didn't expect it so soon thanks to the
actions and statements of Nancy Pelosi
in the last 48 hours the president has
brought forth his decision and the
Kraken has been unleashed with his
decision tonight to allow the Attorney
General to declassify any information
relating to the illegal surveillance
against his presidential campaign and
his administration we will find out who
began the biggest political scandal in
American history and where the
responsibility lies what in the next two
days
the rats the hyenas start to eat each
other
clapper Brennan Lynch even Obama the fun
and games have begun
I'm Sebastian Gorka stay tuned said
gawker.com
[Laughter]
he's trying he's trying to get some that
cute anon juice there right it's the new
anot well there's there's a market
opportunity now that dollar is over
you got a thing on to something else
right at our own now right s anon right
this is this is about to happen now
majority dot F M I love that stay tuned
subdue calm while you're at it check out
my new patreon page exactly don't forget
to subscribe and like on YouTube don't
forget to hit the like a girl rat on rat
iana hyena coverage uh you know i will
say i want to give Gorka some kudos for
the restraint involved in not wearing a
black cape and doing one of these like
oh the rats the hyenas start to eat each
other I wonder if the rats is he saying
the rats eat the hyenas and I he does
eat the rats or the rats and the rats
eat each other in the hyenas and hyenas
eat each other
everyone just totally bakken the
free-for-all a venerable smorgasbord
departure peace has the job cheek I
wonder if the radio hosts in Rwanda that
called for exterminating rats where as
funny as Sebastian work is right
