[Music]
story let's go to a 509 area code who's
this where you come from hey Sam
Ron Reagan Ronald Reagan our user did I
speak Spanish and I'm working on a
Maoist cristina kirchner impression so
well
you up for a commute are you up for a
cross-country commute Bernie or bust
Emiliano Zapata sounds amazing
I think of Kristine I was gonna say so I
think that you you're your broader point
is still correct even though there's
some good immigration plans which is
that the Democrats need to coalesce
around something that is easy to
communicate and some points that aren't
quite so technical even with Castro he
seemed really focused focused on this
idea of decriminalizing unlawful entry
and that's really small-bore it doesn't
well the problem is - is it it allows
for a lot of exploitation of these folks
when they get here sure I mean so they
used it's true that they used strict
enforcement of that misdemeanor law to
separate families for a while last year
and then they stopped doing it so
they're not strictly enforcing that law
anymore now you should still get rid of
it but he had two debates where he had
the opportunity to go out and and really
you know communicate something and he
chose to lean on that one aspect of his
plan both times and if you were to
repeal that law would be good I'm not
saying it's not but it would also fix
virtually nothing right
so they're saying well it should be a
civil offense
that's how its treated 99% of the time
already and and so and as the
administration is showing there's other
cool ways to separate families you don't
necessarily need this misdemeanor law so
yeah he has a pretty good plan and some
good ideas but I think he he failed to
communicate effectively what the plan is
and the problem is like you mentioned
the other day most people kind of want
to just ignore this they don't really
want to think about it too hard or very
often except for the people who feel
really really strongly the other way and
so I know I think that's a similar no be
honest with you I think that's a similar
dynamic with guns I mean I think that
like I think when there are particular
instances that offend the sensibilities
people are like I don't want that but
they're not willing to sort of subscribe
to some broad you know the idea of like
we're not going to prevent anybody from
coming in and being a citizen they just
they would rather hear we're gonna have
a humane and just policy and then just
sort of walk away and say okay you guys
take care of the details as opposed to
something more specific of like we're
just we're simply going to let everybody
we're gonna have a procedure for it
we're gonna have you know maybe you know
some criteria where we will you know
where five percent of people we will
turn away I'm saying an arbitrary number
but you know some percentage of people
we're gonna turn away but broadly
speaking the vast majority of people who
want to come become citizens will become
citizens I think what I would say is
that we want the immigration plan that
exists already in the minds of most
Republicans which is if you're here and
you work hard and you're a good person
and you can pass a background check you
should be able to get in line and
legalize your status and the problem is
that's what most people think exists but
it does not
so I want to put in place the plan that
you imagine exists already but doesn't
and because people write this whole
concept of like get in line why are you
jumping ahead a lot that you know the
whole line concept seems to be a sort of
a fantasy plan that exists right and it
makes sense that if if there was a line
that you could go and get into you could
go down to the paper store and and sign
up and get a green card it would make
sense to to be really opposed to illegal
immigration because you know all you got
to do is go down and do the thing and
and then you'd have papers and if you
don't there must be some nefarious
reason but like all of that is based on
a faulty premise so that's kind of how I
would try and frame it I wanted to ask
you one quick question and then I'll
jump I've been thinking a lot about my
time as a Mormon missionary I'm a former
mormon as I've mentioned before and how
it's not an easy thing to sell Mormonism
because it's super weird really but did
you have did you have that like the
animated book of that explained how the
angel came down to Smith guys I know
it's weird but you got to bang up a high
of girls on your own more than I think
about it I when I was a great but when I
was a pretty strong payoff on the back
end huh when I was a kid I was traveling
through Europe at one point and whenever
I would meet Mormon missionaries I would
spend a lot of time talking to him and I
saw that book they had like the animated
version multiple times did you did they
give you those or but this was way
before your time no we did I mean I had
those growing up but no we didn't have
those on my mission but that the point
is um you know we had to think a lot
about how to communicate to people and
how to sort of recognize their concerns
and all these sorts of things we would
also get into debates with like
Jehovah's Witnesses
it was like a scene from West Side Story
you know a couple of Mormon missionaries
and so anyways those types of
contentious encounters always left both
sides leaving more emboldened I think in
their own dumb beliefs even if like
objectively you lost the debate I don't
know that you can really lose or win a
debate amongst those two groups but even
if they scored most of the points you
would come away feeling more more money
than you had going into it so it really
was not an effective way of
communicating or trying to win hearts
and minds and I wonder if this is not a
function of Bernie bro ISM but online
ISM if we need to start thinking more
strategically about how we communicate
it seems like online the goal is to
people see themselves not as
missionaries of an idea or like trying
to win hearts and minds but you know
we're all trying to score points or you
know get a big dunk on somebody and
sometimes that's important when when
there's bad faith actors or people
you're not never going to win over
anyways but I see a lot I do see a lot
of hostility hashtag online between sort
of like leftist purists and people who
are maybe more century or people who
just care less about politics and it
seems like that that is harmful and it
is a real phenomenon and maybe like it's
you know maybe we need to have a
conversation about how to engage with
those people and I think especially this
is the last point they'll go you know
the idea behind Bernie being the best
candidate is he's going to lead this
grassroots movement and he's going to
bring in more people to the fold
and that's going to be really hard to do
if there's a sense that people who are
coming into this for the first time in
their maybe not as woke or they're not
as informed we're going to be met with
hostility and dunking and
sort of thing rather than a sense of
community so Saturday on your on your
latter point like you know it's hard for
me to get a full-on assessment of this
because you know I it's sort of just the
waters I swim in I mean I think the
analogy of your sharks and jets with the
Jehovah's Witnesses in the Mormons for
me the issue isn't what the players
thought the issue is the people who
gathered around you and listened and
what they thought I mean that's the
that's you know I mean I'm in a business
where and I entered into this business
as a performer and so I'm simply
conscious of the audience and I think I
think there is you know I don't I can't
make really any broad assessments about
the way that people are fighting or
who's fighting online but I can say that
like people should enter into these
exchanges with a broader audience in
mind and be conscious of how its
received by other people and I think
that will that will you know go a long
way to saying like what's the value of
me dunking on this person and I say this
is someone who believes in very specific
instances that there are is a lot of
value on it of of it but you have to be
aware that the the what you're doing has
no value in terms of the individual you
are you're you're engaging with if
you're engaging in that way I think I
think that that's I like that he made
the distinction though because I think
there's a much broader point about
online ism in general and how it
actually bleeds really destructively
into even sort of like quote um you know
real life spaces and I always recommend
in the kind of family of that there's
always the vampyre castle essay which is
great but I I think that on the flip
side I was actually just talking with
Hasan about this like there also
needs to just be more comfort with
people disagreeing with each other and
just because people disagree and have
debates especially among people that you
sort of share a set like you know I've
had
you know friendly disagreements with
people I have nothing like the highest
respect for Iran as an example like you
know some of the intricacies of really
establishing the distinction between
Sanders and Warren as an example I think
that's actually an important debate and
I think there's real substantive
differences there and none of those
arguments or debates have led to like I
still really like and respect these
people we still work together like that
that's that's the that's sort of the
paradox is it's like it really all or
nothing like either total destruction in
a way that's extremely alienating I
think to normal people or on the other
hand just some idea that like unless
we're just always synchronized we can't
have disagreement that's just not true I
mean disagreement can be healthy and
it's totally normal and totally fine
