[Music]
this was also fun and I think on some
level this could be if used properly
certain areas of the country I don't
know that it's gonna get anybody to flip
their vote but if used properly in
certain areas of the country may depress
some votes frankly when you got Michael
Cohen talking about Donald Trump's bone
spurs mr. Trump claimed it was because
of a bone spur but when I asked for
medical records
he gave me none and said that there was
no surgery he told me not to answer the
specific questions by reporters but
rather offer simply positive I should
say this is in regards to why he didn't
go to Vietnam or the specific questions
by reporters but rather offers simply
the fact that he received a medical
deferment he finished the conversation
the following comment you think I'm
stupid not going to Vietnam farad now I
find that one rights either but the no I
think that that does have something to
it because I think that he revealed like
nobody nobody cares about like the
sanctimony about John McCain but that
one is against his audience yes not it's
not like today Nam you're a sucker here
and that's a different that is different
than I'm sick of hearing about John
McCain and he's a soft you know like
John McCain was part of the establish
yes John McCain helped him up as some
type of himself as some type of Saint he
was a tall poppy that Donald Trump was
cutting down was going man-to-man
exactly getting out there and saying if
you went to Vietnam you're a sucker and
I'm no sucker you are is a different
thing I could hear Vietnam vets who was
sympathetic Trump liking like like haha
yeah he did he failed he crashed planes
knocked right but if it just goes to
like oh you weren't rich well you think
I have bone spurs my brain
right exactly and I mean in some of us
Rex the reason why Trump got away with
criticizing McCain and not paying a
price with his own people of that was
because um they perceived McCain as
looking down on them and Trump not this
is a case of Trump looking down on those
people who did go
that's basically what kind of do
