Oh since we were talking about Eric
Lipinski we just talked to Sean McElwee
who is out there and and and pissed
about the d-triple-c protecting in
particular it's dan Lipinski not Eric
Lipinski why'd you put Eric Lipinski
there is it it huh
oh he's yeah he ran the cross-country
with him okay
but it's dan Lipinski and here is New
York Times reporter Jonathan Martin
talking about what we were just talking
about but I was in Chicago over the last
couple of days on the story talking to
activists out there progressive
activists and I'll tell you what that
they are sick of this congressman who
has been there for about 10 years now
his dad had the seat before him it is a
seat that looks a lot like the ones that
a osc1 in New York and Presley one in
Boston last year historically kind of
cops and firefighters a working-class
Polish and Irish now much more affluent
and diverse and congressman I think it's
been some real challenges going into the
next year he won by two points last year
in his primary facing the same
challenger next year and the question is
will Democrats support somebody who on
this central issue isn't with them so
they're talking about that challenge by
Murray Newman to dan Lipinski and this
could be the year the dan Lipinski goes
and that's why you know we were
mentioning I just want to reiterate this
so many times the fight that you're
looking at is really just the shadow of
the real fight that's going on and so
the d-triple-c they don't care about dan
Lipinski more than likely
they just need to set a precedent and
they need to be able to go and say look
at who we would protect if we had Dan
Lipinski's back I don't even need to
make the case to you that we have your
back because obviously we do and if dan
Lipinski we helped dan Lipinski win then
I Got News for You anybody's gonna
challenge somebody whose credentials are
not so horrific as Dan Lipinski's forget
about it you don't even need to come
don't even bother
it's a show of force a show of force it
is the on some level it's like it's the
that Fonzie theory where he told richie
cunningham that of course i don't know
if you guys know happy days this is
where he hits the music box it's yeah he
hits the juke box but he basically told
rich cunningham like I hit one guy once
and I've never had to hit anybody again
this also reminds me and you can go back
and listen to this I don't know when
they we did this interview maybe in 2012
where shannon moore up in alaska used to
do talk radio up there was fighting for
pebble mine and that has come back
around but she told me this story about
going in with the lawyers for pebble
mine they want a mine in this area that
is like the number one source of wild
salmon in the country and the part about
this story i specifically remember she
went in there with all sorts of facts
and figures
she made the case she had the case she
showed it to the lawyer she had an
opportunity sit down with lawyers and
explain it to him she was like i'm
convinced that they're gonna this is
gonna be a no brainer for them and at
the end they were like we don't care
about pebble mine we don't care about
this or any of that we're fighting this
so hard because we cannot let the epa
win we cannot let activists win because
if we do that puts in jeopardy all the
other places we don't care about this
one thing but we will fight to the death
for it because this one thing implicates
the whole world
for us and I think that's what's going
on with dan Lipinski for the D Triple
City less about dan Lipinski more about
the precedent it sets and that's the way
that you should view this and why it
should be important to progressives
because this is the fight that it's not
just about dan Lipinski understand it's
basically saying we start with Lipinski
and then we come to you unless you start
voting better that's basically it that's
frankly the way it worked with the
Republicans that's you know at the time
it wasn't the Tea Party it was Grover
Norquist and Club for Growth and I
remember in Pennsylvania I think it's uh
years ago was a the Senate the the
senator from there before when it was
just um I can't remember his name now
but uh he died but Pat Toomey was
running against him it's like that guy's
alone he's never gonna win and they kept
pushing and pushing and eventually he
ran a couple times he won and that's
that's basically well I think the era we
are in on the Left it's pretty rich of
Lipinsky to say that shunning this is
how we got president Trump people felt
like they weren't welcome in the party
that is just a bizarre it does
mentioning though like the force is
pulling the Republican Party to
quote-unquote the right I guess we talk
about this a lot like how much of this
is Trump and how much of it is just
normal Republican stuff I think it it
went they went a little bit easier to
the right then the Democratic Party
would go to the left but I will see well
yeah I just I do I think that is too I
think that's too narrow of perspective I
think look I think they started out more
to the right than then the Delta between
the
the Democrats in the left a B I would
also say that there was far more
resources behind the Tea Party that were
distinct from the Republican Party in
terms of like coke money and whatnot I
mean the Koch brothers like a people
powered people versus money grassroots
thing right and the Koch brothers have a
an electoral you know a basically a data
operation that dwarfs the Republican
Party now and so they have the the I
mean in many respects I think I used to
describe it as its Coke and Pepsi
they're all the same industry there's
just different companies in there and
the difference between the coke and the
Pepsi's not so great you know what a fun
thing about the rise of the Nazi Party
in Germany was about the the the
businessmen they did fund the Nazi Party
but they also funded everything else on
their right - it was just the Nazis who
could get the popular you know priority
behind it right they're throwing down a
thousand seeds will bloom and there's
just happened to catch on the left
you're just not seeding as many
different places and so it's it's
structural there's a structural there's
it's much harder without a doubt and the
the left will never well I don't know of
never but part of it also on the right
was that they promoted this they built
their Frankenstein they just thought
that they could control it
