so Rick let's let's just start with for
our audience who are not from Florida
and maybe aren't familiar with it you
know Florida for a long time was always
sort of the turning point of at least
our modern presidential elections not to
mention that there was a little bit of a
discrepancy back in 2000 I don't want to
dwell on that any more than I have to at
the moment but in this last election at
least in 2016 Donald Trump I mean
Florida was was was pretty much out of
play wasn't it it it was I did Florida's
a true swing state there were a lot of
people believe that Clinton was gonna
win it in 2016 but the polls started to
come in and as they came in it every
County turned red except for a handful
Obama was able to win both times here
primarily by a strong push in the
central part of the state where the
where the universities are and and that
just didn't happen the Clinton campaign
didn't galvanize that same group of
voter out there well I mean well I do
have a sense of what that was about in
other words was this a was it a unique
was it unique in the sense that Donald
Trump really spoke to Florida values or
was it unique in the sense that Hillary
Clinton was just not particularly
inspiring to certain populations in
Florida for some reason or is it was is
it part of a sort of a trajectory I mean
what what was behind that well I think
that a lot of it was just the overall
warning you know change you've had the
same type of government essentially for
eight years and their feeling of change
and that Washington was in gridlock I
think that was a factor it made people
open to trying something different I
think that bit hit the the Clinton
campaign even though they brought star
power to the state and had a lot of
people going around for it she just
never galvanized motivated people to go
to the polls as much as the Obama
campaign did
and a lot of african-americans stayed
home they didn't get out and vote part
of it part of it was some of the mixed
messaging that was happening over social
media there was a there was a certain
amount of you know this is in the bag we
don't really need to vote Hillary's
gonna win I think there was some of that
happening some apathy there I think the
other apathy was you know they she just
didn't connect with them at the same
level as Obama was able to do okay so
with that I mean with with with that
knowledge in our mind let's let's turn
to this midterm because you know the if
I was to put myself in my mind where I
was a year ago let's say and I was
thinking about the the Senate race bill
Nelson and Rick Scott I think we knew at
that point Rick Scott was running I'm
not sure if we knew who was gonna be
running in the Democratic primary in
fact I think we probably didn't right I
mean we let's start with the Democratic
primaries me the the race for governor
let's start there for a moment because
that's the yeah well that's the fun one
and let's start with that because I
think in some respects I get the sense
that if if the Democrats grab the
governorship and the Senate at least in
Florida it's going to because people
pulled people's I guess choices were
sort of almost in that order in other
words that the governor you know we
don't see this too too often it seems to
me but a new governor pulling across the
line and incumbent senator is I think
not a dynamic that is typical right tell
us about Andrew Gilliam because I don't
know that a year ago people would have
guessed that he would have been the
nominee no I he would he was running
against the the favored candidate was
Gwen Graham Bob Graham's
daughter former congressman very
personable and we were a lot of us our
newspaper included sort of looked at at
her is well this is the year
the woman that this would be and she was
very good on issues but she was not that
different from what the Democrats have
run in the past down here Sam we've had
very vanilla candidates to say the least
Jim Smith Alex Sink who was a state CFO
chief financial officer who lost to Rick
Scott the first time the last time they
had the governor's race it was Charlie
Crist a former governor running hit
switched parties and they were all calm
leveled candidates that didn't excite
voters Andrew Gilliam is is I think the
new type of candidate that the Democrats
really need a lot of bold ideas he
doesn't back off of an idea they he
won't let himself get labeled by the
other side he responds to attacks
immediately and I want to talk to you I
mean I just want to put a pin in that
for the moment the I've seen some of
those debate clips and that was that was
stunning
and I want to talked about that but
continue he's got a lot of bold ideas
and and he's I mean is he the first
African American candidate for governor
in Florida's history well outside
probably reconstruction I believe he is
he definitely with the first of a major
political party to be their nominee
going into the general election and he
is dynamic he is he meets people well
and he had a really good pitch when Gwen
it was Gwen and that we had a lot of
other candidates to fill lovino popular
mayor from Miami Beach was in there Jeff
green a billionaire that put his money
into the campaign and Andrew sort of
seemed to be on the edge of this but he
would go around and say we can do what
we've done in the past he would tell the
Democratic people in all the communities
we could do what we did in the past and
we could lose again I will win and it's
he got a real good influx of money about
ten days before the primary and you
could just see that the campaign flipped
to just see that enthusiasm start to
come out that Obama type enthusiasm and
it is carried over into this general
election and
and DeSantis was slightly head coming
out of the primary in fact Republicans I
talk to a lot of Republican power
brokers a lot of consultants and they
were they were excited that Andrew
Gilliam was was the opponent they
thought that he's gonna be so easy to
beat and he's been just the opposite and
and their candidate Ron de Santos is
turning out to be more and more of a
one-trick a one-note singer and with not
an empty suit all right what's yeah I
mean tell us a lot
this dynamic we have someone who is I
mean Ron de Santos is him he's not an
old person I mean he's only both about
the same age I think once 40 41 the
other ones 39 they're young both of them
right and and but Gilliam comes off as
just simply he just seems to be
different in the sense that De Santis is
saying the same thing that a Republican
running for office could have been
saying you know four years ago six years
ago 10 years ago 15 years ago I mean
he's a little bit more brash but we've
had certainly Republicans run for
governor let's say up in New York's
estate who sound like him they do you
know he DeSantis Amino mentions jonald
Trump but we've had guys up here who
sound exactly the same same type of
attitude you know sending around faxes
of of racist jokes about Obama stuff
like this and but Gilliam sounds very
different when it comes to his politics
in Florida I mean you mentioned we've
had that in Florida in particular
there's been a lot of sort of just non
offensive Democratic site perfect and
and let's take a break when we come back
I want to hear more about Gilliam and I
want it I want to talk about how you
know we got bill Nelson there who's
running for Senate who I think maybe a
little bit less so right now but about a
two months ago people are very scared
about what's gonna happen to Bill Nelson
because we talk about non-offensive this
is a guy who doesn't seem to have left
his office in the course of campaigning
in Florida and
let's talk about that how Andrew Gilliam
may actually end up I don't know if he's
going to save the Senate for us but he's
gonna sit he could very well save that
Senate seat we got to take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar ring of fire radio we'll
be right back with Rick outs
