[Music]
there is um this is the thing about
child care folks is that you don't want
the safety net to turn into a hammock
yeah I'm probably gonna get a lot of
heat for saying this but the reality is
that the best child care and the best
Early Learning that a kid can get is
from his family whether that is his mom
or his dad or a grandparent that is the
best outcome for children when it comes
to early education and early care and
learning now I understand that that is
not everybody's choice but at some point
individual responsibility has to come
into play here if you want to make a
different choice you have to be
responsible for the financial
implication of those choices it is not
the government's role to do that it is
not your neighbors role it is not the
millionaire's role to do that if you
want to make a different choice and you
don't want to or feel like you're unable
to care for your children you have to
think through the implications of that
now that's a cow Jay Roth I hope she
doesn't have a child because I don't
know what she's doing at work now
presumably Carol Roth who was a radio
host and or was and you know writes
columns and goes on TV doesn't have a
child cuz she would have to be at home
working for her presumably her husband
right but that's just a absurd it kind
of reminds me of the guy who doesn't
think we should pay for kids school
lunches remember that guy Paul Ryan well
I guess it's a lot of guys but the one
the particular one that we talked to and
then I asked him you know what would
happen if people just stopped having
kids and it was like oh well you know
the human race would end whatever well
the the amazing thing is is that this
argument that she's making is not going
to appeal to anybody outside of that
bubble I mean that's the thing is that
this is not and there's unde out
people who who don't think that the
women should stay at home because that's
what this is right this is this is just
a a women should be in the kitchen
argument sort of dressed up with a
little bit of like it's about the kids
though yeah you kind of have to make it
economically possible for women to be at
home with their kids though - that's
right you got a she calls herself a
recovering investment banker mmm
Oh Tucker Carlson had a bit about this -
where he said that um it's going to you
know go along with this like neoliberal
globalist feminism right so like all of
the white women are not gonna be home
with their kids like they should be
while their husbands are you know
earning a family wage with the jobs that
Trump brought back they're gonna be at
work while their kids are taken care of
by illegal immigrants well how would
illegal immigrants get jobs in child
care that is subsidized by the federal
government the Liberals are gonna give
them jobs job guarantee for illegal
immigrant members are gonna be number
one plank in Bernie's platform I mean
this is the you know what's interesting
though about this about this critique of
this here it is dream is outsourcing
their upbringing to government
caretakers while their parents scurried
back to work is good little servants of
globalized market capitalism the need
for more government day care specialists
will no doubt be justified be used to
justify more immigration and so the
cycle as you can see is complete the
Democratic Party started by outsourcing
manufacturing you remember that
then the outsource to farm labor and
yard work and now they decided to
outsource parenting raising your own
kids Elizabeth Warren is telling us is
that job Americans just won't - well no
this is just unbelievable
obviously Tucker's wife must be raising
his kids I would imagine all the wives
work at like Goldman Sachs these dudes
well but but even even you know putting
that aside what it really does is also
show you the and our guest is going to
talk about this I think on some level
tomorrow it also shows you the economic
foundations of sexism and misogyny right
like this just makes it completely
obvious and naked that the the idea why
you want to make it too expensive for
women to go to work now of course this
is completely ignoring the reality of a
huge swath of of men and women right
where it's not a question of you know
can I get to work it's just a question
of will I ever see the kid right because
many of these people are working these
couples are working two jobs even if
they have the kid at home it's just that
they're leaving at night or maybe the
one of the parents is working two jobs
and never sees the kids but he's gonna
ignore those because he wants to talk
about the real Americans but even when
in the context of his real Americans it
shows that how economic deprivation or
the concept of economic coercion
reinforces these social structures that
folks like Tucker Carlson who apparently
believes very strongly in the the the
notion of a patriarchy although I'm sure
he would say like no I'm perfectly fine
with the the husband staying at home and
the the wife going out to work despite
the fact that she would make
significantly you know 10 15 percent
less than the husband in the job force
but nonetheless they know what the
number where the numbers land on this
and this is the way that they use
economic coercion to subjugate women
because it fits their religiously formed
code of how the family should look and
act yeah and he uses his disingenuous
critique of capitalism once more to try
to advance a different version of
capitalism that he thinks is better and
he's not gonna say it but whiter whiter
and more he did say it right about
immigrants and more religious I should
probably say it's like yeah it does suck
that a lot of couples don't really have
a choice everyone has to work all the
time and not spend time with their kids
and everyone's tired of feels like
but the answer to that is not more
economic coercion
generally speaking indeed
