yesterday you know Pittsburgh is
obviously still in the grieving process
the mayor of the city had asked Donald
Trump to please wait before he came the
rabbi emeritus of the Tree of Life had
asked Donald Trump please wait the
president of the synagogue though he
didn't invite Donald Trump was like I'm
of course he's the president if he comes
we will greet him but it's pretty
stunning that ostensibly right like the
the even the illusion that this is
somehow for the families and there were
several families that said we have
absolutely no interest in this guy
coming but the illusion now of course
every president every politician of
ghosts these things there's at least and
I don't know what how it breaks down in
their minds and as cynical as I am I
still believe there is a portion a
percentage in which what motivates them
is that they know they can go and help
people that it makes a difference to
have the president of the United States
come and offer his or her condolences
this guy just I'm going you know because
he didn't want to feel either slighted
by by them by not going or he thought
that it was an important thing for him
to do politically for those I mean
honestly I want to be left out there
right I mean honestly but there is no
like to have just about everybody
involved in this tragedy say just wait a
week
just wait so that we can we can deal
with what we have to deal with you're a
controversial figure
please don't come and to completely
ignore it is stunning leadership what is
also stunning is to see these mourners
hit the streets
and basically just put their bodies in
the streets so that his travel Cade
cannot pass by here's a report from CNN
it is pretty stunning when you think
about this that mourners are out there
basically telling Trump go away yeah all
right so Caitlin I want you to stand by
not far away Miguel Marquez is watching
the protester unfolding only few blocks
I take it big el set the scene for us
we're less than a block away here wolf
this is the protest there are several
thousand people in this protest now it
was one protest than two and then we got
to this area you can hear those sirens
that is the president now leaving this
area protesters have been completely
peaceful but there are several different
groups represented here I'm going to
show you this and if you just sit around
here this area that direction is where
the the synagogue is all of those sirens
you can hear or the the commotion that
law enforcement are making as the
president is trying to leave it has been
completely peaceful and at this point it
appears that they are actually trying to
move these protesters out which is going
to be extraordinarily difficult that
they expect to bring the presidents in
this direction they're trying to back
people up we have seen little more than
tears in this neighborhood today and it
has turned into anger as the day has
moved on as people realize that the
president is coming this protest
wasn't planned at all 24 hours ago and
the last 24 hours it is exploded we
weren't sure how many people were going
to show up here there were very few
people who had actually signed up to
come and now there are thousands of
people on in scroll here look over here
and it as somebody is trying to get
somebody's being arrested here there
there was a large knot of people who
moved toward the synagogue which is
about a block away and we're trying to
get through the police cordon you can
see the police cars now trying to move
the crowd back the crowd itself they are
chanting turn your backs and the big
gala hold hold on for a second to go
I want to let our viewers to hear what
they are chanting like let's listen and
brief satisfaction of knowing that
they're that they're upset with him but
there is great great anger and upsets in
this in this area today let's just
listen to below this
so it appeared to me that the president
actually moved off in a different
direction and this was an ancillary
units that was moving down this way but
just thousands of people in Squirrel
Hill Hill registering they're upset and
concern with the president being here
feeling that it just brings the wrong
message wolf there you go
thousands of mourners essentially
feeling that the president brings the
wrong message I mean that's pretty
stunning you have these people who are
out there you know reacting to a white
supremacist white nationalist going in
gunning down eleven people and just to
hear the words of like the anger mounted
as the profound out the president was
coming that's I mean that you know this
is the only couple to several thousand
people but if anybody can point to any
dynamic in American history where the
people around in a community who have
suffered a tragedy like this just
out-and-out reject the visit of the
president in fact I think nothing
analogous under Obama directly obviously
but there were always stories of Obama
going sometimes to communities that
might not have had a huge amount of
support for him and the reports always
being like you know I didn't vote for
the guy but it's so good he's here it's
been so helpful thank you you know that
was always the case with him and
obviously there was there was anger
towards George Bush in the wake of
Katrina in New Orleans but you know the
US government was implicated in they
hated it they did it about totally
different they were well they didn't do
the hurt they did implicitly they were
complicit in the failures of helping
people I mean there's no one you know
the there's not a similar dynamic here I
mean
it's pretty stunning although I think
one could argue that Donald Trump has at
least some complicity in terms of the
energizing the narrative that at least
this guy embraced in espoused I mean he
specifically mentioned the caravan and
frankly that is a non news story and
that the Jews are responsible for
bringing that caravan in or I guess to
southern Mexico so pretty stunning
