mentioned earlier I mean this is just it
just struck me as bizarre first off I
mean look the the demo the idea well
let's listen to Ralph Nader I mean this
is what's problematic is that there are
structural issues there are issues with
the Democratic Party not just in terms
of a campaigning but in terms of
delivering stuff but there's also just
sheer stupidity that gets you on
television
alright and and and and frankly you know
Ralph Nader has done obviously some very
important things and very very positive
things for this country I was supportive
of him in 2000 not in battleground
states in fact I even vote swapped for
with people in Florida but this is a
perfect example of a guy who just is
going to say whatever he wants as a way
of getting on television and then you
know something that just goes completely
off the rails here he is on our email
birth show he's responding to a clip of
Obama saying the DEM shouldn't treat
politics like Coachella right that an
important message for Obama to deliver
oh it's very important because the
Democrats are falling into the trap of
Trump that's it let's run against front
well you couldn't have a president
easier to run against pop that doesn't
put bread on the table I posit got to
first of all I don't know what like like
who he is talking about because every
single reporter who is to the extent
that we can know these things right I
mean it's not it's not it's not that
easy there's a lot of places where
there's no polling and this nap there's
a lot of place where we have huge
deserts of local news coverage but if
you google every campaign ad I mean if
you look at every campaign ad of
Democrats in a congressional district
if you talk to reporters or listen to
reporters on this show on other shows
when they're out on campaigns there's no
there's there's like virtually no
Democrats running in these races that
are running against Trump that's all
implicit the explicit thing they're
running on is health care and so he just
says this because he doesn't know he
doesn't you know like he and I probably
have very similar you know sort of like
we in terms of like how we travel right
except for um I'm actively reading this
stuff every day and he apparently is not
or he just refuses to believe it but
continue able they have got to go down
where people are working living and
raising their families they are gonna
blow the next month's election if they
continue business as usual and the
Democratic natural committee headed by
mr. Peres who hasn't returned my call
for over a year I have some suggestions
for him why do you think he's not
calling you back because they don't want
to hear from the Civic community they
just hear from their political
consultants and all the millions of
dollars that are put in insipid TV ads
because they get a 15% cut it also
raises the question have you tried
texting him we have emailed them yes and
we have text we've done everything look
I mean I think there is definitely a
problem with Democratic the DNC the
d-triple-c sending in consultants is a
huge problem and there have been
attempts to reform that and we still got
to work on that but Ralph Nader getting
a return phone call is not necessarily
the best bellwether for that that's a
classic Nader though he likes to publish
the letter that he wrote to somebody on
his Facebook page that the person that
he wrote it to probably never looked at
that's continued the next election then
you see Mike Bloomberg now
re-registering as a
Kratt I imagine you view him as a
classic corporate politician pausing
party posit we're gonna go back a little
bit this is why we pulled this clip and
the other stuff I had just we saw as we
were but this is this is why we pulled
this clip because I wanted to hear an
ATAR crap Oliver on this oligarch Mike
Bloomberg election then you see Mike
Bloomberg now re-registering as a
Democrat I imagine you view him as a
classic corporate politician he's moving
parties based on where he may have a
political opportunity do you think it
would be bad for the Democrats that Mike
Bloomberg run or become the nominee no
what about Wall Street Wall Street is
his weakness he's for corporate welfare
on the other hand he's not your routine
Wall Street guy he's an entrepreneur and
he thinks for himself I think he could
shake up the Democrat Party I think
because I've known him and talked with
him I think he ruins the day they didn't
run four years ago I see I mean there's
an origin to this though I looked this
up there's a book that Ralph Nader
published in 2011 called only the
super-rich can save us which is a
fictionalized account of a Warren
Buffett actually I think it literally is
Warren Buffett basically watching
Katrina on television and getting so
disgusted that he decides to intervene
in politics and I I have a couple a
couple of brief thoughts on this I mean
one obviously right there he told on
himself and the Perez doesn't talk to me
Bloomberg does all right so that's the
narcissism for sure but I think Ralph
Nader I mean obviously has still done
more for American well-being than almost
anybody in politics like just in the 60s
and 70s a record alone but I do think
that I don't know if it's explicitly
socialism or not but it shows the flaws
of he doesn't have a broader view of
politics he has a sense of corruption
and he has a sense of justice
but he doesn't have a sort of broader
system critique and I look at Brazil and
I look at the way that it's
certain type of technocratic or civic
minded person is able to get swept up
into quote-unquote anti-corruption
politics and uh I see it I see it here
and I see him also as first as evidenced
by that book he's hopeless
he's totally done he doesn't see a way
out here other than altruistic
billionaire class and that goes back to
this book in 2011 you know who you know
who also run ran has a Anti Corruption
billionaire there you go
who said I can't be tainted because I
don't need their money well that's what
happens with you I'm not is what happens
I will play Jamie here that's what
happens when you don't have class
politics well that's the truth this is
not even it's not even a question of
class politics there's there's no
structural critique whatsoever in Norse
and regardless there's no structural
regardless of what the basis is of it
and on some level it's also indicative
of and listen I am an older person
myself but I mean clearly what happens
over time is a lot of people it all
becomes about them and what maybe if
Ralph Nader had not had the opportunity
to talk to Michael Bloomberg he wouldn't
have this perspective and you know I
don't know how durable anybody would we
have Bloomberg forever I mean like what
what is that supposed to fix well the
subtext I think in the book or in not
the subject of the subtext of that
statement and I think the point of the
book is actually the theoretically this
civic minded billionaire would impose
all of these great reforms like cleaning
up the campaign finance system and
getting and where it's like Mike
Bloomberg explicitly will not do any of
those things not only explicitly
explicitly in his record I mean the guy
shoveled so much money into New York
politics of his own fortune but also
property also setting up all sorts of
patronage well how else would he win the
election - right right I mean that is I
mean it's just it doesn't make any it
doesn't make any sense
it doesn't make
since but that's where we are
