[Music]
what's sort of fascinating about this
period right now is the Republicans have
like moved there they're starting to the
the right is moving into sort of their
opposition posture which means that they
get even more consolidated we have seen
so-called never Trump errs starting to
like fall by the wayside Erick Erickson
remember how like he was gonna tear
apart his whole company he was gonna
leak
he left his company I'm not gonna do
what's happening here Donald Trump okay
I guess I'm now not a never Trump or
anymore and all of the you know of
course a lot of the never Trump errs are
starting to sort of like you know get a
little bit like well I'm still never
Trump but I can forgive the entire the
conservative you know like look maybe it
is a problem with immigration says David
Frum in the Atlantic maybe it's not
there's a maybe we need to go a little
soft on this or bill crystals like well
we've reinvented ourselves we call
ourselves the bulwark now and we're
really you know like as if conservatism
in everything that's going on and the
conservative movement now can really can
really show any daylight there's never
been in a daylight in terms of policy as
there it's really just been Donald Trump
is rude and grotesque and saying the
quiet parts loudly and delivering the
text I mean the subtext not the text
he's just not reading the text he's just
reading the subtext and of course so it
should come no surprise that Glenn Beck
is back ladies and gentlemen he doesn't
have the chalkboard but that doesn't
mean well he does he does he just didn't
bring him with him this time to Fox
syndicated radio television star author
of addicted to outrage blaze TV and
radio host Glenn Beck pause it you know
could I just say now understand Glenn
Beck when Glenn Beck was booted from Fox
part of it was a function of
an advertiser boycott part of it
supposedly Roger Ailes wanted to sort of
like tighten the ship a little bit when
we go over in the run-up to the MIT
Romney election there was also a real
resentment coming from some conservative
quarters against a Glenn Beck for coming
in and stealing sort of the the
narratives like Mark Levin hated Glenn
Beck hated Glenn Beck because all of
Mark Levins
constitutional conspiracy theories
essentially were usurped by Glenn Beck
and I think he would say this he would
say you know I got copiers people who
copy what I do and then but then they
add a little more pizzazz then Mark
Levine could and I think that they
resented it now
Mark Levine just happens to be best
friends with Sean Hannity those guys are
very very close so there was a little
bit of a war going on now they've since
buried the hatchet but there's still
some remnants of that and here comes
Glenn Beck I don't know if this is the
first time back on hannity show since
the day he was friends with o'reilly but
he's back on and here it is so this just
lays the context of this little
awkwardness at the beginning Glenn Beck
I remember your time on thyroid on
because I was kind of cold yeah a little
chalkboard and you know Glenn and not
bored not laughing I mean I'm being
complementary you know you know I'm
smiling I'm being complementary thank
you and but one of the things I know I
appreciate it one of the things that you
toss a lot of I also what I'm really
enjoying is the slight tape delay so the
awkwardness between the two of them is
also enhanced by the delay and sound
back and forth I'm smiling I'm being
complimentary thank you
and but one of the things I know one of
the things that you talked a lot about
was the dangers of radicalism and the
dangers of socialism I've never seen the
threat this bad hundred people agree
with the new Green Deal in the
Democratic Party
many of the
20 candidates agree with it and our our
campaigning on it
and I thought maybe it's time to go back
and revisit some of those things you
talked about and I talked about at the
time Sean I I I distinctly remember
every day the last year of my Fox show I
said what was coming and I the last few
steps were that the radicals the
anarchists the Islamists the Socialists
would all gather together they would not
be working together plotting together
but they would see the opportunity and
they would all come together and work to
de stabilize Europe and America and that
is exactly what is happening
you have care now in the halls of
Congress all the time and I think that's
who Nancy Pelosi was afraid of when they
wouldn't change them being beautiful
conspirators when you talk I don't think
people may not remember no I'll go I'll
go step further they weren't just
unindicted co-conspirators in the Holy
Land Foundation they were started and
the people that were I think we don't
even need to hear the details of the
dumbness that he's saying here what is
really instructive is now that he's come
back I remember back in the day now if
we were to travel back sometime in
between then right it's now 2019 let's
go back to 2017 or let's go back yeah
let's go back to 2017 when Glenn Beck
was very very sorry for Donald Trump
yeah look at this
Glenn Beck's regrets in politics in the
Atlantic written by Peter by night his
paranoid style paved the road for
trumpism now he fears what's been
unleashed or the new york times magazine
glen back is sorry about all that
or the washington post style section
he's in the Style section now glenn
beck's wants to heal the america he
divided one hug at a time what a great
guy mostly fragile is oh it's
unbelievable
oh well you know maybe these journalists
were you know got sucked into this whole
notion but it's not like you know the
the jaded said did I there yes so far
this is going great
we've established our mutual tribal
animosity and that I need to wear eye
protection but healing healing for my
audience who's struggling right now to
understand why I'm sitting and talking
to you and blame it on her not on me I'm
not struggling with it I want to talk to
you right they are it's her fault not
mine it's fine she inflicted me on you
not the other way said a lot of crazy
 okay
okay all right for like people in my
world even if all you said for the rest
of your life were reasonable things I
feel like you've still earned a
permanent site I from them is that okay
with you not okay but I believe I think
it's I think it's rational so I would
turn that back around why would you have
me on if you don't want to mock what is
your right so then what is why should
you have me because I think that our
future is going to require a broad
coalition of nonpartisan decency it's a
look at where we've come
lesson the idea of trying to reform
these individuals is just absurd and
every moment that you did every Glenn
Beck is sorry for Donald Trump Glenn
Beck's regrets Glenn Beck is sorry about
that Glenn Beck what the heal America
etc etc now 18 months later like
literally like it so in 18 months it's
due it's two years it's been two years
to be four well good back feels like
forever ago yeah it was only two years
ago we're you know January 17 issue this
is when a he when it when the publicist
came a-knockin with the new Glenn back
who's now tacking back because now he's
gotten into business with Mark Levin and
it's all just being a grift now we're
back to
this Glenn back question is in the last
30 seconds yeah what's the antidote
that's what I wanted to ask you waking
up and I don't know if there's an
antidote but I will tell you this if the
Republicans don't win in this next
election I think I'm gonna turn in other
words officially at the end of the
country as we know it we may not survive
even if we win but we definitely don't
if that means every election the crowds
lose with Donald Trump that means every
election to three people that maybe
didn't like him now they can see kept a
lot of his promises most of them you he
well I know I did I saw that he kept his
promises and I will tell you there is no
choice this time around we must come
together what happened right there it is
I can't wait I can't wait for the other
conservatives and you know look I'm
sorry folks don't tell me there's a
difference to David Frum and Glenn Beck
at the end of the day they're just
different flavors of the of the same of
the same prod I know we got to go quick
but just listen to the end of Glenn Beck
laying it on what some have to be here
visual people against Donald Trump it's
all of us against trumpism I agree and
so I actually think it's important to
reach into places where we wouldn't
normally reach I agree I said yes to you
because I believe I watch you I believe
you actually don't want to do damage i
as a guy who has done damage I don't
want to do any more damage
I know what I did I helped divide I'm
willing to take that
[Music]
good like doesn't she have a school to
go segregate somewhere honestly like she
not embarrassed for well I mean fine she
may or may not be but I mean that's it's
a much bigger it's not just yes Samantha
bee I mean the whole thing was all over
the New York Times The Washington Post
the Honorable instead of Bob Weir on on
the media exactly Bob Garfield the only
person who was anyway skeptical to this
and the idea that we were able to do
that little piece there and it only took
24 months to do this complete 360 that
we just witnessed is I think like I mean
yeah it's I guess I'm appreciative South
Etobicoke it's also ironic he kept
talking about survival right we need to
elect Republicans if we want to survive
um which is the party that wants the
earth to die in flames and which is the
one that's kind of trying to fix it I
listened to that full interview and the
weird thing is is how much Hannity
appropriate Slyke certain like he like
the deep same thing we know about
they're talking about two-tiered justice
systems for Nunez and also Glenn Beck
called the Democrats of death cult yeah
no this is first of all the fact that
that's that has always been what they
did I mean you can go back and look at
John Kerry's you know election in 2004
where they took a basically a guy who
was a wall who who a wall was actually
the upside of him avoiding the draft in
the first place and a guy who served in
Vietnam and they flipped it I mean this
is something that they always do as a
strategy period but the the the the
fascinating thing to with Glenn Beck is
we need to come together is exactly the
way he ended both the interview where he
apologized for supporting Trump saying
you could never support Trump and the
interview where he said I'm sorry I
didn't support Trump I do now support
Trump we just need to bring everybody
together I mean this the idea that into
ostensibly intelligent people at any of
these outlets cannot see through this
garbage is just it's really hard to
believe like
there you need to step down or you need
to be less corrupt and and I'm going to
the benefit the doubt is I'm gonna give
is like you're not corrupt you're just
like that ignorant that detached from
what ostensibly you are entrusted with
trying to suss out my god
