[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Monday October 29th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today 11
dead in Pittsburgh Jewish synagogue
massacre meanwhile the shooter inspired
by the rights immigration demagoguery
and Soros demonization read
anti-semitism meanwhile fascism takes
power in Brazil the fifth largest
national economy in the world Trump
promises a trip to Pittsburgh local Jews
and about 16,000 other people sign an
open letter saying don't come unless you
denounce your white nationalism
the manga bomber apparently radicalized
by the Trump election meanwhile another
news California's net neutrality law
challenged by the DOJ and its partners
at AT&T Verizon and Comcast and of
course the Pentagon sends extra troops
to the US Mexican border to stop the
imminent invasion that we are told is
coming all this and more on today's
program so we had you know a slightly
different show anticipated today but we
have we have ditched the the interview
that we were going to have because it
would seem sort of ridiculous
in light of the what happened this
weekend and obviously I think people are
quite aware of the news a 46 year old
man Robert Bowers shot 11 congregants in
a temple call I think the tree of life
in in Pittsburgh a conservative temple
conservative in terms of its Jewish
denomination not necessarily its
politics the the dead ranged in age from
mid-50s to mid 90s I think a woman who
was a Holocaust survivor actually and my
understanding is it was the Shabbat
services but also there may have been a
breast at the time for police officers
also shot the man was taken into custody
he had 21 guns registered in his name he
used an ar-15 style assault rifle and
three handguns according to authorities
he was loudly spewing murder
hatred and bigotry online and as he went
into the church apparently said
something to the effect of all Jews must
die the guys social media accounts
particularly a gab calm had all sorts of
white nationalist memes he claimed
Donald Trump's he claimed Donald Trump
was not a white nationalist he would
that he was a globalist that he I'm
hearing myself come back whoever's got
that's got to turn it down
he claimed that Donald Trump was under
the was under the influence of Jews and
was basically a figurehead was not doing
enough to stop the caravan that was
coming of immigrants who represented a
who represented a an invasion an
invasion airy force that was driven by
Jews now if that sounds familiar to you
that narrative that narrative that there
is a caravan in fact this guy went in
and on gab dot-com he was repeatedly a
railing against the Hebrew immigrant Aid
Society highest I guess which is a a
Jewish refugee advocacy group there is a
fairly robust tradition in Jewish
Institute of Jewish institutions that
work on immigration for I think fairly
obvious reasons haze was founded in 1881
there
have been various instances around the
world where Jews have had to leave
countries because of local repression
haze has partnered with the US
government in the past to help resettle
refugees they initially started as an
organization that helped Jews and
expanded their their work to just
refugees writ large according to this
guy Bowers he accused Hayes of helping
transport members of the migrant
caravans supposedly showing the
organizer a video that showed the
organization's members working at the
us-mexico border he he accused them of
driving this invasion and this is all on
his own as a gab profile
he was hazed accused the case of working
with the I think the State Department
and Hayes has actually worked with the
US government I imagine the State
Department to help resettle refugees as
part of the refugee admissions program
of course many of those refugees are now
we're down to like literally five or
eight thousand that we're gonna allow
into the country this year because of
Donald Trump's and so-called nationalism
but if the the notion that this guy
Bowers promotes that
the so-called migrant caravan that is
walking through Mexico perhaps to the
United States there are plenty of these
caravans that we've had in the past all
you need to do is search caravans and
tucker carlson and you could see him
reporting on these over the past couple
of years all the different invasions
that we've had and amazingly we're still
here and I'm still speaking English and
we're not doing this new ham radio this
isn't this isn't a Red Dawn scenario but
apparently to this guy it was and if
you're wondering like where could
someone possibly get this idea or at the
very least they're not seeing this
validated anywhere are they like on Fox
News I've gotten so many email from
people who said don't call it a cat
Caravan call it an invasion yes is that
fair of course it is it is a full-scale
invasion by a hostile force and it
requires our president and our
commander-in-chief to use any means
necessary
pause it for one second now when
Michelle Malkin says a full-scale
invasion from let's just assume that
we're talking about this Caravan here of
let's just assume there's 4,000 people
maybe less but let's assume it's 4,000
and we have heard in other clips from
Seb Gore saying that these are all that
many of them are military aged men they
are walking on foot many of them
carrying their toddler or elementary
school-age kids what does a full-scale
invasion look like does it include by
land by sea by air long-range weapons
short-range weapons because these folks
have none of it well they have the land
part they're walking
they have no vehicles but this is a
full-scale invasion by a hostile force a
hostile force that wants to come here
and work here which is a weird thing to
imagine that being the number one agenda
of a hostile force but that's what they
are it's a full-scale invasion hostile
force like I like why wouldn't you go
grab some arms to fight this right when
is it been that the United States of
America have been facing a full-scale
invasion by a hostile force full-scale
by a hostile force and it requires our
president and our commander-in-chief to
use any means necessary necessary to
protect our sovereignty the reason that
I called my book invasions 16 years ago
was because of article 4 section 4 of
the Constitution and people never talk
about this anymore the constitutional
imperative to provide for the common
defense promote the general welfare and
secure the blessings of liberty to
ourselves and our posterity the people
who are already here and and if that
means troops on the border yes the
problem is of course that the troops
because of the Posse Comitatus Act can
only serve in an administrative support
capacity it's really a band-aid and the
underlying cause is that the problem
that the troops at the border can't open
fire on people that's the problem
that's the problem that we have that the
troops can't fire they can only function
in an administrative function to these
hostile invaders who are involved in a
full-scale invasion you see where this
is going folks this is incidentally this
is that what Fox & Friends this is the
light show this is the morning show of
course is to finish the wall and to put
more Border Patrol agents on the border
and ranchers and families have been
calling for that for the three decades
that I've been covering this tape yes
three decades of just hyping and hyping
this and now we have a president who's
fully on board with the idea that we're
being involved in a full-scale invasion
supposedly right supposedly
where could this idea though so we have
multiple sources including some of the
highest echelons of a conservative
thought and Republican media in this
country are suggesting that we're
suffering a full-scale invasion from a
hostile force but where would where
would someone get the idea that this is
maybe a function of the Jews well I mean
certainly it lives in white nationalist
lore the John Birch Society has been
saying this but where we're in popular
we're in the popular I guess culture
could people get this notion I got I got
a piece here this was written I guess a
while ago maybe a year or two ago about
about white nationalism and it's written
by gain a guy named Eric Ward he wrote
this in the public eye magazine in the
summer 2017 edition I think he works at
the Southern Poverty Law Center now or
he did then and he's an African American
guy who in the course of working on
anti-racist activism went to undercover
at a weekend in 1995 in a convention
center in Seattle which was the sixth
annual preparedness Expo and it's
basically preparing people for political
and economic collapse and they you could
buy white nationalist classics like the
secret of the Federal Reserve in 52 and
from 67 the biological Jew
and he writes despite his blood-curdling
anti-black racism at least some factions
of the white nationalist movement saw me
as a potential ally against their true
archenemy
apparently when in is a black separatist
and he told the the guys like I don't
shake white people's hands and this guy
he was talking to his like that's cool
they went to go hear jack McLin Lam who
was a Phoenix cop who ran an
organization called police against New
World Order make a case for temporary
alliances with the blacks the Mexicans
the Orientals against the real enemy the
federal government controlled by an
international conspiracy you didn't have
to say who ran this conspiracy because
it was obvious to all in attendance he
goes on to write if I had to give a
basic definition of the movement
something I've been asked to do formally
and informally by folks who have spent
less time hanging out with Nazis than I
have my response today would not be much
different than it was when I began to do
this work nearly thirty years ago
American white nationalism which emerged
in the wake of the 1960s civil rights
struggle and descends from white
supremacism is a revolutionary social
movement committing to building a
whites-only nation and anti-semitism
forms its theoretical core now why would
that be he writes to recognize that
anti-semitism is not a sideshow to
racism within white nationalists spot
this is particularly white nationalist
thought like Steve Bannon
it allows us to identify the fuel that
white nationalist ideology uses to power
its anti black racism contempt for other
people of color and it's xenophobia as
well as the misogyny in other forms of
hatred it holds dear
and how does it do this what what
function does anti-semitism serve well
one it answers the question how could a
race of inferiors that being basically
people of color unseated the power
structure through organizing alone for
that matter how could feminists and
LGBTQ people have upended traditional
gender relations Muslims of one billions
of converts to Islam how do you explain
the boundary crossing a lure of hip-hop
the election of a back pres president
it's some secret cabal some mythological
power that must be manipulating the
social order behind the scenes that's
what the Jews do for the white
nationalists they give an excuse for why
they are losing because they have been
stabbed in the back by people who have
snuck into the power structure and are
using all these other dupes as a way of
controlling things
Jews function he writes for today's
white nationalists as they often have
for anti-semites throughout the
centuries as the demons stirring and
otherwise changing in heterogeneous pot
of lesser evils he writes that the
second reason the white nationalist
anti-semitism must not be dismissed at
the bedrock of the movement is an
explicit claim that Jews are a race of
their own and that there are sensible
position as white folks in the US
represents the greatest trick the devil
ever played the Bible for generations of
white nationalists is the Turner Diaries
you may remember that because that was
basically the controlling I guess
structure of everything not just Timothy
McVeigh
but also Glenn Beck was operating under
four years and this is a dystopian novel
by the white supremacist leader William
Pierce published under the pseudonym
Andrew MacDonald and this is where a
soldier in the white Revolutionary Army
insists that trying to finish the
distinguish the good Jews from the bad
ones is absurd the way some of our
thicker sculled good old boys still
insists on trying to separate the good
ends from the rest of their race
he writes contemporary anti-semitism
then does not just enable racism it is
also racism for the white nationalist
imaginary Jews are a race and the race
that presents an existential threat to
whiteness anyways this is the thoughts
of this guy from a theoretical
standpoint I guess though also based
upon his his day-to-day research with
these people but where can we see this
notion that Jews are pulling the strings
I mean it's at least you know it's like
it's one thing that it's it's confined
to these sort of John Birch pamphlets
and elders of the protocol of Zion
pamphlets that are out there purporting
to show the Jews are trying to tear down
great nations through immigration but
one couldn't see this traffic to let's
say on a daily basis except for when was
this last week sure look this is a
criminal involvement on the part of
these leftist groups this is Lou Dobbs
on Fox Business Network talking to this
guy from the Judicial Watch Chris
Farrell who apparently you know you
should know Fox has now said can't come
on our network sure look this is a
criminal involvement on the part of
these leftist groups it's a highly
organized very elaborate sophisticated
operation I
that from the highest levels of the
Guatemalan government they're
investigating those groups criminally
and I strongly urge President Trump and
it's very general sessions to do the
same here a lot of these folks also have
affiliates who are getting money from
the Soros occupied State Department and
that is a very great concern you want to
start cutting money start cutting money
there do you know it so in other words
let's just review here this guy has
sources at the highest levels of the
Guatemalan government who are telling
him that this is a very sophisticated
international cabal of people who are
orchestrating this what we were told by
Michelle Malkin on the light show on Fox
was that we're dealing with a full-scale
invasion of from a hostile with hostile
intent and the State Department's been
infiltrated by this demonized George
Soros who is also incidentally just
coincidentally this week targeted in a
bombing attack a would-be bombing attack
and this guy's out there promulgating
this stuff it's all part of the white
nationalist formula and this is what
it's getting trafficked on a daily basis
and we hear let's just listen to one
more time here we have here is Hugh
Hewitt and this was what Friday
afternoon I think it was Friday
afternoon is before the the attack on
the synagogue back when there was just
12 or 13 bombs I think we're at the 13th
now but at the time I think it was 12
sent to
the leaders of the Democratic Party then
some African American Congress people
perceived as the you know at the top
leadership I guess Maxine Waters I guess
part of the leadership but then a couple
other administrative figures and of
course George Soros and here is MSNBC on
Meet the Press daily making it mostly
like he said she said type of situation
a couple of things on this here's
the--here's Stephanie cutter with Hugh
Hewitt it's a couple of things on this
you know in terms of what Jeff said he
never gets to the point where he follows
the traditions and conventions of how
you expect a president to act I think
it's more than that he never does the
right thing regardless of what the the
traditions and conventions are of being
a president he never does the right
thing he never takes the road there are
two former presidents that were targeted
but type with pipe bombs
I can't I've worked for both of those
presidents I can't imagine either one of
them not calling and checking on someone
making sure they're okay
showing empathy and concern we got none
of that from this president and who I
appreciate you're trying to throw
everybody into the same bucket but
that's an impossible thing to do this
president has incited violence he has
you know people at his rallies he talks
about punching people in the face
he talks throws people out you know this
is this this is how we won the
presidency the politics of fear there is
no equivalent in the Democratic Party
there's the man screaming at Mitch
McConnell in the restaurant there is
Maxine Waters
three people at a party on the c35 one
if we go back to this day we can talk
about that but we're talking about the
President of the United States are you
saying
behavior that this man has one standard
one standard incendiary behavior by any
public official make sure that nobody
screams hey Republic at a Democratic
rally
lock him up no I'm talking a bar guy in
McConnell's face what did you think of
that Stephanie should he have been
arrested under 18 USC for screaming at
miss McConnell
pause it I mean you see what hugh
hewitt's doing here first of all Hewitt
doesn't even know the man's name this
man of great import who is sending a
broader message to the entire he doesn't
even know his name and he's playing this
game get Stephanie cutter to say that
this guy should be arrested for this
violation being rude to a senator and
the idea that this is being platformed
in any way because we literally this
week the conversation they having is
about what the implications of
platforming this at the highest level of
the government does to lunatics out
there but let's let's hear Hugh Hewitt
try and justify how there's some type of
equivalency here I think it's wholly
inappropriate I think that nobody should
act that way but I think you're right
nobody should act that way that is a
constituent or whatever you want to call
them not the President of the United
States Colin's getting an envelope with
rice in it right that's wrong it's
everywhere but just want to write
whatever who do you think incites that
violence the middle I do not blame the
president almost everyone uses this
rhetoric these days especially channels
it's just absolutely garbage and NBS and
someone like that comes on and just
delivering that guy garbage and BS why
do you let them on why do you let them
on why do you let that be just like this
is really just about who can make the
better to bait
so with that backdrop on Friday night I
was on Chris Hayes program and there's
so Friday night with the backdrop of
seeing someone like you Hewitt on MSNBC
making some type of equivalency between
somebody upsetting Mitch McConnell's
dinner by banging on his table or saying
your food is bad or saying shame is
literally someone we don't even know the
name no one I haven't heard the name is
the equivalent of the president going on
national television talking about doing
violent things excusing violent things
seeing the entire Republican media
apparatus talk about a caravan as being
a full-scale invasion with military-age
males with hostile intent we're talking
about families who are walking on foot a
month away from the United States
creating the sense that we are under
siege and then I was on MSNBC with
Barbara Boxer who I was always the
favorite of mine of the two california
senators I should say and she had this
to say and I hopped on my hobby horse
about the problem being much more
problematic than Donald Trump
or or will play the play the tape you
know he and I are about the same age I'm
a little older but we're about the same
vintage and we lived through three
assassinations of leaders John F Kennedy
Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King and
to think that his response to this
is to double down on going after the
press not to look at the people and say
you know what I get heated sometimes if
my rhetoric had anything to do with it
we are dealing with someone who is a
bully inside and out has no compassion
didn't even mention the names of two
former presidents we've only had 45 and
this bomber who did the act let's be
clear he did the act the bomber did the
roadmap was the president of the United
States and everyone that he singled out
for hatred so the politics of hatred
when practiced by a president has
resulted in a nightmare for our nation
and we have a president who has to be
checked and balanced in this next
election and I agreed with everything
she said there about Donald Trump but my
the issue that I took was that that's
not nearly an exhaustive list of the
people who are responsible for this this
next election Sam yeah I mean even if
someone wants to make the bizarre claim
that there was no relationship between
what Donald Trump has been doing and
what this guy did
don't Trump's actions after the fact do
not even call the former president
United States a not even called the
former Secretary of State - not even to
say like we are committed to protecting
you people he's basically sending the
message to the other potential bombers
out there hey you know I don't blame you
I can understand why you would do this
hey and B I'm at the point like where
the outrage about Donald Trump is
useless mm-hmm
there are people who have this there are
people who have enabled him who continue
to enable him for their own political
and frankly money profit and those
people are members of the Republican
Party they are the leadership of the
Republican Party and the conservative
styles from the conservative
establishment they heard when Donald
Trump said hey if you beat up that
protester I'll cover your lawsuit I mean
they still rallied behind this guy Mitch
McConnell Paul Ryan every other
Republican leadership should
have to answer more than he does they
need to come up and deal with ya what do
you think of that Center well absolutely
that's why we are having an election
right it's a midterm it's not an
election where Donald Trump is
physically on the ballot but his style
of politics the politics of fear and
hate and we see the result of that that
is on the ballot and I have to say this
there are many issues that are going to
impact people this is one of them we
have to look deeper inside the
Republican Party not only are they
enablers but they want to take away
things from the people of America their
social security their Medicare their
health care we are not going to forget
about that this man must be checked and
yes it all lies with the House and
Senate leadership we need to take that
both the house and the Senate to restore
sanity to this country to restore hope
for this country well I mean first off
with all due respect to the former
senator that will not restore sanity in
this country with you okay that's fine
but the Democrats can take back your
house but just like when Barack Obama
thought right this would break the fever
this is not going to break the fever the
establishment of this country we all
know who they are
they sit in seats in these rooms as well
they need to start holding the
Republican leadership to account not
just implore people to go and vote this
isn't a question of people going voting
you saw the the the assessments of those
people in line at the at the rally they
thought it was you know Bernie so so
what I'm talking about there is they
just played a clip of and and I think we
have this of of what the people in line
think about these bombers they think
that these bombers are and we'll play
Atlanta in a bit later but they think
that the well Barack Obama sent it to
himself in any and my point was not that
we shouldn't go out and vote but that
we're on MSNBC on Chris Hayes's program
and the percentage of people who are
watching this program who do who are
planning not to vote is somewhere be
tween 0% and immeasurable immeasurably
small everyone watching Chris Hayes is
going to vote I would say it's arguable
whether or not a majority of people a
week before the election who are
watching Chris AIDS have already voted
they're the first persons in line to
early voting the problem was earlier in
the day in that studio Hugh Hewitt was
allowed to come and spew his false
equivalency that Paul Ryan can hide out
wherever he's hiding out and say this is
real reprehensible I don't know how this
happened and Mitch McConnell can be
there or that Dianne Feinstein is not
getting the message from Barbara Boxer
that hey you should be calling out every
one of the members of the Senate right
now for not standing up and saying we're
done we're not showing up to vote on
anything continue the assessments of
those people in line at the at the rally
they thought it was you know Bernie
Sanders or they thought that Barack
Obama had mailed this to themselves the
reporters in this country the the
establishment media figures who even
entertain the notion of some type of
false equivalency or simply upsetting
the Mitch McConnell at a restaurant some
nameless person protesting at a
restaurant versus the President of the
United States not even telling people of
this country you shouldn't have done
this right that nobody should do this we
are beyond I mean of the election is one
thing but they make no mistake about it
sanity will not return if the Democrats
take the habit or the Senate let me say
the election the election isn't one
thing the election is the thing you know
you can write your columns and I used to
be a reporter and I love to write you
can go on television the people have the
power you got to take away the power
from the Mitch McConnell's yes from the
Paul Ryan's from the Dean Heller's and I
could go on and the only way to do that
is the vote because all this
rage doesn't mean anything are in power
I will say this my own take on this is
that it's necessary but not sufficient
right yeah it's necessary but not
sufficient he's correct but the bottom
line is it's not just a question first
off it's not just a question of taking
away the power from from these
Republicans because there's no way to
take away all their power this is a
cultural problem and to the extent that
there's anything that any of us sitting
in that room or on that television on
MSNBC can do to diminish the power of
Donald Trump it is to take our access
for the highest levels of our government
and tell them that they are being
shameful now none of those people are
gonna listen to me of the three of us
sitting on that studio none of them are
gonna listen to me but they may listen
to a former senator so with all due
respect the Barbara Boxer who of whom I
have great admiration but whatever
relationships whatever she got as a
senator where it's like you know well my
good colleague from so-and-so or whatnot
to think this is just about electing a
Democratic Congress and I agree every
single person in the sound of my voice
should vote and again I would be willing
to bet that 99% of them are but the
elite of this country have to step up
and start holding their fellow elite to
account even if it means they won't be
able to lobby other senators they won't
be able to go to the same parties they
won't be held in the same esteem they
have to expend some of their cachet
their social cachet for the betterment
of the country and stop clinging on to
this sort of the New York Times posted a
headline do we have a copy that headline
on that day on Friday they were sent
pipe bombs here
they've said about Trump a look at the
contentious words between the president
some of his most outspoken critics now
they changed that headline to here's
what they've said about Trump and what
Trump said about them but Sam cedar can
sit here and say hey that's big ass it
doesn't matter what these people have
said about Donald Trump in the course of
politics none of it was Elimination
astana vit justifies getting sent a pipe
bomb in the mail sometimes when you
frame certain things in that way it
communicates a certain perspective that
it legitimizes certain things Sam cedar
can talk about this and guess who cares
no one I mean I like to think maybe you
people care but but if Barbara Boxer
says I on national television I call out
the New York Times right now this is
irresponsible and they've got to behave
better that makes a difference there is
no one again with all due respect to
Senator boxer there is no one who is
watching Chris Hayes on a Friday night
who her exhortation is to vote are going
to make a difference
they're already voting if anybody knows
her name they're voting and so the
bottom line is use the assets you have
instead of telling people that is all
that is necessary is voting it may be
the only thing they can do in the next
10 days and that's fine but you should
do what you can do which is far more
than just voting it is actually bringing
some of your social assets to bear on
what is an increasingly dangerous
situation and they're not doing
need to disrupt norms to save norms we
keep saying that yep they also ran that
headline where they referred to ball
sodaro as a divisive populist which like
you would think that getting literal
bombs sent in the mail to mainstream
media outlets would make them think
maybe these people don't deserve equal
time but yeah it's absurd but a false
equivalency is maddening it's maddening
and it is maddening to see the people
who really have the ability I mean
really let's admit let's face it it's
there's no amount of you know yes it
would be great if all the New York Times
subscribers on on you know next Monday
decided to send an email to the Times
I'm canceling my subscriptions because
of your false equivalency but that's not
going to happen but the ability for
people like senator boxer and I'm not
calling her out in particular just so
happens that we had this conversation
but there's a lot more of them call out
people on that network and say how why
are you hosting shows to promote false
equivalency I mean imagine for a moment
if a former senator was watching let's
say the Sunday version of Meet the Press
and they were aware of eric erickson who
was the guy who got famous by calling
chief justice souter a goat ever yeah
that was the way that he got his claim
to fame and he has been engaged in a
list of conspiracy peddling that it's
almost hard for me to actually enumerate
I have a piece here somewhere about it
but let's listen to what he has to say
there is on your site mm-hmm here is
this is on Chuck Todd's a Meet the Press
they have introduced
Eric Erickson to talk about the dangers
of conspiracy theories Eric I'm
curiously your you've had to deal with
conspiracy theories on your site mm-hmm
you've been sometimes people get mad at
you thinking will you help traffic these
conspiracy theories and I know that
there are others that are that are posit
sometimes people think that you like
just come out and say it
you've trafficked these you have
trafficked in these good but whose job
is it to get rid of some of this stuff
whose job is it to purge this stuff well
job is it to educate Americans to facts
I think we all have an obligation here I
mean just let me address conservatives
for a minute last week you had a lot of
people pushing the maybe this bomber not
was rush limbaugh was pushing it here
you had a lot of people who were pushing
this theory now we know the facts now we
know the facts and yet there are still
people pushing this I got to tell you
posit from so what Eric Eric is saying
is like look the first reaction it's
perfectly legitimate to have a wild
conspiracy theory I mean for instance
like the caravan this is a Twitter a
tweet now I didn't see this one because
Eric Erickson blocked me years ago but
this was from a week ago it's not a
coincidence that this caravan to the
south of us is happening two weeks
before our federal elections if you want
to bring Eric Erickson on to your
television program ask him what he means
by this what does that mean it's not a
coincidence
does it just is he suggesting that these
Guatemalans and Hondurans who started
this cavern and Caravan weeks and weeks
ago and could not make it to the United
States until weeks after the election
they're me that they this was like some
type of they time this out or just
someone else have this idea there's
someone else who had knowledge of our
elections say we've got a Djinn this up
down there we'll get this a caravan
going I mean it would be irresponsible
not to speculate the idea that it could
be a coincidence mm-hmm it's not a
coincidence that I don't believe in
coincidences
or what about this um Eric Erickson note
to reporters a growing body of blogs are
posting that Cavanaugh's mother presided
over the foreclosure of Christine Blasi
Ford's childhood home or at a minimum
her parents home I encourage you to
honestly vet this as it could explain
motive our fuel conspiracy oh I wonder I
wonder how people could hear about that
conspiracy oh you just told it to us
well I'm sure all the people on those
blogs those right wing blogs will read
what the Washington Post has to say
about that or when it turns out that
there was actually oh two different
people named Ford who were who were
judges I'm sure Eric Erickson to address
that on his Twitter feed he deleted
those tweets oh did he
huh Wow David hog contradicts himself in
two separate interviews about whether he
was at school during the shooting and
know this isn't a fake news gateway
pundit BS story it's actually an eric
erickson red-state BS story now maybe
it's unfair to look back a matter of
months where there's three distinct
episodes where Eric Erickson has pedaled
in conspiracy theories or maybe there's
this if reporters really cared about
children they'd also be yelling at
Planned Parenthood asking why they're
selling baby body parts and turning a
blind eye to child victims of sex
trafficking yeah serious look at it now
granted that was all the way back in
June of 2018 that's all the way back
almost five months ago so it has been
fully debunked for a year and a half
versus two years right okay I'm sorry
let's get back to him on Meet the Press
talking about how the right needs to
give up their conspiracy theories after
they've been
debunked theory now we know the facts
now we know the facts and yet there are
still people pushing this I got to tell
you that from my perspective when we
know all the facts now about the guy
last week and you're still pushing this
theory you're at war with the truth and
if you're conservative who's at war with
the truth you're not really being
conservative awesome to be conservative
in other words means you put out a
conspiracy theory no matter how insane
it is based on no facts no facts right
because it's not true so it couldn't
have been based on facts it was based on
conjecture and sloppy
I don't know fictionalizing that's a
fair play and that's conservative but
once someone in the mainstream media
presents the facts in a way that I
believe them then after that it's not
conservative even though every single
conservative outlet will carry it wait
this is the new dispute and conservatism
apparently you do you do reckless
conspiracy theories forever or do you
stop at some point when it becomes like
just embarrassing I am willing to bet
that's the big decision I am willing to
bet I don't have the time to do this but
over the course of Erik Erikson's radio
and print career that he has talked
about Vince Foster because certainly his
idol Rush Limbaugh has and that it was
disproven thirty some odd years ago
twenty some odd years ago any more to
this alright let's listen to more of
this because this is the part where
Chuck Todd says hey I don't know why we
invited you on the show you're at war
with the truth and if you're
conservative who's at war with the truth
you're not really being conservative
rush limbaugh was questioning the
stickers on the van across the board we
saw a bunch of conservatives doing this
now we know the facts the question isn't
a criticism problem is in this situation
we have a lot of people who no longer
trust the media they don't trust
institutions they don't trust their
neighbor we've gone inward uh
unfortunately I do think it's going to
be an extern
threat that brings us together there is
nothing left in this country that
unifies us as a whole we all have our
own different media outlets we have our
social media outlets we have her people
we in remember this is a guy this is the
guy who pushed a conspiracy theory and
said oh the media that my audience
doesn't believe they should to be the
ones who vet it talk about a
disingenuous F I mean give me a break
and if if the elite in this country do
not at least use their elite status to
put pressure on these other elites to
clamp down on this guess what it ain't
happening bottom line it ain't happening
all right we got to take a break headed
to the fun half you know just a it's
ugly folks and you know there's no
reason to believe we're lucky the
Democrats take the house super lucky
they take the house in the Senate but
there's no reason to believe they're
gonna stop this I mean usually and this
is why the Department of Homeland
Security in 2009 leaked a report that
was a warning of a rise in right-wing
extremist activity and conservatives
attacked the report and made the Obama
administration basically quash it and
now under a trump of course there is no
there's not even they don't even
investigate these guys they pulled like
well but all the FBI resources but
usually during a Republican
administration this stuff dies down but
the level in which Donald Trump
has promoted this stuff and more
importantly the willingness for all the
supposed controls that exist for a guy
like this have basically waved it all in
there was a lot of people who thought
like oh well Trump is a nightmare but
the they'll put him bill control and to
the extent that they'll control him yeah
maybe insofar as like we're still gonna
get tax cuts but this stuff that is are
we gonna go is against this electoral
base no that's our base to we're gonna
promote it they learn in fact they
learned this is the only thing that
could save the Senate this is the only
thing that could save the house if we
gin up this notion that we're under
invasion where we're about to be invaded
and our dupes are gonna believe it we're
gonna get invaded yeah yeah maybe we'll
deal with the problems with that later
you know that people think we're gonna
get invaded later is now yeah for years
and now it's it's coming home to Ruth
and if you're not calling it out and
you're in a position to call it out that
it makes a difference I mean we can all
sit here and rail against it all day but
if you're in a position where you're
calling it out would make a news story
and you're not doing that you're the one
who's dropping the ball not the point oh
one percent of people who watch it Chris
Hayes not voting you it you seem so
condescending the vote thing because
what it what it feels like to me is like
you know in an emergency and you have
children you're going to give them a
task that they can focus on to sort of
give them something right but not worry
about that's what it feels like they're
giving just boat and then we got the
rest of it right
right feels like she's delusional
well I look I understand that she's out
there and thinking that her message
to be get people to vote but I'm sorry
like you need to step back and get like
focus on where what your context is and
what value bring to this I mean this is
you know the same thing about I've had
this conversation with some of the the
you know people like that about you know
the David Fromm
great I'm glad David Frum it's going to
pull the lever for a Democratic Congress
person but what army is he bringing
who cares none and he helps set all this
context and of course none right who
cares but at the brisk of uh
and I mean that literally like who like
who who is Democrats to read the
Atlantic Monthly yeah as literally who
cares what David Fromm has to say but do
they actually care like in other words
like if do if there was an absence of
what Fromm would do would that change
their perspective on this at all no just
give them that like little moment of Oh
at least there's some validating if
anything that times if anything yeah and
maybe the problem is that they shouldn't
be going to sleep maybe they should be
up all night with anxiety until they
come to the realization that we need to
do something that it's not enough that
the David Fromm czar coming to our side
and by they David Fromm zai mean the
David from that of David Fromm and the
other yeah there's four other guy who's
on TV there's four other former
consultants who parlayed it into gray
cabled gigs right that's great yeah good
for them very well played you're not
even gonna win like a a local councilman
election would that swing that you've
created no no you're not but I do think
you know if you look at the pipe
bombings and balsa narrow severs gonna
break
there you go now he starts ethnically
cleansing left this an LGBTQ people have
to flee to the border do you realize
this is gonna work the 21st century
economy when he starts torching the
Amazon to get after those indigenous
people that's really when people are
gonna sit up me like you know what this
isn't who we are this is what Brazil
wants to be that's not who I want to be
I don't want to be an unemployed pizza
delivery guy put in pipe bombs and mail
George Soros's and who I am actually
like that lesbian I work for be broke
wait you're doing a bris I mean emails
letters shooting all of you I can learn
about your customs it'd be nice if the
world works that way Bieber's got a
break
well that's I think Obama's particularly
terrifying because he's so intelligent
and it's it there is something something
so I actually don't look there's at
least there's an argument that when
Obama goes and makes these speeches that
he's actually gonna motivate people to
vote oh no he has to make these speeches
I'm thinking of I think the sincere
belief that maybe he used to have I
don't actually I don't get the sense
that he still has this belief but the
sincere belief that he used to have a
favor was gonna break I think now he
actually is in his own way being like it
was actually pretty bad ideology
is a powerful thing they all Souls
beta-blocker all right quick break
heading to the fun half you can support
this program becoming a member at join
the majority report dot-com
don't forget just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea chocolate coupon code
majority get 10% off tomorrow Michael on
Michael Brooke show big waz my fellow
woke Worrell and I he's gonna join us
from LA and then Harvey Kay's in-studio
Thomas praying history of the Democratic
Party we're talking about what's
happening in Brazil and then what's
really exciting is actually in Vermont
Bernie Sanders in Yanis varoufakis later
this month or later in November are
launching an international left project
to counteract the right so we're going
to talk about that and there's also a
big announcement that we're making
tomorrow so be ready Jamie yeah so today
at we just released for our patrons a
little comic relief in the form of
real Maoist hours this this segment is
normally called real tanky hours we kind
of plumb the depths of the dum-dum
far-left internet but this one's the
real Maoist hours maybe it's real maybe
it's not but we found a leaked document
for a plan for a protracted people's war
in the Florida Everglades so we do a
little reading of that and dropping on
Wednesday we have a very special
Halloween episode with the lit crit guy
about gothic Marxism horror movies and
how the left can use the gothic for our
own Liberatore ends Matt literary
hangover still on that a Pequot War
slash mystic Massacre episode that I did
solo I got a really good review of it
she said it was very excellent as my mom
she's listening to my podcasts
congratulation then she's gonna wear it
she starts her and my dad are gonna
listen to it together apparently so
shout out to them and check it out
patreon.com
all right folks quick break we'll see in
the fun half
[Music]
you
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report the number six for six two five
seven thirty nine twenty six for six two
five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number so earlier we had referenced the
some of these folks who were in line
waiting to see Donald Trump in Wisconsin
and the idea that they're going to get
the you know that there is any hope that
these people are going to get some type
of message about how problematic it is
that Donald Trump's rhetoric has
essentially inspired a bomber and oh
this is Charlotte okay yeah sorry this
is Charlotte and I imagine not much of a
difference but if you had any notion
that somehow folks are gonna the fever's
gonna break or the craziness is gonna go
away if Democrats controlled Congress I
mean understand it's definitely gonna be
helpful from ours perspective I mean
hugely helpful right it's like but just
since it's Halloween I want you to
imagine the Friday the 13th guy coming
at you with a chainsaw you know in this
instance Congress is like you know a
baseball bat or maybe even like a sword
that you can stop this person and
mitigate it but it's not going to make
that person any less crazy it's just
going to give you a tool to end them to
or mitigate the damage they can do but
it's not gonna make them any less crazy
and in fact there's an argument it's
gonna make them more crazy you just got
to hope that the tool you have is going
to be up to the challenge and if the
people wielding
tool think that that person's going to
be less crazy that's a problem because
they're not going to wield that tool
properly but here are some folks from
Charlotte North Carolina waiting to see
Donald Trump what their perspective is
on this whole bomber thing just because
somebody has a trump sticker on their
car doesn't mean they're I just want to
go over what we've just heard the first
guy wearing a trump hat who turns out
coincidentally to be a Trump fan says
that just because they're stickers on
the van doesn't mean that he's a trump
supporter now I don't know if this guy
had access to his TV or could see all
the pictures of this guy at all the
rallies but the idea being that maybe
this is maybe this is not only just a
false flag it's also they've created an
entire false identity for this guy and
then the next guy says Obama mailed it
to himself and Hillary Clinton probably
mailed it to herself they probably get
they probably got on the phone
they were probably texting each other or
emailing from her server in his in her
bathroom that okay remember on Friday or
Thursday that's we're gonna send each
other he bombs crisscross I bet they had
a Secret Santa sort of system set up
that's probably the way to like we won't
know who it comes from it's all gonna be
secret everybody's gonna pull their name
out of Hattin you're responsible for
sending a pipe roll mom off the train of
soros conspiracies it's going
don't think this guy actually sent these
bombs sneezing though probably know why
I probably had it done I'm not begging
to do those radical people on all sides
there can be
people that are problem creators they
create problems like people on the left
and freedom people in the hall - create
them I think I heard something about it
being Bernie Sanders supporter you know
there's so much news going on right now
people don't know what to believe
you know they stick with what they know
let me go to my friends in the
conservative movement he was a trump
supporter and he sent the bombs there
isn't any doubt nor has there been any
responsible Republican to say anything
other than that oh my god where do we
have a list of all the people who said
false flag at the beginning now of
course definitionally right Hugh Hewitt
is saying no responsible Republican
leader well yeah it's just that
unfortunately for you a lot of your
colleagues are highly irresponsible and
I guess it's definitionally what
constitutes a if a leader or a major
figure in that world I mean every single
one of them had kissed the ring of Rush
Limbaugh there's definitions by which
these people still try to say that Trump
isn't a conservative leader right I've
seen all sorts of games by how they play
that those deficits and then the next
move there is to blame him on the voters
right exactly let's go to the phones oh
no I just think after three Halloween's
Mike Myers gonna say is this really who
I want to be exact oh yeah here it is
Ann Coulter James Woods Geraldo Rivera
Candace Owens Bill Mitchell Rush
Limbaugh Mike savage Lou Dobbs Mike
Flynn jr. Dinesh D'Souza Curt Schlichter
Laura Loomer Jacob wall oh I guess it's
wrong for us to include these people
it's not like for instance Donald Trump
just retweeted and said an interview
with Dinesh D'Souza was interesting
literally like a day ago it's not like
you know Candace Owens is invited to the
White House or Rivera is in touch with
them or any of these people are
considered you know yeah yeah did Trump
jr. liked one of the tweets he's Michael
Flynn jr. was a member of the Trump
administration
dad rush limbaugh gets invited to every
major republican event that exists on
and on and on let's go to the phones
come from an eight four seven area code
who's this where you come from
hi Sam it's Josh from Chicago Josh from
Chicago what's in your mind first of all
congratulations Sam and you oh my
Chicago White Sox a debt of gratitude
from last night's three out the last
three outs of last night I shall day so
just throw that out there Sam
well I appreciate it cell was not the
force that people thought he would be
but it was a nice way for him to finish
pretty good anyways um so I want to say
like listening to those comments about
the Republicans who are in complete
denial over this sort of attack and
these attacks that we've seen recently a
lot of them actually have they're sort
of like the least roots interviews
classic anti-semitic conspiracy either
like takes or like racist like tropes
where it's like a conspiracy or a cabal
or something like that that it hurts
someone mentioned that could have been a
Bernie Sanders supporter or something
like that and I think it's like
important to know and to note especially
is that for me the the thing that's
stoking this anti-semetic racism
anti-semitism and the racism they see
isn't necessarily Trump it's the
Republican Party the Republican base
especially when you do people like the
Santa in Florida we're basically Trump
just using maybe they aren't as
charismatic or as over-the-top about it
but they're just as racist and so I
think for me it's it's on and I think
you guys do a good job it's crucial for
people to crawl out the Republican bases
people who are stoking the the the rise
in anti-semitism especially these
attacks I know what your thoughts are I
mean well I I mean he you know he
a certain amount of license and it is
quite clear you know you don't need to
have a PhD in this stuff although you
should read people who have PhDs in this
stuff when when the Prezi you knighted
States basically gives an A Okay for a
you know and said stuff like you know
there are good people on both sides it
gives a tacit greenlight for this stuff
and it grows and when when Mitch
McConnell or Paul Ryan or any Republican
senator for that matter I mean the House
members yes but the Senators have more
the power when they refuse to expend
what they have as assets in in trying to
criticize and shut down the president
because they it would not be profitable
for them depending on how you want to
measure it yeah they're all responsible
yeah um and I would just add one last
thing too is that you know for me
Trump has just been saying subtextual II
what the Republican part or Trump has
been over at least saying what the
Republican Party has been subtextual
saying whether it be was anti-semitism
or just straight-up racism for like
years
people can go back and listen to what we
were saying on this program in in July
or June of 2015 whenever a Trump
announced it was Donald Trump I mean I
thought you know I'm paraphrasing but
I'm quite sure I said something to the
effect many times that the Republican
Party had stitched this suit in Donald
Trump just fits it that Donald Trump is
not the catalyst for this stuff
he is the symptom of this stuff he is
the natural progression of where the
Republican Party has been that it's just
like now you know that sort of that that
that disease that was on the inside is
now just manifesting and on the outside
he's just a rash you know to the
to the to the virus that lives within
the conservative movement and I mean
yeah that's we've been saying that for a
long time and died it is been to my
constant aggravation that there isn't
more understanding of that that there's
still this this attempt to make Donald
Trump sweet generous in the context of
the Republican Party may be the one
thing that is unique about him is that
he's a politician with completely who is
so unstable in that you know there are
some that have to corral him in terms of
just like doing the best you know to
maintaining some measure of stability
but beyond that I appreciate the call
Josh Mike Myers has to ask himself this
really well I want to spend my life I
think when the next Halloween comes
around he's gonna say to himself I don't
want to stalk that girl anymore I want
to do something better something
different my life or maybe he needs to
catch the girl well and once he does and
he goes like this is not fulfilling
here's what I'm gonna do the next girl
here's was gonna happen he's either
gonna catch her we're gonna protect her
but either way the fever's gonna break
right so here is an example of where
these elites could push folks like Paul
Ryan now Paul Ryan goes on the Sunday
show faced and meet the is a Face the
Nation with John Dickerson and Dickerson
pushes a little bit and I think he
pushes you know relatively speaking as
much as you'll see anybody in the media
press he also did a good job recently
with Mitch McConnell's exactly the
filibuster yes but there needs to be
more because if the barbara boxer's and
all of the Democratic senators are
willing to sacrifice the Senate
committee and get more pointed in
they're blaming the enablers of Donald
Trump then folks like John Dickerson
they'll go even further he doesn't do
this in a vacuum
he is X distance out from where the sort
of like you know the the safety lies and
if safety lives further out and I'm more
aggressive in terms of questioning and
holding these people to account then
folks like him will get more aggressive
here is on Face the Nation with Paul
Orion and this is when is this on Sunday
right this is the day after the shooting
you've seen some Trump as president
Trump's rallies do those rallies
accentuate the things that unite us
the bipartisan achievements or are they
do they do something very successful in
politics as wildly successful which is
so division in the countries do you see
that happening at his rallies sometimes
yeah sometimes meaning well not always
but sometimes I worry about tribal
identity politics becoming the new norm
Plaza deposit for a second excuse me
so sometimes at Donald Trump's rallies
you see this sometimes sometimes is that
most of the time or just like all the
time sometimes the Makoku or does he
mean sometimes I watch Trump rallies and
every time I do I see that but I only
watch it sometimes so I can't say all
the time outs what he's saying cuz you
know Paul Ryan's a big fan of the I
didn't see that right I'm just trying to
cut yeah but just I turn off my phone
yeah and I cut the cord on cable so I
don't see anything you're trying to live
a more money going to Walden Pond yeah
alright go back just a little bit yeah
sometimes meaning well not always but
sometimes I worry about tribal identity
politics becoming the new norm of how
politics is waged as conservatives we
always thought this was sort of a
left-wing Lenski thing unfortunately the
right practices identity politics now as
well equality in it so let me just get
this straight
at what point did this left-wing elinsky
thing happen on the right was it when
the former Speaker
House John Boehner refused to tell
members of his caucus don't push the
birtherism story
please don't introduce legislation about
birtherism was it then was it the entire
cult built around the idea that Vince
Foster was killed 20 years ago I mean I
would go on and on and conversely was
the Alinsky thing when Obama said that
he would pay people's legal fees if they
pushed people as rallies was that one
that happened new Black Panthers I got
you covered
yeah Oh what's there a honkey in the
crowd we break it some mail I got the
bills covered it got a special endowment
from Saudi Arabia for that
there's my white guy white guy you get
God suit he gets it what's up Billy Bob
there you go the right practices
identity politics now as well it's the
day and age it's technology and
everything else identity politics which
is now being practiced on both sides of
the aisle is unfortunately working and I
think posit just there's one party
incidentally that is made up of one
identity not total not a hundred percent
ninety-five percent there's one party
that is the Republican Party made up of
95 percent white people I think we as
leaders we got to figure out how do we
make inclusive aspirational politics
strategically valuable again you've
talked about in closets there he is Paul
Ryan admitting that it is not in our
best interest to make politics more
occlusive like I say there's one party
that is ninety five percent one identity
there's another party in terms of like
measured by elections at the very least
we're forty some odd five percent forty
percent is white there is it's all the
identities that like women in politics
and
all the other identities huge mix of
identities a lot of tips strategically
valuable again you've talked about
inclusive politics which tries to
unified as president Trump practice
those kind of politics sometimes he
doesn't sometimes he doesn't pause it or
there are times where Donald Trump is
inclusive oh that's right he said
there's my black right there's times
when he's like black people love me some
of it everybody should be nice I had
Kanye I get
I gots Kanye I got some hey Kanye let me
ask you a question
there is a party that already is
incentivized to have inclusive politics
there is already one of those parties
there there may be other things wrong
with that party not necessarily from
Paul Ryan's perspective but from mine
but the one thing they do do is
inclusive politics now sometimes he
doesn't how but I mean come on honestly
I know I look on economic growth and
then tax reform on getting the military
and helping veterans those are things
that he has led us to that have really
brought people together and he talks
about these at Israeli and that is
inclusive no first of all like yeah John
Dickerson has to be like but really
seriously oh let me make up a couple of
things that are a Republican that
Republicans like like the tax cuts the
tax cuts are less popular than Obama
care the tax cuts are less popular than
Obamacare Obamacare is 51% support the
tax cuts of somewhere around I don't
know 40% support the vast majority of it
is a Republican give me a break it's
nuts let's go back to the phones call
from a 3-5-2 area code who's this where
he calling from
uh yeah Keith from Florida hello Keith
from Florida what's on your mind yes oh
I just like to kind of put in two points
and on your overall initial point before
the break
it the whole you know noticeable
anti-semitism in Trump started before
the election he he openly courted and
went on to Infowars and said he would
make them proud you know and there's not
you know many more bigger anti-semites
and then alex jones not any that openly
promoted anyways and another point that
I see cropping up today is because Trump
Ivanka has Jewish children that it's
impossible for them to be anti-semitic
or support anti-semitism I'm not quite
sure on how to kind of debunk that
argument but it's one I think that is
you know they're playing into it ready
that I see in that you know needs to be
kind of somebody you know that could
better explain it than me trying to
handle that hmm yeah I mean I think
there's ample examples in the past of
people who have who are who have people
who are Jewish in their family
exploiting anti-semitism for their own
benefit and we could we can parse
whether or not that makes you an
anti-semite but if you are okay with
stoking racism with stoking
anti-semitism with stoking misogyny in
society for your own personal gain you
just might be a racist anti-semite
misogynist we need to get much more back
inch they're just functional use of
these terms like appreciate the call can
in conversation to me it's like I think
it's utterly secondary I would even
stipulate that Steve Bannon is not you
know okay he personally says he doesn't
have an issue of black or Hispanic or
Jewish people or whatever okay fair
enough
but he harnesses it to advance his
politics so therefore he's functionally
racist that's all in the others the
outcome is the same so the same with
Trump and his family stuff it's yeah and
that's a point I should have made before
when I was
sort of questioning whether Trump
understood this kind of anti-semitic
conspiracy theory that he was parroting
at the end of the day it doesn't matter
because the outcome is the same
and it's not just even that the outcome
is the same it's that your willingness
to use this means that you are willing
to sacrifice the well-being of people
broadly speaking specific people broadly
speaking and you necessarily don't care
about them and I was reading Abram
Kennedy's stamp from the beginning he
talks about southern politicians during
Jim Crow and often like even they didn't
have quite as early on they didn't have
as awful of attitudes as they had they
just played it up because that's what
got them votes and then like later it
sort of flipped around where you have to
be more subtle about it you know like
that was that water right I laid that
and one of the first like cold-open
history clips on the show actually of
Atwater saying you say and words in our
neighborhood in the 60s and then by the
80s you talk about tax cuts and welfare
come from a to15 area cut who's this
where you come from hi Sam it's Mindy
how are you hi Mindy how are you good
listen I'm probably not gonna like this
call but I'm at the point now where I'm
like so disgusted with politics that
like if we don't win the midterms I'm
just feeling like and my friends are too
like we kind of like just want to check
out until 2020 and like get back in
because it's taking a toll everyone I
mean are you feeling this yeah yeah like
no I listen I totally understand that
that's in fact I had this conversation
with someone last night that there's
this sense of like you just you want to
check out like if you're going to do any
you know legitimate self-care in this
context would be don't follow this stuff
and engage in it but the problem is is
that it's not going
go away in that is right and there's no
guarantee that that's going to go away
if you stay engaged but it's a little
better odds than say like you know
winning the lottery I mean it needs like
well but I mean I understand the I
understand the desire and I think like
you know the idea of taking you know a
couple of weeks you know is important I
mean frankly you know that's what I try
to do to the extent that I have like a
obviously a higher tolerance for this
stuff than most normal human beings but
I'm I still am you know arguably human
and so i i i think that if frankly if i
was doing you know five days a week if
there wasn't you know a day where
michael did this and i I'm still working
but I'm not like immersed you know for
half the day I have basically take a
half a day off and I do more sort of
administrative stuff I think I would
have I would have gone nuts by now
right so past your show like so down so
now I'm down to what listening to your
show I guess I watch Rachel four to five
times a week depending and once in a
while I'll catch Nicole Wallace where re
Melbourne and psi and yeah sometimes I
watch Crusades but other than that I'm
like streaming like ninety day and
Michael show and prepare so I'm like
streaming 90 day fiancé I'm watching
like old episodes of I don't know
Breaking Bad I mean I would sounds great
just don't stop with my show obviously
the rotation I think look I think
there's value in you know consuming less
media and going out and expending that
effort in something that is you know
like real world constructive for two
reasons one is you're necessarily going
to be adding something it may be you
know butterfly wings type of stuff
and you know but and I and I do think
like you know the social media stuff
Harvin it it's toxic but it does have it
does it does influence I think you know
well you're doing good work on social
media yeah that's the truth also think
wait let me just put it Mindy let me
just think what are you saying I think I
think there is value in going out
finding a local group even if it's not
necessarily totally aligned with your
your politics that it's close enough in
this day and age and expending like you
know physical energy on whatever they're
doing because a it will it will have
some impact a positive impact and B
there'll also be opportunities to do you
know like to have some socializing
involved which is sort of like
simultaneous self-care let me tell you I
did some door-knocking for Medicaid
expansion Idaho my friend Luke's
campaign and it was nothing was more
refreshing than that to be honest well I
mean I'm trying to do my share I
contacted my congresswoman I have you
know I wanted to do work for her she
hasn't called me back yet my girlfriend
did door knocking the other day and
canvassing and they didn't get dating
give her any like information like they
just said go you know just go but that
was okay but and I'm trying to do a lot
on social media as much as I can I mean
like you said Michael I have fifty seven
thousand followers I mean I can tweet
something and get like a lot of traction
on it so this morning I put on my
Twitter account like I'm not going to
twit tweet anymore about Trump
I hate them whatever he's anti-semitic I
mean all of those things are done
they're said there's nothing left to say
there's no other way to rephrase it and
I said this morning on Twitter I said
listen everybody just drop a candidate
into my Twitter feed and I will retweet
them all day long for the next eight
days like just do that so I mean so
maybe there's like 200 people retweeted
or 300
but it could be the difference of making
somebody built like somebody could just
see it I don't know where sometimes you
know on the other hand I think like
we're kind of preaching to the choir
well listen there's no listen first off
I will tell you this that I think like
you know going out and and and doing
door knocking even if it's an
inefficient like I say I could be
annoying could be worth a little bit but
at the very least it's also I think like
literally for self-care it's a good
thing to do to sort of like localize
this stuff enough so that you know you
can you're not in this sort of toxic
stew in terms of preaching to the choir
listen yeah I know I know you are but
I'm saying you know walking around even
if it's door knocking on some level like
you know makes it you know releases some
of that tension as far as preaching to
the choir it's not just that the choir
votes the choir is the ones who go do
the door knocking the choir is you know
all the people who are feeling burned
out that's the choir and so they need
that from the other day wait and she
went and canvass with her husband for
Helens hi the one I just said earlier
her husband's black and she went and
were not and two different people told
her husband that he should not be
knocking at doors because it's a toxic
environment right now I mean she lives
in the community I mean the Democrats
were telling her husband that he should
get off the street well I mean I don't
know about that but that's well I live
in a very red area really really bad
right anyway Sam I will not stop
listening to you and my friends will not
stop listening to you I'm just as far as
everything else I mean just tweet to me
when you're on Chris Hayes when I'll put
it on but other than that I mean I saw
you a Barbara Boxer and I was like whoa
is she's crazy like I heard what
she said and I was like that was totally
the wrong message she gave well thank
you Mindy I'm glad he's not around
what I appreciate the validation no
really so just tell me when you're gonna
be on Chris days I watch other than a
butcher on the distribution list it's my
parents I love you and I love you too
Michael I love you all I'm just very
different I'm just in a bad way
I think so if I had to bet somebody
keeps calling I was just gonna say I
really cannot emphasize it enough
getting out in the real world and doing
things will make you feel you know both
a little bit worse but also a little bit
better right because I spend a lot of
time on the IRL left and I don't know
that we're gonna be able to transition
to socialism in the amount of time that
we have before we have an ecological
crisis and some sort of social collapse
but at least I want to be able to say
that I tried and I'm trying really
 hard but also I did take some
time out to go to some Halloween parties
over the weekend and that was fun too so
it's a balance you're talking in these
language come from a 3:05 area code
who's this well hello me yes who's this
my name is Tamar I'm calling from
Florida I'm sorry what's your first name
yeah it's a mart yeah I'm recently
immigrated to the United States or from
Israel and obviously I'm very depressed
what happened on the on Saturday I never
believed that something like that could
happen in the United States you know and
I wanted to I saw her on her Marie
yesterday the Israeli ambassador to the
United States which is who is like uh
he's like a B B's puppet yeah anyone
like was praising zombies that are some
denounced this act he used with someone
strongest words I ever heard from a
leader and I've got I got mainly so
pissed really because Bibi is like he's
in one of the worst I mean is this new
axis of evil we want the worst I agree
with you look I mean and when we talk
about promoting this this right wing
fever dream that that Soros is you know
sort of trying to drive these caravans
up to the United States ostensibly to
destroy you know us white culture here
is a story from Breitbart from April
2018 I don't know if you have this one
but here it is it is a picture of Soros
Netanyahu Soros backed new Israel fund
seeking to quote erase Israel's Jewish
character it's the same story they were
just completely whoa yeah this is back
in April no just a while back I think it
was last year he and there's like 40,000
African refugees yeah in Israel and
reached a decent agreement with with
governments in Europe to to send some of
the refugees there and spread them
around Israel like half of them spread
Iran Israel has been sent to the u.s.
there today to Europe to resettle and he
cancelled that agreement because he got
heat from let's say Judea Nazis in
Israel and then he said he blamed source
for that so he's feeling the same the
same the same right-wing rhetoric eating
Israel and I mean III I followed every
time on or Twitter the creator of The
Wire and he spent the last week just
arguing with Israelis on inter and on
Twitter because it was like you
bebe it naturally then at the the
mr. Wiesel wants you here and he got so
much heat from Israel's like ah how dare
you how dare you were compared to
they're the same yeah they're the same I
was a teacher for seven years in Israel
I'm telling you the younger generation
is like mirror images of the generation
in our United States they're much much
much less open much less liberal and
very vicious I'll have to say very
racist towards Arab and towards non-jews
I mean the kids here in Israel now
frakking ignorant about anything that
had to do with you know liberal
democracy and Liberal Democratic culture
here there to hear the Ron Dermer
yesterday praising Trump like he's of
the greatest leader to the to the for
the American Jews of stuff I was sick to
my stomach and I gotta figure there was
a caller before me that said can you
settle me settle for me the fact that
Monica is the Jewish I will set an out
settle it for anyone there are Jewish
anti-semitism I'm not saying she's an
anti-semite
I think balancing she's that
sophisticated for that but there are
Jews anti-semite there is a selasa for a
Shia label which I don't know if you
heard of him be coined a phrase to jail
axes in the sixties and he was talking
about the mentality of Nazism of a
mentality not necessary to practice but
the mentality of Natalee which started
in Israel after the occupation but now I
have to say the cancerous has grown so
big and if you ask kids today in Israel
if they think the Jews are special if
they think that Jews have like you know
superior blood a lot of them would agree
so they so do not see mentality right
Judea not you are
I mean Israel will be nice baby son
shares this stuff
I mean directly right start tomorrow I
appreciate the
BB's son you know was sort of like a
Donald Trump jr. I mean he literally
shares this stuff right I mean what
you're exactly what you're talking about
is shared by the prime minister's son
tomorrow I appreciate I appreciate the
perspective thanks for calling him all
right thank you call back and I really
would look at you know again he's a very
complicated figure but a who Tomer in
another interview just a couple days ago
again said and it's a bit self-serving
but he's like I was taken down by
Sheldon Adelson and he explicitly said
right-wing Jews who did not want a deal
yeah there's truth of course huge amount
of truth to that and they did it
partially it was an analog version of
fake news it's a free right-wing
newspaper that Adelson flooded the
country with and part of the criminal
investigation that he owned right he
owns yeah part of the criminal
investigation BB right now is trading
media monopoly favors for a good
coverage so who better to defend Donald
Trump on charges of anti-semitism when
Donald Trump gets up there and talks
about you know the globalists the
globalists but their parentheses and we
I read earlier this piece from someone
at the Southern Poverty Law Center an
African American who wrote this piece
about how anti-semitism animates white
nationalism right the anti sound the
it's the Jew who actually allows they've
been the reason why African Americans
have any rights and the reason why women
are ascendant in our society the
explanation for why the superior race of
white people cannot completely subjugate
everyone else is because there is an
inside mole there's someone inside who
is undercutting the white supremacy and
that's the Jew and that's that is the
the role that
anti-semitism plays in white supremacy
and white nationalism in this country
anyways and maybe internationally I mean
we have there is actually a history of
anti-semitism in Europe I'm not sure
people are aware of this but who better
to speak to the complete absence of
anti-semitism in the Bush administration
than the guy who wears the lapel pin
from the order of Vitesse which is a
Hungarian nationalist group that was
active from 1920 to 1944 it's it's an
homage right their leadership apparently
was very eager to help Adolf Eichmann
who was the guy in charge of the trains
and transportation of the Jews in
sending 400,000 Hungarian Jews to
Auschwitz so who better to speak about
the complete lack of anti-semitism in
the Trump administration first I'd like
to point out the facts to them Donald
Trump's grandchildren are Orthodox Jews
his daughter conferred converted to
Judaism Donald Trump is the first
president in 23 years to keep our
nation's promise to the people of Israel
and to recognize Jerusalem as its
capital and to move our embassy so those
are the facts
the only thing that is evil in this
instance is the man who perpetrated this
Massacre and the anti-semitism that he
was propagating also note that we now
know from his social media that the
perpetrator of this Massacre hated the
President as well so we've got it we've
got to stop the people who are
exploiting tragedy for their own
political purposes right we've got to
continue to loud those people who are
promoting future tragedies for their own
political gain and yes this guy this
shooter thought that Trump was actually
not
the Nationalists that he claims he is
he's actually a globalist even though he
said this the other day and of course
here this is what Trump said radical
Democrats want to turn back the clock
barred the rule of corrupt power-hungry
globalists you noted lovelessness you
noted lovelyz's
my blue balance is a person that wants
the globe to do well frankly not caring
about our country so much and you know
what we can't have that you know they
have a word it sort of became
old-fashioned it's called a nationalist
and I say really we're not supposed to
use that word you know what I am I'm a
nationalist okay so the idea that this
shooter hated Donald Trump was exactly
it was just simple he was exactly the
same function that Donald Trump is using
there right I'm a nationalist they're
globalist they're they're controlling
things this guy completely bought in to
that dynamic it's just that he thought
that Trump was actually controlled by
those people he was a false nationalist
and that the Jews were actually acting
upon him but still there's the idea that
he was influenced by trumpet halls
ridiculous you asked me am i an
anti-semite asked me if I'm an
anti-semite asked me if I'm an as I said
our unit I said well I am NOT a Marxist
my father was not a communist this is
actually a common thing on all right
reportedly like they think that Trump is
not sufficiently anti-semitic when I
wake up in the morning and I see that
that beautiful Ivanka is being handled
by that Jew I literally get sick to my
stomach oh I'm sorry oh we are now
probably shouldn't have said that but
they still view him as sort of a useful
idiot they understand lesser evil voting
yes a they actually have a beautiful
talent to understand I I made this point
they actually for them it's actually
more evil I made this point in in Idaho
yeah they're they understand the crucial
importance of good guys lesser evil is
still less II take the lesser and okay
yeah
Maude I yes I tried to say this to these
people in Boise and one at one panel I
was like I saw a clip once I'm a
neo-nazi I may be I mentioned this on
air before but he literally said he's
like I'm not gonna say this right before
the midterms I don't think that helps
but I was like that's beautiful
only people on my side could learn from
that I admired it so much now for those
people who say that there is a long
tradition in the Republican Party for
being anti-semitic or racist all I can
say is it's still alive and in the way
it manifests itself is by
disenfranchising or one of the ways I
should say one of the ways that they
they disenfranchise black people now you
could say they're there from their right
to vote you could say well look it's
just expedient for them because the vast
majority of black people in this country
vote for a Democrats and this is a way
of making sure the Democrats don't beat
us in certain races and it's basically a
twofer to because it's easier for us to
disenfranchise black people just in
terms of who will offend in our own
constituency remember there is one party
that is all in on identity politics
because they have they represent one
identity it is the white identity by
really any measure you want to use and
here is Stacey Abrams explaining the
illegal voter purge that her opponent
Brian Kemp
who's running for governor and also the
guy in charge of the voting Secretary of
State simultaneously that's a neat trick
if you can get away with it who has been
her
tens of thousands of voters here is
Stacey Abrams during that debate we now
go back to mr. Kemp to ask Stacey Abrams
the question well miss Abrams as you
know in a recent video you called on
illegals to vote for you in this
election I was actually shocked I had to
watch that video twice it clearly shows
that you were asking for undocumented
and documented folks to be part of your
winning strategy so my question is why
are you encouraging people to break the
law for you in this election mr. Kemp
you are very aware that I know the laws
of Georgia when it comes to voting in
fact I am one of the foremost experts in
the state on expansion of voting rights
and I have never in my life asked for
anyone who is not legally eligible to
vote to be able to cast a ballot what
I've asked for is that you allow those
who are legally eligible to vote to
allow them to cast their ballots and in
fact we took you to court in 2016 and a
federal judge said that you illegally
cancelled 34,000 registrations you use
the exact same system the exact match
system that is under dispute right now
now I realize that in the next response
you're going to say that it's a function
of my organization because your tendency
is to blame everyone else for the
mistakes that you make my responsibility
as a leader is to see a problem and try
to solve it when I saw that we had
800,000 unregistered people of color in
the state of Georgia I started an
organization that has reached into every
County and increase those registrations
when I saw that people were being
unlawfully denied the right to vote I
work to make certain that we held you
accountable and as the next governor of
Georgia I will continue to do my job
to make certain that every legally
eligible vote that gets cast gets
counted but identity politics oh my god
was just pure identity politics the way
she was talking about safeguarding
democracy and the Constitution was one
of the most craven displays of divisive
to identity polity yeah who's gonna go
well you know I've disenfranchised black
people so all you're doing is trying to
get the vote for black I don't know why
people insist on organizing around their
identity of democracy likers I think
that's no that's exactly how - it's like
yeah you're doing white identity
politics we're doing democracy it's like
how do you how do you even debate
somebody who views you as less than
human because that's what's going on
here and if she loses this election
those results will not be legitimate she
did a good job I thought that instance
don't look at him essentially and he was
just sitting there going yeah calm well
and she's clearly been through this so
many times with him like she knew what
his response was gonna be because like
he and I haven't been paying as much
attention as like Michael is to this
race but even I knew that that was the
two-step that he was doing right of
course and he had to watch it twice to
figure out precisely how I was gonna lie
about it let's go to she's great I have
to I mean between her and Andrew Gilliam
that I think that people really need to
recognize the the that in addition to
them both I think being legitimate and
particularly her center-left candidates
the enormous power in those races of
like yeah part of politics is symbolism
and that would be so good for the
country right now but if they if she
wins it's going to mask a deep deep
voter suppression and it's not gonna
mask an okay no she's gonna she's gonna
be part of her governing strategy but
yeah oh they're gonna be aggressive but
in the moment like if she if she wins in
spite of it all it's gonna be amazing
if she loses it will not be a legitimate
loss definitely I think there's a lot of
places around the country you could say
that I think there's in 2016 there's a
decent argument yes
Jharna the armor said on the I am Sam
Congrats on your Red Sox winning the
World Series thank you thank you it's
been somewhat mitigated the joy I should
be feeling has been somewhat mitigated
by the horrible nastiness of the era
we're living in but I have to say this
happened in 2004 to I didn't even get a
chance to watch that game I was doing a
night show at that time all those games
but you had a couple of week but it was
there was a gap or maybe you thought for
a couple of weeks the Sox did it and
Kerry will pull it off cuz then this is
the Sox won before before the election
obviously yes so
you didn't you didn't think maybe that
there would be it was a good omen yeah
we tried to think it seems like a bad
sign when these teams at historic are
known for like not winning World Series
all of a sudden because the Cubs won
right before Trump's alone yeah that is
a bad thing
well the Sox now are not that team no
the Sox are still kind of it no war in
the last 15 years they were still
singing like every other year here's
here's Sam yesterday i sorry brazil but
you know on a positive note the Sox
comin through yeah you gotta get out
there you gotta vote you got a vote if
you don't vote then this like bad
outcomes and whatnot
awesome you listen to Bill Simmons we
have to make a decision about Wednesday
incidentally oh I'm all in for Wednesday
I don't know I know like I think two
years in Jersey are ready right two
years ago that's true two years into his
presidency and Trump has yet to throw
out a ceremonial first pitch
only Reagan who has just been shot has
gone longer also David Pakman has
pointed out that Trump is yet to visit
an overseas military bases president
such a beta male that he can't be around
athletes and soldiers I don't want to
show anybody out by throwing a perfect
strike
Sean Sam of course the caravan is an
invading force in history's repeating
itself I'm surprised you've never heard
about when the Nazis invaded France to
help them pick grapes Nick the liberal
doing what I can to take over the local
democratic party and elect democratic
progressives but god it's a slow process
without the likes of a Bernie driving
and I'm even voting for corrupt ends
like Menendez while holding my nose yes
well good you got it but these
delusional establishment types is
building 20/20 cannot come soon enough
yeah I mean I I look it is a long
process but it's really just a matter of
and and the difficulty is I think this
is true within within the Democratic
Party it's also true within the broader
sort of body politic the the right of
any debate is always going to have a
little more
sustaining a little more ability or I
should say it's a little bit easier for
them to sustain themselves because they
get funded I mean this is a pretty crass
way of putting it but the reality is is
that like you know we saw this within
the within you know with the with the
blogs and there's a slightly different
dynamic let's say within the context of
YouTube and whatnot but it's a sort of a
slightly different story but during the
the early 2000s you had hundreds if not
thousands of people who were starting
blogs to talk about politics and it was
just not sustainable on the left because
there was not the sort of resources that
were poured into it you know people have
jobs the people get burnt out they don't
have the ability to pay for someone to
fill in for a week etc etc I mean it's
always going to be harder it's always
going to be harder because there's not
going to be as much of of sort of like
the material resources and maybe not
even for you as an individual before
those things that support you or people
that support you you know it's but keep
up the good work
Sam's tinder profile hey gurl swipe
right I'll blow you away with my
knowledge of social security reports in
the same David Price Chris Sale we're
blowing away Dodgers hitters last night
girl no human the pundits try and slice
and dice us into people who receive
bombs and people who send bombs in the
mail but I see us as one America the
pundits like this license iceless that's
good I mean white supremacy eats a
delivery men who put pipe bombs on the
mail and those we have to check their
package so their children's lives don't
get blown off but we know that behind
all that there's one America right
record conservative I don't know why it
took so long for Miley to finally be
convinced of this but after this weekend
I'm now convinced that right-wingers are
not redeemable on Saturday I posted
something about how Trump was an a-hole
for suggesting that our
guards and a synagogue would have
stopped this apparently since almost all
my family and acquaintances are
religious conservatives this was too far
and I got bombarded with how I was being
unfair to him even the ones that say
they personally don't like him but only
like him because of the courts are full
of because they can't even admit
what he says it's hateful and they
defend everything he says don't know
what I'll do anymore when one side won't
even try and seek out truth at least
I'll have some satisfaction seen
conservative tears when the evil
socialist Gilliam is elected for
governor left his best congressional
baseball fan pipe bombs is this who we
are America we must never forget never
that America's past has nine position
players on the ball field so there's
plenty of room for all-stars from both
sides
play ball America Chris lopaka was so
hard we're under attack by refugees and
we've allowed our presidents declare war
without declaring war do you think he'll
say there's a legit military threat
posed by the refugees in order to open
fire them on the border before 2016 that
might have sounded like hyperbole but
now I think that might happen well you
know we'll know in a month when they
reach the border if they end up reaching
the border TBMs Alumnus the Pittsburgh
shooters last social media message was
something like screw your optics I'm
going in that has to be directed at a
group or an individual who that is
the people on what is it get gap comm
he's like I don't care what this looks
like I'm going to do it hash tag kondal
in Texas the electric voting machines
are switching the votes straight ticket
voters many reports are surfacing people
voting straight party Democrat and
having their vote switch to Cruz there
is an awareness about this apparently
it's a mistake in the operation of it
I've seen Judd Legum I think tweet about
this so check your vote folks last week
the progressive youth-led organization
moved Texas threatened to sue Hays
County when they plan to close early
voting site at Texas State University
despite students have waiting in line
for upwards two hours the first days of
early voting
after they issued their demand the next
day he's a County resume polling on
campus as well as adding to that's great
uh going to the phone's call from a nine
to nine area code who's this where he
come from
hi this is cool from Idaho man I've been
trying to call in for a long time well
here you are Cole let's not spend too
much time dwelling on that let's get to
that I'm a little nervous
sorry I just wanted to talk about how
insane it is that Republicans actually
think these bombs were false flags it's
like they've been watching too much Alex
Jones it's absolutely disgusting
how they try to say that every single
time anyone on the right does anything
wrong oh it's a false flag Roy more with
those little girls
oh no couldn't be it's a false flag Oh
Milo talking about how it's okay to be a
pedophile oh no it's a false flag no
that's all fake something put out by the
dims you know it's it's amazing how they
you know they support these flamboyant
MELD like Milo but they claim to be like
alpha males it's it's disgusting what
I'm seeing there's a bunch of cowardice
men in America right now and they're
afraid of women and children coming in
over here like how much more cowardice
can you be to be afraid of immigrant
coming over here yeah are you that
scared well right I mean that's that is
the idea they are afraid and it's of
course it's it's it's false I mean I
look to just point out their cowardice
or their hypocrisy is I think a little
bit too narrow I mean and then like
there's something warped about the
psychology there there's no doubt and
there's definitely something about the
psychology that comes from like a place
of feeling on one level sort of feeling
that there may be like some type of
internals
self-esteem issue or lack of confidence
I mean that's what this would Donald
Trump is right I mean Donald Trump is
that was one thing about that Anthony
and Adam Eric's show that I thought
really was just genuinely brilliant not
the one thing but that was the I think
like the the the peak of its brilliance
was that it saw that inside Donald Trump
was like a little scared three-year-old
and I think that is a very much about a
conservative attitude like I've said for
a long time that conservatives have a
Masada sort of complex where they think
that they are in Masada was that the
story of of the some Jews or I think
we're getting chased by the Romans at
that time and they basically went up to
a fortress on a hill and lived there for
two years they were basically starved
and they were just constantly under
siege the Conservatives have the same
sort of mentality that they're
constantly under siege and and but
they're not and and so yeah this is a
problem and it's just the the the the
fear that they have of whoever it is
changes they're afraid of gay people
they're afraid of gay marriage they're
afraid of Muslims they're afraid of
women they're afraid of of immigrants
they're afraid of you know the list
keeps growing because every time someone
gets taken off the list
somebody gets get you got to get added
on to it yeah and they keep projecting
everybody is a snowflake but yet when
the White House correspondent dinner
they're like literally crying over that
looks a bunch a little crybaby they say
oh the NFL players are taking a knee how
dare they crying like a bunch of little
snowflake crybabies but at the same time
you see these Republicans running around
and American flag bathing suits like how
much more disrespectful can you be but
they want to complain about a man
taking our needs in protest against
police violence it's absolutely
disgusting how these people think they
want to cry about an fx hump bumper
sticker on someone's window
oh they got an F Trump bumper sticker on
their window like a bunch of crybaby
little snobby spoiled brat teacher's pet
tattletale little wimp think of it
well I don't know about the teacher's
pet cry-baby
teachers paddocks call snobby
scared of caravans is you Obama scared
disgusting they're stupid they're scared
their daughter watch you supermen yeah
won't you man up Brody even left called
from the 773 area code who's this where
he come from
I'm fed up this be the former Carlin
only Carla formerly known as you see
Wally so Ben's mine too damn angry
Blackman the damn angry black man all
right fair enough
so let me tell you what I'm angry about
okay
first of all let me let me real quick I
wasn't very happy with MSNBC the last
couple days to it when you were on there
earlier in the show before you're even
on Chris Hayes several times an alleged
mago bomber and that this guy you know
the appropriate words alleged supposes
whatever but uh once or twice did there
was a implicit assumption that the man
was guilty and in the way that people on
the show spoke and then I went on to
rates watching Rachel Maddow I'm a fan
of after that and she just like two or
three times we said you know was this
guy working alone and you know I you
know what was this guy is motive and all
this yeah people forget especially an
NBC show shouldn't forget Richard Jewell
you know people innocent people do get
accused of doing things like that we all
need to remember that this man has been
even accused in court yet well I'm
convicted so that's the first thing and
the same thing is you know that Barbara
Boxer come argument you had you know
it's really maddening you've got I think
you and I and other liberals often
referred to what the conservative
zeitgeist is these days is an echo
chamber it's becoming less and less and
that a more and more of a cult you know
you can't question dissent they teach
you you know the in a coat that the the
cult is always right and they're the
sole source of truth and you look at the
way conservatives treat media their
liberally biased academia there was a
biased highly woods out to give them to
now these days even expanding it you
know you can't trust Google because
Google's literally rise right that's all
about hormone of a cult and to think
that this cult is gonna have their fever
break just because they lost the house
is ridiculous they didn't have the
presidency for eight years and they got
worse yo yeah what is losing now how
it's gonna do it's gonna make them worse
everything's gonna make them worse yeah
I mean honestly I don't I don't think
this ends I I'm still working on like
the and you know like the the the
endgame here right like I mean it could
be that the Democrats take the House and
the Senate and the presidency in 2020
and they're not going to get any less
crazy the question is is that are they
going to in an era where there's this
sort of broad dissatisfaction with
politics are they going to be able to
get back to power that's really the only
question it's not that you're gonna get
any less crazy I'm gonna get crazier the
only thing I think we can do at this
point is to take the way the money from
the billionaire's that fun this nutty
outrage we gotta take the Mercer's this
case the Rickett the cops the a tolson's
without that because guess what they're
gonna have more money there this is one
of those things about once you get your
first billion your second one comes much
easier and so on and so on
work you know it's not a dollar that's
easier than others my last burner ship
and think about the financial
formulation political and economic
system that allows people to amass this
much money in the first place
yeah which ones that okay but I've
caused
it's called corporatism and globalism
global if we did real capitalism
wouldn't happen because there be
competition
total capital competition oh yeah
before I go uh are you guys gonna play
my bumper for me well I got wait hold on
once no no that that stupid song I need
a real bumper I've been calling the show
do we have a bump cold-open three years
ago do we have a boat okay do we have an
open do we have a bumper I don't know
that we have one we do you know what I
mean so started are you Ronald Reagan
are you under no pressure we make these
bumpers we don't make these bumpers well
somebody does don't make me angry I'm
already angry enough there's your bumper
oh don't do that wait a second is that
and you're gonna get alright appreciate
the call Moochie Wally thanks did you
like your bumper no no see you later
will do better next time
thanks man I actually the very much in
need we agree thirty callers on the line
a lot of people are not gonna get cold
there's a lot of peace are about that
I'm sorry not sorry sorry folks
take some im's then we'll take one call
and then let's see ash ok did that
attorney Andrew the Halloween show this
year is gonna have to be bananas when
subtext has become text the new subtext
is just racist sexist and classist might
I suggest a dum-dum left show to avoid
listening to Sam just repeat the the 14
words for two hours Congrats on the
hello a lot of fun I'm sure it's wow
that's amazing
that's amazing lava jato that's so
 amazing
you see that Stacey Abrams she didn't
take an opportunity called Cory Booker a
sellout dancer
that was disgusting I want to do
I really want to do that I definitely I
vote aye he's strong yes just like
here's a clip from 2010 see we see you a
Debbie wasserman-schultz
answered that question so it's
disgusting and then we can have like
news reports like Donald Trump is
actually like like turning Reservations
concentration camps herb like yeah and
people should remember what Obama did
that's right maybe I'll have a little
newspaper selling report from tankey
Lena Dunham
that would be so funny who's like oh my
God he's an amazing sloppy joe it's a
corruption investigation people are
going to jail it's just that's
amazing
I want a t-shirt meanwhile they demonize
 tulsi gabbard half and abrasca
is on fire from a leaked pipeline but
Barack Obama did wait a long time before
denying it they hang the permit where I
would have been nice if he said no
immediately because I thought I was
voting for a left wing Canyon why I was
voting for Corp all right I just worried
character but you know the problem is
like I feel like that would take more
effort than I really know would it take
any effort literally like facial
expression trying to keep it funny would
be difficult for me yeah you wait does
it got everything I would start arguing
yeah I would just be sitting there just
going like just know what I gotta take
this down to talk about this tomorrow
[Laughter]
Angell answer 815 I have a meeting with
Senator Durbin this week I don't get
that retcon hey Candice Owens was
mentioned by the president in reference
to the bombing being a false flag attack
as Jamie part of the operation also I
love you saying we love you the world is
mad
Sebastian Gork cook why doesn't anyone
ask moderate Republicans to explain
what's wrong with their ideology that it
led to Trump everyone seems to want to
treat him as a nap yes absolutely
absolutely like how did this lead to
Donald Trump like first of all there is
no left analog to this there's nothing
even remotely like it but Jake
Tapper's doing Louis Farrakhan stuff
that's what they have to reach to to try
to draw analogy which by the way
newsflash Louis Farrakhan's right-wing
Louis Farrakhan in fact practices
right-wing identity politics it just
flipped I know that's extremely
complicated from people like Jake Tapper
to bo-buddies bigger out but yeah it's
literally it's like the guy is a social
conservative Pro religion pro market guy
and there but he's black but black
doesn't like racism so of course this is
the Democratic Party analog and Al
Sharpton I mean I'm sorry guys whatever
you think of him the ship has sailed
he's an MSNBC host okay he has not been
in a track suit even road-testing since
the eighties even then it wasn't the
same thing regardless of what you say
about Al Sharpton the guy did not know
he ran for president right he didn't
even come remotely close right right and
by and by when I watch the time he got
some power in the Democratic Party his
profile had totally changed and he was
not that to begin with and and I would
actually argue the questionable things
that he did with regards to Jewish
communities in the 80s and the Jewish
community did super questionable things
here too they were both playing what I
would say was right-wing tennety
politics they were demonizing minorities
and arguing about market share not
social justice yeah and there's no real
leftist analog to this because even pro
revolutionary leftist like myself do not
we've in lone-wolf acts of violence
that's not the revolution that's in no
way collective and it's it's not it's
not good practice and with all due
respect the Democratic Party is not
going to elect you know the nominating
Lena I think maybe maybe you'd have a
shot at a vice presidential nominee for
praxis meme boat ala
a Tula I like the tension between you
and Barbara Boxer Friday on Hayes can
you all make it as a regular segment
maybe call it the cedar box or boxing
cedar hmm Lula's phallus hola Sam I hope
you and especially Michael don't forget
me now the Brazil is no longer a cause
celeb in the West I will miss the daily
tingle Michaels soft palate on my skin
but I always remember it Viva Brazil
yeah that's that's great you should
totally do coverage about the world's
most per a I'm and a political prisoner
into a blow job Joe actually I'm like
one of the only people probably approves
of that I think that's kind of funny I
was gonna say but we will get first-time
you sensitive about that that was so
inappropriate don't ever make fun of
Lula everything else is on the table
borderline insanity when I was in Middle
School 1995 you could shop and border
towns in Mexico with your family last
time I went around 2008
the Wrights war on the cartels had
rendered the town's no longer safe and
no longer recognizable this is just
under the years following Isis creation
they've done this in less than two
decades now with internment camps of
kids and active troops on the border I
wonder if it's not just the borders we
won't recognize in 20 years the
military's function isn't rebuilding its
defense how can they possibly deal with
the incoming human crisis in a way
that's not violent it seems to be the
equivalent of calling in a SWAT team
when your neighbor asks for a cup of
sugar indeed loci for one 9/11 am
hearing that Angela Merkel is stepping
down can you try and get someone on that
maybe tu lo Jung from the young and
naive podcast also not necessarily too
late to volunteer as a poll worker for
the election LA County residents should
call 800 to 1 5 to 6 6 6 perhaps I don't
know if what we'll see over the next
week or two Colin from Nebraska
I usually don't listen to NPR but this
morning I decided to to see how I
for how short my commute was I still
heard the shallowness NPR is reporting
no mention of Lula and his imprisonment
or support among the people no mention
the election numbers yet they
characterized the vote of the people is
tired of corruption by the Workers Party
only cared to label bolson ro is for
far-right thanks mr and t MBS for
in-depth coverage and all the things
considered himself cancel your donations
folks yes seriously and thank you i
jimmy dore for doing an NPR style
segment about that thank all the way I
sure I controlled the Brazil oh I have
so much power I change the I'm just a
 jerk-off comedian so I endorse a
fascist la fere cool backed by the
United States classic neoliberal play to
say that I'm in charge of Brazil
what are you playing me for the elect
all right so it's my phone but yeah
Eggman Shamy oh I don't have the power
and I'd try to do a third party so I say
vote for the Green Party and
then yeah and Bulls narrows rule oh and
also I want to say I didn't know this
but apparently uh you know TYT who I'm
obviously much more friendly with they
said some credulous coverage of lava
jato as well and shame on them for that
too
so total consistency I just people
happen to very specifically point my
attention to the Jeter video because
people liked it's the gate that stuff
but Ronald Reagan Sam on Friday I called
and made a joke about Jimmy reefer cake
I feel bad for disparaging a member of
the mr family and have already reached
out to apologize personally to cliff
Schecter for the comparison but Siri can
we really play but seriously apologies
to Jimmy and to ten-foot man for the
joke was mean-spirited and I promise to
be nicer from now on
well I'm sure Jimmy has a good sense of
humor and also appreciates the stress
that Ronald Reagan is under I'm sure
Jimmy will take it in stride as he does
so much glass Seagal
have you seen abuse do you have thoughts
on the seeming contradiction of
high-profile Jewish people support the
GOP versus the deep anti-semitism of its
base the first group just doesn't care
right I heard some story I think I
mentioned this the other day by like a
an Israeli general who
confronted with the idea that they're
getting support from all these Christian
Zionists in the United States who want
you know to support Israel because they
want you know two-thirds of the Jews to
burn in Hellfire and the Israeli general
was like yeah we can have that argument
later I think that's you know strange
strange bedfellows right I mean that's
what that means
the final caller of the day I'm sorry
we literally have another 25 people 29
people who are on line called from a 401
to area code who's this where you come
from a family is not Justin from
Pittsburgh Justin from Pittsburgh what's
on your mind Justin yeah it's just one
design a little bits but nah no
heartbreaking couple days here what
happened there in Squirrel Hill right
that's a great community I'm still
really bad for those people and um I
don't know you hear Trump right after
that they asked him at the press
conference oh of course he starts
talking a lot victim-blaming basically
about how they don't have any you know
protection inside the synagogue how
ridiculous that is just completely
absurd it just brings me to a larger
point about you know this shooter it's a
little surreal he lives like a Molly for
me it turns out and then you know he has
a course in ar-15 at you know taken with
them he's talking about his guns
described them as his family on dad it's
just this broader gun culture it's just
disturbing to me it does it just feels
hopelessness like it's never gonna
change and it I don't know I just wanted
to get that out there well I appreciate
the phone call Justin and you know our
hearts go out to folks in Pittsburgh
obviously and you know it's it's going
to take time and I don't know that it's
going to get better before it gets a
little worse I think that's probably the
case we just have to you know it's going
to take time there have been generations
and and and and people in this country
have faced
in many respects a lot worse and they
have made it through but you know
there's also time for it to get a lot
worse around here too so appreciate the
call though hang in there
solidarity it's thank you all right
folks
that's it for the calls so I say the
Democrats filibuster bowls narrow
nominate Assata Shakur to the Supreme
Court but they won't because they're
 cowards in all you do is back
them it's the only way dum-dum left in
in Brazil we could do the whole show in
Portuguese
yeah I'm just can you find I'm just the
driver that's kind of a I don't know
that kind of that's amazing
yeah no that's amazing I want to get a
lava jato t-shirt folks it's the end of
the show you can do we're allowed to do
this
Black's Mike Marxist we're gonna take
five or six or more of these black
Marxists just despise excuse making for
Trump voters by the Bernie left look at
what they said about the Obama Soros
being bombed also is Hillary that
delusional where she wants to run I
don't want to talk about that today
Madame white I honestly please let's not
talk about it let's just pretend like
we'll do that and the umbrella thing
tomorrow fair enough a meta flight I
just I just can't I just can't
meta flight hey Michael how do you feel
about what the IRM are on Thursday asked
about that hypothetical intervention in
Brazil if say Bernie became president
the Amazon is a massive carbon sink we
can't afford it to be damaged anymore
even targeted economic sanctions because
civilian hardships that often considered
an end to put it one way it's not like
the Kurds are relying on targeted
sanctions to protect them PS Bernie
voted for intervention in Kosovo and the
situation looks even grimmer than that
don't support a military invasion of
Brazil but there's a huge amount that
can and must be done
to through sanctions there I mean but
look the bottom line is is that
petrochemical companies in Wall Street
supported this candidacy and until you
get that under control in an
international way I mean it's not gonna
make any difference and yes he's
explicitly said that not a centimeter of
the Amazon will be left standing and he
doesn't recognize the indigenous
sovereignty so that has huge
implications I mean I don't know I I
honestly think from my perspective
understanding the war against the
Workers Party the coup against Dilma and
the imprisonment of Lula has a lot of
lessons for the left actually because
even some of the things that we've seen
in in 2016 they harnessed an
anti-austerity protests to advance a
rightward agenda and we need to
understand and have solidarity and there
does need to be sanctions but I don't
think it's gonna be military
intervention no Chris verdict I believe
Trump mailed himself that piece of
toilet paper they got stuck to his shoe
classically conservative in the same
week the Pittsburgh mass massacre
Israeli Foreign Minister stunningly
denounces Soros to bolster the image of
Hungarian authoritarian orbit and
Galasso of the anti-semitic rhetoric
best illuminated by the let's not Soros
have the last last last laugh billboards
Ram Saint greetings from Mississippi I'm
our crew there indeed liberal minded
people here in the South but I want to
point out the overwhelming sense of
apathy felt in places like this with few
economic opportunities even for the
educated many of my friends in the
Millennial range where otherwise moral
people should be diametrically opposed
the far-right Republican agenda are so
disillusioned and desperate it's like
they feel there's nothing they can do
they don't vote because there's a deep
red state they believe their vote won't
even matter it becomes self-fulfilling
prophecy because they just don't
contribute I know Mississippi won't be a
swing state ever I just wonder if you
have suggestions for how to form the
message to make people actually care
about the future of the world when it's
being dismantled all around them I you
know maybe the idea is frankly to in in
states where there's a sense that we're
never going to be anything but deep red
is to try and like organize to support
candidates in other states I mean you
have skill sets you could support
candidates now
the states in in in times when it's not
elections you can do you can support
various sort of labor groups or people
working at certain places like I don't
know go down to the local you know
fast-food place or something like this
and you know see how you can support the
workers there you know who knows you get
you know the upshot is the you don't
have much to lose in terms of like
failed experiments in in those context
and you know you're building maybe you
build some type of social strong I'm not
opposed I'm not opposed to in some of
those places I mean with zero platform
compromise running as a Republican just
the hell of it why not
there are so many things that people can
do like obviously tell your friends to
vote but also if they want to improve
their immediate circumstances you know
form a union join a union if you if you
find that hard to do there are people
whose job it is to help you they're just
just one of many things the
International Herald February 1939 three
months after Kristallnacht eight months
before Germany invades Poland Nazis sell
out Madison Square Garden and the final
I am of the day
[Music]
[Applause]
Winnipeg Craig Sam where did you get the
forty percent support for the tax cuts
figure I could have sworn it was just
below thirty it could be I may be it may
be lower than forty percent I apologize
for that thank you for the correction
see you tomorrow
in that say goes
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made so
the option will you don't get paid for
the rubber bands
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
