last night and generally look I think
Shep Smith and Chris Wallace are let me
put this but I don't want to say useless
but of very little loose easily use big
leaves yeah yeah but last night
interestingly they were on the anchor
desk during the Trump speech and you
know like that caller who told us you
know one of the things the the
intellectual dumb web does is they all
go on each other shows nod and in sort
of self they they're they're sorta like
a self licking ice cream cone in terms
of their own intelligence and their deep
thoughts we're all yes I'm calm calm
confirming that you're very intelligent
based upon your confirmation that I'm
very intelligent and of course I must be
intelligent because you're intelligent
and if you think I'm intelligent then
definitely we're both intelligent and
I'm here too I'm doing the debate I
present on some level that's what
happens at fox but in a moment where you
have the more skeptical and the guys who
their brand is to pretend like they're
journalists at Fox News I imagine there
was a little bit of dissonance with the
Fox audience after Donald Trump got done
with his speech here's Shep Smith
president Trump speaking from the Oval
Office in a short time there will be a
response from the Democrats he made a
number of claims there speaking
specifically about murder rates among
those who are undocumented immigrants
the government statistics show that
there is less violent crime by the
undocumented immigrant population than
by the general population he called it a
crisis of the heart and soul he talked
about drug crossings for the border but
government statistics show much of the
heroin actually comes not over the
unguarded border but through ports of
call he talked about undocumented
crossings over the
past the past months in fact the number
of undocumented crossings over the
southern border has been steadily down
over the last ten years and the
government reports that there is more
outward traffic than inward traffic as
for the trade deal he mentioned with
Mexico which he said would pay for the
wall that trade deal is not yet complete
and the president said that law
enforcement professionals have requested
the five point seven billion dollars
it's he who requested it and it's he who
said he would own the shutdown
nevertheless he's making the case to
keep his base together on this matter
Chris Wallace is live with us in
Washington does that make the case Chris
for his base well it certainly does make
the case for his base the question is
that whether the base is enough and the
answer is it isn't because the Democrats
in an election in which the border wall
was a major issue took control of the
house and they have enough votes in the
Senate also to block any legislation
there you know in the movie the Dodd
father they talk about making an offer
that you can't refuse if the president
tonight was making an offer the
Democrats can't accept one thing he
talked about was the shutdown and he
kept saying it that there's a shutdown
because the Democrats refused to fund
the wall the Democrats have just passed
a bill to fund every agency in the
government including the Department of
Homeland Security it's the President and
the Republicans and the Senate who have
refused to pass that so there you have
it I mean just some of the I guess the
the Fox News viewer is getting just a
slight bit of time now I don't imagine
there's going to be some type of mass
exodus but you got a wonder like it's
got to get into the bloodstream a little
bit right I mean they have to hear to
hear that and go they can go like well
Fox is what's going on with Fox these
days I think they actually have built a
certain immunity because they've they've
always you I don't know know less about
Wallace but certainly Shep has always
been a pressure valve but they don't see
that's the thing is that Shep is on it
like what like 2:00 in the afternoon I'm
talking like a prime time uShip is like
six times what it is that's true in the
afternoon for Hannity and they're there
waiting for him they're like the opening
act before the
stones come out get the off
Thursdays I want to have how did he lie
to me now but I mean that's I mean
that's what I wonder if if something
like that actually actually impacts a
certain number of their viewers because
you know Shep being on in in primetime
you got to imagine that's pissing Sean
Hannity I'm sure it's pissing Sean
Hannity off right like maybe some
lawyers have told them that's Fox is
actually susceptible to some type of
mass class-action suit for like
prematurely right dumb old people and
they're like wait a second we need to
actually bring their cortisol levels
down we should have like a low live
broadcast Lowell I won tonight there's
some like CTE type effect on just Fox
News viewers now
