[Music]
all right so here is speaking of so
stupid
so stupid here is uh the five foxes of
five and this guy Greg Gutfeld feels
like he's been sort of sidelined during
the Trump years because I don't know oh
yeah exactly there's number people what
do you need a guy for well what do you
need the guy for and I think he also
just so realized like yeah I can sit
here and just cash checks I don't need
to go out on a limb for this guy but
there's nothing that gets a conservative
either ones who are never Trump errs or
maybe never Trump errs or secretly never
Trump pers or trump queasy or just not
Trump the support there's nothing that
can get a conservative riled more than
the idea of people just not letting go
of this whole slavery thing and race
stuff the problem so why are they doing
it it's because oppa I should just say
he's of course referring to the
outrageous outrageous publication of the
1619 I guess I don't know how to a
serious series yeah he is serious which
basically covers the implications of
slavery and tracks it through the years
obviously in terms of the institution's
that slavery built and the the politics
and the economics all of which we are of
course in some measure or another living
with today because of course we are
because his it's like we live with the
implications of the railroads that were
built 150 200 years ago I mean the idea
that you could have such a huge part of
your population at that time
driving the the economy of the entire
country in many respects and it not have
any implications on institutions on the
way the Society's assembled never mind
the descendants of both the slaves and
the slave owners writing about slavery
in a Manus there's so much data on this
I mean there's just
but still it's so obnoxious to keep
bringing it up the problem so why are
they doing it is because racism is a
quantity where in the media the demand
exceeds the supply so they're gonna have
to keep creating this they're gonna have
to keep doing this and to your point
that's that slave story the slave
article was probably I didn't read it
but I'm assuming it was probably well
well researched it was probably well
done but I didn't read it but now my
assumptions are this is all part of a
greater narrative to paint Donald Trump
is racist so I'm gonna look at
everything they do as somehow construe
artificially constructed to demonize
somebody and it's not going to stop it's
gonna get worse and we have to admit
this continent for one second I want you
just to assess what this guy just said
the he starts by saying there is a
demand to hear about racism that exceeds
the amount of racism that exists and
that's why they've got to go all the way
back to slavery to find racism to
transport it into the future in other
words they've got to write about history
it's like doing a remake right exactly
but again this is a complete denial of
the implications of this structural
racism that of course we know like was
governmentally promoted well I mean
federally government you know through
World War two post in terms of things
like home ownership but
throughout the country by state
governments well into the 60s that's why
you needed a Voting Rights Act that's
why you need a Civil Rights Act and
never mind the implications in terms of
society and and what the would what
people do privately in private business
and whatnot but so just that that
premise in and of itself the idea that
like there's a demand to read about
racism but there's no racism and even if
there was no racism what he considers to
be racism the idea that it has no
implications now is ridiculous but then
he goes on to say I haven't read it I'm
sure it's well done but it makes me feel
like it's an attack on Trump which is
basically him saying Trump's a racist so
therefore anything that has to be
written about race even though I haven't
read it I assume is an attack on Trump
and because I'm paid professionally and
probably also feel this way broadly
speaking which is why I got paid
ultimately and found myself in this
position to to defend this stuff I've
got to now to paint Donald Trump is
racist so I'm gonna look at everything
they do as somehow construe artificially
constructed to demonize somebody and
it's not gonna stop it's gonna get worse
and we have to admit this country over
time gets less racist do you think we're
more racist now than we were in the 60s
or the 50s or the 1860s it's getting
better but they don't like that story
things are going so well that they need
to demonize everybody pause it the this
is the amazing thing that he's so
clueless about the reason why we read
this in the paper today is because it's
getting better
it is because you could not have this
analysis 50 or 60 years ago because we
were that racist they
the fact that it's in the paper is
indicative of the fact that racism to
the extent that racism can get better
but I understand what he's saying that
our society is less racist but it's
still racist a B even if it wasn't why
wouldn't we want to read about this I
mean as society gets less racist it
gives us the opportunity to actually
deal and digest with these problems and
there are problems there are problems at
the founding of our country and you
remember the stat on you can do voting
predictions based off of calm yes oh yes
oh yes ladies from from deep roots this
is it from a book that we interviewed on
the on the probe that you can go back
they have gone back and done a
county-by-county analysis and they could
predict they can predict voting and all
sorts of different political equations
based upon the ratio of slaves to white
people in any given County they can only
predict it in terms of how white people
are going to vote they can't do it in
terms of black people good black people
didn't have any vote or political will
throughout the vast majority of that
period of time and but the fact that we
can have these conversations now that we
can have a newspaper is indicative on
some level of progress that we've made
in terms of race we have obviously a
long long way to go but gonna go out on
a limb and say we might be backsliding a
little I I almost think that like it's
wrong even to look at it as as
backsliding as if we're almost on a
linear path because I don't think we've
ever been on a linear path and I don't
think it I think it's it's just a
question of where where it is and how
aware we are at any given point and I
mean I know what you're saying and I
think maybe it's worse now than it was
10 years ago
maybe but in some ways maybe not I think
maybe this is like it's like when you're
you know your scab heals over and begins
to itch intensely you know there are
periods of time where things hurt more
or less but I think that the reason why
we have a Donald Trump is because on
some level racism racism had diminished
and then it tightens its grip because it
feels like it's you know people are
losing even more because society is
becoming in some way some ways more
egalitarian always does he'd not want us
to mark the 400 year anniversary of
slaves on this oh oh you're just just
doing that
it's a giant subtweet I don't remember
anybody doing this at the 300th
anniversary like it's 377 or something
and they're really stretching it I mean
but they why did they have to pick that
day couldn't they have picked a
different one to have the anniversary
from why the 16:19 why couldn't they
have just done it from like when the
first plantation opened that's very I
mean I mean it's very insulting you just
imagine go back to frame right imagine
like how hard it is to show up at work
and were like I've got to come up with
an angle on this I'm not gonna read it I
haven't read it I'm gonna cop to not
reading it I'm just gonna say like it
makes me feel like it's an attack on
Donald Trump because they're talking
about slavery it's not a good look hey
that's Wow sad sad so sad so sad
stupid stupid didn't read the are thank
you stupid
