[Music]
on the phone it is a pleasure to welcome
back to the program New York Magazine
staff writer Erik Levitz Erik welcome
back to the program thanks for having me
so Erika you had a piece just a couple
of days ago I guess the GOP is making
its contempt for democracy clear will
the mainstream media I think we all know
the answer to this but let's talk about
specifically what you're talking about
because I just went through my diatribe
of and and you know Ezra Klein
more or less I think entered into the
sort of center left left world of
punditry
and reporting he's a reporter I am not
really in any way but around the same
time back in the early aughts and he
wrote a piece about you know as you know
what Paul Ryan being a con man and for
me it's a lot less interesting that Paul
Ryan's a con man in the piece himself he
said that we got fair warning from a New
York Times columnist about this who's
fairly prominent at the time that Paul
Ryan was a con man but what why this
happens and you've written a piece about
the failure of the mainstream media to
notice the Republican Party's repeated
examples of not giving a about
democracy just lay out those those those
examples sure so the jumping-off point
for the piece was the events in North
Carolina's now ninth House District
weird you know in North Carolina the
Republican Party has pushed voter ID
laws very strongly had it really sounded
the alarm about the threat that voter
fraud poses to American elections and
they were obviously not alone in doing
that the GOP since at least the second
Bush administration when they launched a
five-year Justice Department
investigation into
voter fraud and ultimately produced no
evidence but nevertheless persisted in
pushing the idea that restrictions on
voting were desperately required to
avert this phantom threat has really
been committed to the idea that look
even if there's like a 1% chance that
our elections are going to be tainted by
fake votes then or people voting who
aren't allowed to vote
perhaps because they're african-american
and were subjected to abuse of Glee
thing and then got into the criminal
justice system and then we decided to
disenfranchise them for that but that
aside the this is such a terrible thing
that it's you know if we need to
disenfranchise poor voters who don't
have driver's licenses that's just the
price that we need to pay if we need to
prosecute immigrants who are here
legally but aren't yet qualified to vote
and I didn't quite realize that and I
test ballot that they shouldn't have we
need to put them in prison for eight
years as prosecutors have been doing
because it's just the integrity of our
elections it's just that darn import and
then we have in North Carolina's ninth
House District a Republican candidate
hiring a convicted fraud fraud ster to
essentially run a completely fraudulent
absentee ballot operation where he hired
people to go around this county Bladen
County North Carolina and collect
absentee ballots bring them to him and
the ones that you liked he would file
the ones that he didn't you would
destroy now Aaron hold on a degree to be
fair who better to pick up fraudulent
ballots than a fraudster I mean I don't
fault the the hiring decisions that were
made just general ethical orientation of
the operation right um but so so this
this happens there's overwhelming
evidence it's not just evidence that
that this scheme possibly cost the
Democrats the general election but
actually the the incumbent Republican
congressman was a victim of this same
scheme in the Republican
probably lost his heat to it so a
Republican was victimized by this fraud
but the overall upshot of everything was
that the Republican was going to hold
that House seat in the swing district
and so initially the North Carolina GOP
the party that was all about protecting
the integrity of our elections decided
that you know what actually while
preventing voter fraud is on the one
hand worth disenfranchising black voters
to prevent ensuring that a house
election isn't stolen amidst
overwhelming evidence is not worth
waiting a couple of weeks to finish the
investigation they called for the Board
of Elections to immediately certify the
results they sent out donor calls that
try to raise money off the idea of the
Democrats were illegitimately trying to
steal the election by insisting on
investigation into the evidence of
election fraud and they also
alternatively some others began using it
as an excuse to push for even stricter
less access to the ballot to cut down on
mail-in voting because look see it's
such a huge liability in our system
meanwhile in the legislature in North
Carolina Republicans put forward a bill
that you know totally neutral fair rule
that's dissipated that the party in the
state that has the second-most
registered members that that party
should control all of the county
election boards in even-numbered years
and in the party with the most members
should control in odd-numbered years and
then this way that's split and it's fair
which in North Carolina Republicans have
the second most number of members and
apparently anticipated that they aren't
going to grow their party and so our
legislating that in every year where
there's an election all of the election
boards need to be controlled by us which
you know right now those election boards
are the one thing standing between them
and stealing this house race so since I
wrote the piece North Carolina
Republican to realize that their
situation is untenable have started to
gesture towards being possibly open to a
make up election but nonetheless that's
what they've been doing and so my
argument is like if you have something
this blatant here up to this point the
mainstream media whenever covering this
issue has always made a point of you
know acting as though we need to you
know give the benefit of the doubt right
that Republicans have this legitimate
concern and every story has at least one
quote from them saying this now in the
face of a blatant admission of bad faith
you know this clear you know is the
Republican is the mainstream media going
to you know accept that that no actually
you know what there is only one major
party that is even facially even
superficially committed to democratic
governments the other one isn't and
that's like a pretty important thing for
the Fourth Estate to be able to
communicate to voters and that's far
that is not been the case despite not
only invents in North Carolina but also
that the power grab was constantly
Michigan etcetera I want I want to talk
about that a moment but just it just I
want to remind people too that not only
was the Bush administration up to a
five-year investigation where they found
little I think literally nothing there
were multiple US attorneys who were
fired because they were not coming in
with with prosecutions I mean there was
three or four this became a big scandal
that the US Attorney's are getting
pressured by Karl Rove to bring some of
those voter ID cases because they needed
some justification to to to pass this
legislation and you know when we talk
about what happened in Wisconsin there's
and and what's happening in Michigan
I mean first off we had years ago
indication of this when the the in
Michigan they passed the city manager
rule right the failure of democracy
which led I mean you could draw a
straight line frankly to the poisoning
of children in Flint by the water
because of that but you just remind us
of the New York Times headlines that
followed this
constant thing yesterday we was
yesterday we played Chuck Todd's
interview with Evers the new governor we
yeah I mean just stunning stuff here
yeah Todd came after my article and
really been validated my pessimism even
more than The Times did but The Times
wrote a couple of stories about it one
of them infamously I think they changed
the headline but was headlined Wisconsin
Republicans defiantly quote stand like
bedrock in the face of democratic wins
my point was that both of their articles
on the fight in Wisconsin did not ever
you're covering this dispute this
contest of you know who who is
legitimately has a claim to wield power
the legislature or the executive branch
of the government and in in neither
these articles was there even a moment
observing that the the statewide
officers the the incoming governor and
attorney general were elected with the
plurality of the vote were
democratically elected where the state
legislature was not where it's
controlled by a party that actually
received fewer votes for the assembly
and you know people vote statewide than
the other party and and yet the the
party that does not actually have any
popular the branch of government that
does not have a popular mandate for its
majority is taking powers away from the
branch that does and again Republicans
themselves are not actually all that
deceitful about this the Wisconsin
Assembly Speaker Robin vos stated
explicitly that you know the well we
tell reporters well we would have a
majority it wasn't for Madison and
Milwaukee if you just don't count all
the people who live in those cities then
we would have a majority and so
therefore we should cover in the state
they're quite explicit that actually you
know people who don't vote for us really
shouldn't have voting rights or say over
the government and but but but that is
not emphasized in the mainstream media's
reporting on it it's not even it's not
even mentioned I mean it's not even
mentioned and
I just want to be explicit about this
the Republicans got like 46 percent of
the vote I think in Wisconsin and they
have was it 54 percent of of the of the
power and now or more actually it's a
veto-proof this one's even more
egregious I'm getting confused with the
states they had under 50 percent of the
vote and something like 65 percent of
the of the power in the State House
that's Gemma Kratz has 36 of 99 assembly
seats that's just nuts it's just nuts
and Chuck Todd just talks like ever
should really be more apologetic to
Scott Walker and maybe Scott Walker will
be okay with letting him have some of
the authority that he that Scott Walker
had his governor so all right so we have
so many examples of this what's the
problem like yeah I mean I think the
problem you know I think there variety
of answers that I mean I think one basic
one is that the mainstream media as it
exists today developed in a less
polarized political era and around a
business model that that was about
achieving scale by being able to sell
sell newspapers broadcast news to
Democrats and Republicans alike and
doing that requires internalizing an
idea of fundamentally you know both both
presenting a kind of equality of
legitimacy between the two parties
regardless of what they do and do not
stand for and also you know sort of
implicitly downplaying the stakes of
political conflict and you know that
model was deeply problematic from the
beginning but but it's you know
considerably more so when you have one
major party that is not committed to the
norms of liberal democracy and yet the
media you know isn't really adjusting to
there's so many it's both siting they're
both business concerns at this point but
also just ideological ones at this point
the New York Times I think from an
economic perspective it's subscriber
base is overwhelmingly liberals it I
don't think it has a real economic
incentive to downplay Republican
extremism I think that it's ideological
it's so baked into the norms of that
institution and its kind of reflexive
okay so so it's really just muscle
memory that they can't I mean and we
should be clear here right like this
comes from the the the ownership and
they simply hire people who are inclined
to have this disposition less or maybe
not for less for he cannot
the heart or minds of an another person
but their career is built on that on
that same sort of like brand like I take
both sides seriously
regardless of any evidence that may that
may be out there to suggest that one of
these may not be a good faith actor yeah
I think you know there is also the need
to preserve access to sources and both
camps as far as just it was I guess you
know legitimate practical necessity if
you're going to do reporting on
negotiations in Congress and being able
to get you know word of where it's
heading to the public before it becomes
common knowledge then you do need to
have Republican staffers who are willing
to talk to you and if your paper
describes and forthright terms what the
Republican Party is today maybe that's
not possible I don't know I I could
think of of excuses but but it
regardless it comes with significant
costs so what I mean what is there I
mean is just the way it's gonna be like
I mean I you know like I say this is a I
I feel like I have been you know
more or less fighting this fight as
consistently as anything else I have
done over the past 15 years I mean 14 15
years ago we shut down the foam banks at
the New York Times Washington bureau
because of Adam Nagorny on the radio and
it I don't know what Adam Gore Nagorny
is doing these days but aside from that
it didn't seem to have much impact yeah
well I mean I think I think the media
environment is really different you
mentioned that Ezra Klein piece there
was also a piece by matthew Yglesias
earlier this week that basically argued
that the threat to democracy is actually
not populism but is the GOP
establishment and it's highly legalistic
methods for undermining popular
sovereignty which is was sort of an
endorsement of arguments made by people
like Corey Robin and Jedediah Purdy's
people identified with the at least
quasi radical left in the United States
and so I think orthodoxy within the
liberal opinion media kids really
internalize the extremism of the GOP and
that form of media is a lot more
prevalent you know then then when the
majority report began and so I think
that there is there's movement in that
sense and I think that it's you know
there's never going to be an equivalence
between the the sheer hawkish Ness of
each sides each side infotainment
propaganda apparatus is because there is
just a certain amount of intellectual
integrity that liberals tend to have
more than more of than conservatives but
I think that pod save America is kind of
the a quasi Limbaugh for the lab
and it is its attitude towards
Republicans you know even though it is
establishment Obama staffers is it's a
considerably more more sweeping critique
than what we've seen previously and so
there has been movement I think in how
the average Democratic voter is being
told to think about politics by their
media and I think that's potentially
significant yeah I mean I think that's
true
III I would agree with that and I think
your your point about that integrity it
also strikes me as the the structural
disadvantage in this playing field and
and maybe it's I mean it's a
disadvantage it may be for the benefit
of all of us is that compensation in the
you know in this arena for the left and
right is different and on the right it's
just it's cash I mean it's literally
bucket loads of cash on the left there
is a certain amount of well I have I'm
I'm esteemed by you know those in this
this arena that I feel like that has
more cachet on the left than it does on
the right and part of that I think it
may be because of these sort of like
academic roots and value system that
seem to be more present on the Left yeah
I think that there's some I mean you
know obviously there are opportunities
to sellout in democratic politics but
that generally doesn't take the form of
of jobs and media and more in consulting
you know working for the Podesta group
or whatever but but yeah and even then I
don't think the money does I mean a DC
like Nick Aires like fences right-hand
man yeah he's like fifty four million
dollars this is networks apparently
somehow so yeah anyways I mean we're all
making and we're all making a terrible
mistake
has anybody made it like has anybody for
to figure out what what what what that's
about
where's that guy getting their money
yeah I have no idea he's like I don't
know five right I mean I think I don't
know there's got to be bodies buried
somewhere but I don't know that's
unbelievable
that's unbelievable I was just going to
do an ad for the for the dictator that
we're promoting for from a former Soviet
republic
