[Music]
so uh this is a good sign I don't know
if it goes far enough with Elizabeth
Warren in terms of the question of
Israel and Palestine but it's headed in
a better direction
she has recently I think taking on a
staffer from if not now when
which is a fairly progressive Jewish
organization in fighting for Palestinian
rights but this moment is good had at
least you know trajectory wise good for
Elizabeth Warren I think she's still
significantly behind Bernie on this
question in particular and maybe more
broadly in terms of foreign policy but
yes it's better than a no and then this
in this exchange here she is
if not now members in New Hampshire
approached Elizabeth Warren yesterday we
really love the way you're fighting
corruption we'd really love it if you
also push the Israeli government to end
occupation thank you
[Music]
I'm not convinced that wasn't that was
not just by chance that gets out there
there was I am headed to Netroots nation
tomorrow we're gonna be broadcasting
their live Thursday and Friday you'll
recall last year at Netroots nation Cory
Booker was somebody came up with
somebody he'll hold up a sign I can't
remember what it said was it a B Deus
yeah well I think it was a BDS sign and
he had to disavow it after the fact I
don't think that that's what that moment
was I just have to say I don't think we
actually covered it but I mean they're
what Sanders was approached by the same
group and actually held a Jew's against
the occupation sign you know look when
it comes to foreign policy if that's
something you're considering there again
it's not even just that it's not even a
question of a better it's just a
difference in kind and I think like you
know I think it is worth dredging up
what Warren said about the assault on
Gaza in 2014 which again was I always
say it was so brutal that Joe
Scarborough criticized Israel shelling
un school right and she defended it
unequivocally she said at the time she
said I think we're gonna just have to
agree to disagree on this one and went
on to talk about Hamas but and it's not
only that it's like Sanders actually
condemned the killing of nonviolent
protesters in Gaza several months ago
and I just think if you combine that
with the Iran vote the only senator to
vote against Iran sanctions in 2017 and
the Yemen work as well as the
willingness to vote against defense
budgets which she's voted for every
single defense increase probably because
of Raytheon again I just think that
components not debatable
it's nice to see it's nice to see
there's not yet I don't think there's my
face in terms of where they're both are
on foreign policy it's just to the
extent that I would like to see frankly
every Democratic presidential candidate
trend in the right to rush or that is a
good sign I think
Harris and Booker and my guests would be
Biden right now or the Gillibrand to the
extent she's relevant are the outliers
in terms of even moving rhetorically um
and it's good to see I mean you know
it'll be interesting to see if if
weren't taking a step in one direction
will force the others to go in that
direction too because I don't think that
they are terribly moved by where Bernie
is at it but I think yes he's head and
shoulders above it is an apple almost an
apples an orange oranges type of I'm
seeing someone sent me a screen cap
Thank You TMDs discord and I guess this
is showing me a Google Trends from July
2009 to well that's actually excuse me
that's July 2018
anyways very strong increases for
women's soccer there you go son go boom
