[Music]
right now Joe Biden enters the race atop
all of at least the majority of polls he
you know there's part of this is a
function of name recognition Bernie and
Joe Biden had the highest name
recognition of any of the candidates in
the race at this point it doesn't
account for all of their lead but
certainly a significant portion of it
and I think one could argue that at the
very least when it comes to positions I
would be willing to bet and to be fair I
haven't seen any I haven't seen any type
of poll like this but I would be willing
to bet that if you were to list 10
issues and put in a column you know what
does Joe Biden believe and do the same
exercise with Bernie Sanders that Bernie
Sanders supporters 25% let's call it you
know in these polls versus Biden's
supporters let's call it 28% just for
the heck of it but I would bet a lot of
those Biden supporters don't realize the
positions he's taken when he was
actually in the business of taking
positions that weren't a function of him
being vice-president and here is Joe
Biden this him announcing this is
announcement yeah here's his
announcement right here and he pegs it
to Trump's a budget which of course is
not ever gonna happen but I was gonna
stay away from this but I can
did you see the budget was just
introduced it cuts and cuts 845 billion
dollars
almost a trillion dollar cut in Medicare
and almost a quarter trillion two
hundred and forty billion dollar cut in
Medicaid why because of a tax cut for
the super wealthy that created a deficit
of 1.9 trillion dollars and now they
gotta go make somebody pay for it
something that gave millionaires and
billionaires excessive tax breaks and
who they asked you to pay for middle
class families and it like you the
neighborhood I grew up in trading
Medicare Medicaid for tax breaks how
that's gonna help anybody in this room
and most of the people you live with
how's that gonna help this country he
was hinting it and in that speech that
he was gonna declare he declared I guess
today yeah I didn't know only they were
a candidate running who's willing to go
after the millionaires and billionaires
right I know we're not gonna talk about
Bernie right now we're gonna talk about
Biden and so a Biden is running a
campaign that I think sounds exactly
like one you would have run ten years
ago 15 years ago 20 years ago right and
I think over the course of this campaign
is going to be clear in the Democratic
primary voters are gonna want more than
this
and can I ask a question though isn't it
very well reported and I'm trying to
find source here but when Obama offered
the worst of the okay you're gonna get
that's by yes yes and so the problem is
that
Biden's Biden's record is going to catch
up with him and specifically in the idea
of cutting Medicare and cutting
so-called entitlements which are
a silly name they're simply programs
that their social insurance programs
that people have paid into during the
Obama administration and longtime
listeners of the show will remember this
because every time Digby would come on
the program we would talk about it from
day one of the Obama administration
literally day one in ghent in January of
2009 Obama was on record as saying that
we're going to have to have some type of
entitlement reform and he was looking to
cut Social Security and to perhaps raise
the eligibility age for Medicare this
was on the agenda for at least four
years nearly four years
first certainly from 2010 to 2012 it was
near the top of the agenda for the Obama
administration they were trying to cut
Social Security through the way that
they were gonna index cost-of-living
increases they were floating this idea
of of raising the eligibility age for
Medicare at one point Obama was seeking
a grand bargain with the Republicans and
Joe Biden was the lead person in the
Obama administration who went to John
Boehner and said here's the deal we will
give you we want modest tax increases on
the rich and we will put on the table
cuts to Social Security
in fact this deal was on the table for
almost a year if it were not for the
lunatics in the freedom caucus who did
not want to empower John Boehner and
refused to accept any increases in taxes
because of the nature of their
supporters Barack Obama would have
successfully cut Social Security and
perhaps raise the eligibility age of
Medicare we
the help and understand how this works
in an administration they don't randomly
pick an emissary it's the opposite those
people who have the proposals come and
propose the deal to the president and
the president says I agree with that
proposal I dispatch you to go out and do
it
and make it happen this this idea was
there was no reluctance I can assure you
on the part of Joe Abidin for this and
so it's incredibly disingenuous in in
and how do we know that this guy could
have bought into something like that all
you need to do is look at his record he
entered into the Senate as a a
conservative when it came to everything
but well here it is when it comes to
1974 he told he told The Washingtonian
when it comes to civil rights and civil
liberties I'm a liberal but that's it
I'm really quite conservative on most
other issues in fact he went on a lot of
us sit around thinking up ways to vote
conservative just so we don't come out
with a liberal rating that's what he
said I believe that and I think that
lasted through at least the odds yup
he he had a fairly liberal foreign
policy record relative to the era which
was more conservative than it is now but
when it came to his domestic politics in
terms of like what material benefits he
was willing to provide for banks and
wealthy people versus the rest of
Americans the Joe Sixpack guys that he
really relates to because he likes
trains he voted more with Reagan than he
did anybody else he voted for the Omni
Reagan tax bill I remember this I was
actually interning in DC in 86 getting
beer for a congressman from Quincy Mass
every day that was my job Joe Biden's an
 dude oh yeah he cut that top
income tax rate from 70% to 50% it
exempted many families from the estate
tax
he called for a spending freeze on
Social Security his pitch in 87 was very
much in line with Bill Clinton's it was
very much government is the problem
the era of big government is over
government's an obstacle we're gonna
work around that we need to he said
quote we must demand more of ourselves
our managers our workers our consumers
are needed to change their attitudes to
revitalize society because government is
not what that's not what governments for
he was deeply in favor of the welfare
reform he voted for the Reigle neal
interstate banking act which allowed
banks to expand across state lines he
voted to repeal glass-steagall which he
said he regretted in 2016 I was a couple
years too late to regret that he voted
to bar federal or state supervision of
credit default swaps I mean there's a
reason why they called them DMV na now
Delaware to be fair is okay well it's
all where all the credit card companies
come because they can avoid all sorts of
taxes there a garbage place but it's not
a question of him being the sort of like
serious lefty who had to just make some
compromises he got elected from there
because he was one of them he's that
that's the oxygen he
Riis he was instrumental in the overall
of America overhaul of American
bankruptcy law and this bankruptcy law
was done to protect the interests the
interests of credit card companies who
were afraid that American families could
go into bankruptcy and be shielded and
get some type of bankruptcy relief from
their credit card debt now understand if
you're a company or you're like Trump
Inc you go into bankruptcy and you get
your debts relieved he did not want this
to happen with American families when
they owed money to credit card companies
Elizabeth Warren I think at that time if
I remember correctly was I think writing
on a section of talking points memo as a
law professor at Harvard going
this is incredibly cruel and we see all
these medically induced bankruptcies we
see all of these other bankruptcies just
horrible for folks he also wasn't so
great on race back in the day or can I
just add one quick really quick that's
why his new like I don't want to hear
millennium Millennials complaining is
not just a gaffe it's a reflection of a
worldview absolutely he I mean look the
best defense you could you can make for
this guy is well you have to understand
his politics formed in another era and
that's why they are so out of touch
today though I think that's a perfectly
fine defense but it is exactly the
reason why he shouldn't even be running
yeah and a lot of other people running
are pretty old too so I mean that's true
that's true
I mean Sanders is same age worn more or
less the same age Warren of course was
not in politics at that time and Sanders
is is fairly unique in u.s. politics
and when he says he's liberal on civil
rights issues um does that extend to
measures to integrate schools like say
busing it did not at that time it did
not at that time know there's gonna be a
lot more coming out about Joe Biden also
people start talking about the reason
why Anita Hill was the lone accuser of
Clarence Thomas that most people know of
it's because Joe Biden prevented the
three women who had other stories about
Clarence Thomas from testifying these
were all things you're going to hear a
lot of in the coming days and weeks now
with that said there's value for other
candidates for Joe Biden to be in there
it's like you'll I think I think it
helps Bernie I also I do want to watch
you know disingenuous pundits who you
know are constantly lying about Bernie
to see how they handle Joe Biden's in
actuality tremendously problematic
records yeah that's gonna be fine that's
gonna be interesting bad all of the old
white guys I I can't wait to see how
centrists are going to spin Biden as the
more racially sensitive candidate I'm
sure they're gonna try but it's not
gonna be hard to help with him with the
invasion of a rock yet I mean it's
incredible you can go through any single
metric that somebody will be voting and
thinking on whether it is the so-called
identity issues or the so-called
economic issues or foreign policy and
this guy is a just a catastrophe when
but he is a talented politician and he
does have a certain charisma that people
in this world like and should not be
under without a doubt friends with Obama
without a doubt beam's yeah the the the
speech that he gave at that fireman's
that that that is extremely effective
for those folks well what's going to be
very difficult for people to swallow is
I mean look the reason why
Barack Obama picked picked him as a
running mate and they may very well be
imagine they're good friends by now he
needed foreign policy experience and
frankly Joe Biden when he went out there
and said that you know Barack Obama was
very clean and articulate black eye I
don't know if people remember that I
don't think he said black eye but yes he
did say clean it was bad enough it was
basically he became he became for Obama
what Al Gore thought Joe Lieberman was
going to be for him right Joe Lieberman
was the big moral scre but you know the
the big voice of morality scold against
Bill Clinton and so Al Gore wanted Joe
Lieberman as a way of of of being able
to say I'm at arm's length from Bill
Clinton I'm just because he's huge
missed out are really
distracting us from banning video games
and killing Arabs right exactly
and I think in many respects Joe Biden
was the you know provided for Obama the
same type of like message to the to the
to the broader country like I'm an arm's
length from you know guys like Jesse
Jackson and those those other types that
Joe I mean I think like there was a
similar dynamic there and so you know
we'll see I don't think he's the white
guy it's not just that he's a white guy
like got the same kind of a populist
vibe which Bernie also has but used two
completely different ends right I don't
I mean I don't I'm saying something
different I'm saying not just that he's
a white guy there's a lot of white guys
we've had a lot of white yes like
appeals to like the people who might
have got mad at Obama for like guns God
and religion that's right that's right
and and he does like a grandpa who's not
trying to be racist but still kind of is
he had a sort of a blue-collar type of
quality and also a sort of like you know
I think that perspective to somebody who
was against against the bussing against
a school integration and regardless of
whether one thinks that that was the
politics of that era that is not the era
we live in anymore I also do I do it's
way less important but the way he had to
drop out of 88 because I but it speaks
and result right I mean he plagiarized
speeches from Neel kenick who was the
Labour Party leader and they were two
very personal passages they weren't like
oh I like the way he formulated that
argument for infrastructure investment
it was like you know I grew up in the
coal mines my rhetoric like very weird
stuff to be plagiarizing so maybe even
when he does put that across you have to
question some of the sincerity of it too
I'm calling it we're gonna hear a lot of
stories about him being a groper and
they're gonna come soon after he
announces you think so that is my
prediction well we'll say we should we
should we should get like a pool going
once everybody's jumped in bed I was
gonna jump in I actually think that
Biden is good for Beto because he can
dry he could sort of like draft behind
by I think there I think he is I I think
though it's it's it's gonna be
interesting to me and again I'll only
frame this in terms of Bernie because
this is a hit on Bernie Bernie's been
very clear of that like I'm in this to
win it
I'm incredibly serious about it and he's
he's already taking off the table a
Democrat needs to win period Joe Biden
has borderline endorsed Republican House
candidates which we played clips of and
beta O'Rourke specifically has refused
to support I forget her name but a very
progressive candidate because of a
personal heard he's friends with heard
so I do think I think what's interesting
in some ways like Biden it's either
gonna be that everybody discovers his
policy history and all of a sudden
he just tanks which is possible or it
could be most democratic primary voters
doesn't mean he wins but he's just he's
just inoculated like it doesn't matter
we know him we like him I think in
Beto's case I think there is much more
of like you know it's even like me
I love beta work when he's running
against Ted Cruz but what are your
positions on oil
what are your positions on endorsing
fellow Democrats so I don't know I think
it could be trickier than beta than we
realized and I think Biden is more
inoculated in a way because of his age
and the way he's just been around
forever you know well I for one cannot
wait to hear what kind of nickname Trump
comes up with for him for Joe Biden yeah
what doesn't he have won already
how did he not have one in the dopey Joe
Joe
dopey Joe
