[Music]
the majority report is Sam cedar it is
Monday August 26th 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrious Gowanus Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA it is one of our famous we're on
vacation but we're still doing free
content and it's completely new shows
[Applause]
not to mention for our members we have a
deep archive pick from our very own
Brendan let him loosen the deep archives
skateboarding all around grabbing the
huge reel-to-reel recordings we had oh
you're gonna love it folks I don't know
if you noticed but we had a little bit
of a theme this week a little bit we're
not dead dedicating the whole week to a
theme but on Thursday we did something
it came from something awful a book
about the memes on 4chan a chan and
today professor University of Michigan
in the department's of American culture
[Applause]
history
Alexandra minna Stern on her book proud
boys and the white ethno state
particularly relevant light of I don't
was it last week week and a half ago big
clashes in Portland the proud boys and
also in my rejection of Gavin mcginnises
offered to be on his show let me but I
want to make something clear about that
we never did a video on that maybe we
should do this actually maybe we did one
earlier this week because I'm recording
it this a week ago from when you're
hearing it and maybe the day after a
week ago we decided to do this but
apparently Gavin you know put out a
video saying that you know complaining
that I had rejected him let me make it
clear not only would I go on Gavin
McGinnis to show for $250,000
he offered me five that was simply not
enough I need two hundred fifty thousand
dollars before I go on a show that Gavin
is uh just you know the moderator but
make no mistake about this I will debate
Gavin on any platform for free I just am
NOT going to put him in a position where
he gets to be a third party where he
gets to have a variety show it's the
play Chuck Todd yeah that's not
happening he will I like I I should be
fair to be fair it can happen but I got
to get two hundred fifty grand for it
but if Gavin wants to have a debate with
me I'm happy to do that I am willing to
debate any conservative but when you
come at me and offer me $5,000 for your
Reformation project
no no that's 250 that's my minimum for
that and then if you want me there with
my contact lenses instead of my glasses
that's 350 350 thousand dollars I wanna
make that clear meanwhile we're on
vacation right now and I'm at the beach
I hope I'm relaxed I probably have not
if you're not listening to the AM
quickie you're making a huge mistake
because I'm doing it I'm doing it on
vacation of course half the time Lucy
Steiner is doing it but the other half
I'm doing it all you need to do is
subscribe to the majority report podcast
feed the free version and it will be
there in that feed and it'll show up
every morning
hopefully by 9:00 at the latest and in a
couple of weeks we're gonna push it on
to its own feed but that's it enjoy
today's show Alexandra Alexandra minna
Stern she is a professor at University
of Michigan on her book proud boys and
the white ethno state we'll be right
back
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program
Alex Minister she is a professor of
history in American culture at the
University of Michigan her latest book
is proud boys and the white ethno state
how the alt-right is warping the
American imagination Alex welcome to the
program thank you so much happy to be
here so your your previous book was
entitled eugenic nation and I'm curious
as to how because I I think this might
be the first academic treatment at least
the one I am aware of of this sort of
generation I guess of these folks and
specifically the proud boys but how did
you come to write this book well I've
long been interested in nationalist
movements and ultra-right movements in
the US and beyond so there's just kind
of a I'm generally taking stock of
what's happening and as someone who is
socially and politically aware I was
very much aware of what was happening in
the u.s. around 2015-2016 as this you
know coalescing movement
later came to be called the alright and
has these many different facets to it
that we can talk about how that was
coming together and so I began to delve
into some of the their websites and some
of their key ideas some of their
publications and one of the things that
struck me right away was the extent to
which they are rehabilitating eugenic
ideas from the early 20th century really
for grounding the kind of eugenic racism
that someone like Madison grant believed
in he is a real hero still two white
nationalists and ideas about immigration
the body politic who should be breathing
who shouldn't be breeding and ideas
about preservation of the white race
which is really what kind of
ideologically links you know the earlier
eugenics to the white nationalism of
today so I wanted to that prompted my
interest in following a range of
different threads and you know an
academic speak we'd say these
genealogies of white nationalism across
time you know from earlier in the
twentieth century but really making this
book more history of the present that
focuses on well what has happened in the
past you know ten plus years that has
allowed these ideas to cohere and to
manifest themselves in social media and
I would argue to creep into the
mainstream in ways that are dangerous
and sometimes quite insidious and
obviously sometimes quite obvious and
horrifying and deadly so there's a bunch
of different registers there I you know
I may be jumping ahead here but but you
mentioned the sort of the the genealogy
of and I also want to ask you the
taxonomy but before we get get to that I
mean when when we see something like
this do you from an academic perspective
is this are we looking at a a new
phenomena or are we looking at a
diminished
phenomena like is that does that make
sense like it because this are we
looking at a sort of a degraded version
of stuff from the past or is it a new
phenomena that is growing using the past
yeah I mean I think that you know there
is we can certainly say to a good extent
this is kind of old wine in new bottles
and some of those new bottles are social
media platforms and different types of
networking and things like that so some
of the ideas that are kind of bedrock to
white nationalism which have been
bedrock to earlier nationalist movements
or neo-fascist movements our ideas about
you know the great return to you know a
magnificent earlier time you know the
kind of nostalgia the focus on rigid
gender relations and patriarchy you know
racism and xenophobia the idea of
creating others and so those kind of
aspects yes those are have been
repackaged to those who are aware of the
history they might seem quite obvious
however I think there are a few things
going on that make this particular
moment distinctive and distinctive and
also make it so we really need to be
aware of the way in which the way in
which you know white nationalism is
playing out and just to name two of
those one is you know the fact that in
the United States you know the
demographic composition of the country
is changing and so you know we were
moving into becoming an ethno-religious
have already kind of crossed that bar
thus far and for us that might well be
is something to celebrate
and something to really kind of that
expresses the promise and the greatness
of
America as an inclusive and democratic
nation but for white nationalists what
that means is their inevitable inst
extinction and so you have this kind of
the way they see at the demographic you
know drum is beating and it's
accelerating and it's accelerating
towards 2050 and you know that incites a
lot of panic and a lot of concern among
them that they will become not only a
minority but a persecuted minority so
this demographic narrative which by the
way you know the El Paso shooter linked
that narrative to concerns about climate
change and calls himself an eco fascist
so that's kind of their kind of pulling
that into it so one key issue is you
know the demographic issues and really
you know those of us on kind of liberals
and on the left you know we need to have
more ownership and framing of those
demographic narratives in a positive way
because even some of the reporting I see
in the New York Times you know edges
into kind of defensive terrain on that
and one of the second points is that you
know this is really transnational so
while these ideas might have skipped
around from country to country let's say
you know neo-nazi ideas or fascist ideas
or if you think about the America first
ideas back in the 30s that resonated
with what was going on in other parts of
Europe and even Latin America what we
have today is you know this is white
nationalist in the u.s. their ideas are
transnational and often those who are
the most active their networks are
transnational so they are connected to
either through active networking or
through kind of trafficking of ideas
with organizations and in many cases
political parties in countries such as
Germany with alternative for Germany
Sweden with Sweden Democrats and a whole
range of other international groups so
there's an internationalization that is
part of this at a time when of course as
you know you know we're seeing the rise
of authoritarianism and national
populism in countries as
as you know India Brazil and Italy so
those I mean I think those there's more
that makes it distinctive and you know
I'm not saying everything here is new
because it's not and it's tapping into
longer histories of white supremacy in
the US but there are elements of it that
require us to kind of what I would say
is like fine tune our antenna to the
moment so we can better understand it
and we can better counteract it okay and
I want to return to both those two
unique elements of of this you know
iteration I guess in a moment but let's
return to the genealogy and the taxonomy
the difference between the the new and
old white nationalism or the the
present-day white nationalism versus
sort of the old one but also can you
help us with the various versions of
nationalism and which one's should we be
more alarmed at or they you know when we
hear civic nationalism where we F know
nationalism these are all terms that are
sort of bandied about and I can't tell
if these are sort of their their you
know I'm just a little bit more polite I
go to slightly different functions and
so I call it civic nationalism as
opposed to white Nash you know
ethno-nationalism or versus white
nationalism or is it more like I'm doing
funnel sails I have a sales funnel and
if I can sell you on civic nationalism
I'm that much closer to selling you on
ethno-nationalism and then white
nationalism yeah I mean I think that
those distinctions themselves are very
important to those in them all right alt
light kind of white nationalist circles
for a few reasons the first is that you
know the kind of conventional
understanding has been that those who
are part of the alt light our civic
nationalists who are interested in
slamming multi
culturalism slamming feminism you know
and have will bring out dog whistles of
anti-semitism or you know other other
ideas of racism but they're not willing
to take the plunge and to you know kind
of proclaim themselves to be white
nationalists who believe that there
needs to be a white ethno state or to
make like full-throated kind of racist
comments however i think you're right
that the lines between those you know
they kind of often will play a dance
back and forth between those two terms
to to kind of rub them up against one
another to make their identity is clear
or less clear so for example you'll find
you know some of the white nationalists
that i follow on twitter you know like
too often make proclamations i'm not a
white nationalist and then they'll slam
someone like Steven Molyneux or Lauren
southern who they categorized as a civic
nationalist now many of those looking in
from kind of like the broad panorama
Steven Molyneux or Lauren southern look
very much like white nationalist or they
have very similar ideas because they're
talking about racial essentialism
they're talking about patriarchal
notions of gender they're talking about
the need to you know kind of stamp out
diversity and multiculturalism and what
a threat it is and basically how white
people are under attack I would say that
you know in the literature kind of some
of the political science and sociology
literature civic nationalism has not
been talked about in that way it's been
talked about as kind of a way to compare
nations that are bound by compacts and
constitutions and ideas of liberal
citizenship and subject hood which is
what ideally the United States is and
what many countries are that have
actually have these binding documents
that we know are updated with amendments
like you know thank God for the 14th
amendment and you know other precedent
you know case law and things like that
so in that literature you know there's a
real distinction between civic
nationalism which is based on
in suppose and ideas and the kind of the
the beacon of light even if we're not
quite getting there at least the goal to
get towards equality for all
whereas ethno-nationalism would be seen
as the opposite of that so what I see
going on is that you know white
nationalism or white nationalists are
really interested in troubling that line
between civic and ethno-nationalism and
basically blurring the line to such an
extent that ethno-nationalism creeps in
both into the discourse ideally into the
policies but becomes more of just kind
of a way of life in a way of thinking in
in the United States and that's
happening in other countries where there
are identitarian movements and you know
other kind of play actors and
organizations like that so I hope that
makes sense I mean I would say that you
know I would call white nationalists
ethno nationalists far-right
nationalists I mean you can use
different terms I think I would want to
keep Civic nationalist civic nationalism
as something that we might want to hold
on to and not you know cede to their own
discursive games well I mean I guess the
the Civic nationalist is what is saying
that we must you know America for
Americans with and having the broadest
the broadest perspective on what
Americans are I mean is that what the is
that what civic nationalism is when it
is unmolested or unsorted like tainted
by white nationalism or or not I mean
what does that what is what does that
mean if we're gonna hang on to it what
does it mean and because I I can't help
but think that like you know Minoo take
a guy like dave rubin who in a different
context is trying to define himself or
did for a while as a liberal as the last
leap and sort of like dragging that term
into his area right as opposed to sort
of him going to that term or conflating
it and can
using it and then arguing that people
have abandoned him right at the start of
using that like I didn't leave this
party the party left me but first he's
becoming the party I mean so it's the
like is the agenda and somewhat
obviously your book is so much about how
language is used to sort of move the
terrain under us right it starts where
we're describing the terrain but then
all of a sudden it transports us in some
way is the agenda to sort of assume
civic nationalism whatever that that is
supposed to mean and that to the point
where it's like before you know it if
you are for multiculturalism you're
actually not even like a good citizen
you're not even like patriotic anymore
because the definitions have been
trained it been sort of like the graph
that the the the the rhetoric has moved
us on a different part of terrain
essentially yeah I mean I think you've
captured it well I mean I think that
that's also one of the challenges of
writing a book in real time is that you
know the terrain is shifting the lines
are being realigned kind of as we speak
and it's an interesting case with Rubin
because you know here you have it where
ethno-nationalism is pushing up so much
you know it's pushing and expanding and
you know kind of creeping to such an
extent that you know defining defining
civic nationalism has become a point of
contestation so I think you know let's
say just let here's a thought exercise
so let's say you know some of the you
know Democratic contenders decided that
they wanted to take that term and to
really seize upon it and to you know
fill it fill in the colors on it to
think about kind of what democratic
inclusive America in this particular
moment would look like you know they
could do something like that and that
might be quite beneficial because if not
you know the ground potentially could be
seated so I don't actually know like
rather than give an exact answer you
know X equals
this or why equals that I think what we
need to do is we need to be attuned to
the ways in which these words are being
misused distorted and how those
distortions themselves are reflections
of the really kind of tricky and
treacherous political times in which
we're living I hope that makes sense I
think it does yes well it's it that that
these terms are up for I mean it's the
sort of the classic like you know if if
if being a liberal means everyone has
healthcare then I'm a liberal
essentially right I mean it's it is
trying to shift people with you and sort
of I guess increase the circle of trust
or circle of you know whatever they call
that media term I guess in sort of say
like oh maybe I'm a blank and I didn't
analyze it and they don't necessarily
because in some ways I guess it's it's
playing on the inherent tribalism that
people feel in general in the way that
they identify themselves I mean is that
like is that the these these language
games that are being played
it's our there is is what is the end
game I guess or is that the end game and
then what are the subsidiary games that
lead there like what is the difference
between sort of the strategic thinking
like I personally after having observed
Dave Rubin for an extended period of
time I don't know that he has an
ideological strategy as much as maybe at
best a career strategy and then just
uses a series of tactics up to that
point but and in many respects I think
he may be you know sort of as much of a
I don't want to say victim but a subject
of these games as he is a purveyor of
them but what what is the end game the
end game for kind of the what white
nationalists themselves yes you know
what do they
want to well I would say that you know
the endgame if you know if you look at
core beliefs of white nationalists is to
create a white ethnos day to return to a
white supermajority and the way to do
that I mean it's interesting because you
know back in 2008 2010 when a lot of
these kind of alt-right or white
nationalist websites were getting up and
running and were putting forth their
ideas you know they were banding about
this term meta politics which you can
still find and you know even Richard
Spencer when he was interviewed at one
point you know what is the alt right
about he said they all trite is about
meta politics most people probably their
eyes glaze over and said you know what
the heck is that and what he meant by
that was that the way to actually you
know kind of bring about the kind of
change that he and other white
nationalists want is to change culture
you know basically the idea that
politics is downstream from culture you
know that kind of famous phrase and how
do you do that you do that through you
know some of these language games we've
talked about you do that through you
know as one scholar said you know taking
over the book clubs you know emerging
populace yeah popular culture or that
would obviously involve social media you
know even the whole podcast you know
growing pot podcast world you know which
is taken off in the past five or ten
years so all of those would be spaces
where meta political awakening in their
terms could be achieved now that's why
white nationalists were really kind of
caught off guard when Trump actually won
the election because they were just kind
of moving forward with their meta
political work and then lo and behold a
bunch of you know kind of you know this
kind of perfect strange storm of events
happened in you know 2016 you know and
thanks to the electoral college Trump
was on became president and so that kind
of like through the whole alt-right of
white Nationals for a loop because now
they are in a situation where
you know they were moving ahead on what
they would call their meta political
terrain which by the way is all
influenced by ideas from the Italian
thinker Gramsci and his idea of kind of
needing to have a war position and all
of that but in any case and then all of
a sudden they've got this stuff they've
been doing let's say more on the
down-low and then you know have elected
someone who they think is going to be
able to move forth and build the wall
and ban immigrants and you know I
Institute a much more authoritarian
style America now it's been a lot more
problematic and contested and you know
distorted than that and many white
nationalists you know today feel like
you know Trump has totally wimped out
even though many you know on the liberal
and left side you know basically just
see Trump as a white nationalist himself
even though white nationalist most of
them don't like him you know they think
that he has he has failed them he can
look to tweet after tweet by Ann Coulter
for example complaining about you know
Trump and all the things that he hasn't
done and how he's let them all down
interesting and so the let's talk a
little bit more about the the alt light
and and where they they situate
themselves I mean you write about Jordan
Peterson as well and I'm sort of I'm
interested in the the sort of this this
this confluence of of how how white
nationalism and how these the the
interplay between things like anti
feminism anti-trans you know I guess I
mean all of these things seem to roll
together and ultimately lead to race or
they part-and-parcel I mean I just I
have this concept that you know to a
certain extent we as you know non white
nationalists or non
races to the extent that you know anyone
is free of racism I guess perceive these
anti feminism or misogyny or anti trans
or anti gay or whatever it is as sort of
distinct silos as opposed to from the
perspective of a racist where it's just
like oh I don't I just don't like people
who aren't like me and you know like my
in-group is that what's going on here
yeah I mean I think you know if I had
were to write a second book which I
don't know if I have an emotional energy
to do I really would focus just on the
alt the so called out light or those
that are kind of at what I would say the
kind of like the pushing edge of kind of
bringing some of these insidious ideas
you know kind of anti-feminist anti
multi multi cultural ideas kind of more
into the mainstream so it was really
striking for me you know as I was
writing this book that's when Jordan
Peterson was getting all of this play
and he's a very interesting character
who may have helped some young men get
their life together he has spoken out
against authoritarianism in some
instances people may just feel like
that's lip service or whatever but what
I was interested in about him was not
I'm not saying like Jordan Peterson is a
white nationalist no he's spoken out
against that but Jordan Peterson is a
trans folk a very like self-proclaimed
transpo has you know that is one of kind
of the key pieces of his agenda and he
also has really strong ideas about
gender essentialism and racial
essentialism when it comes to things
like intelligence and capacity to do
certain types of work and and things
like that so that's why I became
interested in excuse me in Peterson
because it's interesting how those ideas
the the palatable way in which he was
presenting those ideas brought a lot of
people into social media
and ended up as they say from studies
that have been done read killing them
and then from that they would follow you
know go down a variety of rabbit holes
which might lead them to the American
Renaissance
website which is the website run by you
know the race the race realist
organization and and Jared Taylor so I
think the alt light is like they're
doing that work of kind of like pushing
the boundaries of this kind of moving
this kind of thought into you know kind
of the mainstream or maybe also what
they're doing is they're kind of
reflecting and amplifying ideas that are
already in the mainstream and you know
creating these channels back and forth
between what we would call kind of more
exclusionary or regressive ideas and
ideas that are just kind of like you
know aren't our kind of ho-hum to some
folks as well so I think the all you
know I don't know the alt light like
should we really call it the out light
and I thought a lot about that I think
if I were to you know write a you know
kind of a book or a long essay about
that I would come up with a different
term which I haven't quite figured out
yet sorry to talk about them in terms of
being you know a leading edge the one
thing that I will add to that is one of
you know a lot has been written on all
right or the rise of white nationalism
and there's some really good books out
there many of them have been written by
journalists where they follow particular
individuals or they looked at
organizations they're really good at
storytelling and a lot of them focus
primarily on racism and xenophobia and
all of that is really important and all
of that is really interesting but what I
wanted to do with this book was to
actually tell a history of the ideas of
the alt-right in the present and to kind
of honor those genealogies and also to
foreground the extent to which misogyny
and sexism are our glue that kind of are
the glue that is essential you know to
this movement now again that's not
completely new traditionalism patriarchy
all of that but what it looks like in
circa 2019 is somewhat new and that's
why transphobia is absolutely bedrock to
what both the alt-right and they all
light are about and that's one of the
reasons I wanted to unpack it so I think
there's a bunch of connecting dots not
everyone who you know is exposed to this
will connect all those dots nor will
they be interested in doing so nor will
they you know follow the social media
trends that will allow them to do so but
you know they are connected and they can
help perpetuate you know kind of these
the more insidious and exclusionary and
protential e violent aspects so the some
of they alright so if I understand you
the the the you know what we're calling
for a lack of a better term the alt
light is in some ways sort of like
creating it's creating the tools or the
functions that can lead you to these
conclusions but they're not necessarily
adopting themselves you're just they're
just getting you to to adopt the
legitimacy of the tools that lead you
there in some way create this this this
idea of like whatever pseudoscience or
this notion about you know the you can
break down structures in society because
of a of a lack of traditionalism or
whatnot and that inevitably leads you
down a certain path in some way but
they're not necessarily doing that
consciously I guess it's just one that
they find effective because they'll get
support from specific areas what let's I
want to get back to the sort of the two
points that you were saying was that
this why do you think there is this the
the the why does what is driving the
fear of extinction I mean obviously this
notion of I think you called it ethno
diverse plurality is is exhibit but what
is is it is it are they just jumping
from the the notion of not
being centered in society is extinction
or is the extinction really just a
mechanism in which is that just a
rhetorical game yeah I mean first I just
want to go back quickly to the your last
point and say I think a good way to
phrase it is that you know the out light
is priming the pump for these kinds of
ideas but for not for the this priming
the pump and is basically you know kind
of pushing pushing that open now in
terms of you know this kind of fears of
demographic anxieties and fears of white
extinction
you know white nationalists you know put
forth the idea that diversity and
multiculturalism you know and kind of
behind that curtain is you know sits
Jews and feminists so there's anti
feminism and anti-semitism there as well
that all of that is leading to white
genocide and this is being you know so
many of them believe that you know this
is a plot being orchestrated by Jewish
cabal's and so on and so forth again
that's not something that's that new but
what it's tied to is the fact that the
demographic composition of the United
States is changing you know according to
census projections we will become a
death no racial plurality and I use that
term explicitly because you know the
term that you will often hear is that
will become a majority minority nation
and that means that you know will become
a nation that's a majority of minority
groups and whites will no longer be the
majority I mean that's the thinking
however a political scientists have
found that if you use that formulation
which is really kind of like a
black-white formulation you prime you
know whites to be more anxious about
demographic change so yeah I mean demo
it also it also seems unjust how can you
let the minority be the majority I mean
a it sort of like it or it seems
illogical on some level I mean I guess
that cuz it's a really weird construct
so that's why I say it's no racial
plurality
and basically you know the thing is is
that behind that is an idea of white
purity so whites will be bred out of
existence because whites must be you
know and this is where ancestry testing
and the rest of it comes in you know at
least you know whatever 80 90 percent
you know Scottish or Irish or German or
you know Nordic in some way shape or
another it very much is you know a
reflection of the you know deep seeded
nosov kind of the one-drop rule of
racial thinking in the United States so
for example you know white nationalists
you know when they use those numbers
about you know heading towards the 2050
census we're talking about non-hispanic
whites only
so Latinos don't count as white in a
South Asians don't count as white no one
else counts as white except for these
formulations that were the ones that
were so in vogue in the eugenics era of
the 1920s when Madison Grand another
were writing Lee's talking about
taxonomy x' producing these taxonomy x'
you know that basically put all of the
you know kind of you know good and and
solid and robust whites in one category
at that point they were you know
focusing on excluding kind of the new
immigrants or the bad whites in other
words the italians and the poles and so
on now everything's become much more
amalgamated and whiteness because it
changes over time has kind of expanded
to include those groups but yeah i would
say that if you look at the construct
it's one that's about the fear of loss
of kind of the predominance of kind of
white superiority white purity and you
know there really is this fear that you
know that whites as a tribe so to speak
will be you know decimated and out bred
to the point of actual disappearance hmm
and so you know the by you know let's
say you know you know 2100 or you know
100 years from now
if immigration rates and you know refer
Atilla tea rates and so on and so forth
continue apace and you know when white
nationalists in the US you know kind of
playing the bail about debt with a
demographic crisis they are very much in
tune with their fellow travelers in
Europe who are raising similar concerns
about what's happening in France or you
know Sweden or you know a range of other
countries I was going to ask you that
like what it what accounts for that
transnationalism like why is that why is
it transnational now well you know in a
way there's always been a transnational
aspect to any kind of you know these
intellectual movement and cross
fertilization of ideas but I would say
that excuse me that's one instance where
social media has really played a role in
terms of allowing actors and
organizations to be in touch with each
other both invisible
you know microblogging spaces like
Twitter but also kind of like you know
Busta hind the scenes and you know using
platforms like discord or having secret
face group books or whatever so
basically these groups are in regular
contact with one another and every time
they see that something has happened
like you know let's say that you know I
was what is the there was an article
about the Sweden Democrats and I think I
can't remember the exact number but you
know because of parliamentary systems
and in Europe you know like in many
countries you know far-right groups you
know have fifteen to thirty percent of
the seats in parliament on the national
level and that's actually happened in
the European Union Parliament as well
where they decided to say okay we're not
going to just reject the European Union
we don't like it we're going to destroy
it from within so we're going to try to
be elected to it but in any case the
point is is that you know us white
nationalists feel kind of white pilled
is the term that they like to use when
they see the gains that you know that
they're you know so-called comrades are
making you know in other parts
of the globe and there's a lot of
traffic back and forth not only you know
kind of traffic on the internet but you
know there are movements of you know
some of the key leaders and speakers who
will go to these forums and these
conferences where sometimes the video
content is uploaded to YouTube and
sometimes not and in fact Jared Taylor I
don't know if you've heard of him whose
race realist who has been the kind of
the long-standing ahead of American
Renaissance he was actually blocked from
going to a conference
I don't know now about six months ago
while he was enroute to Poland I think
he was stopped in somewhere in
Switzerland and he wrote kind of a cried
to core you know manifesto about what
had happened to him and how we would
continue the fight and things like that
but that reverberate it across the whole
kind of you know white nationalist
circles but definitely yeah this is it's
it's both the networking that's going on
and then it's a phenomenon that's
happening I mean national populism is on
the rise around the world for complex
reasons related to geopolitics and you
know big macroeconomic questions and
things like that and you know how it's
gonna play out you know it's it's hard
to tell but you know I think we have to
be vigilant because you know things
potentially are heading in a direction
that don't look so good yeah we're
recording this on a day where we see at
the very least you know Stephen Miller
ascendant and the sort of continuing
squeezing of immigration in this country
alright lastly let me just ask you this
like you know the obviously proud boys
first two words of the title too proud
what boys sit in the centre of this in
terms of like you you mentioned that
that things like anti-semitism anti
feminism they become like a glue uh are
they situated in such a place where
they're sort of I guess they're you know
there's some type of sinew in this
movement one of the reason why I the
reason why I use those two terms in the
title was I wanted to flag both that
misogyny and sexism and the racism and
xenophobia are integral parts of the
movement they are interconnected and
it's interesting with the proud boys
because you know I haven't told the
story before but you know once the book
was up on Amazon with the title I
actually got a letter from the proud
boys lawyer claiming that they were
going to sue me for defamation and
misrepresentation by the way their
lawyer has already been see was been
he's been since suspended in Texas for
misrepresenting something or whatever so
he's I don't think he's even practicing
law right now and I haven't heard from
them again but you know what's
interesting is they said in the letter
you know you're portraying us as white
supremacist you're portraying us as
racist you're portraying us is that in
the other and actually in the book you
know I put them in general in the
panorama of the rise of white
nationalism but my focus is on the is on
the proud boys as a misogynistic
organization that really foregrounds
kind of transphobia and a certain type
of toxic masculinity which I then linked
to you know kind of the solidification
of white nationalism so the things that
they were purporting that I was doing in
the book I'm actually not doing I'm
trying to kind of show a more complex
terrain in which these various pieces
are interlinked but I would just
underscore again and again and this is
one of the things you know where we need
to be able to respond you know okay what
happened in El Paso we know that was you
know a xenophobic white nationalist
shooter who was concerned about the
quote Hispanic invasion in quote and
even said it when he was interviewed
basically he wanted to kill Mexicans
right and so then folks are saying oh
well no but he was completely different
than the shooter and Dayton who
supposedly you know likes Elizabeth
Warren or he would liked it and an T feh
well you know then we have to pull back
and say well what is actually you know
pull away from thinking about this in
Republican or Democrat
terms what is connecting these types of
young male white actors well it is a
kind of you know violent misogyny a
concern with who is going to be part of
the body politic and a stewing in like
you know the toxic waters of places like
you know 8chan and 4chan and gab and
things like that so I see more in common
between those shooters because I'm
applying this feminist lens and thinking
about it in terms of misogyny and that's
why I foreground the proud boys because
it really is essential to kind of use
that list when trying to understand that
movement and to not immediately make
everything about xenophobia and racism
as important as those issues are they
need to be coupled with this kind of
multifaceted perspective I mean on some
level it's just a function of people who
are violently in some fashion and and
I'm using that term loosely protecting
some type of sort of traditional
structure and we were talking about
reactionaries essentially yeah
reactionaries in the street extremists
and I think that your point in an
earlier point you may which was a really
good one is that one of the other key
elements that is this is this kind of
really deep-seated nostalgia and this
you know fear that what America once was
which it never really was by the way but
you know that that is being lost or the
way the things were you know is going to
be eradicated forever and so there's
that real kind of sense of kind of you
know preservation retention retrenchment
protection and things like that both on
the kind of more xenophobic siteís
things and on the more misogynistic side
of things so I think that nostalgia
there's always almost always kind of a
ugly underside to nostalgia when it
leads to wanting to recreate some you
know
exclusionary passed well in some
respects in some respects I mean to be
fair it was an exclusionary passed right
like I mean it was it was but it wasn't
I mean yes I mean and that's why white
nationalist looked back at the 1960s
like 1964 them is the sweet spot the US
was almost 90% white because of the
restrictive immigration laws that had
been in place since 1924 and that was
the heyday when you know kind of
Americans were going to the moon
you know when you know when Leave It to
Beaver was on TV in which people were
moving to the suburbs and you know life
was calm and life was good and that kind
of Cold War America so that is kind of
their idealized version now historians
have shown that things were never quite
like that you know and we've always been
a kind of more diverse to mix country
than that but indeed I think you're
right I mean there's there's two sides
to that coin right indeed well Alex
Minister in the book is proud boys and
the white ethno state how the alt-right
is warping the American imagination we
will put a link to this at majority dot
F M thank you so much for your time
today I really appreciate it thank you
so much for all your questions the magic
back
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut you
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
the rubber bands
brakes hissing I love sweet ride
[Music]
Jeter takes you yeah
[Music]
[Music]
