[Music]
this book came out of dog-whistle
politics
I mean maybe well tell us how and maybe
also what what it requires is just a
reminder of what you were talking about
in the context of dog-whistle politics
so the book dog-whistle politics is
about the use of coded racial appeals in
American politics seems like even though
alien side and majority doing things
silent majority American heartland all
of these on the one hand trigger
racist stereotypes and on the other hand
allow Paul kisser
to deny that they had any intention to
do that at all that was a book in 2014
that really said this has been happening
for 50 years and then Donald Trump
effectively reads my book of critique as
somehow how to angel gets himself
elected precisely by using dog-whistle
politics so it was a moment for me of
recognizing we need to go beyond simply
analyzing what they're doing and we
really need to figure out how to fight
back against dog whistling and I knew by
then that Republicans in order to hone
these racially divisive but
superficially colorblind messages that
they used focus groups they use
poll testing these communications
experts so I resolved to do the same
thing I connected up with a great
communication specialist we hired some
fabulous pollsters we ran a two-year
research project and the aim was to see
how do we explain to the American voter
that racism is being used as at the
reading conquer weapon and that when we
come together that's when we can all win
okay so you basically adopted I guess
the the tact the the sort of the
methodology of the write on some level
to fashion a message that both included
race and class in some respects right on
the right I mean they're not ignoring
class they're just fusing race in class
some way that that that I guess triggers
for lack of a better word there their
voters and if you could do just well if
you're speaking on a headset just keep
it in the headset in one location great
so so III think that's right I think
it's very important to understand that
on the right there is a consistent story
about race government and class and the
story that the right is always telling
it and I wasn't clear this is an
underlying story this is like the
skeleton of the messages they
communicate they will almost never say
it in precisely these terms but you'll
recognize it they'll say listen you know
yato not a worry about lazy people you
ought to worry about dangerous criminal
people you are worried about violent
people and underneath that is you ought
to worry about people of color and then
they segue to a second part which is to
say and you can't trust government
because government is actually causing
these undeserving people with welfare
government is throwing open the borders
government is refusing to control these
lawless criminals and so this is the
third point you oughta trust yourself to
the marketplace it's really the market
that's your salvation now if you you
know you could have backup for that in
this is a story well this is the story
of undocumented immigrants going on
welfare or getting hospital services
this is the claim that we need
businessmen to run the country like a
business because the market produces
fair outcomes this is a the idea that
the market produces fair outcomes is a
highly racialized story it says brown
and black people are poor because they
deserve to be poor there's something
fundamentally wrong with them and the
market recognizes that and in turn it
says anybody who works hard and is a
decent honest person the sort of
stereotype of what it means to be white
those people will succeed now of course
a lot of people don't succeed in the
marketplace and this creates a lot of
a lot of bitterness a lot of confusion a
lot of resentment and so you get this
wild phenomena where people are
struggling in the marketplace because
the jobs aren't there that the the
economy shift that the punches have gone
away but the hate government didn't heat
well sir the heat of the Affordable Care
Act the very sorts of programs they
would help them in an economy that's not
working for regular folks but they hate
it because they're stupid a story that
says those are handouts to undeserving
people of color you know it's
fascinating there's a but there's two
there's two things that strike me one is
that the relationship between in that
story between government and the free
market it and I'm not I'm not equate
abut but structurally it seems similar
to me is sort of the way that white
supremacists use Jews to explain why
black people may have achieved more than
they have in certain instances like
there is a there's an interest there
there's an interloper in this equation
and that in in in the context that
you're talking about its government and
its government is is what is tipping the
scales and why they're suffering on some
level because it is allowing the
undeserving to achieve when a
marketplace a free market would just
make sure that everything was right the
the other thing that strikes me is a
piece I read by Monica Potts in the New
York Times just yesterday I think about
Arkansas and the the title of it escapes
me at the moment but it very much talks
about this dynamic where you have a
people who could be helped by government
and they they do not even want this help
from government they they don't they are
it's in the land of self defeat they
they're suspicious of people who want to
come and do material benefits for them
because they just have that much
distrust of government broadly speaking
not that they won't deliver it but that
they will deliver it yes no I think
that's exactly right and what we need to
do is we need to back up and take a
historical perspective we need to
understand that a hundred years ago in
the age of the robber baron the you know
the big industry and factories the
Titans of the economy were telling
people you're on your own
you don't need Union you don't need
government the real main provides for
himself and negotiates his own contracts
and and of course it was all yes you
know you can't stand up to the power of
money without organizing people that's
that's just the fundamental fount of
social life then you get the depression
and you see what we do with a large
swath of the society out of work losing
their homes farm values plummeting and
people turn around and say this this is
know my poverty my fact that I'm hungry
affected I can't take care of my kids
it's not because I'm not trying hard
it's not a it's not a matter of
individual fault this is this is the way
the economy's been structured and what
the government's doing and so for the
next 30 or 40 years we are this large
look at this long New Deal in which
people come on my own
you're kidding me the forces arrayed
against me are too big I'm actually
connected with everybody else and we
want to make sure government works for
us that was the dominant ethos of the
New Deal that was a dominant ethos among
right so the really important question
is what produced the sort of ethos Potts
was reporting on in that in that essay
you're talking about in the land of
celibacy what produces new ethos which
said I can't trust government
government's against me I really am on
my own and one of the things that she
said article is so interested a people
are moving towards this extreme social
isolation this extreme individualism
there's not helping their neighbors they
fear and distrust their neighbors they
don't they don't want anybody around
memory what what produced that shift
because you
is a big shift the natural about it it
wasn't there it's died vertically
opposed to the dominant consensus among
whites for 40 years the consensus by the
way that build the largest expansion of
the middle class in the history of the
world and that's where we come back to
the role of dog-whistle politics the
titans of industry then the new version
the goldwater's and the Ronald Reagan
General Electric in the heritage of the
Koch brothers they funded a story that
said we're not all in this together
because some people are violent and some
people are undeserving government it's
on the side of those that deserve people
not you dear people of color but hate
government and here just to pick up on a
point you're making it's not just the
government is the interloper government
is the main enemy in the narrative of
the right government is the main enemy
and what happens when most people think
governments the main enemy it makes it
much easier for the few and the wealthy
to hijack government for their own
purposes so I want to I want to pivot to
to the work that you did in terms of
like finding a you know a message that
would compete with this one but but but
to what extent and this you know it
certainly comes through in that and that
sa because it's about Van Buren County
in Arkansas and to what extent are we
talking about I mean and and I and I
think it's quite clear the the messaging
that has gone on but I wonder if there
was certain segments of the population
that was more susceptible to this
message at that time in the 80s and you
know these people are I think even more
meleager certainly than they were in the
early 80s I mean there's a whole host of
different things that have contributed
to that but one of the things that has
contributed to it and also I think and I
wonder from your perspective if it's the
case that it also set the context for
people to be more receptive to that that
that message you're on their own
individualism
there are forces out there that want to
take stuff from you that government is
is you know giving them largesse and
whatnot is the the rural urban divide
that the nature of the people who stay
in a small town not saying all of them
but the nature and the desires and the
ambitions or the perspectives of people
who stay in a small town in rural
America versus those people from that
town who say like I want to go to the
city for whatever reason that they they
want to go to the city has self sort of
sorted people in such a way that the
people who remain in those rural areas
are much more susceptible to this
message because also the people who
would not be susceptible to that message
have moved out already and so there's no
competing narrative that exists in these
rural areas I think that that's a
dynamic but I also think that we that we
can miss ourselves if we emphasize
dispositional elements or temperamental
differences though they're very dynamic
in which you have commentators on the
Left who purport to explain you know
different sorts of brain different ways
where why are different fears or fear
versus curiosity you know okay I think
that there's some role for that but
another way to think about this is the
sorts of fears and the sorts of
anti-social isolationism and alienation
that is no dominant among Republican
voters that used to be associated with
the John Birch Society you know five six
eight percent of the population the most
extreme the most paranoid if you wanted
to explain Birchers I'd say okay if
we're talking five or six or eight
percent of the population let's look at
psychological the factors what we're
going on with these folks but when you
want to explain half the population and
you want to explain a shift that
occurred relatively rapidly that is
mid-1960s
landslide election for Lyndon Johnson
when he promises a war on poverty 1972
landslide election for Richard Nixon
when he promises to turn the Democratic
tide and protect the silent majority
does not psychological factors that's
not complemental differences it's a
major shift in the cultural and
political story that people are telling
themselves and so well I think that
these dispositional elements are there I
want us to focus on the way in which a
story of racial conflict government
betrayal a dependence on market actors
that is purposefully produced with the
implication that it can be purposefully
defeated ok interesting and so and and I
guess I should just say though that I'm
not necessarily talking even necessarily
about the these predispositions as much
as I'll so I'm talking about the sort of
the the fact of the matter is if you
live in a rural area and and even it
doesn't even necessarily have to be in a
rural area I grew up in a city that I
think was extremely suspicious of
outsiders the second biggest city in New
England but extremely suspicious of
outsiders and outside elements and etc
etc and it's and I've lived in small
rural areas and that is very a very
prominent sense and I don't know that
it's psychological as much as yeah high
context of where you live in you just
not excited that's right and I good the
key to me there is segregation the
physical spacial social segregation what
we see in our research is that the
people who are most racially fearful
live in the areas in which there are the
fewest people of color when people are
socially isolated from others it becomes
much easier for them to be fearful of
these others for them to understand and
view others almost exclusively through
through racist stereotypes it's when you
get to know people and you get to
appreciate
that cultural differences linguistic
differences differences in skin color or
in religion don't make people
fundamentally scary or threatening
that's when you that's when you can
actually immunize people against
political stories that say don't worry
about the rich and powerful worry about
people who don't quite look like you
okay so let's talk about how one does
that to a certain extent and so when you
set out and I know you did this in
conjunction with some folks from demos
set out to sort of determine what kind
of narrative you can that that that cuts
through this this now predisposition
that significant portion of our our
country forty five percent maybe have in
terms of this this story they tell
themselves give us some examples of how
you you develop that I mean I know
Indiana there was a you did a poll in
Indiana what maybe let's start there
just a bullet we need to depress your
audience just a little further before we
sit there is my audience like the best
so on yet in one way we're talking about
Trump voters but when we set out to
figure out how powerful these messages
were the first thing we did was we
tested essentially the sort of
racialized rhetoric the Trump uses and
what we found is if you have a message
about people from terrorist countries
who wishes harm or people from countries
who've entered illegally and don't
respect our laws the sort of things that
we understand as racist dog whistle when
we tested that message we found that
that message was convincing to the
majority of Republicans and the majority
of Democrats and the majority of African
Americans and the majority of Latinos
that is once you take the highly
racialized narrative that the
is telling and you switch it into code
so that you're not using expressly
racial terms that story of threat um
from brown and black people is actually
convincing to a wide swath Americans the
majority Republicans dams
african-americans Latinos there's a lot
of power there so part of what we're
doing is we're not just this isn't a
project justices okay how do we win over
Republican voters this is a project that
says how do we bring over about sixty
percent of the American public who fall
into a persuadable category of both
being susceptible to racial fear but
also be committed to to positive visions
of people of color and government and
just to be clear the majority of African
Americans and the majority of Latinos
are in that persuadable middle okay
and so I guess that's depressing in the
sense that we're we're all susceptible
to these these narratives that I guess
trigger some of our fears and so what so
let's move let's make that pivot what
where did you start in terms of of
language that you are a narrative that
that that was effective with all of
these folks what we started with was the
insight that if we accuse Republicans or
Donald Trump of being a racist that
deepens the divide because it
strengthens the narrative that this is
white people against people of color if
instead we start with the point that
racism is being used as a
divide-and-conquer weapon against all of
us that created room for inclusion now
it was very important to make to take
the next step and not simply say they're
trying to divide us but to really
affirmatively insist we want to come
together they're trying to divide us
across race lines we want to
come together across race lines white
brown black whatever color whatever
national origin would want to come
together because when we come together
that we can take this country this
country back that turned out to be the
culmination of naming division but
explaining it as a weapon of corrupt
billionaires against all of us and then
affirmatively saying let's come together
when we come together across race lines
that's how we mate it's a country that
works for all of us that turned out to
be a very very powerful messages it
beats a dog whistle racial fear message
it was also more powerful than standard
democratic messages that either called
out the Republicans for being racist or
tried to avoid talking about race
altogether I mean in some ways wasn't
that Obama's message there's no red
America there's no blue America you know
that and I don't know who the day is in
this instance I don't know that he was
was so explicit about billionaires and
this and that but there was there was
there were times he would sort of hint
at some type of populism but wasn't that
exactly the the message it was
potentially his message I think had he
made it his message had a very different
president seeing a very different
legislative slate of legislative
accomplishments listen so Obama comes in
and he says let's all come together hope
and change but at the same time that
he's doing that he's suppressing two
critical messages one that while we're
all coming together that the reason we
need to come together is because we're
losing the class war that there's a
class war that's going on it's been
going on for 50 years and we're losing
and if we don't come together we can't
fight back and Obama simply was not
interested in making that point and the
other thing about Obama is he said let's
all come together as a way to bury the
race conversation as a way to sidestep
it to say I'm not going to talk about it
and it's one of the one of the strange
marks of the Obama years that
Obama talked about racial division in
the United States less than any
Democratic president since FDR Obama did
this sort of we're all in this together
and I was a soar as a kind of cliche
let's let's hold hands where
everything's fine we're just going to
march into a future but I'm not going to
tell you who the enemy is and I'm not
going to tell you what sorts of
divisions are being used against us it's
all going to be good that works in 2008
in the depths of a recession and given
the sort of the calamity of the of the
Bush administration it worked last well
in 2012 Obama's remarkable for having a
warren reelection with less support than
his initial election and it simply
failed for Hillary Clinton we want
people want a story that says we need to
come together because there's a class
war going on and they're using division
against us and we want to come together
in a way that names racism expressly as
a problem that we have to overcome
because we see that racism tearing this
country apart and we want it name do we
want to challenge it we don't want to
hide from it anymore and that those are
the two crucial differences with Obama's
message theme class war and name racism
as the weapon that's being used against
all of us and cross racial solidarity as
the reynold forward not only for racial
justice but for economic fairness for
everybody of every color it seems like
the message has that the class war
message is a non passive voice one in
other words we know who we name who in
in this message whose waging this class
war right the billionaire class we have
made I think other people would say
maybe capitalists but for the ease of
understanding and I guess I would
imagine you know for just like
colloquialism is billionaires wealthy
greedy people but what do we say about
racism I mean how is it that the class
war has a perpetrator but racism doesn't
is that just a strategic racism no
racism has a perpetrator Donald Trump
Tucker Carlson Sean Hannity Rush
Limbaugh all of the millionaire's
shilling for billionaires by stoking
racist hatred in our country and we
should be clear I mean it in a way that
Elizabeth Warren says FoxNews hate for
profit the hate is especially racist
hatred they are stoking racist hatred
for profit right and it's very important
to name that as what's going on there
are prominent people who are making a
mint by getting us to hate each other
and to fight each other along race lines
while we're at it we might throw Russia
and Russia spots into the mix in it you
know in one sense it's kind of a joke in
another sense it's deadly serious
Russia understood that if it wanted to
help Donald Trump win election in 2016
the way to do that was to stoke racial
acrimony through social media in the
United States in fact here's how I would
put this it's one of the most important
insights of this dog was a politics
story to recognize racism isn't
something that just floats out there in
the sort of this miasma or the culture
doors racism just a vestige of hundreds
of years of discrimination both of those
are true but those are insufficient ways
of understanding racism racism is as
powerful and as pervasive today because
some of society's most powerful most
wealthy segments a profit for themselves
in funding it and it sounds dramatic
until you think well okay Koch brothers
petrochemical industry how do they
protect their interests how do they
block us from enacting in any
environmental legislation partly they do
it through the usual hire a bunch of
lobbyists partly they do it through
doing a bunch of fake science but in the
main they do it by funding groups like
the Tea Party groups that organize
people around stories of racists here
and resentment Vickey or the Mercer's
who make their fortune on Wall Street
what are they fund Breitbart and Steve
Bannon who organize in and and rile up
voters through racist stereotypes we are
living in a world now in which racism is
the main weapon of economic Titans
against the rest of us and how receptive
are those on the right to hearing
Limbaugh's name or Hannity's name or
Carlson's name because I would imagine
and that that becomes then they start to
where they were like wait a second it's
one thing I don't like the cokes I don't
know who they are this guy Mercer
whoever even Donald Trump I think you
know we can argue that he's sometimes I
don't like him on Twitter I'm doing this
is my conservative I'm inhabiting a
conservative now but but wait a second
rush I've been listening to for 20 years
Sean Hannity is my guy talk Carlson I
don't like how he's a little uppity but
he's still pretty pretty to
straight-shooter I mean what happens
when you introduced them as being the
purveyors of this how how receptive our
people are are we talking about people
there's a limited number of these people
on the right who are receptive to this
message and we hit them there so when we
segment at the American electorate we
found that there was about 23% of a
national electorate electorate were
consistently progressive about 18% of
the National electorate were
consistently conservative was in
reactionaries a better term we're not
going to reach that 18% but that left 59
percent who are toggling in between and
those are the people that we can reach
with
message that says they're trying to
divide us let's let's come together
together we can make if the country we
want the same message also plays really
well with the progressive base and this
is an important insight we don't just a
message separately to reach people who
are in the in this persuadable voter
segment or who are democratic base
voters likewise we don't have to message
separately to reach whites and people of
color this message of cross racial
solidarity was the most popular message
with both whites and people of color
but that's that that's the strength of
this approach it is a unifying message
not only in its substance hey we need to
come together but it's a unifying
message in the sense that it is the most
popular message with all of the
important segments of the Democratic
base who well before I get to that
question I just want to talk about that
that poll in Indiana and and the one the
polling that you did in Minnesota
because both those sort of stick out for
me in terms of you know sort of very
definitional as to this era so what we
wanted to do is we wanted to figure out
how these sorts of messages would play
in very different states and the pattern
was consistent though we survey in swing
states like Indiana there was much
greater polarization you had yet people
who are more consistently reactionary
people were more consistently part of
the progressive base but even in a place
like Indiana we found a pattern in which
a message of cross racial solidarity
worked it was the strongest message that
a message of economic populism that
tried to stay silent about race would
work with the Democratic base but would
not work as well with persuadable and
that a message that really challenged
racism but in this sort of
White's against non-white scenes of
challenging racism that was a message
that performed the most poorly coming
back to Minnesota even there was
research that was done by a group faith
in Minnesota than it was we were drawing
on a research they did their own
independent canvassing project and it
was really stunning research they
started by showing people flyers that
was essentially copied from a Republican
flyer there was an actual distribution
and people do you agree or do you
disagree and they found very high levels
of agreement with this Republican flyer
again including that they did it with
whites in rural Minnesota and people of
color in urban Minnesota from very high
levels of agreement when we then came
back to these same folks oh I'm sorry
about that
we articularly what that what that flyer
said the flyer was the typical
dog-whistle message that says we need to
keep our community safe we need to
protect our people first my opponent
wants sanctuary cities you know
businessmen are what makes this country
great right that that's that sort of
well basically the Republican themes a
few of them centered on economics and
trusting business but most of them
promoting a narrative of threatening and
undeserving people threatening
undeserving people and implicitly people
of color that message was very popular
okay and when we came there go ahead
sorry yeah so when we showed the same
people a message that said we all want
something similar but but but our
opponents are trying to divide us when
they divide us we all lose when we come
together that's when we can get the
things we need like health care and good
jobs in a sort of a beautiful Minnesota
not only was that message popular across
the board it was actually a winning
message among whites who initially
agreed with the dog with a racial fear
message and this is a very important
point because I think a
all of us have this sense that hey if
anybody agrees with these racialized
messages against immigrants and
sanctuary cities and all of them they're
just racist as if that's one thing and
explains their whole world outlook and
yes there is a lot of susceptibility to
racist stereotypes but these same folks
also can be pulled in a racially
progressive direction if they understand
how their racial ideals are the route
forward for themselves in their families
interesting well who do you who do you
perceive in our political world today
who is delivering or what people I
should say are delivering something if
not this message something close to this
message do you see every I think you is
every Democratic candidate let's put it
this way is every Democratic candidate
similarly situated to deliver this
message are there some that are already
doing it
I mean who out there is modeling this
well and whose modeling it poorly that's
it's a really great question so I want
to distinguish this message for
something that is common among
Democratic candidates many Democratic
candidates say we need economic populism
and we need racial justice we should do
both but notice that they're essentially
separate messages and it's not clear why
we should do both in it in some ways
these messages seem to be in tension
because when Democrats say they want to
do racial justice that sounds to a lot
of people here that through the
Republican frame that says Democrats
only care about people of color this
message is a race fused class message
that says we want economic populism and
that means that we have to deal with
racial division because that's what's
stopping us and we want racial justice
and that means we need to deal with a
multiracial we need to build a
multiracial coalition for economic
property to them because it's these dog
whistle politicians who are at the root
of some of the most severe violence
against
color that is if you want racial justice
you need a multiracial coalition to
defeat dog was appalled do you want
economic populism you need a multiracial
coalition to defeat dog whistle politics
these whatever your agenda these are
fused now from that point of view who
are the Democrat in democratic
candidates say this you got us and you
got to step back and say what is their
position on economic populism because
the idea that there is a class war that
that's why we need to come together
they're not central to making sure that
this new approach to unity really works
people need to understand what's in it
for them or alternately why they can
expect others to join this coalition so
if you have candidates who I want to shy
away from the idea that the system is
rigged they're going to have a much
harder time with the statement likewise
you need candidates workable talking
about race if you have candidates who
don't have a good history of talking
about race don't get it don't really
understand it to be perfectly frank see
racial justice is something they need to
do for some particular constituents but
it's not fair thing they're going to
have a hard time with this message you
read that the strongest candidates for
this sort of approach are candidates who
understand there's been a class war
going on for 50 years we need to rewrite
the rules to help all of us and all of
us really means all of us and that means
things like racial justice and and
repair reparations those are essential
to making us into the sort of society
which everybody has a decent chance to
thrive and now those candidates are in
the best position to say and these two
goals are linked economic populism and a
society in which people of every color
have the best opportunity to thrive
those who are in severance separably
link and so who I mean who do you see is
doing that I mean I the to me the sort
of the most natural person who comes to
when I think about that is frankly is
AOC on some level and then you know I
mean just in terms of American politics
that the but but but maybe you have a
different sense but but who know I think
that that's right I think that there are
people like a Reverend William barber
across racial moving North Carolina and
Alice or rejuvinated poor people's
moving across the country there are
folks who sometimes they get this
exactly right sometimes they they drift
just a little bit for someone like ALC I
would say a lot of times she's really on
this this idea of intentional division
and class Warren we need to come
together but sometimes she moves towards
that we need to denounce Trump for being
a bigot over being an anti-semite side
and yes I understand he is a bigot yes I
understand he's an anti-semite but I
also understand labeling him that
actually helps him because what it does
is it deepens his story that this is
fundamentally a racial conflict between
war and racial groups and implicitly he
represents white folks that's sort of
like try not to think of an elephant
type of theory right like as soon as
like as soon as you you you you name
that dynamic it immediately redounds to
his story it confirms his story it
confirms a story because again remember
the the vast majority of people do not
hear what Trump is saying as racist when
he says we need to shut the border
against people come from terrorist
countries who mean us harm there is a
set of us who are like yo that's racist
that's not the vast majority of
America's most vast majority of
Americans say oh yeah we need to protect
ourselves so when the left turns around
and says hey Trump you're a bigot for
saying most people say to themselves
well I believe that am i a bigot are you
calling me a bigot
right right there that's when progresses
loose it's much it's much more effective
to stay consistent and to say Trump's a
racist in the sense he's a strategic
racist he's a carnival barker he's
running a con and racism says con hey I
want to be crystal clear I am NOT saying
don't call Trump a racist call him a
racist but make sure you your you're
clear about what kind of racist he is
right you say he crazy you're saying
make sure that the the critique is that
he's using racism as a tool and labeling
him is secondary as long as raised as
racism is being centered as a tool that
is creating a class division and he's
doing this on the on the behest or in
service of those who control the economy
I think that's right so so it's like
that's exactly right make it clear that
racism is a weapon against all of us now
it's also important to make it clear
that we're not all getting hurt the same
that when racism is used as a way to win
elections you end up with government
that that specifically targets
communities of color mass incarceration
mass deportation mass surveillance
systemic neglect that's what you get
when the country elects politicians who
campaign on the basis of racist messages
so we're not getting hurt the same way
but we are all getting hurt because
we're all getting her it does create the
possibility of a cross racial movement
to drive out of politics these
politicians who keep winning by
providing us
you didn't mention Bernie Sanders there
what where do you think do you think
that he's not delivering that that type
of message about racism as a as a
mechanism to to to fuel a class war I
think that he sometimes does that and
some but but more so so sometimes Bernie
will say Trump is using racism to
scapegoat people and and I think that
that's exactly right
when he says that but very often he
defaults to a worldview that says
economic inequality is the fundamental
problem and then he'll say and so you
can see that when people are suffering
politicians will scapegoat and and and
and you start to see the way in which
the race part is secondary to the story
he's telling and it becomes even more
secondary when he says let's let's let's
deal with economic inequality first that
will disproportionately help people of
color because they're disproportionately
poor so my economic populism is really
racial justice right this is the answer
he gives in terms of reparations he says
well support reparations but if we do
all of the things that I say we should
do in terms of economic populist if
that's going to help lots of people of
color and again you get this sense from
Bernie's like racism second and the
mistake is to not recognize the economic
inequality in the United States of the
sort we're living in 2019 is directly a
result of the power of racial division
and that that racial division began to
divide folks break the New Deal
coalition and create popular support for
rule by the rich when people were doing
fine
it wasn't economic calamity that led to
scapegoating to lead to people to look
around for someone to blame
it was Republican politicians in the
1960s when most rights were doing great
having come off of that the long you
deal with them when they're doing fine
to say so raise your worried that
government is favoring these other
undeserving racism is the sword wielded
by the billionaire's not the shield when
there's some type of you know response
to what you've done to us I like the
metaphor I would just say it's both
right it's both shield and sword it
becomes a really powerful feedback loop
that they use it as a sword to divine
this economic hardship ensues people
look around for someone to blame
don't blame us you should blame those
poor people
those poor brown black people it becomes
this feedback loop and the only way out
of it is really to say this is being
used against all of us people power is
the only response to the power of big
money
Ian Haney Lopes the book is merged left
fusing race and class winning elections
and saving America folks we will put a
link to this book on majority dot F M it
has all the obviously the the data and
the to sort of back up but what we've
been talking about here Ian
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you it's a
great conversation all right folks
interesting stuff very interesting stuff
you know the first miscegenation laws in
the u.s. were created as a response to
Bacon's Rebellion wherein poor white
indentured servants and black slaves
rose up against the governor together
and it scared the out of the ruling
class there you go racism is a Buju
ideology designed to divide the working
class there you go I was gonna say I
think this is Jamie's he doesn't say you
won't say capital it'll say billionaires
but we the same thing I mean the just a
one is a little bit less theoretical
one's a little bit more colloquial yeah
sure yeah I would only add that in
addition to Elections we need
