[Music]
there is a been a you know for a long
time we used to ask about the Bush
administration stupid or evil and it's
also possible at times where it's both
now like let's take for instance like
ben shapiro here ben shapiro
had this to say on his show and this is
one of those perfect examples of like
does ben shapiro not like could he be
does he just simply lack the integrity
or does easy to talk without any
awareness of where what he said in the
past like he just throw stuff off so
carelessly and make these pronunciations
because there's so much he sticks his
finger up in the wind and and the
currents on the conservative side are so
cohesive that you just you just got to
do that quickly you know which way the
wind is blowing you blurt it out boom
yeah you move up a rung in their little
social you know metrics and they get
they get more funding and that's what he
does and that's why i can't remember
anything he said in the past or if he
just has no integrity and maybe i'm
saying the same thing like because he
has no integrity doesn't have to think
about what he said in the past none of
its relevant and that's what allows him
to do this it's it's it really is a
genuine mystery to me but it's almost
like on a daily basis that the further
this guy goes in his career the more he
produces in terms of an output the more
he exposes himself as a total joke this
is a guy that they called the the the
the prince philosopher of the right or
coca-cola
yeah whatever it is i mean like honestly
this is how shallow their their
integrity and intellect is here is bench
p row and he could actually be a fairly
smart guy but i think that because he
lacks such integrity that there's no
rigor here he is making what is not even
like demonstrable is almost too weak of
a word
say a demonstrable untruth it's like
sending up an alley-oop where you pass
the ball to the guy and then he dunks on
you it's it's here is bench para exactly
Republicans impeached impeached Bill
Clinton in the 1990s they never made a
move to impeach Barack Obama despite the
myriad scandals that cropped up during
his administration I'm not aware of a
single major Republican always say I won
just go back and set the table here he's
talking about like the Trump derangement
syndrome or something he was flat if
they'd ever had Pete support um now I
don't know what the myriad of scandals
were that he was talking about like I
really honestly don't but just the
myriad the Marriott's edram understand
we're talking about a president and
Donald Trump where he's 20 maybe more
White House officials have had to leave
because of like inspector in general
reports because of Criminal
Investigations I mean there's nothing
even that remotely you could go back and
add up various 2-time presidencies and
not get anything even remotely close to
this Trump derangement syndrome but
that's what you have but but listen to
where he's going with this because this
is really stunning you know I mean like
we're talking this is not ancient
history he's commenting on Bach Obama
despite the myriad scandals that cropped
up during his administration I'm not
aware of a single major Republican
figure who said that Barack Obama was
not the legitimate President of the
United States despite the fact that
Democrats have claimed that George W
Bush was illegitimate they've claimed
that Donald Trump is illegitimate so
this is just not true and doubts about
Barack Obama's belief system came from
Barack Obama being an extraordinarily
radical figure Barack Obama said he
wanted to fundamentally transform the
nature of the country that's a pretty
radical statement all right well let's
put aside how radical of a president
Barack Obama was the idea that there was
no what did he say uh there was no major
Republican major Republican figure who
questioned Obama's presidency
it wasn't until someone pointed out
online like hey you left out Donald
from who was one of the top birth
certificate truthers in the country if
not the top birth certificate truther
and he's a republican president now and
so shapiro goes on to twitter to defend
this because like i say like they don't
have they are blessed with a lack of
integrity that also gives them a a lack
of like sort of examining anything
that's going on it's a very bizarre sort
of trait that they have and then you can
retreat into pedantry yeah like oh wait
a second do you use an apostrophe there
that doesn't count but he goes on he
says Trump was a fringe character for
nearly the entirety of the Obama
presidency he wasn't a Republican figure
he puts it in quotes until he ran now I
don't know what repeated until he was
aggressively sought the yeah we went I
don't know what Republican figure the
word figure means right but that this is
the key like I'm gonna use words that
could like that really are defined by me
right like a better dinner that are open
until he ran you can't name a single
major elected Republican official during
Obama's presidency who challenged the
legitimacy of his presidency okay so
what Ben Shapiro has done allow me to
get a little bit bench perrolli is he's
placed postulated to two assertions one
is that Donald Trump was a fringe
character he wasn't a Republican figure
until he ran well as you know he ran in
2015
here is ben shapiro tweeting in 2011 why
I backed Donald Trump on the bench
bureau at big 8 10 am calm back in april
10th 2011 tea cot tea party that is a
tweet of ben Shapiro's talking about his
radio show why he backs donald trump in
the 2012 presidential
see undeclared Donald Trump who was not
even a Republican figure now by figure I
meant like someone who weighed over said
I don't know what figure beads but he
clearly was enough of a Republican
figure the bench Pierrot would dedicate
an episode of his show to backing him
but maybe that's just a one-off
oh except for two days later the magic
of Donald Trump written by Ben Shapiro
in Town Hall maybe he thought he was
gonna run as an independent this is
what's so funny is that Ben Shapiro does
not even have like his whole brand is
built on the notion of me first he's
like part of this weird kid conservative
thing I was like the Republican
obsession with having like odd teenagers
say their talking points but he
basically has a brand that's built on
being a thinking person conservative by
like overwhelming college students right
forums no and let me finish here on this
Breitbart whole career break of course
with this it's absurd in reality the
birth certificate is specifically geared
towards certain political ends for Trump
this is him writing about first it's
obviously calculated to attract the most
anti Obama segments of the conservative
base indeed and Azaria conceded if
primary polling is any indicator second
is designed to force Obama into
defending his character Trump has
already suggested that at his best Obama
refuses to come clean to the American
people finally it shows Obama that Trump
is nominated the campaign will not be a
McCain style love fest he's writing this
in 2011 understand he's writing this in
2011 in promotion of Donald Trump to run
against Barack Obama in explaining why
this works for Republicans is Donald
Trump the best Republican candidate for
president out there it would be tough to
argue otherwise he writes this guy
claims he's not even a Republican figure
until 2015 he's got all the makings of a
breakout star he's got bravado and the
cash to back it up if he really runs he
won't have any trouble finding support
it says he puts it the Obama
administration's worst nightmare who can
argue with okay so let's go back to the
original tweet
that that ben shapiro had where he made
two separate assertions we have already
established that assertion number one
Trump was a fringe character for nearly
the entirety the Obama presidency was a
lie he wasn't a Republican figure until
he ran well of course ben shapiro in
2011 certainly thought otherwise
but that of course was only five years
earlier from the time that he ran then
the second assertion that bench bureau
makes is that there is you can't name a
single major elected republican official
during obama's presidency who challenged
the legitimacy of his presidency well
let's go through it shall we do you have
those other tweets you have the mark
meadows video where mark meadows and you
know who mark meadows is right one of
the top Republicans that the the chair
the freedom caucus give the mark meadow
stuff we will pull that up right worth
there is a lot of folks apparently who
were Republican leaders who questioned
Donald Trump I mean excuse me
Barack Obama's legitimacy as president
let's start with Mark Meadows back in
2012 do we have that video Brendan was
in that thread yep here it is sorry
sorry
he's also moving the goal posts right to
try to define to get out of being a
Republican figure hold on I'm sorry say
again
he's also moving the goal post to try to
define Trump out of being a quote
unquote Republican figure when he
defines it as a major elected Republican
official right like you don't have to be
an elected official to be a Republican
for there's no there's absolutely no
version of this where it's in that
thread the ben shapiro thread right here
scroll down people came in and put it in
there go ahead here's mark meadows so it
seemed like this was settled so it
seemed like this was settled during the
during the the meeting what are you
learning now yeah anderson certainly
some new scrutiny over things that mark
meadows has said in the past this is
first and foremost something that he
said seven years ago back in 2012 about
then president barack obama it was
something at the time that was quite
controversial it was reported on by many
outlets but certainly given that very
emotional back-and-forth and
high-profile back and forth at the Kohen
hearing today it certainly is getting a
fresh look today here's first what Marc
Mero said back in 2012 what we're going
to do is take back our country 2012 is
the time that we're going to send mr.
Obama home wherever it is we also had
multiple US senators question Barack
Obama's legitimacy as president I'm
trying to find this thing now I can't
find it in the goddamn notes we had
Shelby from Alabama mark meadows there
were dozens dozens of these people who
had done it so number two on his
assertion is is also wrong
Trump was a Republican figure and there
were plenty of elected Republicans who
also failed Richard Shelby who was a
prominent US senator shut up in 2009
well his father was Kenyan and he said
he was born in Hawaii but I haven't seen
any birth certificate you have to be
born in America to be President he told
constituents that I would think the
senior Republican on the Intelligence
Committee I mean there's there were
there were so many who else there was
others I had that list I don't know
where it went where is it here we go I
can't see it I don't know where you were
you're sending me oh all right I can't
get at it and I can't see where oh here
we go
marsha blackburn louie gohmert break
Ferren halt tom coburn james inhofe
jason Chaffetz Sarah Palin Michael
Burgess Allen West half those people ran
for president as a Republican so to be
fair none of them raised on no
Republican figures as Trump you know
what that my favorite thing is is when
you watch Ben Shapiro being fed his
lunch to him what he does after that is
he starts tweeting maniacally about many
other topics to get as to bury this
stuff as far as he can in his timeline
but the idea that you know like it yes
here is in Las Vegas where Mitt Romney
accepts the endorsement from Donald
Trump to this country that we all now
pause it now wait a second I also want
to just preface it with this if you look
in the corner of the television there's
three letters there the letters are PB s
there are plenty of times where a
politician goes around and gets
endorsements from people that barely
make the local
News but when Mitt Romney went to kiss
the ring of this non Republican figure
apparently who Ben Shapiro wanted to be
president in 2012 it made it onto PBS
he's smart he's sharp he's not going to
allow bad things to continue to happen
to this country that we all love so
Governor Romney go out and get them you
can do it there are some things that you
just can't imagine happening in your
life this is one of them being in Donald
Trump's magnificent hotel and having his
endorsement is a delight I'm so honored
and pleased to have his endorsement and
of course I'm looking for the
endorsement of the people of Nevada yeah
there you go
got a president who is that guy what is
he doing there
you would think this re hard is any part
of the resistance in the Senate hey we
heard Mitt Romney's name mention
anything right no I was actually gonna
say I was actually saying in the context
of 2012 why would you have such a
bizarre obscure non Republican
affiliated figures for such a major
endorsement so Ben Machir a ben shapiro
takes it again on the chin I can't wait
for the next New York Times think piece
on his we get another profile ben
shapiro my god it's brilliant
