[Music]
we are back this is the fun half ladies
and gentlemen let's start with this clip
of Howard Schultz shall we because this
is pretty fun this guy I think you need
to this guy is going to I think he's
gonna run despite the fact that he just
you there's no way put this way there's
no way a month ago he's sitting with his
consultants Steve Schmidt Bill Burton
who knows who else and incidentally
we're talking Steve Schmidt and Bill
Burton they're getting like not just you
know they're getting Central Park West
apartment money yeah like they're
getting millions of dollars to do this
and Bill Burton used to work for what is
it SDK Knickerbocker bill does know I'm
he's on leave of absence he's the head
here's the funny part of the callee
office this story that came out the
other day where people have been going
after Starbucks and SDK is trying to
convince Democrats and to lay off
Starbucks because it apparently even
though Schultz is no longer there
apparently he's close enough that it's
starting to pinch a little bit it's the
only outcome of this is that liberals
boycott Starbucks that's gonna be
amazing that's gonna be sadly I don't
think it's gonna be the only outcome
because I think this guy's gonna run and
because my point being that for you know
three months ago when he was sitting
around with his incredibly overpaid
consultants there is no way they had a
projection I'm sure they came up with
different scenarios what what things are
gonna look like after we do our rollout
I am convinced that no matter how
diligent they were did they come up with
a projection that would have
covered how badly this rollout went
there's no way they said well it's also
conceivable after all this like 4% of
both parties are interested in you and
independence and independence that that
we know is not going to happen it's not
like you're not you're gonna go on all
these shows and everybody's going to be
like universally panned every
performance look you're gonna be able to
go to places like like Purdue University
at least and you'll give a speech and
people are gonna respond really well to
you in fact here is that speech under
president Daniels the cost of an
education here will be less expensive in
nominal dollars in 2020 than it was in
2012 congratulations you know anytime
used the phrase nominal dollars you're
reaching the height of a rhetorical
power eight years later nominal dollars
much harder for you to get those dhawan
everyone to have the same nominal
dollars in that grand future you know
they're all just you know why the
hesitation of clapping was because it
was like we're all in debt right it was
like thank you Jesus
we're marginally less effed I guess
using terminology that we don't
understand than before thanks yeah and
like we're still experiencing like we're
between those two different points right
instead of leaving this university with
somewhere between sixty and a hundred
and twenty thousand dollars worth of
debt we're gonna be leaving this
University was somewhere between fifty
nine and a hundred nineteen thousand
dollars worth of debt and we common ol
nominal dollars actually Brandon made a
really good point about this though that
like a lot of people like we said last
night when we played it like oh this is
his Jeb Bush moment but it's not because
it's the difference between like a cocky
billionaire schmuck
cuz he's kinda he's saying like come on
like that's good do it versus the like
you know I've been totally beaten down
by life
family and my mom and my brother and I'd
appreciate a clap
so there's yeah he's I think you guys
are just being haters right now it's a
really great example of exactly how
inspiring the centrist message can be
yeah it's super inspiring it's in it and
if you don't get inspired by it we're
gonna demand you do it son American to
not require it son America it's not
American to not be inspired
