so yes I mean this has been going on for
quite some time a couple years now and I
don't think that I know anyone despite
the fact that I also professionally
follow the news that I know anyone in
this country who can actually give me a
comprehensive explanation of what is
going on
my sense is part of the reason for that
is that at any given moment it feels
like and particularly this week it feels
like what's going on with brexit is
constantly changing and having all sorts
of may be expected consequences and
maybe unexpected consequences with the
British government to the politics etc
so give us give us the the the thumbnail
where we've been up to fairly recently I
guess in terms of brexit and then we'll
take it from there
sure yeah I mean you're certainly not
alone in feeling like it's hard to kind
of keep track of this story because
despite the fact as you say as though it
feels like things are changing all the
time what's actually been kind of
frustrating for reporters like me here
is that for a long time nothing has
changed
like consequentially at least we've sort
of been fighting the same battle for a
long time and a lot of the changes that
have been happening have to do with like
things people say and and you know new
deadlines and stuff like that but but
effectively where we are is that treasom
a negotiated a brexit agreement with the
European Union late last year they
agreed to it
and the battle for her up to this point
has been to get enough support for it in
Parliament in the House of Commons and
thus far she's failed to do so she had
two votes well before we get to the
votes she has me sure look just give us
the broad outlines I mean you know what
does she have to negotiate with the EU
to leave the EU and what is it that what
is it in the nature of the
creations make it difficult because I'm
not even sure that people understand
that you know they presume III think
people presume and it's it's if we're
not familiar with British politics in
any in any real meaningful way the
presumption is okay we voted to leave
the EU let's just leave the EU what's
the problem what what is the new go what
what did Teresa may negotiate with the
EU and what were their sort of
limitations on what she could give or
get and then we'll talk about why that's
been such a hard sell domestically sure
yes so basically what this whole thing
has been about
these negotiations about Britain leaving
the EU for the past few years has been
basically the terms of that withdrawal
what it looks like to leave the EU what
it looks like to untangle Britain's 46
year relationship with the largest
trading body in the world
because you know being part of the
European Union means so many things for
British life so it's basically how to
Britain extricate itself from the bloc
so these negotiations have covered
everything from the money that Britain
has committed to the European Union
budget what how much money should it pay
that you to kind of cover it's it's you
know it's it's existing balance so to
speak what to do with things like
citizens rights being part of the EU
means that all Europeans living in EU
countries can live and work freely
across all the 28 member states so what
do you do with the people who live in
Britain who aren't British and what
rights do they get to keep and then the
third and final big thing that these
negotiations covered was what to do with
the Irish border basically the what to
do with the the UK EU border once the UK
leaves and once it leaves the single
market and the customs union which
effectively means when there isn't free
trade going across that border which has
since been invisible how what do you do
with that and how do you maintain peace
on the island of Ireland so despite it
seemingly feeling like a very simple
concept of britain voted to leave them
why don't they just leave there's
actually a lot of loose ends that they
need to tighten up before they do that
and
that's what the last two years have been
about it sort of feels like the
referendum on leaving left a little bit
too much up to the imagination on some
level mm-hmm well yeah cuz I think the
problem was that Britain was always
framed as a sorry but no parent brags it
was always framed as a moment when in
fact it's been a process and I think you
know leave and remain or such open-ended
kind of ideas and I think what we found
throughout this process is that people
across Parliament across the country
have very different ID yes
for what leaving the EU like and tala
Britain should leave the EU and these
last two years have actually been about
kind of having that discussion in that
debate um what's been troubling and
what's kind of been the issue and sort
of the downfall for this government
ultimately is that they didn't have this
debate before they triggered article 50
and started the process of leaving the
EU article 50 is the exit mechanism so
kind of starting the two year process
they didn't come to some sort of
consensus for what they wanted out of
leading that you you and what they
wanted that departure to look like
instead they triggered it two years ago
on Friday and basically then scramble to
try to figure out what it is they wanted
and that's kind of why they're at the
impasse of the right now so to be clear
this this provision 51 is it the exit
provision that is an EU bylaw right and
and and so Britain triggered it and
thought two years would be enough and it
feels like maybe it's not well I mean so
what does if and so Theresa May goes to
the EU and says you know it's basically
working out a divorce of some sort this
is what we're gonna do with the kids
this is what we're I'm going to pay off
these these debts that we we owed but
what is the leverage that the EU has to
negotiate with with Great Britain I mean
I guess it's more is it just a question
of like okay well I mean if you're not
going to pay us
you know what you had committed to
paying us we're gonna make it very hard
for your products to travel into Europe
I mean good luck trading with whoever's
left essentially I hope you have good
boats right no I think it would be a
mistake to frame it as sort of you know
I mean it is it divorce is like an apt
metaphor it's exactly what it is but I
think both sides want it to be amicable
because imagine if you're divorcing
someone but they're also your next-door
neighbor so you're gonna see them all
the time and you actually you know you
work together you you trade with each
other you're each other's in in this
case quite literally the largest trading
partners you have close coordination on
things like security and defense I mean
you guys are best buds and you want to
stay that way but you need to find a way
to separate and have some distance so
you know I think both sides have an
incentive both economically for
themselves I mean also for each other to
want this to work and I think you even
hear some of the most ardent brexit
advocates on the British side saying
look you know this isn't because I hate
the EU like we you know they at the end
of the day they want to turn around and
strike a trade deal with them so it's
it's in everyone's interest for these
divorce proceedings to go well and I
think that's ultimately what's kind of
you know bound people a bit in these
negotiations is that they can't afford
to kind of just flip the table and walk
away because it's gonna come back to
haunt both sides in the end when they
need to figure out some sort of future
relationship not just for them but for
their citizens that live on the opposite
sides of the channel and also for
Ireland in that Irish border which both
sides care about so much all right yeah
I mean you've given us a very good
description of I guess the the tension
that exists both parties trying to come
in get the best deal but also not to
take advantage of each other in such a
way that there is the lingering
resentment we got to take a break when
we come back I want you to we'll start
to discuss I guess the British domestic
politics because that is at the end of
the day it seems to me the most
tumultuous player
or part of the equation in this instance
and also want to talk about broadly
speaking about the two major parties
what they're I guess they're they're
they're you know what are the forces
that are impacting how what they feel
they need to get out of these
negotiations and where are we on the
clock we got to take a quick break I'm
Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back with the eyes means
they're on in just a moment
