[Music]
this one I have ever I haven't seen this
just came across the transom Candace
right off the wire
Candace Owens are there with Charlie
Kirk is that charlie Kirk there that's
him there he is he's got he's got a
haircut he's recovered he's recovered
there in the UK and as you know the
turning points has had some problems in
the UK they have been mocked mercilessly
on social media they have been parodied
there have been parody accounts that
have mocked them and made fun of them
which is of course as you know against
the Constitution but they don't have the
First Amendment but they do not have in
Britain they don't have the same
Constitution so you're allowed to mock
them there and make fun of them you're
not actually silencing them and here is
candice Owens you know when you go when
you go to overseas and when you're in
Europe you got a show that you you've
got some bona fides when it comes to
understanding European history so she's
gonna give a crack at it yeah I agree I
actually don't have any problems at all
with the word nationalism I think that
it gets the definition gets poisoned by
elitist that actually want globalism
globalism is what I what I don't want so
when you think about whenever we say
Nationals and the first thing people
think about in at least in America is
Hitler you know he was a National
Socialist but if Hitler just wanted to
make Germany great and have things run
well okay fine the problem is is that he
wanted he had dreams outside of Germany
he wanted to globalize he wanted
everybody to be German everybody to be
speaking German everybody look a
different way that's not to me that's
not nationalism so in thinking about how
we could go bad down the line I don't
really I don't really have an issue with
nationalism I really don't I think that
it's okay it's important to retain your
country's identity and to make sure that
what's happening here which i think is
incredibly where are some in terms of
the just the decrease in the birth rate
that we're seeing Oh in the UK is what
you kind of want to avoid so I'm not I
don't have anything problem I have no
problems with nationalism it's globalist
and I try to avoid it is just
like the Jesse Owens thing said can we
just play the first part of that again
because you know and I just want to say
like there may be some members of our
society that might be offended a little
bit by what Hitler wanted to do just
even if he just wanted to do it in
Germany my domestic policies are fine
yeah just by the way I really did was it
you know uh Jews and our homosexuals and
our gypsies right but very not messing
with anyone outside of Germany yeah just
ours
Thomas Friedman Hitler that's a pretty
good character that she just gave me I
was watching Porter's Japanese Toyota
executives how the earth is flattening
so did you hear must be killed elsewhere
supply chain just be synchronized I mean
did she really doesn't have a problem
with Hitler with Hitler did within his
borders it was just this was glory it
was a globalist yeah let's just one more
time yeah I agree I actually don't have
any problems at all with the word
nationalism I think that it gets the
definition gets poisoned by lead
intentionally want globalism globalism
is what I what I don't want so when you
think about whenever we see nationalism
the first thing people think about in at
least in America is Hitler you know he
was a National Socialist but if Hitler
just wanted to make Germany great and
have things run well okay fine the
problem is is that he wanted he had
dreams outside of Germany he wanted to
globalize he wanted everybody to be
German everybody knows German everybody
little friend no way that's not to mean
that's not nationalism too many Kansas
the trains they ran slowly because of
the elitist the Jews how did Jesse Owens
thing
we should we should do experiments on
what we need to do is just keep it
inside the German said it's okay if you
keep it inside the porter's one of the
problems we have with Germany is that
our bloodlines are a little problematic
Germans not having enough babies some of
the other types having too many babies
the world but you cannot solve a problem
VIN fun place without another yeah it's
a global good economy my friend yeah TC
Amin Dada from the Toyota Motors tell me
he said the world is flattening and
hyperlinks so we need to kill the Jews
dangerous can we talk a little bit I
just you may not want to go too hard and
everything would have been fine
that was that was I'm gonna get away
with just not raising Hitler to make
your point about why nationalism is good
you know the thing about we could
probably find other examples of how they
mentioned African independence movie
yeah maybe we should talk about like
goeth go with the whole India didn't
want to be colonized rattle did a little
by your logic versus a bold expansion
into Nazi territory right
Kirk knows she done goofed I think that
yeah but you know think about Candace
Owens is she's too smart for therapy as
she explained to Russell where's - - I
guess she said I love high IQ
individuals can't do therapy and you're
sitting I think maybe take a second to
say that yeah some IQ individuals need
therapy urgently
