[Music]
before we go into the fun half this was
pretty disturbing to find out how
hypocritical Bernie is and I have to
admit it was that much more painful to
hear it from Sean Hannity because I'm
not a fan of Kennedy's but the idea that
he's gonna catch Bernie in this way it's
really upsetting it scared the type of
reporting resources of throwing that
Bernie it's nuts
they blew this story wide open and the
thing is I was at this rally and I
didn't even pick up on this here's Sean
Hannity breaking this story wide open a
time for Hannity watch our investigation
into the 20/20 candidates as well I
posit for one second this is a serious
investigation into the candidates 2020
it's what did he call it it's Hannity
watch a time for Hannity watch our
investigation into the 20/20 candidates
this weekend senator Bernie Sanders
kicked off his 20/20 campaign in
Brooklyn wasted little time before
revealing well more hypocrisy Democratic
socialists open borders advocate held a
rally and was happy to greet his
supporters from behind a barrier why is
the fence up Bernie Oh a barriers
acceptable if they protect you
personally they're only wrong if they're
used to protect our border and the
American people just like how many
celebrities in Hollywood and politicians
have armed security guard Wow it's
almost it's almost too hard to come up
with like a an analogy to make fun of
this it's almost too hard it's so dumb
no it's but here's how hard cuz they got
us dead to rights first off the amount
of investigatory resources that that
handed he's bringing to bear is is
intimidating
it does make 27 million dollars a year
yes aside from the fact that bernie is
not open borders let's assume for a
moment he was I have this to report I
also had my
I team the majority report I team was
there and within hours of erecting those
massive steel slats they were taken down
so I guess what Bernie really believes
in is just putting up a border fence for
a short period of time and then taking
them down if the security at Saturday's
event is any indication of Bernie's
border policy we have a very humane
policy shift coming up yeah there was it
was pretty laid back humane to the point
of like you know guys this isn't just
like a fish revival show anymore exactly
he's running for president this is a
real thing I won that stuff out a little
bit I like looking around like going
like I don't even see any car I don't
even see any cops I didn't like it was
like AI didn't see no cost security no
cops here
I smell swine reset the event but
honestly do you think I mean just think
I'm trying to piece this together we're
Hannity is like is there a producer who
does this or just handy go like it's
already simple let me ask you a got burn
on your door to your apartment exactly
like that behind you oh wow do you
oppose the wall tell you something about
ants ripping children out of their
parents arms I've had the intellectual
decency and consistency to never lock
the door in my building anymore it's
pretty neat because a lot of issues that
pretty hypocritical Hannity uses doors
though that's true
right well why does why does Hannity not
about walking on pathways like this like
to move different places but does
Hannity let people in his house right
like oh I mean whoa all the sudden were
just letting people oh wait a second
Hannity lets people in his house right
oh but he won't let people in the
country what's that about yeah what's
going on right breaking investigation
alert on Fox News personalities so he
doesn't want people in the country but
he has a door to his house some
people say Apocrypha other people say
well he's just lying hold on for one
second
does Hannity go to other countries has
he ever been to other countries oh but
he's against other people from other
countries coming here
what oh what's that about super weird
that's very strange i Hannity seems okay
with him making twenty seven million
dollars why can't we all make twenty
seven million dollars huh now you get
into the crux of it funny it's got no
problem with that
that's weird that's super weird that's
really really I'm sure you guys already
talked about it but how great was the
point in the in the Bernie rally with
the first break of Bernie Bernie and he
was like genuinely he's like though I'm
sad I missed it was adorable
so Hannity thinks everybody should have
freedom right how come he doesn't think
everybody should have money that's weird
yeah that's so strange it's really
hypocritical you have the freedom to
starve to death that's freedom well no
he's saying everybody gets freedom but
I'm saying why can't I love freedom that
learning get money that's that's really
strange
we put we'll put the majority part I
team on that more hypocrisy from the
right yes unbelievable they believe
everybody should breathe but not
everybody should have free housing
that's weird
I wish it was that easy and and you know
because he because the awesome thing for
Hannity is that his audience is like
that's right it's true and if we
actually said stuff like that with a
straight face like our entire audience
would just be like the dude what
we're going we're done with this this is
this is silly
are you serious actually get a bunch of
Concerned emails like gosh this is a
really serious time in our country
what's going on with you guys you guys
used to be really sound and now it just
seems like you're just finding these
weird analogies alright we
