there's a caravan of migrants I'm just
gonna read briefly from The Washington
Post to set this properly there's a
caravan of migrants from Central America
grew to about 5,000 Sunday a massive
group stitching along the city's main
highway for more than a half mile they
spoke in different accents fleeing
different disasters joblessness and
parts of Honduras a mounting political
crisis in Nicaragua cities in Guatemala
where they are sure their children would
be languish as they had and then there
were the deportees many of the migrants
that previously lived the United States
for years or even decades joining the
caravan to reunite with their children
or resident resumed their old jobs they
were undeterred by the American
authorities who had apprehended them or
the US president who promised to keep
them out some of them had returned
voluntarily to their homes long ago but
eventually determined there was nothing
there for them now they were transferred
traversing Mexico while President Trump
tweeted about their journey demanding
that the migrants apply for asylum in
Mexico before continuing north it's time
for me to get back to the United States
it's the country where I live where I
can live my life unlike guatemala said
job-job Riyaz 36 who spent most of his
childhood and teenage years in los
angeles attending kindergarten through
high school there this is a group of
people who would almost certainly meet
any fair legal definition of as Asylum
and have already been victims of very
draconian laws that were actually signed
into the 90s about if essentially if you
have come here and you're resonant you
committed one felony you can you're gone
so even you know the rapper's shine is
big in the late 90s he was involved in
bad-boy after Biggie's emigrated when he
was a very small child from Belize he
was involved in an incident at a club
with Puff Daddy and Jennifer Lopez and
he's he did a jail term and then he was
gone
went to Belize Charles Ogletree took his
case and he didn't
in it and I say that not because I'm you
know particularly concerned about shine
pretty shine but sure free shine but or
I think he's become an Orthodox Jew so I
actually don't know his current name but
at any rate the point being is that even
as someone who had a lot of some real
resource and privilege behind them we're
still you know at the effect of this
policy so these are people who are
profoundly contributing members of
society they shouldn't have to be
contributing in order to justify basic
human recognition but they are like at
some point as much as I resist these
arguments you are gonna have to hit some
people back with like you know what all
these immigrants you're constantly
bitching about they feed way more into
the system than they take and you
benefit from them so let's be real here
and this Caravan what should be an
ethical call for all of us and hablo has
already promised that he's not gonna
play our game at the Mexico Guatemala
border he's gonna humanize that border
so we'll see what he does when he
assumes the presidency in Mexico but
he's like I'm not doing the Trump's
dirty work on this that Louie
Gohmert is going to as always in his
just depraved way he'll get you the
essence this is the Republican message
for the midterms and the Trump reelect
one more question is I know you favor
the wall I don't know what effect that
would have on a caravan like this but
let's get that at the moment some of the
side reporting we're getting is that
there's some political unrest in
Honduras that started that initiated the
caravan I don't know what information
you have others suggest that they're
doing a little bit of this for the TV
cameras they get in cars and they drive
a little bit and then when the cameras
come out they walk I don't know how much
is true and how much is not what can you
clarify sir so I just want to stop there
it doesn't know how much of those smears
were true or not but he would like to
repeat them for the but he would like to
repeat them for the audience and then
queue up one of the most dangerous
unhinged demented ill-informed bigoted
people in American politics to tee off
on it you
if I sir well they're supposedly were
some political factors in this getting
started but bill once it got started
it takes an inertia of its own and there
is money coming and I'm sure there's
some from the United States going to
help this Caravan along but it's
building of its own momentum and it's
going to take a very strong president
which we have to stop it and we've got
to make clear to Mexico they're not
coming in we're closing the border even
to you how do you do this how do you for
those who support the caravan how do
they believe the images support their
cause within our own country fifteen
days from an election well I can't help
but think that the Democrats perhaps
Soros others may be funding this
thinking it's going to help them but
they're going to be surprised because
the president is number one thing was
we're gonna build a wall we're going to
stop illegal immigration and he's gonna
have a chance to show that he actually
means what he says which indicates he's
not a real politician you know so if
we're gonna do Alex Jones this is the
best that a racist white identity party
can hope for in terms of ginning up
paranoia and nonsense to get people vote
in the midterms the reason that these
people might not be anticipating the
media response hits from their Caravan
is because they're fleeing on things
like political repression cartel
violence and complete human misery and
they are at pushed to such an extreme
where they're actually trying to get
into this country that is presided over
right now by these cruel maniacs so when
you're in that life condition you don't
have time to assess how this is gonna
work in a four p.m. hit on Fox News now
the next part we're gonna play this is
also from Fox is this six or seven okay
it's the one place you can look for some
decency on Fox's now in
dependent voters right and I think this
is a really this is a really important
thing here it's very important to
remember in these conversations that you
apps on a level of basic decency there's
actually a lot of people you can reach
and again it might they might not be the
most woke on everything they might not
use the right words they might not get
everything blah blah blah blah blah okay
and sometimes that's really important
sometimes it isn't but actually we
should have more confidence that a lot
of Americans don't want to actually in
another example define transgender human
beings out of existence because maybe
they're not well versed in gender theory
but they're not cruel maniacs and a lot
of Americans are gonna say oh a cartel
um
threatened to kill your family if you
stay it on a block that actually is like
the reality that the president's always
lying and fear-mongering about I sure
wouldn't want to live in those
conditions why can't we bring those
people over here especially if they
already lived here for a long time I
don't say I have any problem with that
because I'm a normal well-adjusted human
and here is what it's like when a normal
well-adjusted human sentiment comes
across on Fox News it's very weird
obviously there's a humanitarian crisis
taking place in Central America and yet
this issue gets turned into a complete
political football there's very little
honest discussion about what's actually
happening it gets turned into talking
points and everything yeah treating
treating this as an invasion is is a bad
idea and it's gonna end horribly if it
is treated such as that way so I think
people have to realize yeah these are
human beings coming here and there needs
to be a real solution
for food in dealing with sure but the
backdrop is the midterms and so it all
becomes political let's see what happens
haha sure but were immoral sociopaths
here and I'm concerned that maybe a few
members of our viewing audience might
have actually had their conscience
aroused for a second so what this about
our Republicans winning and losing yes
yeah please human beings
could you cite a poll number please do
you wanna play this last one here okay
let's just finish the trifecta this is
how the prime Republican Network is
spinning this and this is this is how
specifically but it gets and you know of
course this is funny because it's wrong
and this is non woke this is back to
belligerent stupid Brian Kilmeade I
understand this New Mexican government
is trying to do more in the president
praised them however can you imagine a
scenario there isn't a new Mexican
government yet imagine a scenario where
they walked right through America to
Canada we would never allow that that
wouldn't be possible but right now what
they're doing is on route to coming here
claiming asylum then thanks to the
Flores amendment they got to get their
twenty days in it in entertainment only
and then we got to get my ankle
bracelets and let them loose ninety
percent of them cut the bracelets off we
never see him again what does it say to
everybody waiting in line paying the
fees through our normal processes it
says they are they're being played as
fools for doing it the right way well it
says the people that were waiting in
line was that they could have their
children kidnapped from them and be
separated from their families that
actually happened to people that were
waiting in line and his claim about the
90% of them cut the ankle bracelets off
is exactly the inverse of the truth
which is that the ankle bracelets lead
to about a 99 percent compliance rate so
it's even more than an inverse of the
truth it's like it's like 90 percent
wrong plus 9 so a Kilmeade you're short
and get son by Jimmy Kimmel again please
right and like step on a jellyfish some
 while you're on the beach
contemplating your next history book
 idiot
