while this goes on there is a part of
government that is very active and that
of course is US Empire as presided over
by you know an extreme far-right
secretary of state a guy used to
represent a congressional district in
Kansas a guy who was one of the prime
sort of conduits for an unmitigated Koch
brothers agenda in the Congress
congressman from Koch the congressman
from Koch and this had to do with
everything from I mean this guy had
stories about him on legislation I
believe it was like sort of making it
easier for insurance companies to
discriminate against you based off of
information from apps as an example of
course everything to do with
environmental deregulation spoiling the
environment destroying any remnants of
workers rights all the usual stuff as
well as of course tax redistribution to
the wealthy but also I mean very
specific stuff on behalf of you know
soft drinks and I mean just this guy
actually in his own low-key way has one
of the most extreme records and then of
course we talked about the anti Islam
charlatan industry the Mike Pompeo is
congressional office was a major conduit
for that it became head of the CIA he
threatened an invasion of Venezuela
and presided over quietly and
efficiently of course you know another
extreme far-right lurch and foreign
policy let's be really clear too that
things like the drone program which have
accelerated under Trump and claimed far
more civilian lives as well as of sort
of lifting on even any sort of
rudimentary process for monitoring the
civilian death tolls of the kinetic
warfare that the United States engages
in and Yemen Pakistan and Somali all out
the window under the leadership of Trump
and Pompeyo and Pompeyo apparently knows
how to play with Trump's ego and knows
how to sort of solidify his ground here
he's also been you know the destruction
of the
Ron Neil is one of the greatest
catastrophes of the world it was an
incredible success that controlled what
was not frankly developed but some
degree of proliferation and brought us
all diplomatically closer together so
this has been a program of corporate
enrichment civilian death tolls
indulging the bloodlust of the Saudi
monarchy in exchange for oil and arms
deals and now is the intention of course
turns Latin America Mike Pompeo went to
the inauguration of bolson ro yes
Clinton and Kerry and Obama definitely
their DOJ backed law fair which led to
the politically motivated prism of Lula
it led to Democratic reversals across
Latin America and there's a bipartisan
consensus of supporting government's
that support Western and American
corporates and investors and undermine
and harms human beings across the world
there's no doubt about it but this
acceleration under Trump and under
Pompeo is stunning and there's another
way of putting this which is as Mike
Pompeo said the days of American shame
are over he's saying this by the way in
Cairo where the United States is
actively supporting the inefficient
brutal dictatorship of general Sisi who
Steve cook talked about earlier our
eagerness to address only Muslims and
not Nations ignored the rich diversity
of the Middle East and frayed old bonds
and undermined the concept of the
nation-state the building block of
international stability and our desire
for peace at any cost
led us to strike a deal with Iran our
common enemy so today what did we learn
from all of this we learned that when
America retreats chaos often follows
when we neglect our friends resentment
builds and when we partner with our
enemies they advance the good news
the good news is this the age of
self-inflicted American shame is over
and so are the policies that produce so
much needless suffering now comes the
real new beginning in just twenty four
months actually less than two years the
United States under President Trump has
reasserted its traditional role as a
force for good in this region we've
learned from our mistakes we've
rediscovered our voice we've rebuilt our
relationships we've rejected false
overtures from our enemies and look at
what we've accomplished look at what
we've accomplished together under new
leadership America has confronted the
ugly reality of radical Islamism so you
know this is this is pretty
extraordinary because they've achieved
literally nothing and even by their own
metrics so what have they achieved
there's a blockade on Qatar which is
still ongoing by its Gulf neighbors at
first Trump signaled support of it
because I think because of basically a
personal grievance by Kushner but also
because the Saudis can work the Trump
administration incredibly easily
supposedly MBS bragged once that Jared
Kushner was in his pocket they destroyed
the Iran deal
which every single agency responsible
signed off on down to the fact that it
was certified by the administration in
the beginning and clearly one of the
reasons they pulled out of it was that
Trump was having temper tantrums about
having to certify the success of the
Obama or on deal pulling out of that
deal has done nothing but disgust the
Europeans and totally degrade our
standing because we blew up a agreement
that was extraordinarily successful and
nobody who was in any way sane
questioned objectively and empirically
and opened by the way if you're
concerned about it this from a
geopolitics there will be trade
relationships and some type of
preservation with Iran and that's going
to happen through China so even if your
very interest
that in that sort of like global geo
balance it's another opportunity for
China to assert a role and for the
United States the decline in a
self-destructive stupid fanatical way of
course no movement on Israel just the
sort of official sanctioning of endless
occupation and discrimination and death
of Palestinians and then the prime
action out of Saudi couple of cosmetic
reforms but actually an unstable
murderous prince who you know of course
cuz shogi caught everybody's attention
but with our support has generated a
mass murder and a human rights crisis in
Yemen that is even worse than Syria of
which we have solved nothing in fact the
only point there where he talks about
you know the plan is to bail out on the
Kurds who actually had forms an
incredibly effective fighting force
against Isis which is what he claims to
care about and of course achieve big
social goods which of course the Trump
administration is well he doesn't care
about but it I would say is just by
default opposed to because they're bad
people who don't support any form of
human well-being so that speech is you
know it if somebody came out and gave
that speech and the policy was following
through that would be a major problem
from the perspective of human well-being
which it is but it's also just
incredible that it has nothing to do
with anything it's it is trumpian
because it's it's it's failed by its own
measures and even if he's referring to
the bulk of sort of Isis those reversals
were already well in place by the time
Trump took office and if he's referring
to you know other Muslim organizations
the reality is is that al Qaeda was
heavily disrupted by Obama there was all
sorts of side problems that were created
through the supporting of various
dictatorships and secret police and
civilian casualties from the drone
program and then which are long-term
structural problems which of course
Trump is only made worse uh and then
besides that
you still have you know the projection
of far right and dangerous policy from
Saudi and from Turkey and basically yes
some withdrawal from Afghanistan which
is good but just no plan with regards to
Afghanistan and let alone India and
Pakistan which still remains right after
North Korea the most likely part of the
world to actually have a nuke exchange
so these people are I mean I don't
usually care about the incompetence
argument and of course I wish Trump was
on vacation all the time and it would be
great if they just tweeted and gave
stupid speeches but this is the type of
thing where of course in addition to the
literal massive harm that they've
engaged in through covert actions and
killing civilians and backing MBS and
Paulson ro and pulling out of global
environmental agreements and promoting
corruption and pollution abuse across
the world they're just basic inability
on very structural levels - as an
example what what do you think the
diplomatic relation what is the state of
us-pakistan relations right now I mean I
and I'm telling you asking this like I
don't know right
I know Emraan Kahn is is is in charge
there now I know the military still
basically runs that country and I know
that India also has a very extreme
leadership right now and I know that
there actually have almost been nuclear
exchanges between India and Pakistan you
really think that these guys can handle
that the only thing they've done in arms
control is actually pull out of it with
regards to successes some successes
Obama had with Russia and are talking
catastrophic ly about upgrading our
arsenal and then gutted the Iran
agreement which was a huge economic
diplomatic achievement and I think the
phrase of like we're not ashamed anymore
really shows that how even in the most
important areas of our of our lives and
policy the stuff that you know could
just liquidate human life and has to do
with you know
the real mechanics of our world a lot of
this stuff just still comes back to some
perception that like oh are you know we
they made us impotent but now we're
getting real again and it's like yeah
real destructive real
stupid and real non-strategic so
and again a perfect example of all of
them nikki Haley across the board was a
conduit for this catastrophe set as
ambassador at the UN 100% all right
