to get a sigh a sense of of the size or
the scope of the Pentagon budget just
put it into context for us as to just
how big the Pentagon budget is relative
I don't know I guess to our entire
budget well you know they're different
ways of counting the Pentagon budget we
used the number that is the 716 billion
which is the appropriated amount for the
Pentagon budget plus you know what they
started in the Bush administration the
additional funds for ongoing Wars they
separated those out because they want to
keep the budget seeming small so it's
it's it's like a contingency budget but
you know you're going to spend it so so
it brings it from about 680 something
billion to 716 billion it's actually a
lot larger because you add in things
like Homeland Security veterans benefits
which are the result of Wars the the
amount of interest on war debt which is
most of our debt and you know we fund
our wars with borrowing because they
don't want to have people face the true
costs of wars so you know if you add all
of those things together that are that
our military our national
security-related including the
intelligence agencies you come up with
more like 1.3 five trillion dollars a
year so we have a an entity that spends
1.35 trillion dollars a year more or
less you know we could quibble over
several hundred billion dollars I guess
but we don't have to right because this
is all money that is accounted for of
course it
is our biggest expenditure that is at
the very least not self-financing what
what are the I mean what are the
auditing we have another way that people
might relate to this is that the total
collections for income tax and corporate
taxes in the in the year this year is
1.3 trillion dollars so if you're
talking about the pay-as-you-go that
entire all the tax is collected by the
United States for income and corporate
taxes pay for military personnel slip
okay so alright let's get to the to the
to the nub of this though we've got when
you have this amount of money you would
imagine the controls on this money and
the ability for those who are spending
it and those who are allocating it to
know where it's going you would imagine
it's pretty intense and there's a lot of
scrutiny but that's not been the case at
all has it no in fact it's completely
the reverse of what you'd expect the
pentagon has for you know this guy under
secretary Shanahan when he announced
that the Pentagon had failed its first
ever audit by outside auditors which
they did last week he said but you
should you know we should be giving
credit for having gone through the audit
but what he didn't say is that for since
1990 the Pentagon has been stonewalling
the Congressional order in this what was
called the the CFO act that required
every federal agency of the United
States government to create auditable
accounts that could be audited by
outside auditors every year and every
agency of government has come into
compliance except for the Pentagon which
has steadfastly refused to do it and
only now you know this this first year
Congress finally lost patience and
Justin demanded it
they allocated 900 million dollars to do
this audit by big outside auditing firms
and predictably as I was told by the
head monitoring that for the GAO before
the audits were in he said they're not
going to be able to do it there they
won't be able to do it for years and
they'll just come up with a list of
thousands of deficiencies that have to
be fixed and that will take years to fix
if they even do it so all right so you
have the biggest line item in our
government is we don't know what they're
doing with the money all right you got
to help me out here because I'm not I'm
not totally clear about the process of
an audit when they go through they're
saying there's so many deficiencies that
they can't even begin to actually do the
audit itself they've basically tried to
do a preliminary audit and there's not
even the tools to assess what how much
money is flowing where is that baby let
me give you an example from the private
sector if General Motors had an audit or
or Ford or or Apple or something had an
audit as they are required to do every
year and the auditor found something
wrong in some part of their budget and
had to issue a letter of you know
criticizing something in the audit and
said we can't pass this audit because of
you know this particular category of the
budget and this particular line item
that would be a disaster for that
company its stock would plummet
depending on the on the significance of
the problem that was that was mentioned
in the what's called an a letter a
comment letter in the audit it could
bankrupt the company you know drive its
drive its dead into junk or
any kind of thing like that but there
would be a financial statement you know
collection of financial statements on
that company and you'd be able to look
at all the numbers except for the you
know and you'd even see the ones that
were being questioned by the auditor
they can't do that with the Pentagon
because everything is screwed up because
the the know so many of the numbers in
the Pentagon's financial statements are
made up okay I want to just put a pin in
that because I want to talk about these
made-up numbers but just to be clear
that the Pentagon is not even organized
enough in terms of its books essentially
to be as bad as a company that would
plummet in stock value in other words
like if they got better they would be a
company that was going to essentially
have all their a debt turn to junk and
everybody would stop lending the money
because they can't be trusted to
organize their money and that's if the
Pentagon got better yeah they're like
Enron on steroids basically all right
well listen we're gonna take a break
here in in just a moment but so what and
they have not been audited so what is
your sense and we can we can tease this
out afterwards but what is your sense is
this by design or is this just by an
organization that is so large that it's
impossible to organize as it is um it
it's not impossible and that's the
argument they try to use we're so big
you know we can't do it
we have legacy systems that don't talk
to each other so we can't do it but
they've been saying that for almost
three decades and you know you can't say
legacy systems are the problem
when your legacy you were saying that
back when you know we were using kaypro
computers
and plenty of time they have so much
money they have had plenty of time to
upgrade to the latest equipment you know
they could have Watson doing it yes but
they don't want oh it's been told on the
record by several people including Jack
Armstrong who was the for five years the
supervising auditor for the internal
auditor of the Pentagon the Office of
Inspector General that they could fix it
if they want to but they clearly don't
want to fix it all right well we've got
to take a break when we come back let's
start talking about hidden money's and
what we do know about the way that the
Pentagon is spending or hiding monies we
got to take a quick break we'll be right
back with David Lindor if we're talking
about the Pentagon's massive accounting
fraud that has now been at least exposed
to the extent that one can expose it
we're going to take a quick break we'll
be right back
