[Music]
you're calling from a 787 area code
who's this where you calling from hey
guys I mean yeah who's this where you
come from
hey I'm calling for the first time can I
wanted to talk about other things
regarding the Bernie Sanders primary
campaign but given the situation I want
to talk about Puerto Rico I'm actually
from there San Juan Puerto Rico the
piece is very specific I'm not sure if
you guys discussed it earlier I know I
saw it
mentioned at the beginning of the the
program but the situation down here is
getting a little bit difficult as you
guys can probably imagine recently some
leaked chats regarding the governor and
his close team leaked but prior to that
the federal government arrested two of
his close cabinet member ex Secretary of
Education and one of the secretaries of
health after that various members of his
team resigned after the chats were
leaked to the public which called for
his immediate resignation as well for
the governor's recognition right both
his opposition party and his own
political party called for his
resignation
among other leaders in Puerto Rico
however 24 hours after his all
transpired it seems like his own party
has supported him hence the last three
days had inspired significant protests
last night was part of the peak of the
protests they were damaged to various
areas in San Juan including the front
the Executive Mansion is anticipated
that these protests will continue
throughout the week basically requesting
the governor to finally resign and just
to put things in perspective the delete
chat was mainly about the governor and
his immediate team talking about illegal
dealings inside the administration plans
to conspire against not only does the
opposition party but federal regulators
specifically the police monitor that was
basically named or put there by the
federal government during Obama yep and
homophobic comments misogynistic
comments that really just read to this
unrest in in Puerto Rico and I just want
to see if you guys have kept what's
going on and what your thoughts because
I mean well because it's a very
interesting situation sorry go ahead
well I don't know anymore really than
you've just gone through them now all
the news reports I've read have the
basically just gone over maybe even less
in some respects than what you have what
you've laid out there the the you know I
I don't know I don't I mean I don't know
what I guess the real question is like
you know what what happens if there is
any illegalities
associated with it and do you think if I
mean is there I mean how long of a term
does the governor have at this point so
right now he was elected into office in
2016 governors are elected every four
years so there's next nice elections are
in 2020 so you know he has about the
same time I hope trump has in office
about a year and a half
so he has said that you know he he wants
to remain in office and you know others
within the government opposition party
etc have suggested the possibilities of
starting impeachment proceedings if he
does not resign and the way the state
here structure is very similar to the
u.s. there is a process to begin
impeachment proceedings which many have
called and many have is there a recall
present
is there a recall provision and I mean
what is I don't need there no there is
not okay right as like in California for
example well there is a recall provision
in that state constitution in these in
the specification protocol there is not
that is one of the pitfalls of having a
u.s. territory or a colony is that it
does not have many provisions other
states have and has the michael has
discussed in his own show and other
times we don't have the mechanism of
filing for bankruptcy like others rights
ruin other cities in the US and again
there's another kind of shortfall that
we don't have that provision so
basically rely on two things either the
governor resign right now and what
people are calling for or to starting
impeachment proceedings and it's in this
nation that takes place in the house
two-thirds of the house needs to vote
for hidden choosing of the governor of
elicit unethical actions and then it
goes to the Senate where 3/4 of the
Senate needs to vote in favor of
impeaching and then the ratification of
the state Supreme Court then he is
removed well but yeah that's basically
essentially process like I I appreciate
you're you're you're in you know keeping
us up on this I mean I don't
know that I really have anything else to
add obviously it's an F DEP situation
and it's you know the it's the last
thing I would imagine that Puerto Rico
needs right now but there's clearly a
healthy dose of corruption at the top
and III mean there needs to be just such
an overhaul in terms of like the
politics of that island it seems to me
that you know I I mean I really think
that the the representation issue needs
to be needs to be resolved everybody
yeah I mean they obviously Puerto Rico
should just have a choice whether they
want to be an independent country or a
state but it's insane that that isn't at
the center of every single democratic
candidates I mean along with Guam and DC
for what it's worth I I always just like
the plug read war against all Puerto
Ricans by Nelson Denny's that's a really
I mean you know just for people
generally watching and listening it's a
really really important book on I mean
we have neo-colonial policies across the
Caribbean and Latin America which are
incredibly serious but it is I mean
especially just being there is it is so
bizarre to you know it's a non
metaphorical colony right now appreciate
the call they let's go to the IMS
