with Sam's cedar the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any of these apps they are unanimous in
that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday July 3rd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Matt Ford of the New Republic on the
recently ended Supreme Court term of
2019 and what to expect in the next one
meanwhile Trump and Republicans dropped
their bid to add the citizenship
question on the census supposedly and
congressional Democrats Texas meanwhile
a federal judge has blocked bill bars
proclamation that indefinite detention
is legal for immigrants and the
Department of Homeland Security
Inspector General finds that conditions
in the border concentration camps are
squalid park service will pay two point
five million dollars for Donald Trump's
fourth of July barbecue and as Biden
drops born in Harris surge and at the
other end Hickenlooper more like hick
and pooper am i right sorry no sorry had
not good
and congratulations folks June was the
hottest month ever recorded on the
planet to earth
breaking records of things just getting
better prosecutors will retry the
volunteer who was trying to help
migrants not die in the desert and I
papi megan mccain feels like a caged
animal and may leave the view that is an
appropriate term finally Joy Behar is
like having bamboo shoots all this and
more on today's program hi folks we're a
little bit giddy around here of course
because tomorrow is the 4th and we're
all excited for it to just downpour in
Washington DC tomorrow we're hoping for
thunderstorms that start early and are
persistent throughout the day do they
get northeasters they're like do they
get that thing where it comes in and
then it circles back around and dumps
even more rain Washington DC needs rain
and if there's ever been a time where
I'm calling for a Biblical Flood I would
say it's tomorrow starting early in the
morning I want to see one of those new
Abrams tanks floating floating down
Pennsylvania Avenue that's what I want
to see Hashem there you CLE but that's
not the only reason why we're excited
we're excited because we're taking
tomorrow off and Friday is we will have
a new show for you it will be
pre-recorded but I am sure you will
enjoy that nevertheless also this is a
tease - a tease that is coming up next
week we are going to be launching a I
mean I don't even know if I will call it
a show it is going to be a brief audio
only at least for the time being podcast
maybe we'll make it available on YouTube
Mr experienced maybe a new mr experience
yeah yeah well not an mr experience you
know the parent company of the majority
party of course is majority dot F M so
majority dot F M will be presenting
something in the a.m. if you will
it'll be very brief not meant to give
you anything close to the depth that
you're used to getting on this program
but it will give you just a just a
little bit of like a little eye-opener
for the day I don't know how else to
express it but I will be doing it part
of the time the other part of the time
we have a a co-host who you're not
familiar with I don't think someone that
we found who's funny got good politics
and on days when I am with child
it's child's she will be handling most
of the work on those things but it's a
it's a quickie little thing so keep your
eyes open for it we're gonna just put it
in the majority report feed and I guess
we'll put it in the membership feed too
for that first bit of a while and then
it'll it'll go off on its own and we
will tell you how to give us feedback to
it and all this so we're pretty pretty
excited about it around here because I
was like I don't have enough to do I
don't have enough to do so now's it's
time to do more so there it is
yesterday Chuck Schumer had some
visitors up and it is a Brooklyn
apartment and right across from Prospect
Park it was about I don't know about 300
people there maybe a little more and and
this is what what happened
[Applause]
folks calling for the closing of the
detention concentration camps however
you want to refer to them they're all
loved it's all legit descriptions of
these areas that now and here are some
of the pictures the Inspector General of
the Department of Homeland Security not
Alexandria Acacio Cortez but the
Inspector General of the Department of
Homeland Security has said has released
pictures and have called the conditions
squalor they have said it's a ticking
time bomb I mean this is just horrible
look at that
it's nuts
88 Way put go backward right there this
is 88 adult males in a cell with a
maximum capacity of 41 and let me ask
you this when you think the capacity in
a cell is 41 do you think that's roomy
or comfortable this is a cell 88 adult
males double more than double the
capacity let's see the next picture here
and you have more images of of men and
women and children in cells I it's just
it's just reprehensible and
a reminder this is a function of Trump's
policies now which is not to say there
weren't problems under Obama folks who
followed immigration know that Obama was
broke records particularly in the first
couple years of his administration for
deportation they spent the supposedly
five minutes contemplating the idea of
separating families as a policy as a way
of deterring immigrants and then
rejected it immediately of course yes
they separated parents from children
when the parents were accused of
committing some crime crime beyond the
notion of just crossing the border
without documentation that was a civil
offense if they were found to have drugs
if there was reason to believe they were
abusing the children they were separated
as they would be in this country if you
are a US citizen but it wasn't an
ongoing policy and there was a policy of
allowing people to go to families while
they await a hearing and like I said
yesterday somewhere about eighty to
ninety percent of those who are released
and then expected to come back for a
hearing come back and I think the rates
are even higher when they have an
attorney they understand what the
process is and as these images come out
and as the Trump's own administration
essentially elements of it Department of
Homeland Security an executive agency
inspector general part
the executive branch comes out and says
hey this is a ticking time bomb these
people are living in squalor at that
point even the most rabid cheerleaders
for this administration are gonna have
to figure out a plan B and the plan B is
of course is to blame the Democrats is
to pretend like this is we're doing the
best we can
we're doing the best we can we wanted to
do all the things you you're telling us
we need to do you just wouldn't let us
here is and kill me tried to do this
apparently you can't even stomach it so
they send Ainsley Earhardt out there to
sort of do the like we really do care
about this I'm a mother I'm a mother as
if you need to be a mother to care about
the fact that children are dying that
men are shoved into a cell at double
capacity for no reason in the first
place
it's a tough situation it really is yes
we all have we have hearts we look at
these this video of people behind the
fences and they're sleeping on top of
each other
we need more facilities Democrats and
Republicans as you said over over and
over Brian need to work together because
these are human beings these are God's
children hold on before we get to God's
children why do we need more facilities
why do we need more facilities we don't
need more facilities the children were
released to their - family if if
everyone who could come in and have a
cousin aunt uncle father mother son
daughter come in and say yes I'll be
responsible for them but of course the
Trump administration has been working
overtime for years now to make those
people afraid to show up to make - to
make these people go under
even if they're legal even if they are
here under some type of you know legal
status documented status seeing the
Trump administration get rid of tens of
thousands of people who've been here for
years who were here under the was it the
TPS is that what it's called the
temporary protection status we've seen
it time and time again these Democrats
and Republicans as you said ever over
and over Brian need to work together
because these are human beings these are
God's children we want to do the best
thing I don't like to hear a OC talk
about how people are being made fun of
the women are called names down there of
course that is unacceptable and that
needs to be fixed but that's a different
issue Democrats need to work with
Republicans so that we can have more
money to help these individuals and to
come and through our country the right
way how many Republican Congress people
have we seen go down to these detention
centers if we're all God's children and
we all care about this and none of us
want this problem how many Republican
Congress people how many Republican
senators have we seen go down there how
many have we heard actually say one
critical thing about what's happening
there
how many have even done what Ainsley
Earhardt just did for the first time
ever and she expressed a modicum of
sympathy off the top my head I would say
it's zero but they're all God's children
do Republicans apparently reject the
idea that they're God's children that
should be the question reporters should
be asking them it's just it's
unbelievable
and I don't know where
how Chuck Schumer is I don't know if he
was at his house or not
is he still is he still in Congress
Schumer yeah is he still I didn't know i
oka Singh on really important stuffs
protecting you from robocalls yeah I
mean all of those I mean you might like
to terrorize people selling you fake
Caribbean vacations but others of us
don't like it Sam and Chuck Schumer's
looking out for us you know Chuck
Schumer actually said something that
protesters which were remiss and not
reporting as he said I agree with you
but I don't hear you and they were like
what are you talking about we're
mobilizing industries like it tell my
imaginary friends the Bailey's come out
against the concentration camps my hands
are tied until that happens I'm gonna be
totally focused on oh wait my legs are
sore not enough room and coach on the
plane maybe you should stop distracting
me I'm also working on making sure your
coupons stay valid for a longer period
of time a lot of people think they have
the coupons for big beads at key foods
they go and they were excited to save 45
cents and then all of a sudden they're
not valid anymore these are the kind of
common-sense middle-class solutions that
are focused on what's that dear
no more bike lanes on it unbelievable
it's I mean it's it's sad but it's true
primary that guy I like it
he really does whatever way it happens
need to be listen I think he would be a
great junior senator from like Rhode
Island he ain't nearly as good as I
thought well Sheldon Whitehouse Jack
Reed yeah or not the best centers the
world but they leave him in the dust he
isn't bad and when he's doing big junior
senator from Virginia maybe how's that
yeah that would be great
although I think Tim Cain's better on
things like the AUMF but I guess he
could take what's the other corner
yeah you think Warner spot that's fine
they both awful folks uh let me tell you
one of the problems that I have one of
the problems I
with running this business is we have
about four different legacy systems that
we're working on at any given time I
can't even tell you
I honestly people asked me what's your
membership and I'm not 100% sure we
don't have a mechanism cuz you have
three like two or three different
systems that are working we don't know
how to port everybody over and this and
that I haven't figured out a way of
consolidating revenue I understand the
concept of having a hodgepodge of
systems under a business this is a
problem that keeps many businesses from
growing and from just understanding what
the hell is going on they have one
system for accounting another for sales
another for inventory and so on it's a
big inefficient mess that takes up way
too much time and way too many resources
and as you know if you're a business
person like myself that hurts the bottom
line well indeed I know it does I just
can't even figure out how it does I
don't even have the know I don't even
have enough cohesion to figure that out
well introducing that suite by Oracle
it's the business management software
that handles every aspect of your
business in an easy to grow and an easy
to use cloud platform that gives you the
visibility and control you need to grow
well NetSuite you save time money and
unneeded headaches by managing sales
finance and accounting orders and Human
Resources instantly right from your
desktop or phone
that's why NetSuite is the world's
number one cloud business system and
right now NetSuite is offering you
valuable insights with a free guide
seven key strategies to grow your
profits you can check it out at NetSuite
dot-com slash majority NetSuite dot-com
slash majority download your free guide
seven key strategies to grow your
profits NetSuite dot-com slash majority
that disk will that link will be in the
podcast description YouTube description
wherever your descriptions are found all
right we're going to take a quick break
when we come back we're going to talk to
Matt Ford New Republic staff writer
about the close of the 2019 Supreme
Court term
you
you
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone pleasure to welcome
to the program New Republic staff writer
I should say the New Republic staff
writer Matt Ford Matt welcome to the
program thanks for having me
okay so Matt I want to talk to you
obviously about the the the two biggest
cases that have come down most recently
obviously the census question case and
the big gerrymandering case before we
get to those well I want to sort of work
our way into those but including those
two I guess well let's just talk broadly
about this term of the Supreme Court
we've seen obviously we at well we have
two new members obviously Cavanaugh is
the is the latest but characterize this
term for us it was sort of a mixed bag
there was liberals but certainly soon
hello yes okay sorry you dropped out for
just a moment it was a mixed bag go
ahead well it was kind of a mixed bag
you know on some hand there were cases
where liberals can certainly see some
victories
you know maybe more than they expected
especially in a census case which came
as a surprise to some observers but
overall it reaffirmed that this is a
very conservative court this is a court
that is more conservative than the one
that Anthony Kennedy took part in for
the last thirty years and more than that
it's a court that's going to probably
get more conservative as it goes I mean
that's been the trend
it seems to me right for I mean aren't
we talking like decades now I'm trying
to think if there's been a judge who's
been replaced by someone to the left of
them I don't off the top of my head I
can't remember any one that that has
that we've actually seen something like
that in in like 30 or 40 years that's
completely correct you know there's the
most remarkable the thing about this
about the Supreme Court's modern history
is that from 1967 or 68 when lyndon b
johnson appointed thurgood marshall to
the court in 1993 when Bill Clinton
appointed Ruth Bader Ginsburg to the
court the entire stretch of that those
decades was filled by Republican
nominees and some of those nominees
turned out to be moderate some of them
turned out to be slightly liberal but
many of them turned out to be
conservative so even with that entire
stretch you have the burger court in the
Rehnquist court that were certainly more
conservative than the Warren Court which
many liberals see is sort of a high
point for the Supreme Court but it's
also been sort of a moderate influence
as well first with us recently with
Sandra Day O'Connor and then with
Anthony Kennedy the court has not yet
had five solid conservative votes in any
case in the cases that come before so
you that's where you have this sort of
balancing act where yes the court rules
rightward on many issues the
administrative state federal powers
things like that but you also see the
status quo generally speaking when it
comes to abortion rights or affirmative
action and even some advances on LGBT
rights this is going to be a much
different error for the court so all
right let's talk about in terms of the
what you perceive is the most important
cases of this term particularly with an
eye to looking forward I mean and and I
guess what strikes what sticks out for
me and if you have a different one you
tell me
but Kaiser versus Wilkie because and
while that that case in and of itself
was not necessarily so decisive there
were indications that down the road we
are headed into a very very different
era in terms of what a president can do
essentially I guess or at least what
executive agencies can do going forward
first off tell me if you think Kaiser
isn't one of those important cases and
then and then walk us through it
right I I think I wouldn't place it
necessarily the most important case the
term but I think you're absolutely right
and that it signals what's to come
so kaiser loki is an administrative law
case which means it involves how federal
agencies carry out their functions and
when they step over the line
now there's something known as our the
AU ER deference in administrative law
it's based off of the supreme court
cases from decades earlier and the
premise of it is is it sounds sort of
obscure and arcane but the premise of it
is that when when courts receive
questions about a federal agency's
interpretation of its own regulations if
it's that if it's ambiguous or
questionable for a variety of reasons
they typically defer to the agency and
for conservatives many of them criticize
that some similar doctrines as giving
too much power to the administrative
state as they call it sermon all too
much authority and discretion to federal
bureaucracies now in in Kaiser V Wilkie
the court had the opportunity to
overturn that doctrine to give that
power to review these use administrative
law cases back to the courts and they
fell short of going all that way they
fell short of overturning the doctrine
Robert joined with the four liberals to
stop that but at the same time what we
see in the case is that whereas the
doctrine before was a very clear bright
line Kagan who wrote with the majority
added this sort of five-part test and so
there's certainly a retrenchment of
conservative traditional power when it
comes to how these these agency
decisions will be viewed in the future
all right so I mean first off why does
Kagan do that in that instance right
because the idea and how does this deal
how does this sort of interact and
intersect with with the Chevron I mean
we're I'm just curious just like we know
get a sense of like where if if John
Roberts is slow walking this
where is he slow walking this - well
that's the honest answer
is that we'll see you know Kagan may
have taken this approach to secure that
fifth vote to ensure that Roberts would
would vote with her side and not with
the other four conservatives who
generally strongly favored overturning
the doctrine
now if Chevron deference which you
mentioned is also an important one it's
going to come up a lot with regards to
environmental law cases Chevron
deference rather than dealing with
ambiguous regulations deals with
ambiguous statutes so when EPA
determines how for example it can
enforce the Clean Air Act or other major
environment laws our courts supposed to
defer to the EPA's interpretation of
those laws or are they supposed to
interpret those laws themselves
Chevron deference says well you defer to
the agency as long as it meets certain
conditions
again this is another area where a lot
of federal conservative legal scholars
have criticized that doctrine with you
know sort of the end goal of giving
judges more oversight of what the
federal bureaucracy can do and so you
can see how when you have conservative
judges and an EPA trying to fight
climate change you run the risk of
narrowly interpreting the EPA's ability
to do that now for Roberts if that's the
goal
you know he left open the door to that
news conference where he said look our
dock the our deference is still intact
don't assume that this means Chevron
will stay intact too and and we should
be clear here it's not just a question
of giving judges giving judges authority
over this it's basically judges negating
the ability of these agencies to move
forward without more explicit granular
instructions from Congress which of
course is creating a almost like a fact
on the ground that is insurmountable
right I mean let me just characterize
this and you tell me if I'm right about
this because my understanding is that if
you take for instance the Clean Air Act
well the EPA is given the authority by
Congress to regulate anything that's
considered to be a sin in the air I'm
paraphrasing
and right and and so down the road
the EPA you know in what is considered a
toxin in the Year 2015 is maybe or you
know or what is considered not to be a
toxin or not even people are aware of in
2015 people realize in 2020 because of
research that's now a toxin and the EPA
says we're now going to regulate this
the courts could say well Congress
didn't didn't say that you should
regulate this and therefore you don't
have the ability to do so I mean that's
basically what the way that that would
play out if Chevron was undermined
that's right and you know it's worth
noting that this occurs in an
environment where Congress is not really
capable of passing legislation on those
lines so the practical effects of you
know EPA losing ground on that could be
significant and there could be no way
for Congress to speedily remedy them but
it also speaks to giving conservative
judges a more assertive role in that
process you know now that the Supreme
Court is solidly conservative for you
know perhaps at least a generation it
gives them a wide variety of options
when it comes Falls to review all
manners of federal agency actions that
previously they would have abstained
from so in this sense yeah
Roberts you know maybe looking at this
ener-d playing the long game okay so you
uh Wilkie you did not count as the most
important case what what are the the
couple of the most important cases that
were handled by the court this this term
I would say that first and foremost the
most important case handled by the court
this term was really common cause that's
the one where the court had 5-4 decision
usual partisan lines the federal courts
have no power to review claims of
partisan gerrymandering John Roberts
wrote for the majority that this is a
power that the judiciary does not have
it's a power of the judiciary is not
granted by the Constitution and it's one
that they should not exercise this is he
pointed to other means to handle this
and as Kagan this time
writing for the scent noted that really
put states and especially the voters in
those states in a difficult line because
it gives states few Rock more
opportunities to sort of warp their
legislative districts and to allow state
legislators to sort of entrench
themselves in power
this is indict this is manifested in
places like Wisconsin where you have 54%
of the vote goes to Democrats and
Republicans win 65% of the seats in the
State House or in North Carolina where
Democrats more or less get 50% of the
votes and again another dynamic where
Republicans get 60 some-odd percent of
the seats the interesting thing too in
this case in in and I you know we've
talked on this program hopefully not odd
nauseam but enough a little bit about
the history of gerrymandering there was
a case in the aughts I believe where
Anthony Kennedy said essentially like
I'm I'm inclined to to rule against
partisan gerrymandering if somebody can
bring me a mechanism in which we can
measure when something is unfairly
gerrymandered and social scientists did
that they came back I don't know eight
years later in another case that Kennedy
heard I guess it was last in the last
term and they punted basically I mean
what do you make of that I mean was
Kennedy basically saying we did that was
there that to me that just seems I mean
I don't have a very high regard for the
a lot of the members of the Supreme
Court frankly in terms of the their
principled stances but that to me just
seems like naked a horse trading
hey coincidentally I want my guy who was
my clerk to be the nominee
and when we get this big case that I've
been waiting for for years basically
indicating that all I needed was a
mechanism to determine this social
scientists came back with this concept
of wasted votes which is you know
clearly obvious like
democracy shouldn't work where you win
for the majority of the votes and you
lose by a signal wider margin the
majority of seats it's clear there's a
problem but he just punted on that and
now we get this case it's certainly an
odd situation yeah you're right it was a
2004 case where he certainly left the
door open to rule in this way in the
future the other conservatives had long
said look I don't think there's a way to
do this but Kennedy you know saw the
potential damage that this could do
where instead of you know voters
choosing their legislators legislators
choose their voters and as Wisconsin
North Carolina Shone's that can have
really cool rooms of effects on
democracy in the states you know what
can be was thinking when he when he made
a decision I think we'll find out in 30
years or so when his papers become
available but it's certainly
disheartening and it shows how much this
court has sort of drifted away from its
role traditionally as supposed to be a
guardian of American democracy and not a
facilitator of its decline now there was
a 2004 case via think it was jubler and
then there was a that it was a I guess
it was a was a case in 2012 where John
Roberts had said that he did not see
these independent commissions because
basically there's been there's been two
responses to this in the states right
where or I guess maybe multiple ones in
states where there is reference to the
congressional districts in the state
constitution like Pennsylvania these
things have been overturned and the the
state Supreme Court can deal with it
other states have opted or have had by
referendum calls for an independent
commission Roberts in 2012 said that
these independent commissions were an
inappropriate delegation of the
responsibility by the state legislatures
in drawing up these maps but he reversed
himself in this latest ruling didn't he
I mean that's right
you know the 2012 case involved
independent redistricting commission man
who's done' and that was a case where
joined with the Liberals to say yes it's
constitutional for the state to you know
address this concern this way and Robert
wrote said look this is a power that is
reserved to legislators it's not
something that can be exercised by an
independent body which made it very
strange when we read last week that he
says okay now these commissions are the
right way to handle this this problem
and you know one of the things that
Kagan did that was really smart is point
out not only that but that a lot of the
solutions to partisan gerrymandering run
through the same legislatures that are
doing the gerrymandering you know the
apology Pappas she wrote specifically I
believe it the politicians who benefit
from partisan gerrymandering are
unlikely to change it there's a vested
interest for them perpetuating a system
that keeps installing them in power you
know which which has its own problems
for democracy and how those states
function but it also keeps the quarters
have to expend a tremendous amount of
energy to overcome these things just to
get anything done let alone any of the
time they're supposed to have organizing
for other political interests so you
know Kennedy I think was was this sort
of a holding pattern trying to find a
magic bullet so to speak that would
allow them to say okay here's the clear
bright line for wind partisan
gerrymander and cross the line and you
know apparently he didn't find the
statistical models provided by social
scientists to be enough and this is this
is what we've ended up with today so
Matt when you look at this like from a
legal perspective what do you see any is
there a silver lining here is there a is
there a glimmer of hope like III look at
this and it's basically just it's going
to be up to I mean because and and sadly
I will rely on the Democrats inability
to to enhance their power when they get
elected to places but I imagine if we
want anything that's even remotely close
to one-person one-vote because if I'm
voting in North Carolina and I win I win
half the districts or 1/2 the you know
half the votes and lose
ten of 13 districts my vote as a
Democrat is worth what like 7/8 or is it
maybe 5/8 of a Republican what is there
any do you down the road do you see any
type of like legal fix to this is there
any daylight here i I would like to have
some to offer you but it's it's it's
very hard to see any any sort of
glimmers of hope here III yeah I mean
there's a really troubling thing for me
we're really stuck out for me is that
we've had a decade now since Republicans
and Republican Democrats do this too but
Republicans have done it
most most zealously and most frequently
over the last decade or so since 2010
when they began redistricting after the
2010 census and and they swept him in
the wave midterm elections we've seen
these states do this in an aggressive
fashion in a way that is is blatant you
have lawmakers in North Carolina
basically say that the only reason this
is a 10 to 3 split in favor of
Republicans is because I couldn't
mathematically make an 11-2 split you
have you know you have you have them in
Wisconsin basically admitting that this
is solely to entrench themselves into
power as well and e-mails back and forth
that's what the situation was like when
it was still a possibility that federal
courts could stop them when federal
courts were indeed out there forcing
states to redraw their legislative maps
forcing them to remedy this problem in
that environment and that legal
environment will partisan gerrymandering
Stolp justiciable that's the sort of
behavior we saw going on and now that
that threat has been removed now that
the only Avenue is state Supreme Court's
as we've seen in Pennsylvania that
that's that is if you want to go in and
hope that opinion
earlier this year is a promising one
it's likely going to get worse and it's
likely going to get worse in a way that
won't make it harder to fix down the
road so it's basically like you know we
were having a party while the parents
were away we weren't 100% sure when they
were coming home from vacation but now
they've just basically said guess what
we're not coming home
we're not coming home house is yours and
oh we have an account at the liquor
store so they'll uh they'll deliver the
the kegs essentially yep they hand the
the deed and the title of the property
to to them and and gave them the keys of
the car to go buy more I mean it's it's
it's a it's a grim situation well I
appreciate you following me on that
analogy so let's talk about what what
other case do you think is has been
prominent will have implications in the
future I mean we've talked a little bit
about the censure question case in terms
of the ruling it just seems to me it's
rather limited the Trump well let me
just ask you about that before if
there's any other cases we can bring
that up but the I think folks are well
aware of the census question and how
subsequent to the argument being
presented to the Supreme Court and the
Commerce Department saying they did it
at behest of the DOJ who was asking for
this question
supposedly to enforce the Voting Rights
Act which is laughable in the context of
this administration and in the fact that
it's never been needed this information
has never been needed in the fifty years
or so that we've been enforcing the
Voting Rights Act subsequent to that
evidence came out that not only was that
not the reason but the guy who did a lot
of those 2010 redistricting Maps had
basically run a model showing that and
putting that question in the census
would specifically and I'm quoting now
help non-white Hispanics and Republicans
in their electoral fortunes going
forward in a specific district in Texas
as evidence and then he ended up writing
some of the excuses for the DOJ to use
there was information of him connecting
him to Commerce Department officials
they lied to the Supreme Court and all
the Supreme Court could do was basically
I mean it would have been pretty even I
mean it would have been shocking I think
had they not had they ruled that that
question could go forward but they
didn't seem to like oh you lied to us
you know what are you gonna do I mean I
didn't that strike you is shocking yes I
mean the the the I will note that if the
decision had gone the other way I would
have placed that ahead of the
gerrymander in cases the most
significant ruling at the term you know
a lot of people should be breeding a lot
of sighs of relief that the Supreme
Court ruled against the decision chief
question last week because warping a
census which can only be legally done
once every ten years and which upon
which you know a vast amount of American
governance depends would have been an
incredible blow to to how this country
runs and is operated but yeah I mean the
cynical interpretation of it is is if
you think that when you're Lilly er to
the travel ban when you have another
scenario where Trump is clearly doing
something with at best racially
suspicious motives and more likely
genuinely racist motivations you know in
that case to you know exclude people on
the basis of their Muslim faith in this
case to suppress immigrant participation
in the census in that in you know in in
Trumpy Hawaii the court said look you've
given us enough of a reason to justify
this we don't need to look any further
you invoke national security we defer to
that we don't need to think any more
about this it's incredibly impressive
that given that ruling the Trump
administration still screwed it up
that they they botched the explanation
so badly that John Roberts who wrote
Trump the Hawaii had to go out and say
look guys have in his Politis way
possible lied to us so badly that I
can't rule in your favor go try again
now combined with the deadline that that
that appears to have been failed was
into question but it's really striking
that one the Trump administration tried
that in the first place and two that it
was so much that Roberts had to go
against right I mean the that that case
it would have had a really horrible
impact on the country over the next ten
years but I also think it would have
gone a long way to basically saying that
in the event that the Democrats are in a
position of power we would get real
reform with the Supreme Court because
that was just so naked what also struck
me yesterday that I haven't seen anybody
comment on was Donald Trump was asked
this question at a some type of press
conference in the I can't remember what
the context was but he came out and said
that there's a real problem with
immigration he basically blew it if they
were to come back with another answer he
basically went on television and said no
the real reason is I got a problem with
immigrants and I mean he should have
gone exactly he did it again though he
did it again he went out there and he
gave the wrong answer and blew it and
I'm not convinced that's not why they
basically gave it up because the the
White House lawyers are the Solicitor
General must come in and said mr.
president I can't go and argue there's a
different reason now because you just
gave up the ghost and said it was
because you don't like immigrants yeah
yeah I I think that's a perfectly
plausible theory for why the Justice
Department suddenly certainly gave it up
yesterday and I think it really speaks
to one outcome on one hand how much of
this country's governance is sort of
driven by Trump's you know video sync
receives but that also speaks sort of a
deeper problem long-term which is what
presidents could get away with in theory
if there were 10% better at hiding it
right it is laughable
on its face that the Trump
administration wanted to add us as a
question to the census because it was so
passionate about enforcing the Voting
Rights Act that stance defies sort of
everything we know about the about this
administration about its approach to
voting rights in general its general
just posture towards you know minority
voting participation in American
democracy so it's just truly impressive
that the Trump was able to botch this in
a way that
and I think it really speaks to sort of
the problem he has in general with with
basically running the country yeah we
were I mean Tom cotton in other words
could be looking at this and just go
next time guys we're gonna get our story
straight and we're just going to go in
and give a plausible explanation
I mean I'm quite convinced that had they
literally not had an eleventh-hour
indication that this was a total blatant
lie that was literally like you could
document it right I mean it couldn't
have been more explicit that they would
have been okay if you really need this
for the Voting Rights Act you got it
guys I mean so all right lastly is there
anything else that sticks out for you in
this past term that is going to hat that
is going to resonate going forward and
and to the extent that there is or isn't
is there anything that you see at least
in the next term that is also going to
have major implications going forward
well I theists answer to that is that
you know next term is going to give some
indications on where this current court
falls on on LGBT rights there's cases
there involving employment
discrimination that are coming before
the court and I think that's going to be
really important to watch abortion is
also of course going to be important to
watch to see what they do in some cases
their although they have another taken
up the case on that but in terms of as
you mentioned you know silver linings
and glimmers of optimism earlier and I
think one area that this court has
actually genuinely broken some ground
there is on criminal justice we've seen
especially with you know corsets but
also occasion with Kevin on some of the
other conservatives a willingness to
forge off ideological balance decisions
that positively strengthen Americans
rights in these regards earlier this
year the court unanimously held that the
excessive fines clause applies against
the states that could be a huge
precedent for citizens going forward to
challenge civil forfeiture to challenge
a lot of these fines and fees that small
towns levy on people for committing
minor infractions that's a very positive
development in criminal law we've even
seen Gorsuch team up on multiple
Asians with Sotomayor on whom he doesn't
agree on a wide variety of issues are in
cases involving the fourth and sixth
amendment which are both going to be you
know especially on the fourth amendment
which is going to be tested by digital
privacy over the next 20 years as
technology develops there there's a lot
of things that liberals in particular
won't like from Roberts Court in the
next generation but I think one area
where they can take some comfort is that
there seems to be a growing recognition
among the justices that sort of past
approaches have gone too far and that
the need to defend criminal defense
rights is more important than ever
Matt Ford New Republic we'll put a link
up to your pieces there thanks so much
your time today I really appreciate it
thank you for having me Mike there you
have folks just the early stages of the
crap show that will be the Supreme Court
for decades to come
the real question is well you know
what's what's Clarence Thomas going to
do
my prediction has been that he is going
to retire this time next year and but I
recently had a casual conversation with
someone who is written a book about him
his legal readings and he doesn't think
he's going to which I was surprised
about but we will be talking to that
gentleman when his book is is released I
think I know who that is
you might occasionally run into people
on the street that's basically it it's
basically my social life I run into
people on the street and then I talk
about the exact same thing I would talk
about it work and then you have them
come on your show and then I have them
come on the show it's basically it and
then rinse repeat
but so I don't know
Clarence Thomas you get a Democrat in
office for eight years I don't even care
if it's John Hickenlooper well I do care
if it's trying to get liver but I'm just
I'm exaggerating for effect but any of
the Democrats who you know top Democrats
may be short of Joe Biden are gonna pick
a Supreme Court justice to the left of
Clarence Thomas I mean it wouldn't be
hard but then maybe you could swing
things back a little bit but we shall
see
alright folks so again this is we'll be
back live on Monday we will have a new
show for you on Friday
we will have our new morning offer we
will start to roll it out next week you
won't have to do anything different
we're gonna put it in this feed so
you're just gonna have to either enjoy
it or tolerate it for a certain period
of time but it'll be short enough that
you won't you know it won't be that hard
to just tolerate if you don't want to
hear that very useful information
reminder it is your support that makes
the show possible by Bo and Friday we're
gonna have Alex preen we're talking Alex
Breen sort of just wrapping up where we
are after the first debate heading into
the dog days of summer summer is half
over already but much Jesus Christ I
mean not in terms of the Solstice and
stuff like that just started come on
God socialist nice you're supposed to be
like the last guy who mentions that I
like that no no I'm the nice guy okay
I'm the sounds go a bit scientifically
it's the solstice dude there's like an
extra hour a day I have to put the
shades down play the game I want to get
the proper contrast on my TV
gravitational pull my gaming room
doesn't have windows it's not right
living the dream
new TVs good it's the same size as the
old TV so now I just got to same same
size TVs those are big TVs yeah yeah
dude that TV takes hope like after your
living room I wanted another 10 inches
but can't you it was like enough wrong I
like it like encroaches out folks your
support makes this show possible you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report com join the majority
report calm when you do for just pennies
a day you support this show and I we say
thank you by giving you extra content
virtually every day nearly every day we
also you can also use the majority
report app to search all the member
content the archives whatnot and you get
the show commercial free what better
deal could you ever possibly want join
the majority report calm and don't
forget as always just coffee co-op fair
trade coffee tea or chocolate use the
coupon code majority get 10% off and our
buddy at just coffee Matt is is taken
off headed for greener pastures sad to
see him go is very helpful to the show
particularly in the during the Mike sort
of a situation but continuing on that
relationship with just coffee they've
been great over the years and very very
appreciative of the support they've
given this show in a myriad of ways not
to mention the coffee it's delicious
today's Wednesday last night was Tuesday
what happened Michael in this office
what happened in this office will
and I wasn't it cleaned sorry good
another great team vs we talked about
anarchism capitalism the development of
technology and sort of overcoming
technological determinism using Albert
Einstein's essay on socialism which was
very really fun then Anthony Fontenot
came on we had a conversation about the
history of reggae we were re reviewed it
was written we talked about how he got
into politics and then malaika jamali
connected us on a sort of a tour from
Jackson Mississippi new socialism
organizing for a post-capitalist future
and we talked about gerrymandering and
Joe Biden a bunch of other things this
weekend an illicit history of the
National Security Council and the rise
of bureaucracy of the
military-industrial complex with Daniel
bessner patreon.com /tm yes Michael
Brooks show on YouTube jamie is a comic
camp but you can always listen to the
Intifada at the patreon.com slash the
Intifada and Matt you are not a comic
camp no actually kind of kind of not
exactly not in comic camp we're going to
be talking about Rutger Bregman z--
utopia for realists and the discussion
we're going to be have is sort of I like
to think about it as sort of the liberal
reformist Left which i think is going to
be represented by my friend Chris and
maybe the more revolutionary although
still sort of democratic socialist left
in me and we're going to talk about
things like ubi and open borders and
Rutger Bregman z-- idea that we could
solve poverty if we just have the radii
or let the right ideas win and why they
don't win so look forward to that all
right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number for the fun half if
you want to participate in the show in
fact we will see you in the fun half
laughter Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whippin like
he's the boss I am NOT your employer you
know I'm tired of the negativity I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset ya maybe
you should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going to
get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's
win-win
oh yeah now listen to me two three four
five times eight four seven nine oh six
five oh one four five seven
56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal seat I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars come here not they
accuse me you you all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber laughing I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to I see some people
Shitler with such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
welcome folks so a lot of polls have
come out over the past couple of days
really over the past day or two in the
wake of the the debates they're going in
a bunch of different directions
Washington post/abc poll which I think
was done with data progress although I'm
not a hundred percent sure about that
there was a data progress poll that
Weigel wrote about in the trailer that
was vetted by The Washington Post
pollsters that showed after the debate
Joe Biden had lost significantly Bernie
Sanders basically stayed the same but
Kamala Harris had sort of taken a lot of
Joe Biden stuff and it just sort of
basically got into a statistical tie
with Bernie Sanders with Elizabeth
Warren up in there to another poll the
Washington post/abc poll had Sanders at
23% gaining 12 points in the two months
since Biden launched his campaign
the Reuters poll has Sanders at 16%
warning consult has Sanders in second
place at 19% and of course it was
announced in q1 Sanders only raised 18
million dollars but they had nearly 1
million different donations so an
indication it's not a one-to-one
calculation but an indication that
there's just simply a broader base of
support of deeper support of deep
support support deep enough to
contribute money let's put it that way
however there is a very strong urge to
put the fork into Bernie Sanders
understandable he is threatening to a
lot of people in the establishment
Democratic you know in the establishment
period here is Chris Matthews impanel
saying that Bernie Sanders is
essentially over it's a little bit early
for this but I mean I don't even feel
that confident saying that about people
judge although it's pretty clear but I
wouldn't say that it's harder to suss
out some of the losers I think Bernie is
a great example of a place where
everyone wasn't sure what to make of his
performance I sort of thought he faded
into the background he didn't have a big
standout moment and his polls a sort of
faltered a little but not mommy meant a
Bernie big Bernie like it was you years
old if there were all the states for
losers they're losing you so like snow
and ice not a loser but he lose
elections he would be behaving like that
mitt Alma taught atomic time that was
Bernie being Bernie the way that
David Porter I was just gonna say Larry
David Grethe no I think it with it with
one other cannon in the race Bernie
being burning was fine in 2006 or near
rather it served him well but on a stage
with nine other candidates and with now
25 people on the race you know that's
exactly when every somebody said
something good thinking better than I do
I thought it's very hard to talk
revolution when there's nine people
around you they're not in a revolution
how do you claim there's a revolution
going on when you got all these and
ouyang and everybody else they're also
saying the same thing it's on 2016 this
time around I think that's not working
that's exactly the point I was gonna
make is that America has evolved in the
last four years people's perspectives
have changed Bernie Sanders sounds like
2015 Bernie Sanders and if you if you've
expected some evolution and you haven't
gotten it from him I see what it's
stolen his life's on the left because
you're done come on what's younger hmm
talking pretty hard stuff pretty strong
progressive stuff you've got Elizabeth
who's been out there for four years
selling it and she says that there's
someone more subtle way I'm not a
socialist
I'm a Democrat I believe in markets but
I want to refine over what structural
change very carefully calibrating how
far left the country is willing to go
still Bernie's out there with the old
left yeah I think so Chris I also think
that voters know that Bernie Sanders is
been talking about these same policies
essentially since he's been in public
service for that past 25 30 years but he
actually haven't done anything to pass
them right he's talked a lot about them
but we've not seen any of these policies
signed into law so you've got calmly
Harris Elizabeth Warren new senators on
the scene who I think voters are looking
them and saying you know what we make
these ladies may actually have a chance
to get these policies passed with all
due respect to the former Clinton
campaign official speaking about not
getting things done
it is sort of stunning to watch this
panel go from everybody stealing
Bernie's thunder because they've adopted
his policies largely although that they
may deliver it with a slightly different
rhetoric to he hasn't gotten anything
done to get these policies
enacted he's done nothing besides
completely recreate the terrain of
modern politics besides that totally
ineffectual totally ineffectual now of
course he's had some more legislative
victories as of late in terms of the War
Powers Act and Yemen but the obvious
amazoness out interfere with genocide in
Yemen should never interrupt the kibbutz
like this right there is I mean some of
what they say I think it's true that is
the case that it is more difficult for
Bernie to stand out on that stage with
people who have all basically he is you
know I said the other day I think he's
like the dog who caught the the car on
some level many of the people on that
stage are basically saying I agree with
Bernie's policies well I'm on some not
exactly but like you say he has pulled
the terrain to the left and it may be
the case that he needs to simply present
and show a a variant of that but to
proclaim that it's over for him at this
point when all you've basically said is
he just has to take it to the next level
I think is a little premature I also
very premature I also just think the
other thing is I mean look it what is
calmly Harris done to enact policy I
mean if we really want to start
nitpicking here about and we can get
into all the other stuff that Bernie
actually turns out was extraordinarily
effective at amendments and managing the
process even when not only was he in the
minority in Congress he was actually
somebody who for decades was the only
person talking about inequality in
poverty and all the other things that
these people are copying him on but you
know in addition to that I was rereading
recently about the way the media just
embarrassingly hounded Al Gore in 2000
and it's funny cuz it's like the
opposite I think there's clearly huge
ideological professional and even like
personal finance at some point you do
start to think like yeah these are a
bunch of well-fed one-percenters
about the only candidate who might
unlike Joe Biden impact their lifestyle
slightly maybe that's why you know Chris
Matthews is so upset but you know so
with the gore Bush thing
well actually turned out it did have big
stakes but that was all like oh this
doesn't even matter the economy's riding
Bush is a moderate so let's just focus
on what I like stiff and authentic right
you know Bohr Al Gore is all day and but
what's funny was that everything with
gore and I'm sure he'd you know he had
his inconsistencies whatever but you
know it was all a lot of it was built
around
he's inauthentic he's a liar he's
inconsistent he changes his persona or
every couple of months earthtones he
hired to consult Chris Matthews though
you can go back he's one of these like
you know you don't know he's he create
but you know George Bush he said the
cowboy boots yeah yes who he is yes and
of course always you know one month it's
technology now he's a friend of the
workers who is he right now all of a
sudden we are now I mean it's an
extraordinary feat to say guy is
consistent going back to the 60s right
on all of the major issues of the time
including by the way I'm footing of him
criticizing Hillary Clinton on
inhumanity at the border in 2015 but now
let's just turn it into like you know
it's it's like he's not dynamic he's a
filmmaker it's it's the same stuff yeah
why does Scorsese keep making them same
movies about the month yeah I mean it's
just as glib and superficial and stupid
except inverted yes with Al Gore it was
all he says those different thing every
couple of weeks look Chris Matthews is
great when he's talking about how
thirsty is for Melania but besides that
please
Chris Matthews is not the only person
who is troubled at the prospect of
Bernie Sanders winning you'll recall
third way third way was the way in which
bankers and austerity and cuts to Social
Security and they really don't want
Bernie Sanders and this is heartfelt and
you know this because the guy has to
look down and is no
multiple times during the but here is
the third way they they basically want
to protect tax cuts and austerity for
the rest of us I believe we can do this
I believe that many of the dozens of
folks running for our party's nomination
can do this closet I believe I will also
say that not only is the third way
challenged insofar as its policies are
limited to a wealthy elite they
apparently also have a severe humor
deficit insofar as thinking that in that
delivery of the dozens of people who are
running for president for our party's
nomination can do this I believe a gay
Midwestern mayor can beat Trump I
believe in african-american senator can
beat Trump I believe a western governor
a female senator a member of Congress a
Latino Texan or a former vice president
can beat Trump but I don't believe a
self-described Democratic Socialist can
win nor a Democratic Party that embraces
those views or allows itself to be
easily labeled or defined by them I mean
I don't know you know this is
self-explanatory right I mean this guy
this is the the fight in the Democratic
Party third way is just basically come
out with there anybody but Bernie a
campaign they know that he represents an
existential threat to their power base
and here is an example of how Bernie
Sanders threatens the power base of
people like the head of the Third Way we
just heard say anybody can beat Donald
Trump except for Bernie Sanders and here
is why he's afraid of a Bernie
and I think in many respects this is why
there is a knee-jerk fear amongst
Democrats particularly of this
generation not all of the Democrats of
this generation but Chris Matthews grew
up in an era in the wake of the McGovern
election a lot of people took the wrong
lessons from that election but it struck
fear in their hearts the idea of
activism of people broadly speaking
getting involved in politics became like
kryptonite to these people they were
afraid of it it wasn't even necessarily
I think the issues those issues just
happen to animate a lot of people I
think just the idea the sight of of
people getting riled up was scary to a
certain segment of the Democratic elite
establishment however you want to define
it and so when people get activated and
that's why Howard Dean's policies rather
conservative but for the Iraq the Iraq
war but it was the fact that there were
so many people who were engaged and and
look this has always been a consistent
fear of the Democrats when Barack Obama
won the nomination the first thing his
campaign did was get out the word to
donors you do not donate to outside
groups regardless of who they are I
don't care if they're anti abort you
know the their their abortion groups or
if their labor or their issue
single-issue groups or their groups like
move on or whatever it is you do not
donate to them everything comes through
us we do not want any outside force to
compete with us that is grounded in put
in broad-based populist support so
Bernie and Howard Dean can have I want
to say radically different policies but
difference but they are both a threat
because of this allergic knee-jerk
reaction to seeing people activated so
something like this clip with Bernie in
his school talking about his proposal
which supposedly is an unfair gets this
kind of reaction
and you know the United States Congress
against my vote bailed out the crooks on
Wall Street who almost destroyed the
entire economy if we had provide a both
the trillion-dollar bailout for Wall
Street we surely can provide the help so
he's talking there about his debt relief
program and that scares a lot of people
scares a lot of people I I think that
that's a hundred percent right and I
just want to add I don't even know this
particular character though he looks
like he's been sort of toiling away in
the in the you know democratic corporate
sector for a while but in the 90s the
third way Democrats like he's doing the
pseudo woke appeal there see I'm like
hip and groovy it could be anybody from
any identity in any background but it
cannot be a socialist right in a
kradic's a Democratic Socialist can't be
a democratic socialist can't be in a
person with a powerful grassroots
movement for all the things that you
outlined in a couple year period in the
1990s Bill Clinton signed the crime bill
that Joe Biden wrote he signed a vicious
Republican welfare reform bill that was
so vicious that Bob Rubin opposed it the
only the only people in Bill Clinton's
inner circle had supported it we're Al
Gore and Hillary Clinton every other
member of the cabinet opposed it and
then and Dick Morris and then he signed
actually an immigration bill which laid
the groundwork for the deportation
machine there's a good write-up on the
97 immigration bill and Voxx and I just
want to say that the third way in DLC
it's very important to remind yourselves
that in the 90s they were on the other
side of the quote-unquote identity
issues and totally willing to play too
racist and nativist sentiments and that
will flip in a second if it becomes
expedient the through line of all of
these groups is deregulate Wall Street
take care of Silicon Valley and never do
anything like get rid of student debt by
holding Wall Street accountable that's
the point
so don't fall for any part of their skin
come from a seven one nine area code
who's this where he come from uh hi this
is Steven from Colorado Steven from
Colorado what is on your mind well I've
had some interesting conversations with
some people from the right and I guess
when when we talk about people like on
the right from like Fox News which we
say is like the Republican propaganda
wing of the Trump administration or for
instance Dave Rubin who has been
classified as like the lazy propagandist
because this mind is filled with so many
wonderful ideas I guess how is it that
we can put that critical eye on the
right and said that the propagandist can
we also look at the left and say are we
engaging in propaganda as well because
the definition of propaganda is pretty
broad yeah and I I mean I could tell you
that I have very many people don't do
propagandas him I don't get into this
argument again but I have certainly
claimed to be a propagandist in the past
now there's some people have told me
that definitionally left-wing people
can't do propaganda but yeah by
propaganda to me is a value neutral term
and it is a form of of informing people
with a specific ideological bent it is
one which is intended to promote that
ideology and that's what I do
and to the extent that what I am saying
at any given time is sound as well
sourced is has some type of integrity or
authenticity people have a
responsibility on some level to to make
that assessment on their own but I
certainly see part of my job is to also
undercut or to undercut any
misconceptions people would have of
other people's authenticity when I think
I have some evidence that they're being
inauthentic or unsound or lacking
integrity I mean that's the way I
perceive it so do you think that the
term propaganda is not actually a
derogatory term it's only derogatory
when the person is factually or
intentionally misrepresenting or
misleading their point of view or their
point with bad evidence or bad facts
things like you know Fox News saying the
situation at the border is an absolute
crisis because such as such and such as
we would say that's just propaganda for
the right but when the left talks about
it not being a crisis and it not being a
well is a crisis now but at the time it
wasn't a crisis that would be propaganda
for the left but because factually you
are right then that removes the
derogatory implication of propaganda I
mean look the the definite like you say
the definition is pretty broad it is
propaganda is perceived I mean it's sort
of more classical definition is
basically just like a trying to blast
out information and I think there is
certainly more colloquially and and and
perhaps not totally definitionally but
some people's definition of propaganda
is that the information is particularly
biased or misleading and I mean I'm
pretty pretty straightforward about my
bias and so I my intention is not to
mislead and people have to make that
assessment but it is but I am definitely
using information to promote a political
cause so I don't it's not so much that
I'm concerned that Fox is propaganda I
you think it's a problem to be
propagandists for power right and
particularly for government power and
not even you know I mean government but
I mean by specific administration power
I think that that can be a little bit
problematic almost definitionally but
you know it's a semantic issue so I
don't you know I'm not too worried about
it but like I say I have no problem if
someone says that I'm a propagandist I I
don't really have a huge argument with
that I would just simply argue that yes
but I I do not mislead and I tried to
endeavour to make sure that my arguments
are sound and my information is correct
that's good to hear because I've
definitely been called out for having
any kind of bias whatsoever you know
when I am in arguments with people oh
then they say well you have a bias
towards this thing and I go are you
arguing with are you arguing with robots
who've been programmed by other robots
by other robots and those robots because
if you're arguing with human beings I
Got News for you they also have a bias
by the way the and the robots will to
run their numbers of meltable scrubs I
mean there's any and yeah I mean the
most dangerous
I actually I think saying that there is
no bias is maybe the most propagandistic
statement anybody could make ever
because it's fun most ingenuously I mean
completely it's rays are completely
deluded or totally disingenuous if they
say that I don't think they're saying
that they don't have that there is no
bias but that we should engage with the
news specifically without a bias it's
impossible that's like I mean awesome
good luck
which news do you pick to engage with
basketball without like shooting baskets
you can't go to Utah you can't pick
which news you're going to engage with
without ideological decision making
anybody who's telling you that they're
engaging in any activity that involves
like news political news societal news I
mean any activity which it requires the
development of an opinion or an
assessment whether it's in business or
whatever it is or academics I don't care
if it's you know political science or
sociology or if it's if it's fashion
they're coming in with a bias and when
they tell you they're not coming in for
with a bias what they're trying to do is
get the upper hand in that conversation
by saying like your perspective is
tainted your perspective is unsound
because you are involved in motivated
reasoning I am not I'm above that but
sure and it doesn't come into it like
the conversation I get is like well you
listen to Sam sooner or is Backman
conical just et OIT
you're in a confirmation bias loop I'm
outside that loop so therefore I am
looking at it more critically than you
are well all right yes okay ask for
their media sources then in that case
because I'd be curious what they cite I
listen to I listen to a broad spectrum
of both Ann Coulter and and Bret Baier
think your little bias on this I'm
watching Ben Shapiro who uses logic
logic and he doesn't care about your
feelings I appreciate the call
thank you call from a 907 area code
who's this where he conquered yes it is
you know yeah oh hey so I was wondering
yeah you know you guys just talking
about this topic
um I caught the last part of the Supreme
Court discussion but did you discuss the
meeting Halford piece on Sydney embers
and the New York Times no we should at
some point it's a really good piece yeah
so um it they just reran in Jacobin but
I was in spare not
org originally ya know I read the peano
it so oh you read it yeah so it yet to
me is a very well supported critique of
conflicts of interest with Sydney embers
whose whose father-in-law is a is the
CEO of Bain Capital right and she was a
former reporter for like the coal
industry and somehow just went to the
top of the New York Times you know
campaign reporters and she's assigned to
Bernie and um you know I first heard
about it when Diane Ravich wrote about
right you know her critique of Bernie's
charter school policy um but it turns
out that she's repeatedly citing sources
without disclosing that they're like
paid lobbyists and think-tank guys and
she's you know she's putting down that
they're like Democratic strategists and
whatnot and you know they were called on
this I wrote a letter to the time saying
we have an ombudsman review but Sidney
amber just came out with another piece
covering Bernie Sanders yeah listen this
is not this is to be expected the New
York Times the last thing in the world
they want is Bernie Sanders to be prized
in the United States and and it's not
just in the New York Times I would say
the vast majority of media outlets are
owned by very wealthy people who someone
like Bernie Sanders strikes them as a as
a threat and they wouldn't have to put a
Sidney embers on the beat if they
thought there was actually legitimate
critiques to be made of Sanders I mean
look you see this you know the funny
thing is like I will be I I have seen
people writers academics go get up in
arms with who the New York Times will
choose for a book review ok it's like
how can they have this person to
this book of you when that person
doesn't know anything about that
academic field and or that person has a
bone to pick with this other person or
something like that and and and people
will be incensed by it but in when it
comes to political coverage they'll take
this basically this cub reporter who has
no experience as far as I can tell in
extreme analyst for black rock in
extensive political coverage and they
will basically say you have the proper
disposition to critique Bernie Sanders
but it is not a valid critique because
it is coming from the very mindset and
pedigree that Bernie Sanders is the
greatest threat to and I will say that
also represents a very small portion of
the electorate it's also a reflection of
just of the of the cultural corollary of
all of this decades of inequality and
accumulated power because we know like
everything you said is true and we also
know that and this would never happen
obviously because of these same power
dynamics but at the Times appointed
somebody who was a previously a labor
union organizer and in a staff writer
for Jacobin and then they got hired as a
political reporter for the New York
Times and then they were assigned to
cover Joe Biden or Kamala Harris that
would be a national I mean not a
national but it would be a regular
meltdown
how can you hire this person they're not
credible their left-wing they have a
bias they have this background there's
still this notion that if somebody has a
business background that's
non-ideological right on bias in fact
going back to the previously previous
disingenuous argument appreciate the
call I think yeah this is really just a
left-wing smear job on the ember' family
including Sydney's father screenwriter
Matt ember who wrote movies such as the
Get Smart remake and get smart Bruce and
Lloyd with Bruce Lee and Will Ferrell
and home and failure to launch with
Matthew McConaughey cuz we can't
yeah we can't tolerate seeing the
meritocracy work yeah they are the worst
people and there's look 101 reasons not
to be a liberal
oh my realize yeah horse hmm that's a
critique from the left I assume David
Feldman's nose whistling hi guys in a
recent interview with Quayle let Ben
Burgess said that the left made more
quote/unquote emotional arguments in the
right I love Ben Burgess but I strongly
disagree with this position left might
be more empathetic but isn't necessarily
emotional what's your take on this well
I know that his argument is that a lot
of left discourse oscillates between
snark and I guess he is he usually puts
it as an empathetic appeals which he
both says are totally valid and
legitimate he just doesn't want to cede
like when you watch a stupid ben shapiro
video he wants you to both say this guy
is a total repugnant who has no
empathy and also explain why the sort of
hood winking he just did on an anxious
college student also doesn't work by in
its own terms
you know I wouldn't get I mean honestly
I just you know I wouldn't get too
tripped up in the hood isn't it isn't
empathy fundamentally emotional I mean I
you know it's like can you
intellectually empathize with someone I
mean doesn't intellectual well you could
yeah you could definitely because
empathy doesn't necessarily you could as
an example you can understand what like
put yourself in the position of somebody
else's next strategic move like you can
sit down Sam and say I think that it
would be smart it's the ability to
understand and share the feelings of a
Nellore
there's also sympathy is the
intellectual sympathy yeah but in its in
international relations that's used in a
broader way well great
but interview no but I mean functionally
it's you I mean you could you could use
it to just put yourself in another
person's position to understand where
they're coming from doesn't necessarily
mean that you condone or support their
perspective but I actually
but regardless what does this have to do
with the comment well the comment is the
left might be more empathetic but isn't
necessarily emotional what's your take
on this specific it isn't oh oh I see no
than it is the left is more empathetic
than it is necessarily emotional cuz
you're talking about feelings which I
don't think is bad it's good that we
have also how you argue yeah before for
leftist policies without having a sense
that our policies should be devoid of
emotion I mean this is the game that the
right plays as if it they're just doing
this it's it's like it's just another
shade of the like I'm not coming to this
with any type of bias like my emotions
are not getting in the way this I just
have a completely intellectual
assessment of this well your lack of
emotion for human suffering is in fact a
bias and they have plenty of emotion I
mean another thing that Burgess and I
have talked about plenty of times which
is fascinating is also that this note
like that the my that sort of dualism of
rationality and emotion is completely in
from a science and from a neuroscience
perspective from what we can measure and
from a philosophical perspective that's
a totally discredited view well and they
always like empathy but they don't lack
emotion they have plenty of I mean are
you kidding you don't want it was
emotional that Dave Rubin gets on
Twitter and it's like I'm being demonic
I know no point he's making this bit
that's even broader is just the idea
that you literally the idea that you can
separate that functionality anytime is
impossible
like we're not Spock that that isn't how
the world works and also they don't
because there's a reason that if I call
them a fascist they'll say well we can't
continue this conversation but they call
me a communist and I could say well
whatever let's continue this
conversation right we get emotional
about kids in concentration camps they
get an emotional about Family Guy not
making jokes anymore you know who's
using any emotion when he analysis
what's going on the Border's Dan
Crenshaw Dan Crenshaw he's he's a guy
she's a guy and he doesn't he doesn't
let emotion cloud his thing like let's
say like a OSI doesn't let emotion
influence the way he moderates a
facebook group that's right and here is
Dan Crenshaw he's on with martha
maccallum he's he's trying to explain
like she's so out of control that aoc
making up all sorts of lies
poor poor timing on this one Dan
Crenshaw play their own officers here
now Republican congressman Dan Crenshaw
of Texas congressman great to have you
with us today you know first of all your
reaction to that back and forth between
the congresswoman and these officers
it's sad to see she's getting bolder
with her lies on this and this is what's
actually happening this is what the
American people need to understand
people like aoc are operating off of a
false premise and it's deliberately
designed to miss inform the American
people for her own political ends right
remember first there was no crisis at
all okay then it was a manufactured
crisis then it was a crisis completely
created by Trump then there were
concentration camps Nasik on second now
everything he's just outlined I hope I
don't have to point out it's exactly the
trajectory of what happened there was no
crisis then there was a manufactured
crisis the manufacturing of the crisis
and then at the end of the manufacturing
process there was in fact a crisis that
was created by Trump and then what was
the last step he had Oh
and that cut that crisis was that we
were putting people in concentration
camps and treating them with with abject
disdain this then it was a crisis
completely the created by Trump then
there were concentration camps then
people are Nazis now she's saying that
Border Patrol agents harassed her and
forced migrants to drink out of toilets
this is insanity that this is not true
there's no one else corroborating this
kind of these kind of reports and yet
she's using it
to try and make her case that we
shouldn't have any enforcement and that
we should have open borders this is
really dishonest behavior from a member
of Congress and I honestly can't believe
it and I will agree with Dan Crenshaw
that it's very dishonest behavior from a
member of Congress but I would suggest
that it was him who's being dishonest
poor timing on this because just
literally hours after Dan Crenshaw is on
the Department of Homeland Security's
inspector general said that they were
living in squalor in these camps squalor
it comes out that just a day before that
there was a face group Facebook group of
9,500 people who referred to themselves
as all being part of a big family who
included documented proof former and
current members of the Customs and
Border Patrol
who were in fact passing around memes
showing essentially that AOC was being
more or less raped by Donald Trump in
some fashion and saying horrible things
about what they wanted to do to her as
well as showing total disregard for the
humanity of the people that they were
supposed to be watching so Dan Crenshaw
is really a struck out here in a kudos
to martha maccallum for basically
showing absolutely no indication that
she was aware of any of these things
when she did not question anything that
he was saying we should also I'm just
gonna replay this little part here
Brennan created by Trump then there were
concentration camps then people are
Nazis who did aoc called Nazis no one so
a CJ is crenshaw just given us a little
bit of a sneak peek yeah he's been right
so far right this is disturbing is he
jumping the gun because so far he's
actually given a really accurate
timeline as you pointed out of what's
happening I don't know maybe we were
maybe refer back to Dan Crenshaw as
Facebook groups crisis then it was a
crisis completely but created by Trump
there were concentration camps then
people are Nazis yeah that's the way it
works that's the way it works Oh
let's check in though it's one thing for
Dan Crenshaw to be lying about aoc and
not realizing what was going down with
the Department of Homeland Security
which of course are these you know basis
obviously they're doing it for their
election electoral chances in 2020
Department Homeland Security as you all
know running for Congress running for
president running for Senate running for
dogcatcher Comptroller of County and
upstate New York all these different
positions that's why they're Inspector
General said that these immigrants are
living in squalor well let's check in on
Glenn Beck you remember Glenn Beck he's
the one who had the complete revelation
just a moral awaiting a moral awakening
where he realized like he had done wrong
and he wanted to apologize to America
and he knew that he was in part
responsible for doing Trump and it's all
about loving and about deep deep belief
in Jesus and what God would want us to
do and oh wait a second oh oh I'm
sorry I just got a report from my
accountant yeah
no scratch all that but thank you for
all the profiles in the New York Times
and The New Yorker I'm excuse me the New
York thank you for the Sam B
collaboration yes it was i sir to Glenn
Beck during 2016 than she was to Bernie
Sanders now was a fun time but let's
check in what Glenn Beck is doing now
it's funny because they made they were
very upset that they were asked to check
their phones going into the facility so
they did but with heroic Joaquin Castro
smuggled in a device to get some footage
and what a brave man he is posit
what he's talking about is that
representatives of the American public
who elected these officials and remember
these are sometimes faux libertarians
these two we're not allowed to document
the conditions in this this pleasure you
know
Hall
in essentially that all these immigrants
are in Tremont and this is also when the
the people running this facility had
literally ten with ten days at least to
clean up what was going on in there and
the idea like oh he's so brave he
brought in his video camera well may not
be very brave but don't you have a
problem with government bureaucrats with
government with the people have the
monopoly of force telling not just
citizens but the representative of
hundreds of thousands of Senators
citizens that they can't document what's
going on in there these are the guys who
are like so constitutional right
they were these are the guys who made
millions of dollars because they were
worried about people who were called
czars it's funny because they made they
were very upset that they were asked to
check their phones going into the
facility so they did but heroic Joaquin
Castro smuggled in a device to get some
footage and what a brave man he is and
it's certainly nothing to in his
brother's run for president that's not
at all important sir to pull a stunt
like this and but you know what all
these terrible things happened the only
thing he was able to get though is a
bunch of women sitting comfortably in
sleeping bags but they were on the floor
oh my god and unlike my daughter asleep
from the floor in her sleeping bag next
to her bed inexplicably every do you
want to pause to point this out so yeah
the same earplugs as I said I think you
know I don't think he knows how to put
them in though now that is the most
horrific thing that's said well I think
that you can make a case that there used
to sleeping on the dirt outside for this
you know this long journey you know
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
miles of journey there usually you know
copping a squat by a cactus and now
we're forcing them to you know put a
sleeping bag down on a clean floor if
there is only some recourse for these
people if there's only some way for them
avoid these facilities like I don't know
like turning around and going the
opposite direction oh that's not to the
pole and you want to go back to the past
I say we keep them marching forward we
open our borders and we March them all
the way to the Canadian border
and help them across the Canadian border
and I'm sure we'd have great response
from the Canadian they've almost
stumbled on something they almost
stumbled on something when they said
like you know oh whoa there is a there
is a thing that they could do to avoid
this these concentration camps and that
is go back go back
so why don't they what would happened if
is that stew or the other day that's
just you and Glen back dupit what would
happen if Stu and Glenn Beck actually
just took the next step and said wait
wait why don't they go back why don't
they go back wonder what's going on
there because God knows that they know
that we know that what happens when the
immigrants come in they live the life
they just sit by the pool just hang out
chill all they gotta do is vote
government oh my god those trucks full
of cheese and live in the life why don't
they go back and then of course you know
what would happen if Glenn Beck brought
out his chalkboard and actually started
to try and do that equation what a
disingenuous I'm still waiting for the
correction written by all the the
hagiography about about Glenn Beck god
what a con man well done Sam B well done
NPR well done NPR he does a comedy show
well well well does MPR ozuna list hard
or goes to analyst there's literally one
if you want to skip to it always
honorable mention to Bob Garfield who
not only held Glenn Beck accountable
Glenn Beck had a tantrum a couple of
minutes in the interview and left and
that was after laudatory coverage by the
New York Times Sam B NPR he had to push
back questions on his absolute lack of
ethics and his role in creating trumpism
and he tans from doff here is a little
preview of what July 4th is gonna look
like this year in Washington DC
like I say hoping for massive
thunderstorms rain clouds apparently all
the VIP tickets were given to the RNC
none to the DNC because this is about
America should have one way to take a
winner-take-all let the American people
decide and frankly I don't think there
should have been tickets given to
anybody how about there are no VIP seats
it's not for the people the people want
to see me here is some of those millions
of dollars that the parks department is
spending to ship in tanks where is this
here is this downtown Washington in the
yeah 18-wheeler they got to put him on
the back 18 wheelers there you go
there's the tank wow that's super
exciting it's it's great here's another
one
good
look at that tank roll by on that
18-wheeler honk the hood oh thank you
for that and here is old man Dobbs
talking about how exciting it is to have
some real military hardware for once I
love this idea of the presidents and I
just got to tell you I've been hoping
for this for a very long time we're
going to have us a little different 4th
of July celebration in the nation's
capitol I'd love to see it in every
community in the country but we start
with m1a ones tanks and strikers all
part of the president's July 4th
celebration that he's been planning for
America it's called the salute to
America event and it'll be in Washington
DC of course and it will have fireworks
a speech from the president and now
tanks and Bradley's and strikers and all
sorts of fancy military vehicles to just
kind of spice things up the DC Council
oh they were so concerned about
potential damage that would be caused by
those armored vehicles the Pentagon will
not have de static the static displays
of the tanks we don't know what that
means but there will also be
demonstrations above from the Navy's
Blue Angels flight squadron the US Army
Band back to the ground now and the
Marine Corps silent drill team 8th and I
it will surely be fun patriotic and a
glorious celebration of our nation its
founding and oh yes our military which
belongs in every every Independence Day
celebration in my opinion I can't find
the uber always um thing on my whatever
happened to that all right take that off
at one point but there it is getting all
jazzed up for the Supreme Leader's
observing the troops there are vote vets
apparently he's going down there with
thousands of John McCain t-shirts to boo
the president
so I appreciate John McCain being
leveraged for good for once go down
there and basically upset the president
meanwhile lastly we should talk about
this
so Nike was gonna come out with some
Betsy Ross sneakers which in which they
were going to use the the flag that
Betsy Ross sewed 13 stars the the
colonial flag right is that what we call
it and when they announced it ki Colin
Kaepernick was like you're aware that
that those 13 stars are used by like
sort of so-called Patriot militias and
white nationalist groups and Nike was
like oh we were like scone Teleca Colin
just does everything for Nike now we
weren't and so Nike decides not to roll
it out probably a good idea but not if
you're on Fox Business News because look
this is what Donald Trump wanted for
re-election anyway so if he can bring
this back you won't have to hit so hard
on the immigration thing gotta ask you
about Colin Kaepernick and and I'm gonna
spend I'm sure no sure Nike doesn't care
because I'm a fat old man but I'm gonna
find every Nike piece of equipment I
haven't burned it this weekend I'm gonna
go find New Balance or somebody else
that makes American products and it's
proud of American American flag head
Ron's nails no one cares what this fat
old man cares about I hope your throws
his back out we're gonna like though and
Kaepernick who was a third-string
best quarterback at one minor season has
owns that company for some reason that's
an anti-american and I hope they pay a
big big priceless what do you think I
think it's politics I think that it's
about their base it
about Nikes base it has been there
campaigning with this nonsense I don't
know if we've got pictures of the shoes
instead of it's the colonial a 13 star
flag designed by Betsy Ross and there it
is and there's I this thing was
contrived I really do
utterly contrived by their marketing
department and the audience they want to
buy that would have really been offended
if it been the US flag back there
the current 50 stars on it they're
playing games here absolutely and in its
transit I think it's a prize well I'll
never I'll never wear another Nike
product again and again no they don't
care about me I'm a federal man but I'm
gonna tell all my friends and I'm gonna
basically make fun of everybody wears it
oh we don't care either
you're a fat old man I had roasted a
former Navy SEAL and definitely then I
looked at it there was that like II
swoosh it's hard to escape that son go
buy American that's what we need to go
find there's several let's do it they
could good fry American I'm a higher
America actually
so says Ed Rollins these guys just I
just I can't wait these guys is just
like morphing into those two characters
in the Muppets
yeah and they just get one point just
gonna keel over yeah and also the story
about Betsy Ross so in the first flag is
 there's no documentation for
that so I'm sorry guys waiter but that's
actually really interesting so now like
are they actually saying cuz it it means
something to say you know products made
in the United States well compensated
labor okay but now are they literally
are they almost saying like the shoe can
be made at a sweatshop in Bangladesh it
just needs to have the Betsy Ross flag
on it and then it's somehow made in
America I'm no they're saying they but
what kinda are they talking about yeah
yeah I'm wearing it and it's not the
best shoe I will New Balance is not well
take that take that American worker
now New Balance what it what yeah but
it's almost like what is it like a tenth
of your deduction go to the phone call
from a57 Oh area code who's this where
we call where you come from
hi this is Joe from Scranton
Pennsylvania zero from Scranton
Pennsylvania Joe do you ever listen to
ring a fire radio it's on the radio
there you know no I don't and no I
didn't even know that I know well I'll
be honest and I didn't know there either
so it's just that if somebody just
texted me that yesterday I had no idea
it's on
WUF te and scran it's an FM channel WFP
it's an FM channel no kidding cuz the
bull gold radio group is the one that
normally dominates all talk radio here
and that's beyond the right right wing
organization so I had no idea but that's
good news
yes that's good news check it out very
goodness so yeah I mean I I'm calling
because I can't believe and thank God
you guys are giving this a lot of
attention this you know what's what's
going on on the border because I can't
believe that the national news media
hasn't just kept staring into the camera
and waiting like we'll wait until this
is immediately fixed immediately stopped
um I mean I can't believe that we're
living at this kind of a country and
what my concern is is that for the
democratic election whether it's Joe
Biden
especially you know in our area here I'm
getting a little nervous because I I
start to see the Biden signs going up in
people's yards about a month ago which
is around the same time that I saw a lot
of people in the area starting to put up
their Tom signs so that's a little
concerning but my theory is is that the
first person on the Democratic stage
whether it be Joe Biden or whoever was
quick to point out the fact and I mean
I'm that that not only is this racist
and xenophobic but it is given the you
know the current administration and the
type of dominionist Christianity that
has such a stronghold in the Republican
Party this is tremendously anti-catholic
motivated as well and I'm not in I'm not
a cat
like apologist by any means but I'm just
saying whoever I feel like whoever you
know starts to drive that point home
that this is also tremendously
anti-catholic is going to perk up the
ears of ethnic white voters that would
typically vote for for Joe Biden and
kind of get these people on board and
wake them up a little bit I don't know a
lot on that I think the Pope can do that
because I don't know I don't think
anybody can do that for Catholics I I
mean I I look I I don't know that there
is right to be honest with you I just
don't I don't know anecdotally or I have
not seen data that that using that that
frame has any type of salience anymore
in American politics I just don't know
that it does I mean it might it might
particularly in Pennsylvania but I in
other words if you're looking if you're
looking for a portion of the population
that is just looking for an accessory
agree let me ask you this you know let
me ask you let me ask you this my sense
is is that for that to have any salience
it would have to come from the clergy
well it has I mean it has come from the
clergy but you know and and a lot of
people I mean the Pope comes here this
even years ago and and I mean literally
stands at the border and gives communion
through the chain-link fence to to to
the people along the southern border and
the Pope has written encyclicals you
know that they're spoke out against it
is going on here uh in America
did it work I'm saying that he said well
I'm saying that a lot of people don't
even a lot of Catholics that are you
know you're Catholic like is in the fact
that like you're Jewish a lot of you
that some Jews are Jews but they're not
particularly religious right identify
with Judaism a lot of Catholics are like
that too lots that you know lissa
they're not religious at all until like
somebody says like hey this is some
real anti-catholic they're
gonna try to start you know this is what
their real motivation is and truth be
told I mean I really feel that that is a
lot of the motivation yes they're
against Latino people as a whole but I'm
talking about the the stronghold of the
particular sect of Christianity is that
dominionist type of Christianity they
have no use for and disdain for
Catholics as well all right I don't I
have a little bit of a different spin on
this I think I get your point though Joe
I think that it's there's a battle
inside the Catholic Church that does
have real political stakes somewhat here
but particularly like Latin America in
Europe and I don't know how persuasive
it is for people necessarily but I think
it's important to and even if you don't
care about Catholicism or whatever it's
important to support the right side of
that battle because it is gonna matter
in some pretty important ways I think
that I also know that I've talked to
Catholic members of my family who have
you know said that thing like ooh you
know if they're putting people like that
in camp camps and they could put
Catholics and - and then basically
continue to continue to support
Republicans Winnipeg Craig on the I M
hey Sam I saw that Ronald Reagan was
streaming a live video a minute after
your show started today seems like he
was trying to send a message by
targeting your time slot might want to
ask him what that's all about I don't
know who do know Ronald Reagan sent me
this it is a I guess the first entry
into these sun's out guns out I think he
doused it with like Cologne or something
I think he did or did he just take this
off of somebody's right yeah there's a
weird scent to it yeah if you're ever
gonna send Sam something it can't be
fragrant that doesn't bother me it just
smells bad it doesn't bother me because
like it's been lifting our debate
yes yeah like a moth ball or something I
don't know if I'm gonna wear that now I
was thinking about it but it smells does
hallowed be thy games yeah
how I'd be like guns dude no it says
games oh really
yep no all right I thought it was how
it'd be that guns I'm not gonna wear
that
JJ cool doesn't the privatization of
detention centers create incentives to
perpetuate this horrendous situation the
companies are encouraged to lock up as
many people as cheaply as possible
employees could be encouraged to
dehumanize people just say can you
function the media gets picture of the
inhumanity Republican step forward with
a bill that has funding with the few
restrictions they can pretend look we
did at least one or two interviews on
this program and and I certainly did one
or two on ring a fire talking about the
private prison industry and I'm trying
to think who it was that I interviewed
on this the private prison industry
moving into detention centers that's
what they were telling their
shareholders back in 2014-2015 Bernie
Sanders back in 2015 in September 2015
introduced a plan to scale back the
private prison industry justice is not
for sale Act would give federal state
local governments two years to exit
their contract with private prison
companies I think that had happened on a
federal level under the Obama
administration they had started it in at
the end of their term but yeah this is a
problem I mean this is a problem of
private prisons period a and when we had
a reduction in prisoners in this country
less people going to prison they started
moving you go back and looking at the
prospectus 'as of these private prison
companies back in 2014 2015 2016 even
then they were anticipating moving into
this as a in seeing this as a growing
industry and then like look if you're a
good business person what are you doing
you're gonna promote policies that
create demand for your product
and you're gonna promote those policies
not just here there's a whole supply
chain that would create that demand I
wouldn't be surprised if some of these
major prison private prison entities
that were telling their shareholders
we're gonna move into the immigration
immigrant detention sector if they
weren't supportive of policies or events
that were driving people north and
certainly of course like they know that
the most exploitable people populations
would be immigrants those are the people
because there's just less resources to
defend their rights you don't even have
you have congressmen who are up here
pooh-poohing the idea that no they're
really they're nying on the floor I mean
it's it was a good business decision on
their part oh this is a fun story that I
think is gonna cheer people up it really
breaks my heart
Daily Beast reports that Meghan McCain
is feeling like an exhausted defeated
caged animal and she may exit the view
this is this type of deep platforming is
just reprehensible Meghan McCain is
seriously considering calling it quits
and not accepting ABC's offer to return
for the views 23rd season next September
it leads me to believe maybe she's not
getting offered a return invitation
she's just too annoying to work with for
the people who actually got there with
some merit
the other I mean just it is just
incredible Kane is actually amazing
she's incredible yeah I have to finally
admit it like she has an antisense I
mean only she could a week after being
like I know that's like really bad
what's happening at the border but to
call him concentrate when you call him
torture chambers which first of all it's
a fine thing to call them torture
chambers but actually nobody was doing
so she made up a thing that nobody was
doing to bring up her dad who's the sole
source of her narcissistic trust-fund
baby existence to condemn people saying
something they weren't saying about
children actually died in custody only
she could have been a couple of days
later be like you know getting paid
millions of dollars a day to do a daily
review show or occasionally I get
critiqued for being an unbelievable
narcissistic it's like being a
caged animal I finally found something
that you can compare to my dad's
treatment right - suits putting under
his fingernails having to have joy behar
criticized me for being an idiot and a
narcissist this is like geez amazed who
messes up my own Vietnam did this is
like my own personal Vietnam and what
Donald Trump said that he at least he
said it with a degree of Howard Stern
style irony she means it she is like the
most demented person on the planet
apparently there are leaks about the
behavior that's going on there according
to sources close to the 34 year old
McCain she's making something under a
million dollars a year under a million
dollars armée excuse me all right so
hard she emotionally drained
angry isolated feeling like a caged
animal said one McCain intimate Thank
You McCain intimate for that language
[Laughter]
it's getting to the point where it's not
worth the emotional toll every week said
of McCain pal she doesn't stay at the
view she'll find other work mmm
Federalist I'm sorry Fred Federalists
had a women's talk show and midday show
come on hard y'all are you at the
Federalist in contrast to her colleagues
Hey
my dad who spends weekends in the
Hamptons McCain likes to spend her time
off at home in Arizona quote quote quote
hanging out in the creek doing jello
shots and shooting guns
adhering from real goddamn Americans
about why we need to keep those friggin
immigrants out of the country that's why
she gets so offended when joy calls them
racist apparently she's got a team
behind her and the team spends its time
making jello shots not well not
researching look it's cool she shoots
guns and does jello shots that's the
best part it's the best way they make
the jello shots they load the guns and
then apparently what they do is they
check the social media of all the other
co-hosts on the view because according
to the piece it did it didn't I it also
did not go unnoticed by Team McCain that
sunny Hostin she is one of the other
hosts yep
began following cartoonists le valley on
twitter after he posted a grotesque
caricature of a crucifix wearing Megan
McCain in March lampooning her
supposedly hypocritical support for the
Jewish people in the State of Israel
McCain herself tweeted at Valley this is
one of the most anti-semitic things I've
ever seen also this reveals so much more
about you than it does me Megan McCain
you okay that that's a pretty revealing
cartoon well I would say even more
revealing than the cartoon is the fact
that she has a team of people who are
checking on her co-hosts to see who they
follow on social media now I have a
revelation to make and it's arguably a
bit of admission one Michael I know that
you follow steven crowder
I tried to but he had plenty of
aggressive voices you got to stop that I
definitely felt I loved progressive
voices I thought his critique brand
animation stylist persuasive Brendan
[Laughter]
you've been following Rob Morrow yep Rob
Moreau Rob Morrow was the star of what
was the name of that show shoot Northern
Exposure
yeah Northern Exposure and I really
resent that who's mad following certain
of it
no Matt's following the official Yankees
team Twitter thing and I don't
appreciate that either the construct
spread pocket could you imagine the the
level of self control it would take as
one of her co-hosts not favourite this
oh my god holla yeah I think I mean even
if you didn't think it was accurate and
funny and incidentally I think it is
both accurate and funny just knowing
it's the pits the principal the story
yesterday if you favorited this the
comedic value of the meltdown would be
immeasurable I this is what I would do
if I was on that show I would favored it
and then I would come in and I would say
Megan I wanted you to know I'm sorry I
accidentally favored that and I don't
know how to unfavorite it I can't figure
out how to unfavorite it I tried and I
don't know if I lost reception if i
retweeted or what and I try was
unfavored to get the way to get please
accept my sincerest apologies and then I
would do it again with another critique
of her and going and apologize and
somewhere I would just measure like at
what point is she gonna realize like I
am NOT being sincere like at what point
does what you're doing become what
happened to my father John McCain he was
my father in Vietnam it's the same thing
there's no children in concentration
camps offensive I have to say cartoon by
eally Valley
basically the same thing as the
Holocaust which my father learned to
care about
Joe Lieberman so as you know guys this
is really hard for me she is up
there she's absolutely one of the worst
people on earth it's amazing is one of
those like meeting points of everything
wrong she needs this job
yes what is she gonna do surrounded
what's this time to do what ya been
Dominic what you gonna do after this
dominoes she'll get she'll find a job on
some what's CNN they'll keep high you
know it's it's Incheon ball I mean she
could just do jello shots all day send
out tweets about her dad she sounds like
the worst type of like it could be the P
she is literally the worst well yeah
continuous is all just one play to get
more money out of them cuz I think they
love her well she makes was funny is
like I know you have years of her as
like someone who's not good but just
gets nepeta nepotism and now and I was
saying this last week like in today
specific media environment she's great
for viral content because she's so
repulsive so she's actually got like the
best selling point now because she's a
heel right right no it's like wrestling
it's it's wrestling we're doing this
again
contagious chameleon what was Bernie
talking about with rotating judges I
think the idea that he was talking about
actually was one I think and and I don't
know the specifics of Bernie's proposal
that our guest Matt Ford wrote about in
the New Republic and I think that may
have been the basis of that idea which
was we have I think it is 12 circuits in
the country nine nine circuits 12
circuits I'm not sure how many how many
circuit courts do we have regardless how
men
the idea is that you would have limits
on people's terms on the Supreme Court
the judges would be picked from the
circuit courts but they would be picked
randomly from the circuit courts so each
seat on the Supreme Court would be
assigned to a circuit court thirteen
circuit thirteen counting the District
of Columbia Circuit and the Federal
Circuit and so you'd have thirteen seats
I think he was calling for thirteen I
can't remember exactly but the idea
would be that all of the judges come
from the circuit courts they get I can't
remember how long the term was but a
limited term on the Supreme Court and
then they go back to that circuit court
so their judges their lifetime
appointments but their roles are
different for a while they can serve on
the Supreme Court and they are picked
randomly in the circuit court like like
by lottery so that things become more
balanced now obviously then the fights
become to fill the circuit court the
circuit courts but I think it's an
interesting idea I'm interested in in
term limits for the judges and any
mechanism that brings that about whether
it's random picking or political picking
I'm pretty I'm pretty down with and I
think Bernie was talking about that that
I I think that was the basis of his plan
C Tem are fan does this mean the Third
Way opposes aoc of course they do
Sebby G majority of them the morning
show coffee with Gorka and door Cristo
it's been a while since the last random
rush then again how relevant is he
anymore he's not quite that relevant as
he used to be but I think it's it's
always interesting because he's still
talking to an audience of 10 million
more
it's just that I think there are other
people you know I think his direct
relevance is less well suspect eclis the
platform we're on I think I'm just in
YouTube I mean I should say I mean what
do you mean
well the people that we are more likely
to share an audience with or be relevant
to debunk on this platform or people
like Rubin or Crowder right in terms of
like hitting young people and but it is
also interesting to see what random
rushes I'm not for sure what Rush is up
to just in terms of where you know what
what the Republican Party is thinking
will do that but we I have a problem
with my app so Nick from Manitoba hey
Sam did you hear the news reports are
coming out of recent confrontation
between the fascist group the proud boys
and an tyfa new video evidence shows a
well-built black cloud an tyfa member
with thick rim glasses throwing a thick
stack of bound papers at a baseball bat
wielding proud boy upon further
investigation ambien and Apple do
residue have been identified okay hmm
I don't know anything about that tourney
Andrew is it driving me up a wall every
time a Democratic candidate says the
public option is the quickest way to get
Medicare for all in Bernie's bill
everyone will be covered by the expanded
and improved Medicare after four years
that's in the law it's guaranteed under
jeyapaul's bill that process happens
over two years instead of for every
candidate that says a public option is
the quickest way to get us the universal
coverage should be required to say how
long it will take I agree
Helen Shulman Matlack why are you afraid
to harness love all that literature you
read and nothing stuck besides facts and
figures of a historical analysis
remember our deepest fear is not that we
are inadequate our deepest fear is that
we are powerful beyond measure it is our
light not our darkness that most
frightens us we ask ourselves Who am I
to be brilliant gorgeous talented
fabulous actually who are you question
not to be you're a child of God your
playing small does not serve the world
there's nothing enlightened about
shrinking so that other people won't
feel secure around you we're all meant
to shine as children do we were born to
make manifest the glory of God that is
in within us it's not just in some of us
it's in everyone and we let our light
shine we unconsciously give other people
permission to do the same or liberated
from our own fear our presence
automatically liberates others do that
mat just make sure you do it well and
you do it with passion I think about
that Wow that was uh plagiarized from
somewhere very heartfelt was that Det
marianne williamson oh that was
something from something else
Smoot Court why is the leadership and
frankly the white member leaving it to
AOC in the fake Julian Castro to
publicize this continued profits SNL
which has writers who I know listened to
the show for apologizing to Dan Crenshaw
for a mild joke and making him look like
a good guy for later to him now to be on
TV pass blocking for concentration camps
JB Chris Matthews at all are a Comcast
employees that's why having a hard time
keeping up my morale at work I work with
Nazis Republicans that are defending my
concentration camps my boss is my boss
him for god sakes any of these folks
that worship the flag should be appalled
that they were going to put the flag on
Footwear indeed cory booker isn't this
like getting your first head job that's
the exciting moment but you also kind of
wish it was born but maybe not the guy
anyways you don't upset your united
states senator you're running for
president so i think chris matthews does
he repeats people's bios back to them i
always say like yeah but you're great
you're creating your senator and you're
running for president
AOC is a national treasure according to
MSNBC Bernie's main problem is that no
one voted with him when he voted against
the Iraq war Congressional baseball fan
currently the idea stages for putting
together a fry fest style event in
Arizona desert it'll be an exclusive
luxury festival and Netflix originals
documentary featuring one of America's
foremost influence America's princess
Megan McCain but there's a twist Megan
will be completely unaware that she's
both the main event and the only
attendee what will Megan do when she
realizes she's alone at a desert Fema
camp with only a camera crew all of the
Truman Show
pretty good stop into it call him from a
three four seven area code we got a lot
of people have been hanging on for a
long time I'm sorry folks we're working
on it but we're gonna get a run out of
time soon three four seven who's this
where you come from is paler in New York
Taylor what's on your mind
hi I'm first-time caller longtime
listener and all that I'm just calling
actually just to praise the show because
after the 2016 elections I like I think
many people didn't really know where to
turn it sort of change their outlook on
life and the show really helped me
through a lot of tough times so I have a
backlog of questions but I'll save that
for another time because as you might be
able to tell I'm a little nervous I
could not I wanted to say thank you for
everything you do and thank you but oh
well wait wait wait so what's the
backlog of questions give me one okay
here's one I'm interesting to hear your
perspective on sort of the in the sort
of unfortunate case of Biden becoming
the nominee and then winning the
presidency do you think that people who
sort of want to support progressive
causes will have some sort of have a
great deal of leverage over Biden
because of the kind of progressive
movement that's been happening or do you
think it will be not actually a huge
difference from second Trump term oh
well look III think I think there's
there's a lot more leverage over a Biden
than there is a Trump I mean it just is
and particularly when you know okay I
don't like to think about this but you
have Biden in office you have Bernie
Sanders Elizabeth Warren in the Senate
who now have built even bigger machines
in the head before for mobilizing people
you
Kamla Harris assuming she's not the VP
under Biden she probably will be almost
certainly will be but you'll also have
like a Cory Booker you'll have others
who are young who are who will see their
careers they know which way things are
going even if Joe Biden happens to eke
it out now I don't think that's gonna
happen one never knows but I mean the
left grew under Obama and I think part
of it was a function of of having a
dissatisfaction with a center left
center right president part of it was a
function of a generation that was coming
of age that was not living in the shadow
of the Cold War that was had bigger
impact on our culture and our politics
than any generation since the baby
boomers I mean there's a whole host of
reasons why I think we've moved left so
I don't I don't think that ends and yes
a Democratic president definitionally
needs the Democrats more than a
Republican president does and how much
leverage the Left will have under a
Biden administration is largely a
function of the left like you know how
activated will people become and you
know will we get I mean here's what here
was he was but my fear was in this time
in 2016 we're gonna get a Joe Biden and
in 2020 and when we do everybody's gonna
be like thank God
Donald Trump is gone thank God Donald
Trump is gone and go to sleep because
they so desperately they're so tired
they want to I I don't think that's
gonna happen but that is definitely a
fear of mine so
but if the left does not go to sleep
under Joe Biden things will not be we
will not get the type of change that we
want under Bernie Sanders we will not
get the type of you know reforms that
one could have expected under Elizabeth
Warren but there will still be much more
leverage obviously that the left will
have then under Donald Trump because
Donald Trump Donald Trump it's in his
best interest to make sure that he very
clearly is not giving the left any
leverage appreciate the call go eight
four seven area code who's this where
you come from
hey it's Josh from Chicago
Josh from Chicago how are you sir oh I
really enjoyed myself by the way
Thursday or Wednesday at the Red Sox
White Sox won because the way it starts
one click shut up Josh Josh guess bless
enjoyed that afternoon while you'll
watch a Red Sox and the White Sox
there was another analytic activity
taking place I know I talked about the
debates actually and I think you first
of all I think you're too nice to people
to judge them because I think he was
disastrous that's a debate and I think
he came off as a smug sociopath actually
especially like during the time that he
had with was talking about the what was
going on it's all done with the cops I
think that really like swallow called
him on it and I think that really hurt
him but I think the thing about Bernie
is I think what he needs to do I think
his ending was the strongest ending of
any of the people out there on the stage
he closed it out really well Neverland I
had talked about talked to the debate
said the ending was really strong that
that final point is like why they would
still support him I think he used to
open with that and I think especially if
he's in a debate with Elizabeth Warren
needs to say something as effective you
have all these great plans except for
how to mobilize people right and I know
how to mobilize
know how to get this that that's
what we've been saying I think that's
absolutely right he has a plan to make
the plans work yeah I mean and like I
think the thing is yes the polling
doesn't look great but I haven't heard
and maybe I'm in a bubble
I know Bernie is organizing in various
states across the country right now in
terms of not only does he have a get out
the vote wish to get out the vote
machines already sort of in place but
he's also got stuff left over I mean
even from like the Caban campaign in
Queens
and a ocu's campaign he's got stuff that
I don't think a lot of these other
campaigns have and I think yes they're
polling might look good but I don't
think they necessarily have the
organizing in place to compete in a way
that Bernie does okay and I see that's
really quickly this ABC Washington Post
poll that came out this morning looks
very good for Sanders I mean I I also
want to just also add the other element
that maybe it's a little early to be
taking so much information from polls
but I mean not the poll that came out
this morning I mean Biden still ahead
unfortunately but that looks like the
poll that you would see a month ago
it's Biden dropping Bernie a closely I
don't know a couple of weeks to see
where the trends are with all these
things and then you know it's
conceivable that you you could make a
case that just based on the nature of
the campaign's that Bernie's gonna be
able to mobilize and maybe we'll do
better but we just don't know all we
know of the basic trends and I think
like the the race becomes pretty
wide-open if a Biden falters the way
that it looks like he's faltering and
yeah Biden to the the issue with Biden
this is issue with I think a lot of the
candidates that Bernie does not have is
that as they fall in the polls right
there's an ebb and forget more desperate
they're getting more desperate but it's
also going to impact their money their
fundraising and but Bernie doesn't have
that same problem because the people who
are can't who are contributing to Bernie
are are contributing because they
want him to win not necessarily because
they think he will win in terms of the
primary the people who are contributing
to Biden are doing so because they're
hedging their bets they're doing it
because they think he's gonna win and
they want a seat at the table and if
they start to think that he's not gonna
win they're gonna just back another
horse because for them it is a horse
race and so that's the the advantage
that that Bernie has he has much wider
base of of donor support and so you know
it's the difference between unlikely
gonna for instance on that I can tell
you just the dynamic on this show I I
much rather get memberships then
monetizing you tomorrow I know that I'm
not gonna get a hundred people say I'm
not going to be a member anymore you
know I may I may lose one or two or you
know you know again an email I lost my
job I can't support the show anymore
whatever it is but hey Sam Mike yeah
Mike from PA way hood I mean if you're
done with this stupid polling
conversation I'm fine with that but I
just wanted to comment a little bit on
this if I could okay charismatic opening
mic like well you're right and I feel
like I have a little bit of cachet that
I can ruin and waste but uh the one
thing about these polls especially the
ones knowing Bernie you know at 14% or
whatever there is definitely what I find
more interesting Quentin look deep into
them with my trained eye and the one
thing I did notice is it doesn't seem
like the Bernie support is actually
shifting much at all like he's got hard
core he's got a hard core base right
that is not moving we're ahead with
Kamala Harris what was really
interesting was about half of her gained
in the polls seem to come from people
who supported Elizabeth Warren a morning
consult that it's really interesting
poll were they polled like
after the first debate and then after
the second debate and you can actually
see the flows and it's kind of a little
bit of an ugly visual but you can see
where people support a shifting about
half her support came from Biden and
half from warrant so you have this five
to ten percent of people that are just
floating around with whatever the
headline is whoever looks good in the
moment right and they don't have a
strong connection to a candidate yet
right gouda gig got five of those five
to ten percent a couple months ago and
he was at you know nine tenth in the
polls we saw the stanchion we saw this
dynamic in with the Republicans right
where everybody had like a little moment
or two where they were at the top of the
charts and there's definitely some of
that and I think the the most
encouraging thing and we've said this
from the beginning
Bernie has a hard and fast floor that is
probably higher than everybody else's he
may have a ceiling that's a little bit
lower at this point too but we're
talking about there's so many candidates
that that lower ceiling may not be that
relevant and yeah if Biden gets if but
if Biden gets back into the mix of being
one of those guys who people are
shopping around for that's when this
race really begins to open up and yeah I
think that's what's happening I want to
point out though the Biden is gonna have
a horse as well like he's not gonna go
to zero percent you know the guy calling
from sentencing Biden science doesn't
surprise me because Joe Biden is from
scran if he's gonna do anywhere where he
maintained to support it hopefully his
home powder just Al Gore level
embarrassing but you know the thing
about these these candidates is with
Bernie his supporters are a certain
demographic that are hard to pull the
design of these polls is way beyond what
we would do in political science like
you never have any question that has
thirty different answers
and then do a phone pole that's insane
and they've pretty much given up on
doing polling the way that
methodologically it's well supported
where you randomize the names because
it's just too unwieldy for they people
have been asserting the poles do it so
they're now doing it in alphabetical
order which means Bernie Sanders is the
19th person that you're here and
Elizabeth Warren is the 26th person Jer
right so if you're gonna if you want to
pick Bernie Sanders you got to listen to
20 names before you can answer it that
is insane and and obviously and Biden is
like number 2 right so I'm not saying
that that is a whole you know the whole
you know Delta between the two of them
or anything I'm just saying that from a
methodological standpoint you can see a
significant number three or four percent
just from design errors like that
right no one would really defend but
that's why my point is it's all gonna be
about trends right because because there
are these sort of like problems with
these these polls that are really hard
to sort of parse out how much impact
they have and so you just got to look at
the trends to get a notion of where the
race is going and I think like you know
the thing that is really clear here is
there's the we're getting instead of
people breaking away from the pack it is
getting jammed up and from the
perspective of people who are interested
in Bernie winning this is actually a
good situation it seems to me because
it's yeah it's definitely plan B but
it's not you know plan tasks or anything
like he would want to just pull away
from the pack and be a clear reverent
Erica could the other one of it dividing
between poor people one of which is
Elizabeth Warren that's a good thing for
Bernie because he's going to over
perform in Iowa and New Hampshire well
that if Bernie was if Bernie was at 45
percent in the polls and the rest of the
top in the next four people let's say
we're splitting more or less the rest I
don't know that would be in the best
interest of Bernie at this point
because you would see you have a wave
you would see fighting him to him like
they're fighting in the back they would
be biting it to him but you would also
see I think a less fracturing and
amongst the anybody but bernie forces
and they would congeal around somebody
much quicker and I think you know if you
look at what happened in the Republican
Party primary that never happened with
Trump everybody kept thinking it's going
to but the anti-trump forces did not
realize they were in trouble until too
late and so I would argue that this is
not actually a bad place for Bernie to
be and in this in this situation we
agree with that I mean you know the
thing is like if you examine just kind
of the composition of support as well
like Bernie is doing very well with
Hispanics and young Millennials who are
telling pollsters they're gonna vote at
a higher level than they ever have in
history so you know we know how we
calibrate these numbers I'm not trying
to undo polls or anything I'm just
making a prediction and my prediction is
that if there's going to be a mistake
it's going to be under estimating people
like Bernie Sanders and overestimating
people like Elizabeth Warren if you look
at who their supporters actually are
well we're gonna definitely attracting
the professional roles and there's
nothing wrong that's an important part
of the Democratic coalition there's
nothing wrong with that but that base is
very well represented in polls we know
how to get a hold of people who make
hundred thousand dollars a year we don't
know how to get a hold of people that
are transient or 24 years old or
whatever and okay you know I I'm unless
I'm a little bit less convinced by that
I just think that you know what we're
gonna see I think is a very a race that
is gonna tighten and you're gonna have
three or four people going into Iowa who
are all going to be within six or seven
points and then there's going to be you
know things like organizational
structure and the depth of support is
going to become
more relevant in Iowa and then that
could implicate New Hampshire and so on
so I'm less convinced that the the polls
are are you know not tracking this or
not tracking that and more just sort of
like look at the trends what's clear
there's one phenomena that's that's
clearly happening and that is they're
bunching up around between you know 15
and 20 points that's where I think this
is gonna land over the next two months
but all right Mike I got a jump I
appreciate the call all right all right
folks it's late apologies but that goes
the phone I'm gonna read a couple IMS
and we're gonna get out of here we will
have a new show for you on Friday it'll
be a shortened show but it will be with
Alex Perrine so it'll be quality over
quantity we will be back live on Monday
I want to wish you a happy fourth of
July and read a couple of these and
[Music]
we'll get out of here M Reilly what can
I saw to my GMA about the attacks on
Bernie from the establishment I don't
know what that means
algorithmic bias X unfairness majority
port is on Twitch Cedar's getting up all
up in bad bunnies business finally good
news about the new show em ours morning
quickie
Sammy side up get to the left side of
bed locks on Sesame Cedar Jesus whoa
where did that come from
Gregor I will donate a significant
amount of euros to the majority report
if Michael will present the whole show
including the series half and his Chris
Matthews voice we'll talk about that
pajama boy Sam I'm driving up to Boston
for the first time ever need one
absolute food must try also we need
majority report merch Sam follows
Michael Tracy on Twitter what would I
have in Boston well it depends on where
you're from like I would go with Latinos
I would go
I don't know I guess if you're in Boston
me like for me it's I I I like clams in
lobster but it depends on where you live
I mean if you live on the coast you get
that but you know if you won't up to
like Maine you know Boston and North
it's time for they get some Lobster you
can get a fresh or clams besides that I
would just have one of those famous
Boston baked beans can buy them
everywhere yeah no Dave Krauss used to
have a joke about this like gotta go to
San Francisco get one of those San
Francisco muffins Sam when you claim
this immediate bias stuff you mean we
can't discuss things critically and
objectively I've heard paid hacks for
blank politician blank literally working
in external relations claim that
objective reporting is an absolute
concept so they don't even have to worry
about pushing a political line or doing
paid content I think the radicals can
and should strive to be accurate even if
they can't be instrumentalized in a
particular political direction it's
embarrassing that leftists have
abandoned this and even call this
pedantic I don't think you're
understanding the point I'm not saying
I'm being inaccurate an accuracy
actually leads to ideas propagate better
I would argue in our current media
environment where things are checkable
so you want to be as accurate as
possible in the messages you make and
pro as we said propagandas of value
neutral term literally describe
information propagating through a
society i mean we can be emotional and
still be rational to yes no kidding
that's our advantage
yes rube daven how can Matt talk about
income inequality when he has two TVs
hmm on society he got one of them it
wasn't actually inherited from ring of
fire radio drunken Dalek hi Sam Portland
ESA is putting our first break like
clinic this Saturday July 6th 11:00 to
4:00 p.m. corner of Northeast Alberta
and MLK could folks spread the word
about this tweet at the majority report
Twitter handle and we will retweet and
the final I am of the
in many respects the week I thought dan
Crenshaw was Pete Davidson's favorite
congressman see you soon
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
oh the option when you don't get paid
[Music]
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
