[Music]
all right and here is a Donald Trump
this is the last Trump we have right
yeah where he's meeting with Kim jong-un
okay this is uh Tucker Carlson talking
about Donald Trump's historic visit with
North North Korean leader King kim
jeong-hoon
tucker apparently was brought along on
the trip he pushed out john bolton maybe
he is our new Secretary of State I
imagine not but here he is talking about
trying to justify Donald Trump basically
giving on a a big domestic victory not
necessarily a bad idea but a very weird
way of explaining it by Tucker Carlson
that's the type of thing that does make
some people nervous though he recently
chosen Trump recently made a comment
about having a certain type of good
chemistry with Kim jong-un and that may
be true but when you're talking about
someone who has been responsible for so
many human rights abuses
does he run a risk with that kind of
language of a coming off to Kim Jong
lung like he's pandering to him to an
extent or be upsetting the American
public that that elected a president
that they want to stand firm and be
tough on those human rights violations
and stand firm on American principles
which exists in in virtually complete
contrast to how the North Korean regime
is Ron yeah I mean there's no defending
the North Korean regime which is a
monstrous regime it's the last really
Stalinist regime in the world it's a
disgusting place obviously so there's no
defending it on the other hand but you
know you've got to be honest about what
it means to to lead a country it means
killing people not on the scale that
North Koreans do but a lot of countries
committed frost cities including a
number that were closely allied with so
you know I'm not a relativist or
anything but it's important to be honest
about that and it's not necessarily a
choice between you know the evil people
and the great people
it's a choice most of the time between
the bad people and the worse people
that's just kind of nature or voice it's
really a nature of power and I do think
that's how the president sees it he's
you know he's far less sentimental about
this stuff and maybe I think more
realistic about him this is I don't
agree with everything that Trump says
but this is one thing I do agree with
you know there is a kind of Samantha
power you know dorm room like oh they're
so mean and it's kind of silly and
stupid and and not helpful like in the
end what matters is what's good for the
United States and you deal with bad
people a lot of the time in order to
help your own country at that that kind
of the way I think now some of that I
think is fair enough
I don't think that you should justify
meeting with Kim jong-un by basically
saying we should lower the standards for
everybody else and he is being a
relativist I don't know if that's
necessarily bad in and of itself he's so
easily whenever someone says I'm not a
relativist but they're probably about to
do moral relativism right and I'm
Melissa I don't think there's anything
necessarily wrong with relativism but
the idea that you're not going to that
in some way you're justifying it by
saying like look everybody kills it's
you're lowering the expectations and
you're basically saying this is the way
that it should work I would also argue
that there is no indication that this is
in the US is best interest I don't know
that there's anything wrong with Trump's
actions other than the fact that
follow-through does not seem to be the
issue for him and in the hands of
someone else maybe I would feel a little
bit more comfortable with what the
follow-through is going to be in this
instance of course if there were genuine
interest in some type of making the
world safer
they wouldn't have breached the Iran
deal and broken it and basically started
you know theoretically contained one
fire theoretically because that's what
it sounds like and then started another
but Tucker Carlson of course this is a
very convenient position for Tucker
Carlson to take because while I think
it's a good thing having you know
talking is always a good thing I think
if you you've got to be a little
circumspect about it in terms of like
what kind of legitimacy you offer to
people or what how you use and leverage
the legitimacy they perceive but Tucker
Carlson hasn't always had this
perspective here he is all the way back
now some of the younger folks in the
audience may not remember this but this
is most a year and a half ago a little
bit less for some of our 16 month-old
listeners might be may not recall this
but here's Tucker Carlson tweeting out
progressives have a long history of
supporting the world's most repressive
regimes it's hard to find a dictator to
the left the left hasn't supported
Chairman Mao Hugo Chavez idiom mean what
all these people have in common they all
hate America Tucker at Fox News damn
right now Idi Amin's a little bit of a
stretch yeah I think that's a stretch
and they also think maybe we could
historically disaggregate some people
might have supported now when they
thought he was a revolutionary
overcoming feudalism and then what was
the last one Javas Chavez I totally
support of the left
Nixon was now - Chavez when he met with
most Chavez heads are ever accused of
random not randomly I guess killing
people on rant I mean he was accused of
abuses but certainly not of like cutting
up a journalist in a an embassy no Apple
yeah no Mohammed Ben Solomon stuff is
certainly not young blogs literally
running drugs in 2019 but I just can I
just say real quick I mean one I
definitely think all things
being equal I absolutely I much prefer
Trump is talking than not talking North
Korea and I'm not interested in scoring
Hawk points on it I encourage them to
talk and I think especially if you hand
the presidency over to somebody who's
smarter and more competent and more
ethical but doesn't revert to the mean
in terms of US foreign policy this might
have set some good preconditions for
that so I had their talking but it this
goes back to the Bill O'Reilly with
Trump thing from a couple years ago when
Trump was like oh you you think we're so
innocent about our relative human rights
abuses and it's just you know what's
interesting is that clearly that
Samantha power position is getting
totally shrunk out of the public
discourse and it should be humanitarian
intervention ism is a failure but the
real contestation obviously is do you
create something new that still actually
puts value on human wellbeing or do you
just revert to like pure cynicism so I
want to just detect you know and that's
what you can represent like at one point
you here Tucker talking yes oh he's
recognizing a fact that we've been
arguing for a long time like we
basically and then he's saying and
that's okay that's okay the problem is
the problem and the problem is though is
that the other problem is though is that
most of the responses to Tucker that I
see broadly speaking amongst liberals
and the left there are both wrong right
like there's some people on the Left
that are so funneled into oh my god
Tucker's saying something that's true
this is amazing they're missing the pure
cynicism of it and then there's liberals
who are doing the whole like this isn't
who we are how dare you Tucker when it's
you look like we're better and we have
to change as opposed to like we should
accept it and what does that actually
entail the change and that's a major
project they always do this about
everything like the tucker carlson
trumpian politics our politics of
negation they're negating the kind of
liberal ideology that's been hegemonic
in most circles for a really long time
it's the same thing is when people
complain about kids dying in ice
facilities right and they say well that
happened under Obama too that's what my
friend's dad said in rural road
the other night oh it happened under
Obama - that doesn't make it okay that
makes it extra bad right I would also
just like to add really briefly on North
Korea cuz I do see I see Murphy who I
think is one of the better people in
foreign policy in the Democratic Party
and Warren they've both tweeted out a
bunch of cliches about this from my
internationalist perspective this is
what the president of South Korea wants
he supports this process hundred-percent
and he's both progressive and
internationalists and has good
credentials and to say the least does
the highest stakes about how this
thing's goes so let's follow his lead on
yeah I think that makes sense
and of course Laura Ingraham though we
should just for good measure just to
show the enormous hypocrisy around here
I don't know it's sort of silly but why
not Laura Ingraham it's 5:00 p.m.
Eastern which means President Obama must
be meeting with some dictator somewhere
are there any left I mean I think we can
agree that own is as far as dictators go
he's the gold standard he's up there
right I mean who are dictatorial the
last is more authoritarian dictatorial
state than North Korea none none right
like this is I don't think any placing
world less pay for an old contestation
right there's I mean this is like being
locked in somebody's basement and he
shows up and he's just like it will put
the lotion in the basket to his people
but also like it is the progressive left
in the sock dem left and the socialist
left's job to present an alternative to
this kind of smarmy liberalism that
Tucker Carlson is constantly negating
and calling out the hypocrisy of in a
way that makes sense both logistic lee
and morally well to that point Bernie
Sanders was asked about Trump meeting
Kim jong-un on George Stephanopoulos his
program
here's Bernie's reply reply I have no
problem with him sitting down with Kim
jong-un in North Korea or anyplace else
but I don't want it simply to be a photo
opportunity the whole world's media was
attracted there what's gonna happen
tomorrow in the next day he has weakened
the State Department if we're going to
bring peace to this world we need a
strong State Department we need to move
forward diplomatically not just do photo
opportunities and right now while he is
you know meeting with Kim jong-un he is
still provocative in terms of almost
moving toward a war with Iran he vetoed
legislation that I supported and that we
won in the Senate and one in the house
which would get the United States out of
the horrific war in Yemen which is led
by the brutal dictator Mohammed bin
Salman of Saudi Arabia so I don't have a
problem with him sitting down and
negotiating with our adversaries I just
don't want it to be a spa eternity we
need real diplomacy so so you don't
aren't going to take the bait on this
really and the bottom line is it is a
photo-op
and there is no substance behind this
and at the very least like - I don't
know what the agenda was my
understanding the agenda was get them to
give up nukes and now they're going into
a fallback position of like no more
nukes for the time being and then we'll
give you everything you want
I don't know less nukes is better than
more nukes no nukes is better than some
nukes saying no nukes is good news no
nukes is good nukes would have bail
fissured Gus or a peek serious with a
club
