[Music]
so Chuck Mulvaney
excuse me Chuck Mulvaney Mick Mulvaney
goes back on to meet the press he's been
on Meet the Press it seems like every
every weekend he's got regular slot that
regular slot and it seems like he says
the same thing every time and one has to
wonder who is muck Mick Mulvaney
threatening now because we've already
established who pays the biggest price
well Wayne put this way we already
established who pays the first and
second two biggest prices the biggest
price is paid for by well I guess
contractors folks who do all sorts of
support staff for the federal government
they don't even get back pay then we see
the second tier of people who pay the
price and that is federal workers coming
in at close third in terms of a
political price it's number one it's the
Republican Party it's the Republican
Party now Donald Trump obviously thinks
like it helps me by a point or two which
I'm not surprised by and so a Mick
Mulvaney I don't know who he thinks he's
threatening here but it's gonna look
pretty bad for Donald Trump if they have
another shutdown and within two days you
start to see workers basically say we're
not going through this again
it took us thirty five forty days the
last time to get to the point where we
were gonna start to do some work actions
we're going to do that on day two that's
what I think is gonna happen and I would
be surprised if we don't hear that from
some of those unions within the next day
or two where they say guess what we
don't have the patience we had last time
for this but here's Mick Mulvaney on
Meet the Press
now and really what I want to know is
why isn't there a representative of the
flight attendants Union or the TSA union
sitting right next to Mick Mulvaney and
say like you're going to do this to us
again good
look buddy to say whatever Congress
handsome he'll sign he just may not be
enthusiastic about it no I don't think
so I'm not ready to go there you can't
definitive we cannot definitively rule
out a government shutdown at the end of
this week you absolutely cannot and
here's why okay let's say for sake of
this discussion that the Democrats
prevail and the hardcore left-wing
Democrats prevail it was a Democrat
congresswoman who put out a yesterday
about zero dollars for DHS so let's say
that the hardcore left wing of the
Democrat Party prevails in this
negotiation and they put a bill on the
President's desk with say zero money for
the wall or 800 million some absurd ly
low number how does he sign that he
cannot in good faith sign that it takes
a presidential signature spending Billy
can you imagine Senate Republicans would
go along with a proposal like that are
you that skeptical of Senate Republic I
don't think so what you asked me a
question yes they shut down entirely off
the table the answer is no so but two
billion you sit here with this loose
compromise that we see and supposedly
you guys are coming to an agreement
tomorrow because in order to get it
passed by the end of the way that ax is
that still the loose deadlock I've been
told it today I was at Camp David with a
couple of conference members on Friday
night and they were told to be in town
today to get ready to sign a conference
but is it yeah guess what that didn't
work out so well
negotiations collapsed I guess either
late Sunday or early Monday because the
they've been trading back and forth
according to this is the Washington Post
the 17 member it was a conference
committee that's between house and and
Senate leaders Democrats and Republicans
they were looking at between 1.3 billion
and two billion dollars for the the wall
I think that's probably just like the
architectural fee that you would pay
Democrats also had been focused on
limiting Isis ability to detain
unauthorized immigrants not there it
really should be capacity not so much
their ability
because it basically said hey this whole
thing where you're now housing 15,000
kids and where you keep finding money to
build more and more detention centers we
don't we're not down with that anymore
it the proposal from the Democrats
included a limit on the number of
detention beds for immigrants in the
interior of the country they wanted to
cap that number at 16,500 that's the
number of the level of interior
detentions in the final years of the
Obama administration this is inside the
the country not at the border and
apparently the Republicans said no way
we want the bill we this is a growth
business for us and so talks have broken
down we shall see what happens next
it can get very it can get very
disorienting to follow this on a
day-by-day basis but it's that just like
keeping him and some type of like
emotional equilibrium so thanks like we
talked tough and then whatever like fake
deal we get we're gonna say that we was
because we talked tough that's
definitely part of it I think so I also
think that there are people in the White
House who might have you know an idea
that either
the American public is more
anti-immigrant than they think that is
or that that they maybe maybe they need
to run against the Republicans on this
too
