[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex no majority report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Laughter]
it is Thursday December 20th 2018 my
name is michael brooks on a michael
thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Kelley
while she's a reporter for The Daily
Beast we're talking about the algorithms
of the right-wing hate machine online
how does a Google search a youtube
search on atheism lead you down a
treacherous disgusting path what's the
business model behind it and of course
we'll probably also dunk on some of
these personalities the ever dumb ever
dim ever odious dave rubin appears on a
bolson arrow aligned brazilian network
speaking of which Kumasi decent fascism
Kubiak's easy fascism she's live ideas
yeah that impression is almost too nice
to how absolutely Craven disgusting and
amoral dave rubin is in related brazil
news a court ruling yesterday from the
supreme court would have seen the
release of political prisoner and former
president Lula da Silva prompting an
emergency meeting of the military and an
extra-constitutional move by another
Supreme Court justice will touch on this
case as it it's the descent of Brazil to
full dictatorship Donald Trump is
pulling out of Syria entirely he
probably had no idea how many troops we
had there as he announces a major new
arms deal with air Dewan but what of the
role Java uprising something that we're
gonna need to be thinking about and
dealing with after Trump's very
characteristically jackass announcement
general mattis is losing Kern's currency
in the administration
the Senate passes a stopgap to avert a
government shutdown and the Trump
administration aims to toughen work
requirements for food stamps because
there isn't enough raw human suffering
in this country for Republicans they of
course need more positive news a judge
blocks jeff Sessions ridiculous
assertion and redefinition of asylum not
applying to gang members a 5-month
year-old girl has been hospitalized with
pneumonia after being detained at the
border patrol I guess they want to be
have being responsible for the
negligence and deaths of many children
apparently Wilbur Ross twice told
federal ethics officials he divested the
stock months before he finally did and
here's one breakthrough cue but Major
League Baseball reaches a deal with a
Cuban better of federal and Cuban
baseball federation to allow players to
enter the United States I think that's
cool I think that's great I think that's
also an interesting signal of our
priorities all that plus Bernie Sanders
and Diane Feinstein voiced their
opposition to the Senate medias free
speech suppression bill all that and
much much more on today's majority
report Donald Trump yesterday gave me a
hashtag resistance moment which is a
moment where I watch Donald Trump say
something and I went I can't believe
that this airhead this buffoon there's
more on this jackass this dunce this
idiot this fool is our president this is
so embarrassing
even when Obama was flying drones
everywhere and supporting horrible trade
agreements he carried himself with some
frickin dignity and intelligence this
guy's a I had that resistance
moment because Donald Trump announced
the end of Syrian military operations
the other day yesterday in front of the
White House and a brief video now
there's multiple fronts of us kinetic
activity in facts at least seven
countries the u.s. under trump are
regularly hitting with drone strikes
rules and caps on civilian casualties
are completely out the window already
many civilians of course died as the
Obama administration continued the
essential infrastructure of the bush
global war on terrorism and expanded it
Yemen Somalia and other places but trump
has totally lifted all caps so we've
seen massive increases in civilian
casualties and the use of drones since
he's taken office of course Afghanistan
we've been there longer than in Vietnam
no end in sight for that brutal
pernicious war and yet we're pulling
entirely out of Syria which we almost
entirely should however there is one big
question mark around this and also a
legacy of our own massive contribution
to the civilian death toll in Syria as
well as funding through the Gulf of
Salafist groups that of course Trump is
not only going to ignore here he's gonna
go off in a very weird and frankly
disrespectful to our troops tangent here
is the that runs this country
yesterday talking about withdrawing from
Syria we've been fighting for a long
time in Syria I've been president for
almost two years and we've really
stepped it up and we have won against
Isis we've beaten them and we've beaten
them badly we've taken back the land and
now it's time for our troops to come
back home I get very saddened when I
have to write letters or call parents or
wives or husbands of soldiers who have
been killed fighting for our country
it's a great honor
we cherish them but it's heartbreaking
there's no question about it it's
heartbreaking justice now we've won it's
time to come back they're getting ready
you're gonna see them soon these are
great American heroes these are great
heroes of the world because they fought
for us but they've killed Isis who hurts
the world and we're proud to have done
it and I'll tell you they're up there
looking down on us and there is nobody
happier
or more proud of their families to put
them in a position where they've done
such good for so many people I really
feel like the whole subtext of this
video is he's trying to get out from
having to call dead soldiers families
he's like what if they but really put it
out in the video that this is really
super bad then can I skip the calls
it's so heartbreaking so heartbreaking
so I do believe it's anxiety inducing
for him I mean this is a it was like
freaked out by stairs I could only
imagine it's freaky to call the family
of a loved one who's died overseas in a
unnecessary US imperial adventure you
support my presidency right right
you still sorry about your son besides
that how would you see I'm doing on
economy you know your son had loyalty
that's what I respect that because they
do this thing where they make people
unloyal for the FBI and Comey when he
first got into office in there was an
attack over there where a few soldiers
died didn't he like promise to donate a
certain amount of money to one of the
soldiers like Memorial Fund gentleman
ever did it and with checks in the mail
I can imagine him being like listen I
can't keep making these yeah I mean it's
one thing to lie to a couple of dozen
soldiers families that you're gonna help
a funeral cost but by the time you get
into the thousands I mean that's a lot
of io used it and everything my chair is
gone folks it's it's so heartbreaking
the way they make me turn out Fox and
Friends would have to write these
letters which I definitely write myself
and by the way in full resistance mode
his hands actually legit are small like
I know I've never honestly like I
thought it was funny cuz it bothered him
so much like I you know I he looks like
a cheetah this is Kofi Annan via God how
does it feel to have your sleepover with
Putin you know you are nothing I was
looking at Rick Wilson everyone who sent
it to us for some reason and Rick Wilson
is a patriot the last line is and by the
way he has small hands I swear to God
yeah
saw a guy reading that outside the park
at the end of the summer
just like getting both sides liberals
are such easy marks could you imagine
this guy builds his whole Rick Wilson as
a Republican strategist has built his
whole career on electing people to
office that are forwarding and advancing
all of the policies that Donald Trump is
putting into play and it's like a whole
there's a whole bunch of people who
could just be like hey you know what I
appreciate Rick that you get that overt
racism misogyny isn't great thanks and
we'll take it from here
instead this guy gets to become a
celebrity on the weight of tweeting
against Donald Trump after a year of
damaging American Life it's embarrassing
yeah so the last two paragraphs are he
leaves with a Churchill quote which I'm
not gonna bother to read and then skip
it also Trump has tiny tiny hands shut
up
oh I hope Trump roasts him
I hope chef gets it I hope that like
before I hope Trump loses gets indicted
and then in the brief interim before he
goes to jail he gets an opportunity to
do like a final roast like people like
Rick Wilson before though before they
before they take that's how he wins 2020
that's the terrifying scenario just yeah
just riff he could just if he could just
lean into David Frum and Rick Wilson he
has a chance but look there's a serious
thing here um just concluded a great
interview with Samuel Moines which I'll
talk about more later on he wrote a
really important book called not enough
human rights in the age of inequality
and we have been exiting this myth of
humanitarian intervention ISM and
realizing that the rhetoric of human
rights has served as a proxy for u.s.
foreign policy interests and it's been
applied to not only a radically
inconsistent way but also has led to at
least partially to horrific atrocities
like the invasion of Iraq and disasters
like the assault on Libya in Syria
there's a multi-party civil war nobody
likes the reality of this every single
party involved in Syria is responsible
for a massive civilian death toll Assad
the forces that back Assad including of
course Russia and Iran as well as the
United States and its Gulf allies and
then Isis is a connected somewhat to
Turkey in the Gulf and a in some
respects its own sort of entity but it
couldn't have risen
I think clearly without some forms of
support from the Gulf and then Turkey I
don't see how that would be possible and
there commits massive atrocities the
Kurds in rojava
have an anarchist can federalist
experiment it's one that is global and
its implications because of the success
of the model and things that we should
all be learning from it and it's also a
part of a justified struggle for Kurdish
autonomy and determination and nobody
should oppose that period of course it
doesn't mean everybody condemns any type
of attack on Turkish civilians and any
type of terrorist activity 100% of
course but the Kurds are absolutely
right about their repression in both
Iraq and Turkey and elsewhere and
they've been able to carve out a very
respectable laudable experiment here as
well as being credible effective
fighters against Isis and holding off a
genocide 'el turkish campaign which is
really what it will be now there are
about 2000 US forces in that region that
have already begun withdrawals in
conjunction with this withdrawal Trump
just inked a 3.5 billion dollar missile
sale agreement to Turkey which includes
80 Patriot missiles and 60 pac-3 missile
interceptors Russia has also negotiated
a separate deal with Turkey as well
there's no doubt that part of the adroit
play that our de Juan had putting
pressure on MBS and humiliating the
Saudis after their torture and murder of
Jamal kachelle
in the Turkish and the Saudi embassy
Saudi embassy in Istanbul helped
facilitate this move on Trump's part so
this is a very important time to on the
merits be supportive of a broader
withdrawal but also realize that there's
going to be some immediate humanitarian
consequences to a precipitous one first
and foremost the betrayal of the Kurds
of rojava which of course the US were
never serious allies of in any way to
begin with but just as I'm a fierce
opponent of many aspects of Russian
foreign policy of course US foreign
policy but I'll tell you what if Russia
building more investment in
relationships with Venezuela as an
example helped sea off a US coup that's
a good thing right so there was a
function of US presence there was
supporting a noble correct and right
experiment and the Turkish official
Turkish government is already talking
about hunting people down ditched to
ditch and waging a campaign of mass
murder in this region I don't know the
answer to this I just know the
complexity of it and I know that we
should certainly still be fueling the
kurdish kurds in rojava with weapons we
should certainly still I would I would
if I were president I would keep some
presence there and I would keep some
intelligence and logistical support and
we need to not go into despair we need
to affirm our solidarity and I'll be
doing a lot more coverage on this but I
do want to put that one piece of the
real complexity on the table all right
today's show one of the is brought to
you by privacy calm / majority privacy
calm is a totally free service that lets
you buy anything online without having
to give out a credit card number and it
lets you prevent companies from over
charging you here's how it works I'm
incredibly excited about this you just
take a couple of minutes to link your
bank account to your privacy calm
account and then you're able to create
virtual credit card numbers which are
linked to your bank account you can
create as many virtual cards as you want
you can delete them you can freeze them
and unfreeze them
and he can set limits on each cart it's
great for signing up for free trials
because you can just create a virtual
card once and delete it knowing that
you'll never be charged once the trial
is over and it protects you when
companies get hacked and people's
information is stolen because you're not
giving out your real credit card number
Equifax everyone each card is locked to
a merchant so you're totally protected
against fraud and unauthorized use of
your card privacy calms mobile app and
desktop browser extension making
incredibly easy to manage your wallet
virtual cards and allow you to for to
autofill your virtual card it's the
click of the button when you're shopping
online
there are countless different advantages
to using services like this to pay your
bills and buy things online you can find
out more and get 100% free and unlimited
access by going to privacy calm /
majority and we've put a link underneath
this video if you're watching on YouTube
we're gonna take a brief break we'll be
right back with Kelly while
you
Artie report Michael Brooks here joining
us now is Kelly while she is a reporter
for The Daily Beast Kelly thanks for
being here Oh mommy Kelly you cover some
of the worst swamps of the internet for
The Daily Beast and you've written a new
piece called how to build a
radicalization machine for the far how
YouTube builds a radicalization machine
for the far right start us off by
explaining how and it would almost
certainly be a young man would start a
internet search for say you know I don't
know why Christianity isn't real or why
religion is wrong or you know how to be
an atheist how does that search end up
through algorithms and through symbiotic
networks in many cases lead to a path
towards white nationalism as an example
right so you have to understand that
YouTube has this algorithm that
recommends things that it thinks you
want to watch because the law you're on
the site the more money you're making
for them through ad placement so there's
nothing inherently wrong with say
religious debate videos or atheism
videos but there's a kind of reactionary
undercurrent and some of the Atheist
community online where they don't just
talk about religion they also talk about
anti-feminist and sometimes Islamophobic
strings to it so because there is that
tie sometimes when you're watching an
atheist video you'll get recommendations
for things that are more fringe on the
right and if you click on that it'll
recommend the next fringe idea until you
can find yourself quite far into the
weeds and I think for people who this
process happened done slowly they don't
even realize how far they've gone did
you talk about this kid fifteen year old
David Sherratt as a sort of case
studying what you're talking about yeah
so David started watching absolutely
Call of Duty videos when he was about 15
and that's really common for especially
young men and he said from there he
started getting
datian for religious debate that's a
really popular genre on YouTube so it's
not really that surprising that he may
have seen it and from there he went from
atheism videos to anti-feminist videos
which really kind of brought him into
the overall genre of videos that are
opposed to social justice and he
fortunately was able to kind of snap out
of that last year he's no longer in that
circle but a lot of young men don't kind
of lay out and so from a business
perspective because I think in some ways
we need to start like reshaping the
debate to be about these platforms
themselves and the functions they're
actually serving or not serving writ
large you get more specifically into
this sort of like you quote Becca Lewis
who's a researcher at a data in society
and she says fixation on watch time can
be banal or dangerous in terms of excuse
me that's you now this is Becca Lewis in
terms of YouTube's business model and
attempts to keep users engaged in their
contacts content it makes sense that
what we're seeing that algorithms do the
algorithmic behavior is great if you're
looking for makeup artists and you watch
one person's content and want a bunch of
other people's advice on how to do your
eyeshadow but it becomes a lot more
problematic when you're talking about
political and extremist content no I
guess my question for you is obviously
you know just as like a simple statement
about content of course that's true
right like if you're following makeup
tutorials or sports highlights that's
obviously way more innately positive and
less dangerous than you know watching
misogynistic videos as an example but
the broader sort of like environment
were in of these really tightly sort of
self-reinforcing feedback loops with no
governmental oversight or regulation on
consumer protection on people's data you
know people have called Silicon Valley
the stalker economy there's this sort of
like
broader infrastructure and it's not even
as simplistic as just like oh you don't
want to just reinforce your political
biases because that conversation I think
it's really simplistic to but just this
idea that you are literally cocooning
small groups and individuals as much as
possible purely to target them products
and make money off of them and then just
create more information out of them to
keep the process going and I'm just
wondering like as you research this and
you saw like the context of the problem
did her frame there that like oh there's
nothing wrong with the algorithms it's
just like the content did you start to
call that into question a little bit
maybe because it seems like if that's
the only thing that we're using and
there's no oversight there's no
regulation there's no control I don't
see how it could not help but feed these
kind of problems does that makes sense
yeah I think there's different degrees
to which this works I mean it is in
YouTube's interest to keep you online as
long as possible and I think as you go
into more of Surrey and filter bubbles
it actually becomes more profitable for
YouTube if you look at conspiracy
communities Huber's will say oh don't
look at other news sources because
they're lying to you just stay I mean
even watch more YouTube videos and
that's great for YouTube economy so I
don't think the same phenomena is
exactly in fact with our makeup
tutorials but I mean I think one problem
we have is sort of a monopoly right now
in terms of these vast digital platforms
there's really no one competing with
YouTube and so everyone should have you
know the consumer choice to watch you
know makeup videos or atheist videos if
you'd like but the problem is that all
of those those choices we make are being
funneled back through the same website
which is using it to learn about us -
probably calibrate the algorithms so
there is um there is a degree to which
that's troubling and in fact I spoke to
a YouTube one of the former employees
who helped write that algorithm into
now sort of regressive elements of it
and he said that YouTube's problem isn't
so much a Content problem as it is an
algorithm problem no matter what if you
have a platform that large there will be
extremist content on it probably but
what we can do is to stop it
recommending those videos so highly so
let's talk specifically about the
pipeline's and how they work now in
terms of the content unless the
algorithms and this pipeline process in
and specifically I want to talk about
these these these characters that are
like conduit characters like dave rubin
as an example unfortunately i like them
a lot more as a broadcaster i get dinged
for saying this but joe rogan definitely
serves a very similar role he does a
better show and but there's this sort of
like people who at least are branded as
being kind of like broad general sort of
middle-of-the-road content like some
people like the brogan some people
jokingly call him like bro oprah
actually facilitating through their
guest selection and they're sort of like
who they're building like symbiotic
relationships with the sort of departure
points to the more really far-right
content one glaring example of this and
I think people should really think about
when you know some academic like Steve
Pinker who has all this brand prestige
does a friendly sit-down with dave rubin
dave rubin had on you know the very
fringe very dangerous extreme character
stefan mellon you and literally the name
of the show I believe is race and IQ or
something grace and brain science and he
gave him a you know several our platform
to uncritically promote
racist IQ ideas how does this process
work in terms of like how these people
build relationships with each other and
how that sort of gradual facilitation to
the greater extremism starts but
particularly through those conduits like
Dave Rubin right I think those conduits
are running a really good scam and then
they present themselves as neutral or
even they'll say they're liberals or
class liberal which means next to
nothing but because you're being
disingenuous sorry yeah yeah but because
they present themselves as these just
open platforms and I think we have we
have a really fundamental
misunderstanding of how conversation
conversion works right now where we seem
to say well you know if you just hear
all sides if you just have a debate then
the best idea will win that's not how it
works at all but because we sort of
start from that misinformed stand point
people like dave rubin can present
themselves as neutral and saying well
I'm just you know hosting everyone and
I'll let my very smart viewers figure
figure it out well no I mean and as I
think in a healthy information economy
you don't come across people who are
pushing you know bunker a science and
stuff like that and what's also
interesting is you mentioned that the
fine well a new interview I had to watch
it once because I think I was like
quoting it for something to I think
point out that stefan molyneux has
really problematic views and ever since
for about six months it has come up at
the top of my recommendation feed in
youtube so something in that algorithm
is really it's waiting that kind of
video very highly and I think that's
something that the supposedly neutral
conduits should take into account when
they when they host these people is that
they are introducing this new quantity
to an offensively neutral viewership
can it's gonna stick around it's going
to be really influential for people a
hundred percent so okay so this is then
how does that implicate like you know
even people who have prestige outside of
YouTube that's why I mentioned Steve
Pinker and or someone like sam Harris
who you know in my mind I mean sam
Harris is definitely best understood as
a podcast host you know YouTube pundit
of this sort of you know weird
disingenuous right-wing and you know
kind of obsessed with IQ and Islam sort
of milieu but he also has established a
certain degree of prestige
for the platform that something like
dave rubin does not have and then of
course you have someone like you know
barry weiss writing these you know
breathless and credulous pieces in the
new york times and so that that kind of
like broader branding effort has been
pushed out into a broader public like
what do you think like in terms of the
the intellectual accountability for
people like that so that like you know
someone like Steve Pinker as an example
should at least know or have it clearly
registered like hey you know one of the
prime platforms you went on on YouTube
to promote your book as a you know as a
Harvard professor and so on is a you
know a credulous sort of promoter of a
bigotry through various guests he has on
other guests who seemed to be almost
like Sasha Baron Cohen level sort of
like fraudulent characters on their face
like and that would be a best-case
scenario because would be better if they
didn't exist and they were actually
literal jokes but or Barry Weiss for
that matter
you know writing this piece in The New
York Times like oh my god all of these
actually pretty turgid old right-wing
ideas rebranded for the YouTube age or
somehow this you know incredibly brave
culture and then that's actually the
main conduit that they get out into an
audience even offline yeah I think it
lends a real veneer of credibility and
intellectualism to a movement that is
right now very largely based in YouTube
and personally I like YouTube I don't
think we should completely discredit it
as you know as a source and thought but
a lot of people do um and you know we've
seen this time and time throughout
history and I'm going to do the terrible
thing where I reference the Nazis but I
know a lot about them is that you know
they one way that they were able to take
this horrible ideology from just streets
augury and things that were floating
around in fringe newspapers into the
mainstream it's just having a few
intellectuals on their side not
necessarily good writers Barry Weiss
isn't a good writer but people who could
give them you know the look of someone
that you could take seriously and that's
I think that's what these intellectuals
are doing consciously or not I want to
talk about deep platforming and we might
have a you know a difference of opinion
on this but it's just been a
conversation that's been floating and I
I mean first of all actually would you
say that there's a difference that we
can actually work out really sharply
between say as an example I think I
guess I'll put it to you really simply
and I not only do I loathe Sargon I
actually did a debate with Sargon which
is one of the more sort of odd
unpleasant experience in my life mainly
because I did have a bunch of really
enraged definitely assuming young
virgins
you know ranting at me for days online
afterwards but that being said what he
got kicked off of patreon for which we
can get into in a second and then
someone like Laura southern who got
kicked off a patreon uh she you know had
left any recognizable realm of speech
she was literally using that platform to
get money to do some type of like
grassroots flotilla effort to terrorize
migrants if I recall correctly that
absolutely steps into you know action
right so my concern about the deep
platforming though goes back to this
broader concern and critique of these
tech companies which is that okay there
are these headlines that someone like
Gavin McInnes or Alex Jones have lost
their platform and in and of themselves
great I don't care I don't have some
sort of romantic fixation about these
people being able to say what they want
to say you know and they can in other
ways whatever screw him screw Sargon -
now that said I don't trust private
platforms um who I don't think should
have frankly this amount of power to
begin with over our public discourse in
an unaccountable way to be the arbiters
in an intelligent way of who should and
shouldn't speak so in Facebook as an
example the headlines are they got rid
of Alex Jones Gavin McGinnis sure great
whatever but the greater structural
excluding of voices is hitting news
services like Telus or as an example
which you know one can think what they
want to tell us or but tell us or is a
very is a very you know is a real
credible certainly left-leaning but
important news source in Latin America
and Facebook is you know working with
you know center-right think tanks in
Washington DC to create standards of
what should and shouldn't be posted and
so my concern about the platforming more
broadly is that instead of having a
conversation about how to like
potentially nationalize companies that
need to be nationalized or strongly
robustly regulate them so that there can
be serious public oversight over these
companies or these companies having
ombudsman that can actually like
recognize that these companies are
journalistic platforms frankly it's
gonna be left to companies that hold a
huge amount of power over the public
discourse don't have any commitment to
the public good in fact as witnessed by
your great reporting on how they have
helped facilitate this horrific far
right machine on YouTube and they will
sort of push and pull between various
types of public sentiments which will
sure get rid of some awful people but
also implicate a much broader ability
for people to do anything critical or
rigorous or adversarial so that instead
of worrying about deep platforming
people we need to worry about the types
of structural reforms that can make
these platforms actually accountable and
non monopolistic does that make any
sense yeah it does make sense and I
think there's two main concerns I think
as we talk about the really far right
and you brought up a great example of
Lawrence other--and crowdfunding for for
votes in the Mediterranean that was
harass migrant got a gun
yes yep I
so when we talk about that after this
talk about you know a meet in preventing
harm in the immediate sense and in that
in that case D platforming it works
we've seen that when people get kicked
off platforms they lose audience right
now the whole far-right is looking for
an alternative to patreon they're not
really finding it yet so as we've seen
so far it works and depending on your
standpoint whether you think that is the
prerogative of just you know trying to
reduce immediate harm that's the
standpoint some people have but I think
you're really right to bring up the the
idea of monopoly in these tech companies
and they do not have our public
interests a good at heart
so I think when we talk about the
platforming we do need to talk about
having some broader oversight and
there's different ways you can approach
that one is the idea of nationalization
having a large overseeing body one that
hopefully has you know some ideological
diversity that has public accountability
that isn't locked away in a boardroom
that we don't know who is discussing
what and who has what financial aims but
there's also the idea of breaking up the
monopoly right now Facebook I mean
forget Facebook being the largest social
network it's what you log into
everything with it it has it it has its
tendrils everywhere so I think right now
is people trying distance and funds from
these platforms we're realizing how few
alternatives we have and I think in the
immediate sense maybe it would be
worthwhile coming up with more social
networks and maybe those individual ones
that could have that could have their
standards I think maybe we give large
platforms too much credit and say well
you know if you ban this one person it's
a slippery slope I'm kind of a moral
purist and I say they should be able to
recognize you know who's a Nazi and I
don't want them my I don't want them
personally on my page so maybe that is
the work of alternative social networks
in the future yeah I mean I think for
what I mean there
aparted right like great bring on the
left-wing patreon and I won't share
audience with you no share platform with
you know dave rubin sounds good to me
but my last question i guess is is also
is also fairly broad i'm curious your
thoughts on this too obviously which is
part of what sucks and is so
disheartening about this is it
definitely means that and i think this
is again this is one of these weird like
even just difference between being like
in your 30s versus your 20s right which
is like just a sense that if you grew up
at a certain time that it wasn't that we
didn't have a really broad public debate
and there weren't a lot of things on the
table but that there were certain things
that really were closed and I don't mean
closed like in the you know easy
examples that these guys can jump in on
like you know oh here's an example of a
college student being ridiculous about a
joke or something I'm not talking about
that but that there were real things
that we had agreed both empirically like
the Holocaust happens and also like
morally right like civil rights as an
example and it doesn't mean in any way
there wasn't a massive amount like just
you know profound racism misogyny
anti-semitism and a hysteroscopy I love
that of course but it's it's it's sort
of I guess what it is is it's had enough
success where they've put certain
questions back into play and I feel like
part of the impulse that people like us
have is like no we're not going to
relitigate this like you know people
have literally died for these things but
they might have done enough as an
example that like I think I needed to do
a IQ content a while ago because they
put it enough on the table that you
needed to respond to it because they
were able to exploit like see we're
having a quote-unquote rational
conversation all the left has is moral
condemnation where do you think the line
is between holding the line that no
we've you know these some things are and
should be settled questions versus you
know taking up battles that we might
have already thought we've won but
realizing that have first of all weren't
really one to begin with and then have
been reopened in a different way by
these pernicious people yeah I think one
reason we're seeing this reopen it's
kind of because of tech companies and I
think right now due to filter bubbles
into these sort of opt-in communities
people can sort of choose their own
reality so ideas that listen a normal
person has to choose their morals and
their set of facts and for any kind of
mental stability those things can't
always be in flux and I think that's
good you know there are certain
established facts I wrote about the flat
earth community recently and I'm not
going to have a debate with them over
whether the earth is flat it's not so
you do have to draw the line somewhere I
think one issue though with with our
social media environment is that you can
go so far down these rabbit hole you
know sometimes led by algorithm or just
by you know curiosity that your set of
empirical facts starts to change and so
I think this idea oh you know we're just
we're bringing it into a debate we've
seen that these that presenting things
as a debate with two sides is not always
fair it's not always objective and these
two sides don't mean to be in good day
in Holocaust and I was a great example
of something that objectively happened
and that even having the debate is
dangerous it you know it loosens this I
think our sense of social responsibility
and it really enables people with
hateful ideologies to move it a bit
further so you talk about like where to
draw the line I think everyone should be
educated but I think we need to
understand that this shifting line isn't
the line of objectives half is the place
that
these communities are leading us
deliberately and it's not going to stop
just at that line it's going to move if
you go to meet it it's going to move on
to the next bit most extreme idea Kelly
while I really appreciate your time the
pieces inside YouTube's far-right
radicalization Factory read it at the
Daily Beast Kelly thanks so much thanks
for adding me alright folks we are gonna
go to the fun half before we do that
become a member of the majority report
today majority dot F M slash become a
member and you get the just coffee deal
subscribe if you haven't yet an on
YouTube and and on iTunes what are we
doing tomorrow we're I know we're doing
a show but do we know what we have in
store for tomorrow
you know just the end of the year I know
on Monday it was actually it was very
fun I was not but Alex Perrine and Sam
were sipping some scotch and three of us
along with Matt dropping in from time to
time did a very fun your year round
roundup which is going to play on Monday
tonight the last show of the Michael
Brooke show of 2018 big wasps will steal
hombres in studio we are gonna have an
incredibly fun time as you would imagine
we're gonna play a clip of this in the
fun half
speaking of like algorithms like okay
everything that we cover whether it's on
this show or my show is even if it's on
the gist you know Trump is a jackass
side of the equation or here's Dave
Rubin just acting like a complete total
breathtaking oh no I cut I got
trapped in an algorithm and sent to
Brazil I knew they'd get trapped into
egrant century BC actually yeah let's
play that in a second because that fits
nicely but you know you they all matter
and matters to you know dunk on Dave
Rubin to some degree to sometimes to a
significant degree but you do have these
moments and it's like I get it I
understand like
eating your vegetables but like
basically we did an excuse of interview
with Lula's lawyer and more people need
to watch that because that's like a
really big deal
yeah I mean this stuff like it cuz I
mean guys like if you will get to it
more in the in the fun half but it isn't
just obviously enormous personal
admiration for the guy but this is a
case study and an opening not only for
the destruction of Brazil but it
actually has pretty far-reaching
consequences for how we think of law
fair for u.s. foreign policy and even
for like the prospects of the types of
politics you're interested in to some
degree if you're watching this show most
likely so go on the Michael Brooks show
YouTube channel and watch the interview
with moleska Martin's and share it
because it's could not be of more
importance and it matters we are in fact
literally global citizens there are
still tickets left though they're
picking up again for the Michael Brooks
show at live show at the Bell House
February 1st and in Brooklyn we'll talk
about that more later get your tickets
subscribe to the Michael Brooks show a
patreon patreon.com slash DMV is also at
six o'clock I should have said this
before
a little past 7:00 the regular full show
woz is going to be in at 6:00 we're
doing a live stream with gene Basler and
Kurdish academic on the situation in
rojava in light of this pull out all
right Matt my Anne Bradstreet also we
talk about Anne Hutchinson I don't know
if you guys are very familiar with I
know the name but I don't know anything
that's interesting to me because she's
sort of a Massachusetts Bay she was
early freedom of conscious person she's
sort of like she came over
basically to follow Tom caught John
cotton not I always make that mistake to
follow John not following Tom cotton a
preacher not following the guy he looks
like he has scurvy and advocates for war
and she was like she's very like well
read about the Bible and stuff and then
shortly she started doing her limp
Bible studies and the men and a whole
bunch of people men and women would go
to her house for these like I I compared
him to like talking dead like sort of
commentaries on the sermons that's
really interesting and then the men were
like we need to shut this down but
anyway that was the destiny yeah that's
the kind of indirect influence on the
transcendentalists yeah I think so I
mean they I think they a lot of them
talk about her but that was the context
for anne bradstreet writing her poetry
and she was very concerned about not
being hunted like a witch because that
was basically a witch hunt and later
those would be literal witch hunts but
Anne Hutchinson was sort of a I mean
because it was about spiritual things
too and she people talked about maybe
that she thought that God convinced her
to come to America and then after things
went poor she got exiled to Rhode Island
and and she had a this is how the
Puritans were like she had a deformed
child and they're like well see it was
Satan that convinced you to come to
America and this is the proof of that so
yeah pretty crazy stuff from the
colonial era that that's available for
members it's gonna be unlocked for
everybody on Saturday get your literary
hangover let's do this in the fun yeah
and the first half actually let's do
this because I had set it up you know I
I get afraid sometimes that for all the
time we spend talking about how stupid
Dave Rubin is we don't talk about what
an he also is also a very
genuinely bad person and you know the
hustle in the United States is you know
the the far right or the new centrist
the far right are the new Libertines and
so on and that isn't true obviously
first of all is evidence by the fact
that they aren't across the board ardent
free speech advocates and the old ACLU
model which I have a lot of respect for
it's evident in the fact that they never
talk about any serious policy issues
it's all just sort of Circle Jerks about
Twitter controversies and other
relatively inconsequential things and
it's glaringly evident when as an
example Dave Rubin you know planning
apparently on voting for Donald Trump
president that should sort of show the
store but this is another level here
this is actually incredible this is dave
rubin appearing on the probe olson arrow
YT channel in brasilia brasilia
parallelo and just to be clear jr bolson
ro in addition to promising savage
austerity pension cuts labor cuts abuses
of the poor and vulnerable brazil and
carrying out the interests of western
corporate interests which obviously
there's no controversy about that we've
all seen dave talk about amazon you know
the the Koch brothers are plugged into
you know the sort of air vacuums in his
head about these things but he has said
a lot that you know I mean never gets
tired of mentioning as a gay man and
never gets mentioned you know tired of
saying that he you know opposes identity
politics
well bolson arrow has talked about
beating his kid if he was gay his sons
and people affiliated with him have
celebrated the assassination of Mariela
Franco who was a lesbian City
Councilwoman and this is a government
that is not only neo-fascist
incoming neo-fascist government it's no
way hiding the ball on its plans for a
ruthless vicious social agenda including
increasing police violence so it's a
good example of the reciprocity of media
because these people are gonna take on
the latest trends of the extreme right
in the United States that's why you have
a cabinet ministers and the bolsa narrow
government who talk about cultural
Marxism the old John Birch Society
conspiracy theory which has been
recycled into Jordan Peterson and now
here's Dave Rubin the classical liberal
helping spread propaganda for a regime
that is literally promising to ban
protests which I might some might
consider a form of free speech and is
celebrated mass
killings we have a very similar problem
that you guys have in Brazil I mean the
media has basically lost all credibility
the line that I like to say is that many
if not most journalists they're not
journalists anymore they're activists
channel has don't do this Kaylee's
imposes so coming back there's more of
the city here are amazed very dance
bottom wounded
that's not news what what is news really
is what's really happening in culture
what are people really thinking about I
mean just that solo stuff things just
won't Dodgers
I love how like even when you're trying
to do like a serious actually this is a
really bad guy clip which Dave Rubin is
an incredibly bad disgusting morally
vacant person he's just so stupid that
it's hard not to laugh but no I can't
take any more if you have any even
cursory knowledge of modern Brazil you
know that the entire of mainstream
Brazilian media including state media
was ruthlessly opposed to Dilma Rousseff
and Lula da Silva and have spread every
manner of rumor and innuendo about the
Workers Party covered bolsa narrow with
kid gloves the Wall Street Journal
endorsed him
the Brazilian mainstream press either
endorsed them or treated him with kid
gloves and they all supported ax
traditional coup that removed Dilma that
actually in his dim-witted way I mean
he's that's that's just a big lie that
is that is actually literally fascistic
big lie that isn't even like oh that's
wrong on the merits because you have to
consider this news source it's like ya
know the Brazilian media was uniformly
and ruthlessly committed to destroying
democratically elected governments of
Dilma and Lula
and in the last couple of weeks of the
run off they may have before the run off
because by the time the runoff happened
they consolidated behind the fascist
balsa narrow they may have ran a few
pieces being like hey this Bowls a
narrow guy um when he said that like you
know afro-brazilians are inferior or
people around him talked about killing
gay people or the plans to hand guns to
everybody so they can kill people or the
proposals that police should be able to
shoot people in the favelas without late
any legal consequences maybe that's a
little bit and oh this story of somebody
from a supporter of his carving a SWAT
stick into a teenage girl's stomach we
should look into that
or even what happened a last or two
weeks ago which was two members of the
landless movement literally being gunned
down at a camp those things and that
wasn't covered in mainstream Brazilian
media at all so Dave Rubin dishonest
horrible person I'm sure he's too stupid
to know and doesn't care how am I
supposed to know what's going on no I
just want to know the ideas the ideas I
mean they were saying that the idea is
that did a there was a lot of ideas
going on and that both scenarios
interesting ideas both scenario has
wonderful scenarios main advisors and
I'm gonna be looking into this more is a
Brazilian who lives in exile who writes
in Virginia and believes that cultural
Marxism is destroying the planet and is
a former astrologer and he is one of the
main intellectual architects and ideas
man along with of course Pinochet
advising Milton Friedman style wall
street advisors who are gonna ram
through destroying labor protections and
I'm sure of course Dave Rubin doesn't
know any of that but he doesn't care to
know sounds very interesting to me
though oh whoa whoa oh boy astrology and
hard ride politics my ears are burning
my ears are burning Wow maybe a little
tutorial on how to uh suck money out of
it secure weird men on the Internet
disgusting these people are disgusting
loathsome fascist propaganda fascist
propagandists they're disgusting
grotesque loathsome people we'll see you
on the fun half
you are in for it alright folks six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see you in the fun
[Music]
this alpha males and the alpha males are
just wanna degrade the white man alpha
males are back I take all of you Mike
alpha males are back back back
almost says what I am a total
can we bring back DJ Tanner Lisa yeah or
a couple you put them in rotation DJ Dan
well the problem with those is they're
like 45 seconds long so I don't know if
they're enough of a break Markinson and
the alpha males Oh psych
ball-ball says what what what what what
what what
[Music]
on the back
the back
back
back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
it's my birthday
that's birthday - made you boy I have an
onyx benefit for you
the alpha males
[Music]
welcome welcome to the fun half we were
just saying that if Dave Rubin was
actually what he claimed he was which
was just this sort of like you know as
sort of vacant but really just genuinely
curious about everything and he just had
on like every like he had Farrakhan it's
like commodity fetishism but for ideas
but Rubens always is just right-wing
ideas no I mean Rubens of fascism
conduit but if it was just like or I
guess even was just every variety of
reactionary idea imaginable your
Confederate isn't a fundamentalist thank
you for the Middle East she's live ideas
are the idea all the ideas we had
Farrakhan on it's like see so you're
saying that people like Malcolm X but
Healy wasn't that great thanks for the
question Dave thanks to him would it be
I can't even uh Malcolm X is he why is
he holding that gun it's like he doesn't
want his neighbor to come over and have
a free exchange yeah so what was
happening was that you you were trying
to get over to Malcolm's house so you
can engage him with ideas but then he
held the gun
is that true Lewis you know I mean cuz I
mean that's the problem when news day is
that people aren't interested in ideas
all right let's take a call out of the
gate you are calling from an eight four
seven area code who are you worried
calling for them hey Michael Josh from
Chicago what's up Josh how you doing man
I'm doing okay I'm calling from shock
about later today oh nice just want
everyone to know that so that's so it's
still it's real it's real what's on your
mind my real sweetheart grab me a beer
all right what's on your mind my friend
but so I love calling it because we
don't have a third way centrist MSNBC
guy so we could talk about real
socialist like Jeremy Corbyn many MS
yeah goody every city that boy so um our
boy you know the way the ultimate boy
the ultimate boys um so I I think you
you talked about how you agreed with his
strategy and not calling for a new
referendum and I sort of agree with that
I am curious though I think they will
force I I were to predict I would say in
the new year there's gonna be an another
general election I think so yeah no def
I think that that's a merits imagine it
won't be yeah yeah I just I and I would
guess it would be against I think
resmoke would be the persons and she
would say because yes Jesus there's is
there's this good averse evil contest as
you're gonna get we're just like a
social democrat vegetarian versus like
some type of like weird like inbred
freak of the month both sides
caricatures they're gonna be running
yeah both side characters are gonna be
running I don't want to harm animals
that's why I contemplated fruitarianism
a fox hunting that was father who was
also my brother and then we would go
hunt the paw the village green yeah Jeb
MOG is a freak all right what is your
question
he's create I guess my question is I
think and I don't know if you agree I
think he needs to call a second
referendum after he gets into power
because I don't think he's gonna get a
better the problem with the the
breakfast thing is this is the only deal
that they will get the II will not cut
them a better deal yep nope I mean
that's the feeling I get
and I think I don't know if you agree I
think he needs to call for the second
referendum and I don't think that will
hurt him like I don't I don't think so I
don't think so
I think you're right I mean I think that
yeah it's very hard because look Jeremy
Corbyn obviously comes out of a left
tradition that critiques the EU and the
EU if you just broke it really simply
into two different buckets would be a
macroeconomic policy and the rules of
the euro and how that currency is
designed and the austerity and the just
a vicious punishment of Greece as an
example that it's led to and the
economic policy is really bad and it
does contradict not a sort of modest
social democracy but certainly a more
robust fully healthy democratic and more
realized society which I which Corbin
and McDonald are trying to push towards
on the other hand then there's obviously
all of you know the sort of social
Europe and some you know some really
great things like open borders like some
step how the NHS well and it just is fun
and partially I mean that's just because
of the you know that's just the economic
activity that goes into yeah into your
into the UK through Europe which is
maybe a third all the people who work in
it sure a lot of European people
definitely a lot of European a lot of
your European people in the NHS for sure
and and good environmental policies and
so on and so forth so I think the
reality is is and part of and you know
that's the tricky thing with Jeremy
Corbyn right like Jeremy Corbyn is an
amazing leader for our time and has this
fierce ethics and is right about most of
the major issues of the day because he
held his ground on any number of things
whether it was solidarity with the Kurds
or you know economic democracy during a
time and those you know when the left
was in complete retreat and then on the
other hand I think that maybe at times
there's some adaptability that he's not
on as much as I would want him to be and
the way this brexit is designed and the
way that vote took place
can only have a right-wing and
disastrous outcome as I see it so I do
think he should call for a second
referendum but I don't think he should
expand political capital to benefit that
well no no cuz that's saving Teresa may
and that's the agenda of these Blair
rights who are still trying to destroy
him so I do not think that he should get
into office that is his number one
priority that's how--that's yeah Reid
once he's in office I agree with you I
think that they could stop brexit that
clearly would on balance especially for
the UK the UK actually had the best
arrangement oh yeah you can imagine they
didn't have their currency they weren't
on the EU they got to take all of the
advantages of a shared market and
obviously all of the structural
inequalities and issues of capitalism
they want to deal with that were
cynically manipulated by the brexit ears
so yes I agree with you but not before
he's elected no not before he's elected
I think he could run on it like if in
the general if she could run say hey
labour especially if he's facing resmoke
who's mug will will run on whatever the
opposite is and the second referendum so
I think that was differentiated him well
I think they don't need that much
differentiation I think that but no I
think I'm I'm inclined to think your way
on it thanks for the call man yep
appreciate it
Colin from Nebraska Michael you need to
learn how to do jp's coughs knees
whatever the that sounded yeah he
does do patreon huh dog whistling it's
very interesting thing Jesus Christ
these people are amazing
attorney Andrew too damn house members
introduced caps alternative to Medicare
for all yesterday entitled Medicare for
America the bill keeps employer
insurance in place while transitioning
people to their employers insurance onto
an enhance Medicare program however
under this enhanced Medicare program
people will pay premiums up to nine
point three percent of their income have
a deductible
3,500 to 5,000 and the bill and we'll
have to pay co-pays private insurers
would exist for employers because it's a
cap because it's caps basic selling
point is that this bill can pass whereas
the Sanders bill cannot there isn't
really an argument to why it will really
produce a better policy outcome I for
one welcome Topher spyro the dragon to
be the ugly friends Medicare for all
I'll keep it around makes it look
keeping it around makes it look even
better yeah I agree and I for what it's
worth like I don't I don't
there's no popular momentum like that's
it it's a very old model to say it's
like first of all okay in reality world
what what is stunning about that thought
process when you put out a policy like
that and you sake has the best chance of
passing you the thought you're
completely disconnected from the actual
Washington politics that you're trying
to address and deal with and you have no
commitment a connection to the
grassroots and the energy of the country
so no Republicans are gonna cosign that
and it is gonna be a monumental uphill
battle to pass anything to do with
radically expanding health care while
Republicans are in any type of position
to block it no matter what it is they
only even almost killed Obamacare which
was literally there in 1990s plan right
and then on the other hands the only
thing that you're gonna get people out
into the streets for pressuring their
Congress people the plan that the most
popular and exciting and dynamic
politicians in America whether it's a OC
or Bernie Sanders or you know Elizabeth
Warren they're on board with Medicare
for Carla Harris or Cory Booker look
these people are all on record is
Medicare for all so it's just delusional
because they're giving like an argument
that's like well you know when you
really sit down you actually think about
what we're gonna pass here you're not
gonna pass a goddamn thing
there's no bipartisan health care bill
it's getting passed delusional nuts
totally disconnected from reality of
today's politics and then because it has
all these crappy provisions something
because it doesn't do the job just
finally giving everybody full complete
public health insurance like every other
industrialized country in the world and
getting rid of these useless inefficient
predator companies you're never gonna
have you think you're gonna get a whole
bunch of young activists who've been
pounding the pavement for justice
Democrats and DSA and you know this
whole new energy for that no-good
illusional it's just shockingly
delusional actually it's disturbing how
delusional and crappier Medicare for
people who can go through the hoops
right fist up just just shocking um it's
the best they got with all that money
it's the best they got with all that
money uh well I said how Brian Kilmeade
occasionally like he has these sort of
like woke takes where he points
something out that's like really
obviously racist but then he's also like
this he hasn't quite gotten the memo
that like they aren't in the Bush era
anymore and they're supposed to be more
like sort of like tips of the hat to the
kind of like isolationist thing so he's
still really on this like it's terrorism
like we got to be killing and bombing
everybody you know like I think I guess
he does fancy himself some type of
expert on Islam or something and clearly
wrote a book on Thomas Jefferson the
Barbary pirates so I think he's pretty
big expert sure he wrote that book and
you know so and clearly this stuff gives
them anxiety and this pull out of Syria
as I say there is the real complexity of
the rojava Kurds and some of the
humanitarian consequences that will
happen but there's also the reality that
we've been there for no strategic
purpose killing thousands of people as
active Co participants into the
destruction of a country in a
multiplayer proxy war that has just
devastated Syria and we with the Gulf
Russia and Iran and everyone are
responsible for this as well as these
Salafist groups and certainly as well as
Assad I'm guessing that Brian Kilmeade
is not going to bring any of this up in
this clip this is according to our
friends the courage everyone is upset
sad and afraid most of spoke to Fox News
afraid to using their names
the Kurds did the fighting we did the
backing we did this strategizing now
when we try to go back in there and
reestablish ourselves the big difference
is the Russians because President Obama
sat on his hands the Russians came in
and filled the void we established that
area sort of protecting the Kurds rias
while pushing back on Isis and now we
pull back they come back they're not
gone to Iran without noting as well that
this president stood up to Iran and
deployed out of the nuclear we're doing
the same thing we are we are allowing
them to re-establish themselves in a
region the counterbalance this president
has provided is dissipated threat is
reforming anyone who tells you different
will be sitting on this couch in a year
talking about the reformation of Isis
and the brutal decimation of that region
and our allies when he articulated those
points though about not staying there
forever and about being those troops
home those were points that were very
popular with the American people feel
like these things have no end and that's
the idea and if you're gonna happy if
you're gonna have troops stationed there
they want to know a long-term goal they
want to know what the objective is the
objective destroy the Caliphate and make
sure potentially go on forever I see a
lot of people fired up about this what
do you think friends calm we'll be
talking about it all more
oh man can we get so angry I love it
here's the thing okay first part I'm not
gonna lie with regards to those quotes
from the Kurds that is true it's a
hundred percent right I I am incredibly
worried about the Rishabha Kurds
incredibly worried
now obviously United States was never
supporting them because they
air about Kurdish rights or the
experiment going on there obviously not
the record of the United States would
demonstrate that for ever but I mean
okay and then we run down the list and
you know al Qaeda is gonna reformulate
itself and all this stuff and all this
nonsense that you know there was no need
there was no there's no national
security threat in any real way that's
posed by these activities to begin with
and dealing with terrorist groups
require small tera targeted intelligence
operations and nothing like these
catastrophic wars that have caused such
unending damage and death and just I
mean literally cumulative Lee the
killing of millions of innocent people
by u.s. foreign policy but the the meta
critique on this though it's like I
think part of the reason that even
though Kilmeade is like you know a
delusional militaristic dunce at least
in his emotionality he's sort of like
registering that this is like an actual
thing now he's almost entirely wrong but
these other people would be saying
precisely the opposite while Obama was
president and promoting the opposite
when and I think in ed Henry's case it
did when Bush was president so there is
just something so disgusting and a
reminder that like these are all just
like blow dried idiots in Midtown who
don't know what the they're talking
about they don't care how many people
the United States is killed in these
places they don't care about the complex
interplay between the Kurds and all
these other groups and incidentally the
people are gonna destroy the Kurds are
not Iran you kilmeade it's our
good ally Turkey that we just sold over
three billion dollars worth of new
weaponry to they're going to go after
the Kurds and you know it so anyways it
it's embarrassing it's pathetic but
Kilmeade continue they if this goes in
enough this keeps going I could see
Kilmeade being like a sort of like
second term Obama voters like hey that's
a really problematic comment and we need
to have drones in Somalia because of the
al-qaeda Hawks for Obama Hawks robot
that was a real thing
yeah okay this is the this is now
Kilmeade okay this is actually kind of
extraordinary because one of the things
okay a little bit of context first of
all Obama was not gung-ho to get into
Syria at all he allowed himself to get
pulled into Syria more and more and it
was accelerated actually through Isis
not through Assad so what you basically
had in the beginning was the
administration just sort of letting the
CIA subcontract with Gulf countries they
flooded the place with weapons and a lot
of those weapons and groups go to who
the Gulf countries usually support which
are far-right Sunni Salafist groups who
gradually undermined and took over what
was absolutely an organic legitimate and
real uprising against the blue tality of
the Assad regime and then Obama said if
he uses chemical weapons there'll be a
red line and then we got to get in and
then what ended up happening was that
there was a deal that was cut with the
Russians and they didn't do it also
because there was massive protest
because of war fatigue in the United
States in the UK correct war fatigue and
everybody seems to have gotten the wrong
lesson from this people who still want
to deny that the Assad government has
those weapons and might have used them
will bend in pretzels to deny that
that's ever happened even though I'm
sure it certainly happened at least in
some instances it's totally bolide by
the fact that the Russians who are
Assad's prime patron cut a deal to
destroy stockpiles what does that tell
you about their stockpiles use a little
bit of deductive reasoning here and then
conversely all of the right-wing Hawks
and idiots were freaked out because
Obama promised a redline he promised
redline now he needs to bomb Syria
because of our credibility and all these
other masturbatory concepts we lost
China
yeah all of this nonsense that if you
have no real-world experience you don't
understand how the world actually works
and you think you're in a Tom Clancy
novel from your you know couch somewhere
or god forbid at a think tank you get
lost in but actually he did deal with
the red line being crossed which is they
cut a diplomatic agreement which
actually worked and held for a little
while and was a correct use of diploma
but here is the red lines gonna be
brought up and kilmeade again is gonna
be well this is just funny everybody's
wrong here but it's funny back on Isis
he wants to bring but he wants to do
could be wrong but he Palestine murky
he's doing exactly if not worse than
President Obama did party the Mike
leaves the Rand Paul and said listen you
can't what they did the women at is
articulating that you can't stay there
forever
well aren't accurate to summon also the
notion that yes during the campaign I
have to tell you I have a libertarian
streak in my blood a little bit and when
he talked about not wanting to be the
policeman of the world that did appeal
to a lot of people you have to remember
to Trump is looking forward to
re-election and he's saying you know
what I don't really need the base but I
need some of these people
what good is for reelection if you go
ahead and give Syria to Iran lose Iraq
again Wow
Rand Paul Wow another thing another
sentiment I've shared with kilmeade for
completely different reason but I'm at
that moment though or someone's like boo
boo is to legalize pot I was like whoa
Rand Paul you know belligerents of
him oh it's great he's like but that's
what's but it's so sincere when you're
yes like the way like his face is right
he's rolling his eyes great when you're
the only one being but genuine and not
trying to spin you can be belligerent
right I can still be winning for people
that's no I mean look he's he's almost
entirely wrong and he's insanely
militaristic and delusional but like
again these two these the other two are
just voids if they had another script
they would say exactly what he was
saying like if Jeb Bush was president
and that was like they would be
delivering Kilmeade script except that
wouldn't even be being delivered because
there wouldn't even be this this drought
right but kilmeade yeah I mean that's
that's hysterical it's amazing what he's
willing to jeopardize his like t v--
friendship which
Grover though that I will see yeah
that also says a lot about him loon you
wants throughout Charlottesville but not
bombing Syria forever Marxist Republican
ever since Mike Racine your guys Rubens
have gotten so much better one of my
favs now yeah well he got the you need
to just crack him and I think his like
South Park Canadian and we were so
perfecting cuz Mike and I were talking
about it that it's good and people can
recognize it but Rubin has a bit more of
like California dirtbag to him or
something
yeah it's don't like what's missing is
that Rubin is like a really genuinely
awful human being and it needs to that
that kind of just like he I'm just
needing it is a little too likable yeah
but it's it's getting a lot of it Dunst
oligarch a Mike it's my birthday how
about a Jew horn
[Music]
alright let's take a call you're calling
from a 7 1 3 area code who are you where
you calling from
hello my name is Michael hi Michael
what's on your mind
hi hi so Sam talked earlier this week
about I'm from Texas so he talked about
the kind of Texas school how the Texas
textbooks and the curriculums are our
mess and kind of how they influence the
country and I kind of thought in a
different way that a lot of people
started I I remember I've noticed that
one thing it's that we don't talk about
like the English curriculum as much we
talked about the history curriculum and
one thing I noticed is in my case I
remember in high school reading I ran in
memory losses and yeah and I'm not just
saying it was a book that's fine by a
teacher I remember the iron rain
Institute sponsoring scholarships they
promoted in the school and I'm wondering
if there's been any looking into the
extent that that organization has
influenced like the English curriculum
in school didn't like red states because
I think that's like your formative years
our learning Hall takes for the first
time the first real political book
you're reading is like
anarcho-capitalist propaganda
I think that's troubling and I think
more people should look into the
influence that organization has an
education to say the least I don't know
anything about it but that's that's
disturbing and it's a great point I I
don't know if it's janeers
I don't know if it's Jane Mayer's dark
money or if it's a different a different
writer but I know for a fact that a lot
of these those right-wing foundations in
the 60s 70s and 80s were literally
buying Iran books in bulk and giving
them to university libraries and school
libraries like that so the and that and
and also sponsoring sort of like be a
libertarian essay contest that would get
people funded like the yeah this
infrastructure is actually very I think
I think it has been documented if you if
I should look around for that maybe
we'll talk about that more sometimes
sounds like thank you I appreciate that
yeah like I remember just so much like
books in my high school ninth grade
curriculum that was like why is
communism awful like we read first they
told my father about the cambodian thing
to read about about people escaping the
gulag so there was like the drumbeat of
communism is terrible which in those
cases yes but that's a weird tendency
and I'm wondering how that kind of
curriculum was like yeah the Cold War
it's also dis I would look at it Ben
Burgess as a new video on Xero books
mm-hmm and he's got a big that's gonna
come out which is gonna be really good
called give them an argument logic for
the left and this video is called like
did Karl Marx kill millions of people
and he does a really good logical and
historical breakdown of why you know
basically taking like the atrocious
crimes of whether it's Pol Pot or you
know yeah things that happen in the
Soviet Union and China as a proxy for
not reading Marx and not being you know
an intelligent person is ridiculous he
also is a great one of my favorite
factoids with him is his answer to the
and there's a lot to unpack with the
Venezuela propaganda but he'll always
make the point that a more of the French
government more of the French private
sector
basically there's a bigger public sector
and more government ownership in France
than there is in Venezuela and what I
like is it was like you either gonna
need to say acknowledge the obvious
which is that you know there's different
very different brands what we call
socialism and some of them actually work
very well in some ways or you're gonna
have to just you know or if you're gonna
assert no no France is really capitalist
then you're gonna actually have to say
well then as well as in fact definitely
capitalist if you're being real about it
alright I appreciate the call man
another quick example I've mentioned
before is or will has a quote from why I
write that says every line of work I've
written since 1936 in the Spanish Civil
War has been written directly or
indirectly against totalitarianism and
for democratic socialism as I understand
it
right and in the penguin the 1984 copy
that was sent to school houses around
America like tens of millions of copies
of this libraries the end for democratic
socialism was excised and putting under
ellipses right you can never just live I
mean not this is the problem with so
many of these you know capitalism didn't
win because of the marketplace of ideas
yeah exactly
and there's never any just innate little
clean space everything is contested and
controlled Alex B hey Michael did
professor wolf Santi mb/s they thought
Corbin should just unilaterally cancel
brexit if I recall something like this
is not a quote this is not a struggle at
the us should be that the UK should be
indulging in right now it was sold on
lies and is it unworkable on quote I
think that is what he said yes if I
recall correctly and it's true it's
precisely absolutely secret identity
politics if you're not afraid of being
in and you're not afraid of me take it
out of context in the future how about a
round of merry kill between Sam
Harris bureau I am gonna not play that
because I do think I'll be taken out of
context so book coming up foe yeah I'm
not gonna do that it's a great concept
though it's a terrifying it's it's like
a Chinese water torture concept I'm
assuming you gentlemen do not want to
indulge in that horrifying scenario whoa
what's up okay
disco Stu I just want to point out that
in light of the Tucker Carlson situation
that Glenn Greenwald is digging in
defending Carlson blatantly
misrepresenting what censorship is
considering he's a regular on Tucker and
Fox maybe time to question his motives a
bit more on like Mark Blythe Greenwald
certainly understands the problem which
Fox begs the question why he continues
to go on them look I Glenn Greenwald
actually let me let me say this for a
minute so one I I think actually that
there's a fundamental difference between
kicking somebody off of a platform like
patreon which I have a big problem with
and very sincere concerns about
versus targeting some of these
advertisers that's a that's actually a
completely different thing demanding
that Fox News not have Tucker Carlson on
their airwaves is a different thing then
telling advertisers and this is using
market pressure and a smart way to use
market pressure you know what I don't
want to use your hand soap because
you're advertising white nationalist TV
is fundamentally different then this
person should not have access to a
platform of which I'm outsourcing the
ability to make those editorial
decisions a private sector company that
already has monopolistic power totally
different thing and if I was to take it
down a notch and have really imperfect
comparison I would never ask patreon to
take Sam Harris off of patreon ever but
I would certainly ask a friend why they
were patronizing Sam Harris right that's
a very different thing so that being
said I'll just say what I always say
about Glenn Greenwald Glenn Greenwald is
a great journalist there's a lot of
really important work the Snowden story
alone it was just on Amy Goodman the
other day breaking down these anti BDS
bills and state legislators which are a
massive horrific threat on free speech
Glenn Greenwald is someone who I read
some of my respect and I completely
disagree with him on his view of Tucker
he some of his we have contested beliefs
about how to interpret some election
results we've just probably daylight
between us on Russia
so we disagree and that's okay and
actually one of the nice things about
someone like Glenn is uh
he's aware of that we disagree and we're
able to have that debate and
conversation and I would just advise in
general like there's some really clear
people like a Dave Rubin that is just
out of the box right and it's just a
pure political enemy in my estimation
unlike Glenn I would say Tucker
Carlson's like that but in general I
don't think we should be looking for to
have everybody be like that because at
some point you're gonna get pretty
lonely and Glenn Greenwald on
balance just even in terms of his work
is still if you're actually reading him
not just looking at tweets and tracking
TV appearances is doing a lot of really
good work and even his appearances on
Tucker I have problems with some of the
framing I get it I do and I wouldn't go
on Tucker like he was on Tucker that's
my public position from the beginning I
would only go on Tucker in an
adversarial way but he's talking about
things like intelligence services and
surveillance which are important to him
yeah he doesn't know he does good work
from my perspective he's obtuse about
certain things especially I mean he was
up to sont Witter and in a pretty funny
way he'd literally drill sub tweeted him
what he said Greenwald did something
about like if you tweet at somebody and
say this a niche if you've almost
certainly made a really clever point and
you should get a MacArthur Genius grant
and then drill tweeted about MacArthur
Genius grant Slater in the night in a
tweet that was very similar to Greenwald
yeah I mean I think the Greenwald thing
in the Tucker thing yeah I completely
disagree with Greenwald every time he's
on I roll my eyes and it's annoying but
unlike other people like he does do good
work very good work and I mean there is
there is something amazing Andy and I'll
just take liquid it you know these are
these two polarizing figures obviously I
have very different feelings about them
and I do like and defend Glenn Greenwald
in many areas others strongly robustly
disagree with him on but there is
something just incredible in the Twitter
age that like near a Tandon who's the
president of one of the most important
think tanks in the country and Glenn
Greenwald who's an incredibly important
investigative journalist and commentator
are both primarily known by their
twitter rifts and you know and I will
say like again if you're reading glenn
greenwald's columns you're gonna still
find an incredibly rigorous important
person that you have to deal with even
if it's because you disagree and you
just want to like hone your arguments
which is actually you know good thing to
do
I find your tannins of their activities
less just fine over
Twitter presents you're calling from a
three four seven yeah go ahead
oh sorry reminder Republicans control
and control all three Benzes of
government and they're shutting it down
themselves Paul Ryan okay we actually
have to go to this I'm sorry call it or
I'll get to you in a second
give me keep the call down because we
have to do this Paul Ryan says President
Trump will not sign a short-term
continuing resolution signed by the
Senate this means we're heading towards
a shutdown let's play his clip this just
happens now we just had a very long
productive meeting with the president
now the president formas that he will
not sign the bill that came up from the
Senate last evening because of his
legitimate concerns for border security
so what we're going to do is go back to
the house and work with our members we
want to keep the government open but we
also want to see an agreement that
protects the border we have with very
serious concerns about securing our
border for the president said and will
not sign this bill so we're going to go
back and work on adding the border
security to this also keeping the
government open because we do want to
see an agreement without first we
believe there's still time we can have
for security you know fundamentally
that's what America's asking a great
discussion within there the president
said what the what the Senate stands
over is just kicking the ball just kick
it can't down the road we want to solve
this problem
make sure
so this is all lies predicated on a
crisis that doesn't exist it's actually
predicated on a crisis that now does
exist because it has been created by the
barbarous policies of Donald Trump in
the Republican Party good little side
down example there Paul Ryan hundred
percent has his back Paul Ryan is a
functional white nationalist politician
everybody who gave him any grudges
coverage should watch that again and
again and review his record again and
again I'm not sure this means shut down
though because I I still have moved the
mind that some type of you know Trump is
of the face-saving symbolic gesture that
he can exaggerate bloviate and lie about
so it's very possible that you'll see
some type of dumb you know we're setting
aside this amount of money for this type
of wall blah blah blah let's you know
some cash that is obviously being
completely wasted and is useless and
will only add to hysteria around the
situation but can be like a political
thing to kick the can down the road
so we'll see it's nice of the media's
catching up to him a little bit though
Paul Ryan there is good Bloomberg view
it's um
Jonathan Bernstein I think it's okay
farewell Paul Ryan he was unusually
dishonest a fraud as a wonk and a
terrible match for the job beautiful
people like us were saying this in 2011
but you know better late than never for
real thrilled utterly yes exactly I mean
I would just quibble with I think he's
usually dishonest for a Republican but
he was he was yeah unusually good at
tricking liberals into thinking he was
raised that's what it was but even yeah
he was just a loathsome fraud hack
dishonest corporate bagman liar like the
rest of them um oh let's just take this
call and we'll go you're calling from a
three four seven area code who are you
where he calling from oh hi this is a
lead from Astoria hey Ally what's going
on what's on your minds well I wanted to
say something about the deep platforming
thing but this shutdown thing I'm
actually work for the government
okay federal government its contractor
and I just realized we're not gonna get
compensated for the shutdown there's
some talk about back pay but as a
contractor you don't necessarily get
that so it's gonna affect me and
millions of other people yeah or
something that doesn't exist something
that doesn't exist there are millions of
people who even if it only happened even
if this thing and I realize I'm sorry I
must have missed because I didn't I
didn't realize that the veto would
immediately put this into effect I
thought that they actually had AI they
must have a bit they have a bit more
time right the deadlines tomorrow so
look if this I've been getting emails
about that for a while I'm sure so if
this I just want to get back to you in a
second I just wanna yeah I want to be
clear this I want clearly quickly the
politics I didn't want to come back Paul
Ryan is which are both relevant things
but yes if this happens even for a day
even for a couple of days it's gonna
massively harm millions of government
workers and people's whose livelihood
depends on government which is gonna be
bad for each and every one of them
individually and for their families also
gonna be bad for our economy which
there's already very strong signals that
the economy is about to slow down maybe
even go into recession and it's also
going to harm all sorts of other people
that rely on what they euphemistically
call non-essential services which
actually are the most essential things
government does like deliver food to
people like key social programs which of
course need to be radically expanded and
increased and universalized so if this
happens it is squarely on Donald Trump
it squarely on Paul Ryan it's squarely
on the racism xenophobia conspiracy
theories of everyone who has created a
completely fake crisis it was a crisis
that didn't exist when there was net
positive migration and it does not exist
now that there is literally net neutral
migration and it will never exist
because of people seeking refuge from
crises generated by u.s. foreign policy
and domestic oligarchies it's discussed
it's a moral and it's gonna hurt people
even if it only happens for a day or two
so I want to be clear about that Holly
go ahead yeah
everything you said is right well okay
putting that aside and me not having a
job the D platforming thing I just want
to add a little bit of historical
reference this conversation has been
going on for at least a century there
are references in black newspapers in
1920s to giving a dignified silence to
KKK rallies and movements there is there
was a movement in the 60s called
quarantine by Jewish activists to not
pay any sort of not to localize or
announce the movement of white
supremacists so I mean these things that
are going through those specifically a
left-wing community it's been going on
for a long time
and I guess my my trouble is Ollie those
examples elite I I support those
examples they don't implicate what I'm
over at is sizing I'm concerned about
you know what I mean yeah well I guess I
mean sorry sorry last thing I want to
say is that what that occurred in 1920s
as far as my reading goes there's a
great book called Ku Klux culture with a
k' that showed how trying to debate
people on that the statistics I actually
increase their membership while ignoring
them didn't actually do anything to end
the KKK it it didn't inflamed them
that's all that fun I'm with you on a
lot of that I think I'm again I think
maybe it's bits not being clear but I'll
say again the challenge okay so just two
brief points and maybe Matt will
articulate this better than me but
there's there's okay number one
none of those movements and none of
those tactics ever implicated the First
Amendment right like they never said
we're gonna put a ban on a particular
kind of speech on a governmental level
which I don't support I know there's
people in a European context there they
have been implemented and it's actually
worked well and it's a debate that I'm
totally open to being persuaded on but I
don't support it as of now what's
happening now with these tech platforms
which is novel and has never happened
before is that you have a whole new
media ecosystem of which everybody is
reliant and plugged into that people are
getting their news from in various ways
and these companies are monopolistic
they have way too much power they have
zero public accountability and if you
start to put a market pressure on them
there the result is just going to be and
already has started to be as in the
Facebook case and even in the Google
algorithm case listen to the
conversation I had on tea MBS and Matt
Taibbi about this maybe that's a good
place to start it is structurally going
to affect investigative left-wing
adversarial journalism that is what's
mostly gonna get hit so my concern and
so I am of the school to be honest that
these platforms have such a big public
consequence and in such large
implications I think we should
nationalize them and frankly if they're
nationalized then they would be
protected by First Amendment laws right
and that is what I think should happen
but I think even barring that there
needs to be a much more strategic
approach to how we deal with these
platforms because even as an example
take go in a purely capitalist direction
if there was a left-wing patreon as an
example that got formed and people knew
about and people were gonna use and it
was real and it was happening it was on
the run and people like us would go well
we're maybe gonna move over here because
we don't want to share a platform with
you know though all right or the soft
all right or whatever you could you know
introduce those market pressures but
those market pressures are not
introduced now because certainly I mean
in some ways it's it's actually weird I
mean paid
is way more vulnerable than YouTube or
Facebook or any of the other real
serious monopolies frankly so a system
where you are reliant on the good sense
of private monopolistic companies who
have already proven that not only are
they incapable of doing this they are
active contributors to the problem is
never going to work out well at all it's
gonna have major damaging long-term
consequences as it already has on
Facebook with sites like tell us or and
you know and so that's really the point
and and again going after Tucker
Carlson's advertisers a completely
different ballgame totally different
ballgame which I support a hundred
percent hundred percent yeah that's why
I think people are over plying the you
know risk of slippery slope like I am
NOT concerned about a risk of slippery
slope when it comes to Tucker no sand
and I'm not really concerned about a
slippery slope when it comes to patreon
because I think the slope people are
already getting slid off of those slopes
right and it it hurts the left oftenly
be could you look at Sam Knight from
district Sentinel he's always he's
always with her and and like crimes of
britain i think i banned from facebook
like these these organizations are
looking for a reason to purge left-wing
things so while I don't like look the
Sargon I don't maybe we don't want to
get it too closely but my point is I
don't think the left should be focused
on hall monitoring this right if maybe
the Liberals want to do this and put
pressure on like things like patreon to
like hey look at this Lauren southern
doing that sounds fine but I don't think
it's our that's not where I want to pour
the gasoline really like let's get
patreon to be more police into this like
I I just don't think that's smart at
this point in time it's not a winning
strategy while we're in the context
we're in and as I say what's weird is I
think one like one scenario that really
solved this problem creates a whole
other problem which is free speech on
these platforms that is what would
happen if we nationalize them and then
there's a whole other set of you know
but then and then conversely if you if
you if you seriously broke up monopolies
then you could have a genuinely
pattern of playing field and you could
say like Oh YouTube was where they did
the the far-right crazy Nazi algorithm
but we have this up but you know Vimeo
like just as viable a platform has his
own massive audience and they're
catering to different things and we have
marquee competition and we could go in
two different places but as it is now
these companies are all powerful have no
oversight no accountability and if you
go down the path of that the right is
gonna flip it immediately back and it's
not a question of would they do it
anyways of course they would do it
anyways but the context and what they
can do it anyways if you don't see that
it's aided by playing precisely that
game then you're just not being
strategic and that's the problem and
again we don't have to go in the future
it's happening right now look at
AlterNet tell us or all of these
independent news sources sometimes doing
very important foreign policy coverage
what's happening to them on facebook
look at google the story about the
Google algorithm switching from
relevancy to like metrics of prestige
essentially meant that the example is
instead of when you look up Trotsky it's
an article I believe in the newer times
instead of a Trotskyite website which is
what it used to be if you don't think
that that's rewriting the rules of the
road in a way that favors incumbents and
blocks access to you know independent
and potentially left and radical thought
you're being like how a who to Olmert
says it being naive so that's the point
yeah well I'll just I'll just say I mean
I agree with you I went to monopoly and
the attacks on that's when sources I
mean you just have to look at what's
going on black lives matters post on
Facebook they nearly get torn down
especially if you posted like myself as
a black person right but I would
original say but I would I mean it's
happening but it's also it's happening
and if the left I'm thinking maybe if
the left wing doesn't do the same we're
kind of leaving an arrow up in a quiver
and and the last thing I'll say on this
is that seeing Richard Spencer cry and a
V blog or whatever about not being
to march outside or not being able to
have a living gave me a lot of happiness
and that's what I keep that going on
what I would say I appreciate that and I
would also say that least what led
Richard Spencer to cancel those shows
was just adversarii it was other people
exercising their First Amendment and hit
the tire got popped and that's awesome
he's still on Twitter because he knows
how to follow the Terms of Service while
he promotes a genocide Allah Genda and
then there's other people Sam knife gets
kicked off once a week because he calls
a right-wing pundit an that's
actually kind of what I'm talking about
that's what's gonna yeah yeah exactly
but that's a good that's a good I I got
the same joy when I saw that too
hang in there Ali thanks for the call
all right we're gonna just play this
briefly I do want to talk about this
because I did do this interview and I
wasn't gonna play a clip of it on this
show because you can you know watch it
on the other one but there was a kind of
stunning thing that did happen yesterday
in Brazil a couple hours after this
interview went up and the reason this
matters even if you don't have the same
level of investment okay I I think that
Lula as new Tomsky said is the most
important political prisoner in the
world today earlier this morning I
talked with Samuel Moines who has an a
book out called not enough human rights
in the age of inequality and he teaches
a law at Yale University brilliant and
his critique is that modern human rights
ran in tandem with neoliberalism so that
structural economic questions were
obscured because organizations went with
the flow with global capitalism and
focused on the most limited set of
unacceptable and needs to stop
atrocities at the expense of broader
conversations that also need to happen
on inequality on food on human
flourishing and we talked about this
corruption narrative as a similar thing
and in his language he said
anti-corruption narratives are used by
elites to undermine democratically
elected leaders and he said unless
you're talking about ballot fraud about
stealing elections this stuff is not
the main focus it should not be your
main focus if you have a Social
Democratic concern
unless it's a you know pure rampant like
you're stealing diverting money from
poor people to give to the rich which is
what formal policy and most of the
industrialized in the pelleting world
just is and he talked about how you know
fascists have you've used this
effectively the Anti Corruption probes
of the nineteen nineties in Italy led to
the rise of Silvio Berlusconi you put
that on top of the fact that in Brazil
so in Brazil ok talk about corruption if
you want to the case against Lula is
beyond flimsy we're gonna play a clip of
this interview with his lawyer in a
second but any conversation about him is
gonna also have to involve if you have a
perspective of the world where you care
about poverty you care about healthcare
you care about dignity the fact that
this man led 30 to 40 million people out
of poverty that he expanded labor rights
he expanded indigenous peoples rights he
did work on afro-brazilian rights
broader representation deepening
democracy recalibrated Brazil's role in
the world in a way that was more
democratic autonomous and dignified this
is an incredible record in many respects
and the dismantling the law fair against
the law the coup against Dilma is the
context of which the corruption and the
austerity of the last two years in
Brazil and now this bowls a narrow
government which even some liberals are
concerned about because yes it is part
of the global pattern of fascism and it
will have a sustained result on the
Constitution on gay lesbian transgender
people on afro-brazilians
as well as the agenda of austerity so
the case against Lula is the context for
understanding this broader coup and a
broader process of which threatens all
of us in the Trump age yesterday I'm
courting now from Brazil why well let me
actually I'll get to that in a second I
want to play this clip because Valeska
martins was on my show on tuesday go
please watch the full interview with the
michael brooks show on youtube but she
talked about how the media could feed
stories in the public media could sort
of generate rumour mills which could
then turn into legal investigations
without a
on basis and that's also pretty relevant
in light not only in terms of what I'm
gonna get to what happened yesterday in
a second but I guess also bear in mind
of what our a dim-witted enemy Dave
Rubin was saying earlier about how
left-wing the Brazilian press is this is
not plain sorry guys I don't know what
happened it's one second Matt you need a
sec all right get to that in one second
you just need to say okay well let me up
here then we'll loop back to that in a
second okay you got it all right let's
go house hoods in such house reports by
the mainstream media in Brazil and these
first and these stories actually became
legal procedures became criminal
criminal investigations but it all was a
actually game cost to these they
actually violated the presumption of
innocence by President Lula creating
this dim person that was demonized
demonized by the media and therefore
could be investigated by anything that
actually the population would not be
able to process anymore what the
evidences were what the real hard
evidence the evidences were of
corruption or of money laundering in his
case then he was illegally he was taken
to an airport in March of 2016 where he
had to give a deposition basically on on
his entire to mandates with no no
evidence whatsoever that would entitle
them to to investigate him and from
there on it became a matter of
investigations and judicial proceedings
with frivolous absolutely frivolous that
every
they would come out in the media so
that's how that process of seeding
worked and this is really dangerous
again because while the judiciary has
acted in a political and vindictive and
double-standard way against him
this gradual unwinding of the judicial
legitimacy also helps facilitate the
next phase of what could potentially
happen there which is a return of a more
formal military dictatorship and rule
which reminder was only ended in the
mid-1980s this is a very young democracy
and yesterday what happened was the
following and i'ma quote now briefly
from Brazil wire which everybody should
be reading on this story army High
Command meets Lula stays in jail who's
running Brazil is the name of the peace
on December 19th Brazil went into a
frenzy at the news that Supreme Court
judge Marcel Marseilles Marcio Aurelio
had accepted a petition from the
Brazilian Communist Party from the
Communist Party Brazil the cause for the
called for the freeing of prisoners
jailed while their appeal processes were
still underway Lula was jailed before
his appeals were exhausted
this meant that former president Lula da
Silva recognized internationally as a
political prisoner would go free lawyers
and legal scholars applauded the
decision so on there's quotes supporting
the decision they go on to note that
Lula's 73 and is being held in solitary
confinement follow and then what ended
up happening was another judge on the
Supreme Court
just sort of intervened and was able to
supersede that decision basically if one
a member of the Supreme Court objects
the process can stop and this other
judge Toffoli basically essentially said
this isn't legal this isn't necessarily
constitutional but we need to figure out
a way to make it so so we're gonna delay
a decision until the new year just to
keep Lula in prison and they note that
at the same time that the high command
of the Brazilian military held an
emergency meeting to discuss the impact
of a potential decision to release Lula
and then they go on to say I'll quote
one more time the Armed Forces
intervened in previous Supreme Court
rulings to deny the former president
habeas corpus and it's unclear if the
army meeting influenced two Foley's
latest move but he was consulted by
president-elect balsan ro on the
appointment of general
Fernando as a video as defense minister
who had previously served as an advisor
to Toffoli prior to the election so
that's just to say again the broader
context of understanding the misuse and
lack of sophistication of
anti-corruption politics in a broader
pattern of the rise of fascism fascism
drain the swamp or bond ran vigorous
anti-corruption campaigns Silvio
Berlusconi's whole political rise was
predicated on 1990s Italian corruption
investigations of which Sergio Moro
claimed that he based the carwash
investigations off of then there's the
immense importance and treatment of Lula
as a political prisoner and the law fair
against them I think pretty clearly with
the support of the Department of Justice
because of anger over a lack of
privatization in the oil industry
I believe that interpretation and then
third there's the way in which this
gradual corruption of institutions and
break down an election of a literal
neo-fascist candidate can see in this
case not only a resurgence of far-right
politics but potentially even military
dictatorship in the largest country in
Latin America in a new wave of far-right
politics when we're seeing this pattern
replicated in several other countries in
Latin America and something sort of a
cueing a judicial version of the coos
you would see in the 70s and 80s so it
matters please watch that interview
please let people know about it it
actually really matters you're calling
from a 905 area code who are you where
you're calling from hi this is Susie
from El Paso hey Susie what's on your
minds
hi all right so I just I wanted to
respond to something Sam
yesterday in a conversation with Ronald
Reagan about why the restriction on
immigration happened in the 90s and the
reason for that is because it's
basically you know something that was
designed to not necessarily keep people
from coming here but really more to
police the people who were already here
right so the main purpose of that was to
discipline the labor force of Mexicans
already here into being afraid you know
to not organize and do things that we're
going to compromise them as a
subservient labor force right I think
you're totally right are you have are
you a lawyer or you an academic to have
a background in this I am yeah I have a
doctorate in Borderlands history sweet
do you teach now I do I teach high
school actually very hard unfortunately
I can do right now if you have any
resources or things that we should read
about the immigration legislation in the
90s Senate some ja reporters at
gmail.com okay yeah I'll look into that
all right much appreciated Thanks okay
let's do our little let's see who do we
start with I started with Pinker so
Steve Pinker doesn't know history at
least political history that's my main
beef with all these intellectual dark
web people and usually their total lack
of historical awareness leads them to if
they're sam harris to support
essentialist ridiculous views of islam
which again i always have to reiterate
does not mean that you cannot criticize
Islam or object to Islamic forms of
government it means that literally to
talk about it as one monolithic
uninterrupted thing is historically
sociologically politically economically
illiterate now Steve Pinker somebody
handed him a copy of the niskin in paper
that came out this week and the niskin
and paper is like a some type of
think-tank or nonprofit that put a
brought aryan libertarian and it's a new
effort to get beyond the false choices
of right and left and yet another an
unending version of the essentially be
be socially liberal and fiscally
conservative right have a give people
some tax credits but also deregulate the
internet so cool this type of thing in
and it echoes the dominant politics the
1990s which was the third way Clinton
and Blair and Schroder ruled the day and
you know it's basically like if somebody
somehow got billions of dollars and
hedge money to relaunch AOL dial-up
service and then they were like this is
the newest and most exciting form of
Internet access in the world today AOL
dial-up and it isn't just that it's old
I mean obviously some things that are
old can be applied to today but it's
that that particular model did not work
it led to the collapse of social safety
nets broadening income inequality it
deregulated banks including Wall Street
and city in London which helped lead to
the global economic meltdown it
compromised center-left parties across
the globe leading to their
underperformance in the wake of the
financial crisis created by Wall Street
and where it's being primarily practiced
today 20 years after its heyday is in
France where Emmanuel macron is sitting
at about a 20 percent approval rating
with massive street demonstrations going
on because of his moves to implement
austerity and redistribute money to
wealthy people and this is of course
exactly the time and Steve Pinker's
history free embrace of whatever will
confirm his instincts
for hierarchical market liberalism found
and that is meritocracy the third way
and all of these great goodies that of
course are totally new ideas if you
don't have a grounding in political
history and Steve Pinker quote tweets
this piece from I believe is it a is
this a draw still thought Ross Douthat
Ross gal fresh off his we need to bring
the wasps back and I'm saying that as a
Catholic who actually descends from
wasps but converted to Catholicism yeah
fresh off his the wasps governed America
better peace has a new column in New
York Times which is entitled how
meritocracy and populism reinforce each
other's faults and I didn't read the
piece I don't care to the only pieces
I'm interested about reading Rossdale
thought or like his basically if
somebody's making fun of his old sort of
sex literature but Steve Pinker is to
the rescue with the the fallacy that
meritocracy is a consciously chosen
system reality it's what you get when
you move away from cronyism nepotism
racism sexism old boy networks and other
biases now Steven Pinker's teaches at
Harvard University which still to this
day I think it's upwards of 30% of the
admitted class the most prestigious
university on the planet arguably
running a close second to Bates college
that those people have weighted
emissions based off of their parents
also attending Harvard or other family
members like literally an old boy or old
girl network at his institution you
could broaden it out and say that
generations of wealth and being trained
to take tests with outside tutors and
resources that time to study that
context
the social capital the emotional
investment to think that you should be
in the most elite institutions are all
massive inbuilt advantages that shape
your outcome in life and how you perform
in this quote-unquote meritocracy do we
have that GT here quit tweet so I'm but
I mean this I mean this is basically
this is it I mean this this is the
problem with this Steve Pinker
perspective in a nutshell essentially
its technological Pangloss e'en ism and
it doesn't describe but it both has no
description of the reality of the world
we live in where the likelihood of how
well you do in life is far more
determined by the wealth of your parents
than anything else and as G here says
Pinker teaches at a university where 30%
of students are legacy admissions where
Jared Kushner got admitted because his
family made it do a huge donation of
course he thinks he lives in a
meritocracy indeed Jared Kushner in a
book expose in the Ivy League admissions
process was a case study where they
actually got someone I think from his
high school saying like yeah I have no
idea how I mean it had to have been the
donation cuz there's no other way that
this guy could have gotten into Harvard
so but what's great is that okay this
has no description in connection to the
world we live in today where wealth is
preeminent
where your outcomes in life have more to
do with the income of the family were
born into than anything else and
secondly if we were to live in a world
that was governed on different metrics
of meritocracy and there should be a lot
of different metrics of meritocracy by
the way cuz I'm not only just interested
in rewarding people that might be clever
in school I'm also interested in
people's ethics I'm also interested in
but people actually want to do and
contribute in order to live though in a
world closely approximating this fantasy
you would have to do one of the greatest
radical wealth redistribution projects
in the history of human civilization
in order to have meritocracy you would
need to have radical democratic
socialism or it is literally a fan
exactly like look at Pinker's original
quote the fallacy that meritocracy has
consciously closed reality when it I
can't say the the fair the fallacy that
meritocracy is consciously chosen system
reality that's what you get when you
move away from cronyism nepotism racism
sexism old boy networks and other biases
and that's like what about inheritance
what about inheritance and what about by
the way all those other things that we
haven't moved from like we would have to
do a whole political project that you
spend all of your waking hours opposing
to get to that world where it could be a
reality and that's the problem when
you're only politics is just looking at
current events and then reaching for
naturalized quote-unquote science
explanations for them and you skip how
all of this stuff actually gets made in
the realm of politics economics finance
and how it's historically formed that is
literally where all the action is so
Steve Pinker's he's goofy watch his
interview with Mehdi Hasan that was
pretty formidable all right speaking of
goofy let's talk about Elon Musk a it's
been a tough couple of months for you on
musk when we made fun of him we used to
get the most rabid cultists getting
freaked out because we made fun of their
hero but he has soul it has reputation
on fire that I'm actually at a point now
where it's sort of like Kanye or I'm
like leave him alone this is obvious
like a damaged person like my beef with
Elon Musk was how destructive the
mythology of that position is in society
is catastrophic not to just like torture
a guy who's going through a lot of
issues so we eased up on Elon Musk but
now he is back in the news with the
announcement that the loop tunnel
has been released this is apparently the
project that would get you what is this
like well I am I to reduce I touch one
this was well I'd originally seen I
remember it as the thing that supposed
to get you from San Francisco to LA and
like 20 minutes I thought it was San
Francisco about 20 since talking about
in all of it talking about it that I've
seen lately it's like this will feel
like transporting within your city which
is sort of how Subway's gals and say I
I know another thing that does that no
no no all subway lose one car at a time
and if you go for seats in it made only
six and it's yes and if you go back to
Elon Musk old stuff when he explained
why he was looking for a car system he's
like public transportation I'm
paraphrasing but like literally like
Pope's transportations kind of weird yep
you never know who you might sit next to
I'll fund the court after we play this
video here sam says from the couch he
invented something that's actually a
little slower than a fair without the
view is that I was gonna say and if
you're about to watch this
fairies are one of my favorite forms of
travel they're not super practical but
they are beautiful and going on like the
vineyard Ferry getting a beer and some
chowder it's awesome it it's really good
this does not look so fun but of course
he would add this music oh yeah this
music is totally rad yeah this is Marc
Maron
so we created the paperwork
[Applause]
okay get ready to be blown away
this is not gonna do well for
claustrophobic people yeah it looks like
the tunnel that you go into Manhattan
and accept like a lot smaller a lot
small it's got a cool like black white
on the top it doesn't cool black light
you're under like it a hookah I would
not trust being in this thing if it was
constructed by Elon Musk yeah Ilana
apparently it's my speedy car wash
technology yeah should watch am feeding
the killer lives for the couch Yan was
asked about earthquakes cuz apparently
you know I got some Mitt Romney
technology here little car elevators Oh
a lot brilliant Elon was asked about
earthquakes and apparently this is true
that earthquakes aren't a huge problem
okay under the deeper you go underground
for tunnels but I don't know if I
necessarily want to be the one to trust
I know for knew never any technology
that Elon Musk was a part of his gonna
need to have been in operation for like
thirty years before I would get into it
I've made a new underground submarine
I'm gonna come down and save you I swear
to God yes I mean there's gonna that one
of those things gonna collapse and a
bunch of people gonna be stuck in it and
he's gonna be on 60 minutes crying like
I don't I don't respect the SEC and I
know that we lied about the weight
measurements but it's just cuz it's so
much pressure and I was on Rogan I'm
sorry except I'm not and I took all the
beeping off the forklifts cuz it was
really annoying yeah right when you
didn't do the proper measurements on the
tunnels was it because that you wanted
to go to Burning Man that's creativity
you never understand how a business
works Jesus Christ
I wonder if do you think for some people
this is gonna like get them back on
board it's so underwhelming I can't
imagine seeing that envy and like this
is what I imagined when he was timing I
think if you go to the replies man
there's gonna be a thousand people or
just like awesome dude great soundtrack
you know what though the dirtbag left is
well representative in those reports
yeah yeah
yeah yeah good job guys good job
keep at it are you calling from a 206
area code who are you where he calling
from what up Mike it's Alex
from Seattle hey Alex what's going on oh
I just wanted to do two quick things a
little bit of fun since it's a heavy
heavy episode number one
I'm glad you discovered the the
Petersons wants to bang his cousin story
but unfortunately you're you're leaving
out the last part which is really the
best part oh please tell me she say
write what I just said maybe we should
yeah reset the story for people and also
be clear that you're being satiric
because I Jordan Peterson is uh he's
going to just give us a documentary
evidence yeah yeah so tell us the story
from his book go ahead okay so he's
doing hella drugs and freaking out when
he's a little kid and he has this
apocalypse dream I'm gonna tell a story
okay cuz I remember this a little
differently so let me take the helm here
and then you can get me to the to the
best part in a second okay buddy all
right here's the story
so Jordan Peterson is very terrified of
a an atomic apocalypse a war a cold war
turning hot which actually like be nice
if he'd had some of that fear today
maybe you could do some videos about
Trump pulling out of arms control
agreements but whatever being that as it
may
he's scared and having nightmares about
something that's real and he's
interested in psychology and so he goes
to try to figure out what's going on why
he's having these apocalyptic dreams and
he reads Freud and he
Gozen Freud just fried everything sex so
you made no sense so he rejects Freud
and then he that's how he discovers
young and he claims that young speaks
more directly to it and then somehow in
this process he explains the dream that
Freud had nothing to say about and the
dream is he's sitting in the couch with
his cousin who he does described as
being like very beautiful maybe the most
beautiful little beautiful girl most
beautiful girl the most beautiful girl
in the world and then they're sitting
there and then all of a sudden there's a
giant atomic explosion which is pretty
funny because it's late
maybe Freud did have something to say
about that trip buddy may always go
ahead what was I missing well after the
bomb goes off he's wandering through an
abandoned like the abandoned destroyed
world right and he comes across this he
comes across this great name and he
starts eating this meat he's like this
is the most delicious thing I've ever
tasted like it's so good and then these
wolves come up and tell him it's his
cousin and he starts crying because what
he did was so wrong but it felt so good
are you serious I remember this part
I know if you want yeah can you do the
voice yeah yeah give us a dose okay okay
huge
it is a used book maps of meaning is not
user friendly no I take a
textbook man
[Laughter]
I told myself email us the Lightning
territoriality to speak into your phone
sorry can't hear you speak into your
phone read it yeah that's a little
better a little bit better alright it
started to rain mud heavily the month
okay blah blah blah I was wandering
through the town a few distraught and
shell-shocked people started to gather
together they were tearing unlabelled in
dented cans of food which contained
nothing but mush and vegetables they
stood in the mud
some dogs emerged once the money the
business stairs they were spinning
upright they were thin like greyhounds
and they look like creatures of ritual
they were tearing plates in front of
them which contain pieces of feared me
they wanted to trade the meat for cans I
took a plate in the center of it was a
circular straddle slash and I either
where did it come from it did so good
for where did it come from
I had a terrible thought I rushed
downstairs to my husband the dog had
butchered her and we're offering the
meat to the survivors I tried Wow and
then I will miss you really makes you
think makes you thinking that I woke up
and I was saying next Dave Rubin thanks
to the call man we got a that's
horrifying I real quick because I yeah
running tight but I want it I have I
know I love you belief is I have to like
import things I hope you do one is white
supremacist and Harris yes mad that his
thought experiment about having a wife
ethnicity was taken out of context and
Jordan Pederson yelled at his penis and
calls it a cultural Marxist for being
aroused by transport I think the second
was more promising and then I discover
that my penis was a cultural Marxist
it's really interesting concept
alright thanks to the call man alright
final call today sorry cannot get to
everybody we're gonna take one more call
and then read a few IMS you are calling
for
to forró area code who are you where you
calling from Michael is that you yes
hey greeter from Maryland
hey don't sting ding hey Vito how's it
going I'm good how are you okay all
right um just a quick anecdote from
previous caller who was talking about
the curriculum and I guess he was in
Texas but I had read recently I guess
there's five or six red states I don't
know I want to say Texas Alabama
Mississippi Louisiana and something else
I don't know but basically they were
getting rid of textbooks and not just
textbooks but you know looks like in
their public libraries that school
public libraries that they consider to
be sort of left in anyway and one of
those books that I know was very
instrumental when I was really very
young it was like people's history the
United States by Howard Zinn
and you know that was that was an
important book for me at a very young
age yeah you know and so they they they
they've now big band it and and they
throw it out of all the schools down
there but it's insane which is which is
a real shame but um the other thing I
wanted to say was you know
your guest was interesting today I think
there's a problem of it's a little more
fundamental and that is you know I think
there's there's too much of a reliance
by too many people or on these public on
these on these platforms in these you
know social media for for their
information in a basic way I mean you
know I gotta tell you you know I hear
you but I mean we got to figure out how
to reform and deal with those things now
because the ship has already sailed on
that I think like ten years ago if
people were thinking in a less market
techno utopian way there might have
some much better planning for these
things but horses out of the barn and
we've got to figure out the world as it
is now and again that might include some
really radical reform you know these
platforms are gonna be part of it I
appreciate the call me thank you so much
all right we'll read a few I am then
we're out of here Civil War baseball
letters it's interesting how
conservatives are stoking fear about
disease among immigrants yet they want
to do away with food safety legislation
so they can bring back Old West diseases
you could get with play with while
playing the Oregon Trail I mean is it
really no interesting Greg from Oklahoma
sorry I haven't called your show in a
while but I've been going through a
really tough time and I'm depressed this
year I'm dealing with it and getting
through it I miss calling into the show
love you guys I'm I want to talk about
congresswoman Kendra horn thank you guys
for doing what you do hey Greg hang in
there man
we appreciate you and keep fighting the
good fight out fight okay you're a good
guy man take you know take care of
yourself yeah we we you have friends
here at em are here in EM are callers at
taller in Deaton Hall of Fame Theodore
Rose emoji hey that I mentioned that M
Abrams is at the center of American
Progress now that's good right yeah I
have no problem with Stacey Abrams going
to the Center for American Progress all
right that could be good and all she
should that was doing it should be head
of the Center for American paint some
new leadership hates him yeah leadership
and the final I am of the day
[Applause]
echoing Matt bullfrog if the loop
collapses Ilan can invent an impractical
rescue sub and called the emergency team
paedophiles we'll see you tomorrow
[Music]
I was
[Music]
[Music]
where the choice
[Music]
