[Music]
here is Mike Pence he's in Ireland I'm
not sure what the agenda is there
it's basically for him to maybe show
that he's you know stately and in the
event that something happens to the
president he's definitely got the bona
fides to step in he is staying at a
Trump resort while he's there of course
oh gosh and now look do I know if Trump
wants that million dollars probably a
couple million dollars that gets paid to
that resort for all the people staying
there and take over maybe it's I don't
know five ten million dollars who knows
how much it is - I don't know dawg Trump
it's reported that his Doral Golf Club
is doing horribly because Donald Trump
is odious and it's hard for people to
ignore that and so they stay away from
his places unless they want something
from our government which is you know I
hope people understand that that's a
problematic dynamic so Mike Pence is
staying at the Trump resort or whatever
it is while he's in Ireland of course
Trump is a double dipping here getting
that paid for that and I'm hoping I
imagine that this helps from marketing
perspective so a good for the press I
think this is a Costas Robert Costas I
think I can just tell from the voice I
think but I'm not hundred percent sure
about this who is asking Mike Pence a
question about the propriety of doing
something like this staying at the
resort owned by the president to respond
Democrats have criticized you today for
staying at the Trump property in dune
beg they say your enriching the
president what's your response to that
criticism
it's wonderful to be back in Ireland for
many reasons Ireland is so important to
the United States of America as a
trading partner but in so many ways for
more than 30 million Americans Ireland
his family and I'm one of them
I mean it's deeply humbling for me to be
able to come back to Ireland I have the
opportunity to go to the very hometown
of my mother's grandma I mean we'll
we'll have dinner tonight at a little
pub that I worked at when I was 22 years
old when I came over here shortly after
my grandfather passed away and right
across the street is the house for my
great-grandmother ker-rah she often
spoke at the castle that was out of the
window of her bedroom and to be able to
be here to be able to reaffirm our
commitment to the Republic of Ireland to
all of our economic ties our diplomatic
ties but at the same time to have an
opportunity to to connect to the roots
of my family I think supports the
relationship between the United States
and Ireland I mean if you think about if
you think about the bonds that exist
between the Irish people and the
American people they have much to do
with shared heritage they must agree
with family and that's why it was
important for me before our original
trip planned to at least spend one night
in doing that and and I understand
political attacks by Democrats but if
you have a chance to get to doing big
you'll find it's a fairly small place
[Music]
the opportunity to stay at Trump
national and Dube to accommodate the
unique footprint that comes with our
security detail and other personnel made
it logical we checked it with the State
Department they staying there at you and
I was I was pleased to have the
opportunity to return to that family
higher than tenet to be able to stay
there and and not just on a personal
level but also to do it do it in a way
that helps me celebrate with the people
of Ireland yeah a lot of gay guys wave
potatoes we know in you know like like
he paused at first and then he just went
into that and then you could almost see
behind his eyes like I can't believe I
figured this out I can't believe I'm
gonna get away with this and Mike Pence
I mean yes he may be a little bit dim he
may be an incompetent executive based
upon his time as governor where he was
really loved by 60% of the population I
think it sounded like his political
career was coming to an end he's coming
Meyers like yeah yep and but this guy
can lie like you know like I would put
him up with any type of pathological
liar thing about Mike
but I will say anyone is making him a
pathological liar I think it's just that
he has a real concerted purpose when he
lies and but he can lie boy that guy can
really just sit there with a straight
face and and deliver those lines that's
that is quite a talent and all his God
in all our gods
and our non gods help us if he ever gets
into a position where he could be
present for God's sakes it's gonna do
stay in Limerick
dude I wanted to go there for one night
