[Music]
but you'll recall I don't know about a
week or two ago three weeks ago we
played a clip of this guy reg'ment
Rutger Bregman Rutger Bregman he is a
Danish history professor and he was at
Davos and he didn't get the same
coverage as what was it who's the first
guy we uninjured artists yeah I'm sorry
he's actually Dutch Oh Dutch okay
and the didn't get the same coverage but
I think we even included in the clip but
he made a very similar point where he
was like you know we're out here at
Davos and they're talking about all
these different things and the one thing
that nobody's paying attention is his
taxes rich needs to pay more taxes
period and so that caused quite a stir
and this is where Tucker Carlson's
venire a Jamie was just alluding to gets
ripped off where he pretends like you
know Tucker wants to have this is
projecting he's trying to develop an
image that makes it look like he's
taking on the establishment because he
knows no matter what happens to Trump
there's gonna be a bunch of Trump voters
out there who are gonna be disaffected
and these are the guys that he's
applying you know he's and and make no
mistake about it
Tucker's playing a role and he is it's
not completely disingenuous because he's
also at the heart of this role is sort
of the same thing that I think Pat
Buchanan was running on thirty years ago
which is a fundamentalist a a religious
fundamentalist worldview that sees some
elements of capitalism as profane
because they undercut
the religious worldview that they want
and so he's able to talk a good game
about this stuff unless it starts to dig
and cut a little bit too close to the
bone yeah and so he brings on this guy
Bregman Rutger Bregman after Bregman I
guess his his moment at Davos and
Bregman does something that maybe he
could do it because he I think he was
was actually he was in Europe I believe
when he was doing this he wasn't in
studio I don't know where he was but he
had access to the feed in a way that
most people don't
somebody was recording it with his phone
and we had noticed this before we left
over vacation that Bregman had had
tweeted at Tucker Carlson how come
you're not gonna play the interview that
we did and we're wondering what it was
well now this obtained this footage and
shows how the full segment between
Bregman and and Tucker Carlson went and
we're gonna we're gonna play it sorry
now this but more important than just
the hit for one second so now on this
you cannot see Tucker on it all he is is
in the studio looking at the feed that's
going so you just hear Tucker sure I'm
not an expert on Davos history but it is
a bit hypocritical isn't it and said it
out loud as
I just like you can hear like I can see
Tucker there's always say there's a
picture here of him but I could see
Tucker really enjoying this and thinking
like oh my god this is cool for me I
found this guy and I'm totally on top of
this he always been this much of a speed
freak
I mean they were not very happy with me
but I'm just just I think an random
Dutch historian who's basically saying
whatever I'm around the globe is
thinking you know the vast majority of
Americans for years and years now
according to the polls including Fox
News viewers and including Republicans
are in favor of higher taxes on the rich
no higher inheritance taxes higher top
marginal tax rates higher wealth taxes
it's all really mainstream but no one's
saying that and of those just as no one
saying it on Fox News right and I think
the explanation here that is quite
simple is that most of the people in
Davos but also here on this channel have
been bought by the billionaire class you
know you're not meant to say these
things so I just went there and I
thought you know what I'm just gonna say
it just as I'm saying it right here on
this channel channels for years have
been against higher taxes right even
though the vast majority of Americans is
in favor of it
hold on now it's a Tucker realize it's
like if first he tries to ignore where
he was going and then he realized it's
like ok and then you can hear him like
i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i and he as it's
as he's starting to realize like this is
going sideways and how am I gonna bring
this back I'm just gonna have like a
little bit of like shot across the bow
because most of the the guests that they
have on the Tucker's not sure of this is
the way of Tucker like corralling this
is like this I sent the sheepdog out to
push them back in line and apparently
it's not gonna work
I don't I don't know uh-huh it would be
interesting so how many hours of foxing
watched but I'm interested in what you
said the tax avoidance yeah
just because someone faces a specific
tax rate does not mean that person pays
that I don't think Netflix for example
paying taxes at all to make certain that
this class of people pays well it's
about multiple things so we should
really crackdown on tax paradises and on
tax avoidance that's a major issue but
it's also about having higher taxes so
in the 1950s for example in the 1960s in
the Golden Age of capitalism as
historians called it we had top marginal
tax rate for the very rich of about you
know 70 80 90 % actually under under
Eisenhower the Republican president and
this was also you know one of the best
periods in American history is saying
the same is true for the UK and the rest
of Europe
so as a historian for me it's old you
know it's it's really not rocket science
we should go but just go back to it's a
simple and straightforward solutions
from the path from the past needed by an
industrial economy at the time that was
brought in that's not that's really an
issue well I think it would I mean
America is still pretty much the most
powerful country in the world right so
if it if it really would want to it
could easily crack down on on tax
paradises but the thing is I mean you
guys have brought into power a president
that doesn't even want to show its own
texture fair enough I mean who knows how
many billions he has hidden in the
Cayman Islands or in Bermuda and so I
think the issue really is is is one of
corruption and of people being bribed
and of not being you know not talking
about the real
and what the family you know what the
Murdochs basically want you to do is to
scapegoat immigrants instead of talking
about executive women so I'm glad you're
not finally raising the issue but that's
what been been happening for the past
couple of years
no I mean it doesn't work that directly
but I mean you've been part of the Cato
Institute right Bernie have been a
senior fellow there for years you've
been you've been taking their dirty
money they're funded by Koch
billionaires you know well it works by
you taking their dirty money it's as
easy as that
I mean you are a millionaire funded by
billionaires that's what you are and I'm
glad you now finally Jim the bent leg
and you know of people like Bernie
Sanders and AMC but you're not you're
not part of the solution mr. and mr.
Kosan you're part of the problem
actually all the anchors all the anchors
on Fox they're all millionaires how is
this possible well it's very easy you're
just gonna talk about certain things it
doesn't play where you are well have you
heard of the internet things whatever I
want I have actually I can't say I'm a
great fan of your show but I do my
homework when you invite me in your show
so I mean you're probably not gonna air
this but I went to devote to speak truth
to power and I'm doing exactly the same
thing right now you might not like it
but you're a millionaire funded by
billionaires and that's the reason why
you're not talking about these issues
yeah only now come on you jumped a
bandwagon you're all like oh I'm against
a globalist elite blah blah blah it's
not very convincing to be honest tiny
brain
you can't handle the criticism can you
[Laughter]
that's how you do five oh you have to go
on expecting to never be invited back
and you've done it right the the tricky
part is it's hard to get that type of
footage like I think you need to be like
an American in most American stringers
essentially places will you go in they
either do not have that monitor
available or it's conceivable to me
there could be another person and
presumably that was not him video
although it's conceivable to me that he
also videotaped it after the fact that
they ran back the video because you know
it's different in in in in a foreign
country but if you get the right person
but that was pretty sweet and you know
what here's here's what I'm gonna say I
don't think Tucker Carlson hoped that it
get picked up he said it but I don't I
don't actually believe that that was the
case but he comes off so not owned in
that video and definitely not mad but if
that's the thing - is it got under his
skin so badly he was so because he was
so excited up front like I have circle I
have squared the circle like I have been
able to bring it together I got the guy
who criticized power at Davos and this
is how with my jujitsu I earn it into
some type of like Pro you know women
need to stay in the kitchen type of
white people are great narrative and he
just got faced that was that was really
a work of art I have to say very
impressive all right
