[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we came out of the monologue Oh summit
with very high hopes
[Music]
there's all coated
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday October 9th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today deputy
editor of New York magazine David
Wallace wells on the latest IPCC report
and how the end of the world has become
old news meanwhile nikki Haley resigns
no one knows why Brett Kavanaugh AHS
regime begins on the Supreme Court as
Blasi Ford still in hiding sympathies of
course to Brett Kavanaugh massive data
breach shudders Google+ and Trump's
enormous money laundering and tax scams
revealed yet again question remains why
has it taken so long bless you
meanwhile the Trump administration
pretending to be concerned about a
missing Saudi journalist and Florida
braces for hurricane Michael it is the
last day to register in 15 states in the
country if somehow you are not
registered to vote at this point don't
be an idiot go register to vote I hope
that was gentle enough Taylor Swift has
broken conservative hearts and surged
voter registration yeah and burning on a
massive midterm tour 21 states all this
and more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen it is Tuesday thank you for
the kind a male's about about the
interview yesterday I'm glad folks liked
it Carol Anderson is a fascinating
writer and I think you know particularly
in this year again you know I said this
yesterday but there's two dynamics to
Brett Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court
would you not say that he's the only
person like this but he is the final
piece in the puzzle and that is
basically diminishing the rights of I
don't want to say the marginalize
because it's actually sort of a little
bit larger a segment of the population
than that but of a significant number of
or you know broadly speaking the you
know half the country in one form or
another and then increasing the rights
of corporations it comes up even today
in the context of our the interview will
do about this IPCC report
red Cavanaugh mm-hmm and then I'll touch
on this with David Wallace wells but
Brett Kavanaugh
wrote the opinion in a case as to the
EPA's ability to regulate hydro
fluorocarbons I think it is in the
context of of global warming and
understand you know we've talked about
this in the past but this is really
important is where the Chevron doctrine
comes in when Congress writes a statute
they don't necessarily know the science
behind I'm talking in the context of the
EPA they don't necessarily know the
science behind it maybe science doesn't
even know all the science behind it yet
but broadly it says the EPA can regulate
any substance it deems to have
implications on the health of
individuals I'm I'm painting with a
broad brush but this is just to
illustrate now maybe at the time that
they're writing this law they don't know
that hydro fluorocarbons are implicated
in global warming and at the time the
statute in' those chemicals are not a
threat to human life human existence so
the agency needs to have some latitude
to make those determinations to be aware
of new science etc etc well Brett
Kavanaugh said no that's an overreach
that was the Chevron doctrine
incidentally that the courts are to
defer to the agency's expertise Brett
Kavanaugh said no that case was appealed
from the DC Circuit the second most
important court in the land and the
Supreme Court
acted a bid to review that Cavanaugh
authored appeals court ruling just this
morning so now that needs four justices
to certify something to be taking a look
it's unclear to me who looked at it it
doesn't necessarily mean that all four
liberal justices rejected it or they may
have just decided like we don't want
this to come up right now but this is
just an indication of where we're headed
this is just the beginning folks and
we'll talk more about that as we go in
the meantime we've lost another one
folks nikki Haley has resigned from the
Trump administration as UN Ambassador
and it is unclear at this point why she
has there is reporting that this is an
indication that Pompey and Bolton have
won the day
it may mean she's not belligerent enough
at the UN hard to believe she disagreed
with them in regards to how many
refugees we should let into this country
I certainly don't want to make it seem
like she's in a reasonable individual
it's just that she's in a room with some
full-on lunatics and so it makes her
look slightly better although she the
ease in which she lies and the weirdness
in which she expresses she identifies
herself as a little bit strange here she
is speaking to the press in announcing
her resignation sitting next to Donald
Trump it has been an honor of a lifetime
I you know I said I am
such a lucky girl to have been able to
leave the state that raised logic now I
find that if I would to refer to a 45
some odd year old woman who is the
ambassador to the United Nations as a
girl she's a lucky girl I mean honestly
this is just it's just bizarre
that's what daddy Trump likes she's
being folksy I guess so come sit on my
lap is it really are you really too much
I guess in in in in the wake of what
went on with Kavanagh you don't want to
get too pushy right call yourself fur to
yourself as a woman I mean can you
imagine if a 45 year old man was
resigning from the UN and saying I have
always found myself to be such a lucky
boy you know what actually I can really
I've moved the large sons concepts him I
am NOT large adult sons so it's
basically like the Trump boys they're
their adult men but they don't have any
sense of responsibility so Cavanaugh was
being a bit of a large son I see it's
kind of a saying he said we'll go to his
his acceptance speech and to say I'm one
of the luckiest boys in the world it's
kind of the same principle by which a 12
year old black kid is a terrifying
criminal who deserves to be killed on
sight
while a 60 year old white man is just
you know he's he's just a boy I just
don't blame him for anything I that may
be the case that in his mind but I just
don't think that they would refer to
themselves as a boy but continued it has
been an honor of a lifetime
I know I said I am such a lucky girl to
have been our
to lead the state that raised me and to
serve a country I love so very much has
really been a blessing and I want to
thank you for that but a most excited
look at the two years look at what has
happened in two years with the United
States on foreign policy now the United
States is respected countries may not
like what we do but they respect what we
do yeah about that I'm not sure if the
ambassador to the UN was at the UN I
guess it was about a week and a half ago
because if she was she might have seen
this in less than two years my
administration has accomplished more
than almost any Administration in the
history of our country America's so true
didn't expect that reaction but that's
okay yes you can see the teeming respect
that they have for our country now oh
and also you may have heard that a an
American resident a Saudi journalist was
just killed in an Istanbul embassy Saudi
embassy because they have so much
respect for us and then of course the
Chinese basically kidnapped the head of
Interpol because of the tremendous
respect that in which we are held and
then around the country of course I'm
sure you've seen the polling where if
you measure that as a sign of respect it
is at an all-time low but the bottom
line is the this country is our capacity
to exercise soft power so been so
greatly diminished and that is really
scary because our hard power we still
quite are quite confident about it
and that's where we'll end up going when
we don't get our way yeah the world
respects us the way you respect a
five-year-old who's gotten its hands on
a gun you know just like a really cool
guy that you respect right exactly of
course so Nikki hailey leaving some
people are speculating that perhaps
she's anticipating Lindsey Graham going
to Attorney General and then getting
appointed senator from South Carolina
serving for six years perhaps and then
running for president in 2024 who knows
but I don't think we're gonna be so
lucky
for her to move on to a corporate job we
may not be the lucky boys and girls that
she is and we may see her in
in the future in our politics all right
oh I should tell you this too one of the
most important things we do for our
health every day is brushing our teeth
yet most of us don't do it properly quip
is a better electric toothbrush created
by dentist and designers quip was
designed to make brushing your teeth
more simple affordable and even
enjoyable look folks the key to an
electric toothbrush here's the dirty
little secret the key to an electric
toothbrush is to use it every day that's
what I love about quip has sensitive
sonic vibrations gentle on your
sensitive gums it's got the built-in
two-minute timer pulses every 30 seconds
to remind you when to switch front top
back top front top bottom back bottom
that's the way you go folks
I mean you can really do it anyway it
doesn't matter but here's the here's the
key it doesn't require a clunky charger
it runs for three months on one charge
comes with a multi-use cover that mounts
to your mirror for a less cluttered sink
space so here's the bottom line it's not
sitting in your room charging and you
gotta bring it to the bathroom you could
travel with it so you don't get out of
the habit of using it and that's the key
you got to use your electric toothbrush
quip is one of the first electric
toothbrushes accepted by the American
Dental Association
I tried when I was in Vegas what did I
have with me my quip I didn't because
you can't possibly fit another electric
toothbrush in there and it's stylish
quip has backed over - it's been backed
by over twenty thousand dental
professionals starts at just 25 bucks
and if you go to get quip dot-com slash
majority right now you'll get your first
refill pack with a free free with equip
electric toothbrush every three months
they send you a new toothbrush head
which is what you got to do
it's the other thing you don't want to
be using a bunch of mush on the end of
your toothbrush Matt that's your first
refill pack free at get quip
that's GE t qu IP dot-com / majority do
it now alright gonna take quick break
when we come back the deputy editor of
New York magazine David Wallace wells on
the latest IPCC report
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone its pleasure to
welcome to the program the deputy editor
of New York magazine David Wallace wells
on well on the the latest IPCC report
but let's just start by but with this
David I mean I think people a lot of
people I don't want to say most people
unfortunately but a lot of people very
aware of your piece from last year in
July of 2017 the uninhabitable earth I
think there's even Wikipedia paid about
your piece muttering and well I mean you
know I mean it's it it's important and
it's and I want to talk about some
subsequent pieces you've written about
sort of the the you know the the lack of
attention it gets but you basically
walked through I think it was you know
close to ten maybe more sort of elements
nine I think it was of of what we can
anticipate sometime in the future not
that far off and apparently as of a
couple of days ago it was reported that
it's gonna be a lot quicker than we had
anticipated but but go through some of
these sort of like you know just to go
over your piece just a little bit some
of those elements which we can
anticipate you know that range from
doomsday when you talk about the and
then heat death and so on like what are
the ones that you think Americans are
going to have to deal with the most well
the first thing I should say is that
that piece was sort of systematically
focused on worst-case scenarios so it's
a bit scarier than I think we're likely
to see over the next couple of decades
but that's not to say that any of these
are not worth worrying about they're all
absolutely terrifying and in fact which
we can talk about later
I think considerably scarier than that
even the new IPCC report suggests but
yeah I mean I you know I think the
the the public has been generally sort
of trained by scientists and and science
journalists over the last couple of
decades to really think about climate
change in terms of sea level rise and
the truth is that the impacts are so
much bigger than that there's literally
not a person on the earth in 2050 who
won't be affected by climate change in
one form or another and it's you know we
all live in climate and the fact that
it's being deformed will deform all of
our lives too so you know there are a
lot of elements of that there's you know
direct heat effects which are not going
to hit so hard in the US but in other
parts of the world so that by 2050 many
of the biggest cities in India will be
literally lethally hot in the summer you
won't be able to go outside and walk
around without dying they're a huge
agricultural impact so for every degree
of warming grain yields grain is the
biggest component of human diet grain
yields declined by between 10 and 20
percent so we're talking about a world
that's 3 or 4 degrees warmer we could
have you know 30 to 80 percent less
grain to feed the world and the world
will have more people to eat that grain
in you know by the end of the century
but the things that to me sort of sum up
the whole problem are ones that we don't
really talk about much at all which are
only beginning to be studied by the
academics who work on this stuff and
those are the economic impacts and the
effects on conflict so the researchers
who who are really looking at this
closely now think that um if we don't do
anything about climate change if we stay
on the track that we're on now the
emissions track that we're on now by the
end of the 21st century global GDP will
be more than 30 percent lower than it
would be without climate change there
will be in terms of conflict you know
the relationship with war is a little
complicated it has to do with a lot of
these other impacts it has to do with
you know droughts that produce famines
and has to do with public health issues
and all that kind of stuff but in
general a world that's say 3 or 4
degrees warmer will have as much as half
again as many war
as we have today and those are two of
the metrics I think people haven't
really thought much about but they also
serve to sort of encompass all of the
other problems they you know the costs
of extreme weather are reflected in
those economic projections and the costs
of wildfires are you knowing
encapsulated in this projection so I
think we're starting to wake up to some
of the some of the impacts beyond
sea-level rise but we haven't really
thought about just how traumatic those
impacts are going to be the irony of
course in terms of the u.s. to the
extent that there's been any agency that
has looked at the concept of
destabilization around the globe as a
function of climate changes the Pentagon
right I mean they're the only ones there
as far as I last remember I mean I don't
know if they're allowed to even say this
anymore
frankly but that climate change was one
of the greatest that's threats to
national security yeah and that is you
know that has so many different
components to it I mean just to start
with literally every Navy base in the
world will be underwater in a couple of
decades so that entire branch of the
military well at the very least have to
completely rebuild its infrastructure
from scratch that's also true of a lot
of Air Force bases and but beyond that
you know the whole map of the world is
is going to change the Arctic is opening
up there already tankers that are now
traveling through the Arctic on that
territory is going to be disputed and
particularly if we see a kind of revived
conflict with Russia which we seem
likely to see over the next decade or
two and there is a natural sort of IRL
you know component to that and that
we're going to be fighting over control
of the Arctic our conflict with China
which is likely to also get worse over
the next couple of decades is going to
play out in part over the South China
Sea where there are a number of islands
some of which the u.s. currently
controls or has sort of military
relationships with which are going to
sink and where the Chinese are already
building a number of artificial islands
which are designed among other things to
endure in a world with dramatic sea
level rise on top of all that you know
it's a guest up for debate exactly how
much the world the US will continue to
be the world's policeman in 20 or 30 or
50 years but to the extent that the
military is doing the planning for that
at you know they're planning for a world
with as I said as many as half again as
many wars and a lot of people think that
the conflicts that we've seen over the
last couple of decades in the Middle
East have a lot to do with warming
that's the part of the world that's been
hit hardest by the warming that's
already gone on and there are some
really incredible studies showing you
know down to like the month that heat
waves and droughts and and other climate
shocks are responsible for a huge
portion of the ethnic strife in the in
the Middle East so we're in some ways
we're already starting to see a world
that is made more violent and rival risk
by climate change but as the Pentagon
knows that's you know that's going to
get worse as the planet gets warmer some
have speculated or theorized that in
Syria climate change impacted grain
production and the Assad had sold off a
bunch of their stores of grain and the
prices of the grain also implicated you
know some of the the turmoil there but I
mean putting that aside for a moment
let's let's turn to the IPCC the this
latest update give us a sense of what
that update was I mean it it sort of
dropped like like a bomb and what how
much well characterized it for us and
then and let's talk about what you know
sort of what was going on behind that
yeah well just I think the best way to
actually understand it is to back up a
little bit to the Paris Accords which
were signed in 2016 and which
established this target for the world
that we should stay below two degrees
Celsius of warming so you know it may be
confusing a little confusing to your
listeners a lot of the American cover
which of this as you know deals with
temperatures and in Fahrenheit but the
rest of the world is always talking
about Celsius and then rounder numbers
so it's but with the numbers that I tend
to use so they the Paris Accords
established this target of two degrees
and that was actually a bit
controversial as recently as a decade or
so before the scientific community had
understood two degrees to be basically
the threshold of catastrophe it's it's
about where most scientists understand
the tipping point for arctic melt to be
so that they think that if we get past
two degrees that all of the ice in the
Arctic will eventually melt and there's
no way that we'll be able to get it back
that'll take a really really long time
probably over centuries but if we don't
want seas that are 200 feet higher we'll
need to pull up short of two degrees now
right after the Paris Accords were
signed a number of representatives from
much smaller nations were came out and
said you know these impacts are going to
be hitting us much much sooner than two
degrees and we really need to think
about ways of halting warming before
that the president of the Marshall
Islands called two degrees of warming
genocide and that is that started a
conversation both among the scientists
who are working in this on this report
and generally in the scientific
community there's been a lot more
research just over the last couple of
years about this particular question
like what would the world look like at
1.5 degrees
what would the world look like at 2
degrees and this report is basically the
IPCC's version of that so they are
saying that first of all 1.5 degrees
which they say we're going to get to by
about 2040 is considerably worse than
the same body had had said it was before
that on the impacts on food production
and food stability and security is going
to be much worse sea level is going to
be worse the effect on climate refugee
is is going to be much higher but also
that
as the president of the Marshall Islands
sort of predicted and and the people
like him predicted in 2016 that the
climate impact of a two degree warmer
world are so much higher that really we
absolutely absolutely need to halt
warming well before two degrees if we
want to avoid a truly catastrophic
climate scenario now now I should just
just so the people can can picture this
two degrees of Celsius if I'm not
mistaken is about three and a half maybe
three point six degrees Fahrenheit is
that right yeah okay okay so just so the
people get a sense of like what what
we're talking about now you know none of
us can feel that right so we're just
talking about the implications of it
around the world as an average we will
feel it on a daily basis well and it's
you know it's the main impacts are not
on the average day it's that they
dramatically expand the possibility for
extreme events so this past summer we
had this basically unprecedented global
heat wave hundreds of people dying all
across the world in a heat wave the
lasted a few weeks you know as in the
Middle East in northern Russia in Canada
in the u.s. in Japan and literally that
had never happened before in human
history and quite soon that kind of
summer will be a completely normal
average summer probably within a couple
of decades but to get back to the IPCC
report for a second so yeah they're
basically saying two degrees is going to
be a climate catastrophe they say that
it will endanger the lives of hundreds
of millions of people through a variety
of these impacts and we absolutely
absolutely have to
um you know do everything we can
mobilize at the scale that we mobilized
before World War two globally to make
sure that we get somewhere close to 1.5
degrees of warming now the crazy thing
about this I mean this story this report
has been received
with incredible alarm the world is
really freaking out about it the crazy
thing is that like basically they admit
that 1.5 degrees of warming is an
impossible goal the truth is that two
degrees of warming which is what they're
saying is the absolute catastrophe that
we must avoid is more or less also an
impossible goal so I mentioned earlier
the Paris Accords they established this
target of two degrees but the actual
pledges in that in that agreement
you know the each each country made a
pledge we're going to cut our emissions
by this amount
all of those pledges add up to a world
that by 2100 is about three point four
degrees warmer so we haven't even made
the commitments equivalent to get us
below three degrees let alone two
degrees and on top of that no major
industrialized country in the world is
on track to meet those commitments so at
the moment were blithely going forward
on a track that is going to take us
north of four degrees by 2100 which is
literally twice as bad as the scenario
that the IPCC is now calling so
catastrophic that we must do absolutely
everything in our power to avoid it so
while this report is in its way
incredibly incredibly alarming and and
is very um sort of conscientiously
raising the alarm with the public the
truth is that the bigger picture is much
much scarier than even this report
suggests insofar as we can't we don't
even have the imagination never mind the
ability to execute we haven't even
imagined the plan yet to to execute
never mind executing the plan that we
already have yeah I mean you know it's
kind of an interesting little case study
in what motivates human action and we
have most of the technology that we need
to completely green the economy if we
wanted to for the first time ever in
most of the world or much of the world
you know green energy sources are
cheaper than dirty energy sources we
know about a lot of agricultural
solutions that could make our
agriculture much more efficient
agriculture is a really underappreciated
tributary to climate change it's about I
think about 35 or 40 percent of the
global emissions and you know we're just
not doing any of that
and if you think that as most scientists
will tell you we need to completely
green out our energy infrastructure and
make our global agricultural carbon
neutral by even the conservative
scientists would say 2050 a lot many
others who I trust a bit more I would
say by 2040 in order to avoid three
degrees or higher of warming that's you
know that's a really really big problem
in New York we just finished a minor
extension of a single subway line that
depending on how you count took 50 years
to build and you're talking about
rebuilding the entire energy
infrastructure of the planet in about 30
years you know we had like I said we
have those tools it's not like solar is
a fantasy technology but we actually
need to like put it into practice and
that's what a lot of these activists
mean when they say what we need is a
mobilization on the scale of world war
two it needs to be the absolute number
one priority for all governments of the
world and much of the industry of the
world and at the moment while there are
more and more people worrying about
climate change we're very far from it
being anybody's top priority and when we
talk about that in terms of world war
two I mean there was more or less if not
explicit like an implicit
nationalization of a lot of the
manufacturing capacity of you know the
world's you know by the world yeah of
the industry by the world's governments
where it's basically like you know no
you want to make cars but guess what
you're making tanks and that's sort of
what we're we're talking about right I
mean like basically we need our
government in the context of the United
States to nationalize the our energy
production and infrastructure well
that's one of the one of the reasons
that green energy has gotten so much
cheaper is that there was in the Obama
years a lot of tax subsidy and you know
other kind of VC investments of the
government may
into the development of green energy
which as a result proceeded much much
more quickly than even its biggest
boosters would have predicted I mean
we're much farther along on that curve
then people thought we'd be a decade ago
and that's really great news but
actually you know the way I look at it
the u.s. is important I mean it's at the
moment it's the world's second biggest
emitter but it's also the only country
in the world the only big country in the
world that's whose emissions are going
down already and the major major driver
of future climate change is going to be
China India and to a lesser extent
sub-saharan Africa where there's sort of
scheduled to be a massive population
boom over the next century and China you
know it's interesting since Trump pulled
out of the Paris Accords China has sort
of seized the mantle of rhetorical
leadership on climate in the world I
think they see a kind of geopolitical
opportunity there and they've also done
a lot of a lot of really great stuff on
climate
they've been especially focused on
getting you know cleaning up their air
pollution because that also poses a huge
public health issue for them but when we
talk about you know climate change
generally I think that a lot of
Americans even a lot of sort of Western
Europeans have a mistaken idea that what
we're dealing with is the legacy of
several centuries of industrial
activities they're tracing it back to
the beginning of the Industrial
Revolution in fact you know more than
half of the carbon that humanity is
emitted in the entire history of the
planet has been emitted since Al Gore
published his first book on climate like
25 years ago and almost all of that
activity has to do with the
industrialization of the developed the
developing world China most especially
so when you hear from people like Steven
Pinker and and you know there's a lot of
kind of optimists out there who say like
you know the last 25 years the era of
globalization it's it's pulled so many
people out of poverty it's it's almost
eliminated infant mortality and that's
totally true I mean you look at these
graphs and the world is much much much
better than most of us in the West
really appreciate because the standard
of living in the developing world has
kind so rapidly but almost all of that
almost all of those gains were bought by
this process
industrialization that has also brought
us to the kind of brink of planetary
catastrophe so going forward a huge
amount depends on on those countries I
mean China especially India secondly and
then the countries of sub-saharan Africa
as a sort of third order interest and
and the u.s. is important in this in the
way that the u.s. is you know still
global economic leader global
geopolitical leader and can really start
Genda and bully people into signing up
to commitments they may might not
otherwise want to make but in terms of
what we're doing within our borders and
the truth is we are we're much less
consequential in terms of what's going
to happen in some of these other
countries which i think is a little bit
actually of an uncomfortable feeling for
a lot of Americans who both want to feel
like you know their story is a global
story but also want to be able to vilify
villainize the American right and the
fossil fuel companies who are to be
totally clear like obvious residents in
this story they've done you know climate
denial has been absolutely horrible but
it really is only a very partial
explanation for where we are and it has
almost nothing to do with like how scary
things are going to get alright well
that is both scary and then sort of with
an added layer of terrifying because to
the extent that well I mean to the
extent in it because I want to tell you
wrote a piece you know I guess it was I
can't remember maybe at the beginning of
the year about you know how did the end
of the world become old news I guess
that was over the summer and maybe just
a couple months ago and the the idea
that you know I mean it's certainly I
know on this program we talk about
climate change
far less since November 8th of 2016 than
we did prior to that because there's a
real sense of like doesn't matter
it mean not that climate change doesn't
matter but no matter how much we talk
about it
there is nothing we're going to do to
move a republican-controlled Congress
and a Republican president and now and
we should maybe touch on this briefly to
a Republican or right-wing controlled
Supreme Court with Brett Kavanaugh
coming on who is you know to the extent
that one could put up roadblocks to
anything positive happening that you
know in terms of the apparatus that
already exists he is you know sort of
the poster child for that but if yeah
sorry to cut you off but it's you know
he's his positions on on Roe have been
talked about a lot but actually he's yea
considerably more conservative on the
question of federal regulation than he
is on the question of you know I'm the
question of choice yeah yeah I mean this
is I think this is why frankly the right
was so jazzed to have him you know Roe
is you know sort of the shiny object
there for them but I think the from a
business in the corporate corporate
perspective his basically his philosophy
that government regulation is almost in
and of itself illegitimate is I think
very attractive to these corporations
but so we're twice removed here right
like it doesn't matter we could put five
million people on the streets tomorrow
in New York and you know the Republican
president the Republican Congress would
just be like yeah whatever
enjoy your blue state but on top of that
even if we were to move forward we would
be we would still be you know hoping
that our our soft power could sort of
somehow influence these other countries
I mean what what do we do about that
I mean you know like I mean I was
reading rereading your piece on on these
disasters and looking at like I think it
was New Delhi that you said would be
inhabitable within you know several
decades because of the heat and I'm
thinking to myself well we made Iraq I
mean like we specifically we made Iraq
inhabitable for at least several hundred
thousand people that we killed and we
created four million refugees for over
the course of about five or six years
no one said it wasn't people cared but
not that many like not enough to really
fundamentally change our government we
were directly responsible for that never
mind we're just you know you know in the
in the bleachers watching it you know as
you know New Delhi becomes inhabitable I
just I mean how do we what what I mean
what's the psychology behind this I mean
what what do we do I mean that's okay
the question to answer I think
personally I return always to politics I
I think that you know we have what I
think of as a kind of a delusion in like
you know the well-off liberal s that we
can make a difference with our
consumption choices that if we you know
if we drive electric cars and if we fly
less and if we you know eat less red
meat that you know on some level we can
sort of we can address the problem that
way in my mind like politics is such a
moral multiplier here that's like the
only way that we're going to get to the
kind of you know that were talking about
that World War two analogy the only way
we're going to get to that level of
transformation is by applying political
pressure to our governments and around
the world and you know I think that's
you know one reason the midterms are so
important it's another reason that you
know 2020 is going to be so important
but looking at the bigger global picture
is even scarier I mean the obstacles to
change on this front in the u.s. are
real but globally what we're seeing over
the last decade is a retreat from the
very kinds of institutions and sort of
networks of cooperation that would be
our only hope for true global action so
you have just you know all across the
world
you know nativist movements
nationalistic movements right-wing
leaders who are really really focused on
securing the well-being of their own
country not thinking about the you know
the globe as one community that needs to
deal with this genuinely existential
threat and that's really really alarming
it's only continuing
further I mean the you know the election
results in Brazil earlier this week or
over the weekend where I mean they got
one more round to go but it seems quite
clear that Boston I was gonna win and
that's just another step forward in this
you know we built right after World War
two after many many millennia of human
conflict we built a kind of a network of
cooperation the UN is a big part of that
but the EU is another feature of it
we had globalization itself which is you
know obviously a kind of complicated
economic system that has produced many
losers but even so was really a an
effort for the world to be working
together and moving towards shared
interests and over the last decade
that's really changed it's interesting
you said you know we talk a lot less
about climate change since November 2016
if you look at the the public opinion
polls actually the peak of awareness and
anxiety about climate change was in 2007
in the US and that was in part I think
because of Katrina and in part because
of the Al Gore movie An Inconvenient
Truth
but those that interests was like
leveled off completely I mean it was cut
down by the financial crisis people
started worrying much more about the
state of the world when they worried
about the state of the world in in those
terms in financial terms and there's a
kind of a bait and switch there to
because you know we've sort of
understood for about a generation or so
I understood I'm you know essentially a
neoliberal technocratic kind of person
and I had the idea that like the public
would only accept action on climate
change if it came for free or if it was
going to offer economic opportunity and
a lot of the messaging around climate
adaptation is sort of focused on those
on those no saying like oh look at all
the green jobs were creating we're now
at a place where we see we see that the
economic costs for not acting are going
to be so so much bigger than the
economic costs of acting it's almost
like you don't think of making an
investment in the stock market as a cost
because you expect that
for to him that you'll be you know
throwing money out of that investment
and it's you know it's getting to the
point where it seems almost as clear
about climate there was a report a few
months ago that said that if we were to
successfully aggressively act on on
climate we the world would save twenty
six trillion dollars by just twenty
thirty I think the number in the IPCC
report is fifty trillion dollars by that
same amount by that same year and that's
just you know that's just two decades
away so with that isn't the problem with
that calculus that that's not how the
world works I mean I'm not even talking
about human psychology in that like oh
if I spend a couple of bucks on my car
now and change the oil I won't have to
deal with the engine seizing up you know
down the road I'm talking about we don't
you know in the same way that we
perceive our economy as doing well if
the GDP is hitting a certain number and
the stock market is doing a certain
that's indicative of some people doing
well right like is it a problem we have
when I talk about nationalizing it's not
because we need to marshal these forces
it's because we need to constrain the
forces that are preventing us from
acting are these the because the problem
is not that we're it's gonna cost all of
us too much money relative to that what
we would save if we do that it's that
it's gonna cost some people who have
powerful people yes outsized power in
our politics it's gonna cost them more
yeah I mean namely I guess like the
fossil fuel business in general
anybody who has sort of entrenched
economic power yeah I know it's it's um
I think the sort of transformation the
revolution that the economic revolution
that's really necessary is bound to
upend many of those many of those sort
of power hierarchies and people at the
top of them don't like is Eddie ok I
mean you self-identify as a neoliberal
insofar as that you're hoping that the
market is going to solve this and that
the sort of like market calculations but
when when you see the I mean for someone
like yourself who is so acutely aware
of the sort of train that is but you
know barreling towards us as we're
sitting on the tracks like does that
implicate your perspective on you know
sort of that broader question because it
seems to me that you know Brett
Kavanaugh just as an example Brett
Kavanaugh is on the Supreme Court
because there's a lot of people out
there are hoping he's gonna overturn roe
v-- wade he may or may not they may do
other things that will inhibit a woman's
right to choose but at the end of the
day the reason why the real push behind
him the power behind him was his
perspective on limiting government's
ability to regulate corporations like do
we you know if that is the successful
recipe to address you know what the and
agenda do we need something like that on
the the I guess the nominal center
center left in other words like do we do
this as a bank shot because obviously
climate change is not motivating people
enough do we make it about something
else so that we get a regime in there
that will address climate change right
because if the problem is entrenched
power of moneyed interests do we go for
you know you know let's just say John
Doe who is going to get rid of student
debt let's say because ideologically
that person's also going to maybe
nationalize our power structure well I
think that yeah I think that there are
there I mean there are a lot of
different paths forward and my own
perspective is it like we don't you know
we don't just need to focus on on one of
the expense of others but I completely
agree with you that the problem is
beyond at the moment at least beyond the
markets power to solve and that combined
with 2008 we're already seeing you know
climate change and the financial crisis
both have generated a huge amount of
skepticism towards unregulated market
power I think that's very valuable on
its own but I also think it's especially
useful in thinking about how we might
mobilize action on on climate
the to the sort of the question you made
us you raised about you know rhetorical
the rhetorical play to be made here I
mean I think yeah it's it's um it's for
me it's less about finding someone who
is you know running on student debt
relief and more about what things about
climate change can we imagine and put
into play that have much more emotional
salience for voters than say sea-level
rise and I actually think that there are
a number of really important ones that
have basically not been played by
climate activists to this point the
first one is the one I mentioned earlier
which is about the economic impact I
mean if we're really looking at a world
that is thirty percent less rich because
as thirty percent less growth over the
rest of the century because of climate
change that's twice as big an impact as
the Great Depression and it's permanent
that's huge
like that is you know economic suffering
beyond the scale that any of us can
imagine it's eight times as bad as the
Great Recession was and we see how much
that scrambled American politics
geopolitics so I think that like putting
people you know putting the economic
numbers in front of people much more
aggressively I think is is really
important because it'll hit them in
their own that you know they can see it
hitting them in their own wallets and in
the I mean but can you though I mean I I
don't mean to like you know but like you
know that to me is seems so abstract
like the idea that down the road we're
going to lose this we're going to lose a
trillion dollars or a billion dollars
doesn't even matter you know gazillion
in economic activity like is there
really a way for the average American to
sort of put that in their wallet like as
opposed it's something that is like
literally affects their will it it's
interesting and I I mean personally I
think yes and it connects to something
we were talking about before which is
that you know when I said that I'm I'm
sort of temperamentally in neoliberal
what I really meant is like I came of
age in the nineties I feel like in so
many different ways I believe
in my core in ways that my brain maybe
now doubts that like the world is going
to get better that economic growth
produces well-being and happiness and
that like history is moving in one
direction towards more prosperity and
health for all and I think that that
basic intuition about the world is
dramatically threatened by climate
change and whether or not the average
American can say well if this happens
and this happens my bank account will be
this much smaller if you imagine you
know a permanent Great Recession I think
that just about everybody can really
understand it's not just exactly how
they and their family may bet but the
entire outlook of the of the country and
indeed the planet will have changed away
from you know the idea that your
children will be better off than you are
and will be living more abundant
prosperous lives than you did to one in
which the past actually looks sunnier
than the future and that is so dramatic
a transformation of perspective I don't
think we've really started to process it
but that is the bargain that's being
offered by climate change I would say
one other thing totally separate from
the economic case is public health there
is an enormous public health interest in
stopping climate change so at the moment
nine million people are killed every
year just from the pollution that comes
out of burning fossil fuels
it's called small particulate pollution
nine million people and some scientists
recently did a study where they you know
in exactly the benchmarks being used by
the this IPCC report looked at the
difference between the public world's
public health at 1.5 degrees and the
world's public health at 2 degrees and
they found that just based on this one
public health issue just based on the
small particulate pollution that comes
out of fossil fuel-burning a world that
is two degrees warmer would have 150
million more deaths than a world that is
1.5 degrees warmer so that's 25 hala
costs you know to go back to what I was
earlier like we have no chance getting
two degrees so it's going to be
considerably worse than that but the
public health imperative I think is
actually quite strong that's the reason
that China actually has moved so
aggressively on climate change over the
last years is that they were dealing
with a lot of these public health
impacts quite directly because their
government's gonna have to pay for it I
mean they're yeah they know they they
they understand the implications of
their of it on their government I I you
know I'm going and and the public you
know it's not just deaths I mean there
are the there are huge impacts just on
the amount of carbon in the atmosphere
on cognitive functioning so you know in
in cities with a lot of carbon pollution
test score results are fall by ten or
fifteen percent which is really dramatic
I saw a study recently that the effect
from car exhaust on premature birth and
low birth weight and babies is so strong
that in areas where they just introduced
easy pass and therefore the cars moved
more quickly through the toll and
distributed less exhaust in the
community that low birth rate and
premature birth fell by double digits in
the in that neighbor in those
neighborhoods so there are all of these
sort of public health car lifts that I
think people will will you know our
would at least be open to getting
agitated about getting activated by in a
way that they find the prospect of say
sea level or distant cost agricultural
yields quite hard to wrap their minds
around if they know that like you know
the average lifespan of their children
is going to be caught the cut by several
years because of the amount of pollution
in the atmosphere I actually do think
that is a quite strong case for cutting
that pollution and if we cut all that
pollution we will you know in so doing
solve climate change now the problem
with that is that at the moment all of
the pollution that's in the atmosphere
is suppressing global temperatures by
about one degree so we list called
aerosol pollution all of the that
we've put into the
Monsieur over the last 100 150 years
it's floating up there and it's
reflecting sunlight back towards the Sun
which means that the planet is not as
warm as it really should be it was
unpolluted so if we solve if we solve
the public health problem if we
eliminated all of the pollution in the
atmosphere we would be saving these 9
million lives every year and having all
of these other beneficial impacts on
public health but the planet would
immediately get one degree warmer which
means that we'd already be more than 2
degrees warmer than the pre-industrial
average we be already past again this
threshold of the IPCC was just saying
this week is absolutely unacceptable in
some true sense like with a true state
of global warming on the planet we're
actually already north of 2 degrees it's
just that we have this weird backhanded
you know pollution thing that is
happening to suppress global
temperatures so that we think we're only
at one point one degrees we're living is
that we're only at one point one degrees
but the sort of true global warming
impact is north of 2 degrees already Wow
that's encouraging so we're successful
in saving lives we're going to end up
costing lives on some level yeah well I
mean I I gotta say like I you know I'm
I'm I'm a I'm a thousand flowers bloom
type of guy in terms of ideas I'm
starting to think though that you know
it's it's the implications of global
warming just are too abstract for for
people as a as a as a as a political
motivator it feels like to me but you
know we'll see yeah I should have given
folks like a little bit of a warning
before we did this well I would just say
about that I mean I you know I I think
that the world is starting to wake up to
the issue I think that with all of the
extreme weather we've seen with the
wildfires with the heat waves with all
the all the Hurricanes we have another
hurricane bearing down on Florida just
this week which is it's crazy it could
be a possibly category 4 up for category
5 storm we haven't even really heard
about it
that the world is waking up to the
effects of warming and starting to see
that it's it is something other than
just sea-level rise but the problem is
that we don't have that much time as a
last question to what extent and because
the Republican Party as far as I know is
the only major political party in the
world that believes that global climate
change is not real I mean as a tenant of
their party to what extent if the
Republican Party you know and obviously
this is I'm asking me to speculate
wildly here but if the United States was
not inhibited from being a leader in
this like you know I mean it and Obama
goes out and signs the Paris Accords
obviously completely insufficient but if
there was no political cost whatsoever
to this if the entire country was on
board in the same way that maybe a small
you know Indonesian island was I mean
what what do you think the difference
would be in the world I don't think
it'll be much I mean you know as I said
before I think the main drivers of this
are well just to take China as an
example China is an authoritarian regime
they do not have any of these political
considerations and while they're moving
much faster than they were five years
ago ten years ago on climate they're
still moving way too slow and that is
because the main do you think a nominal
number the United States would have been
able to make it move quicker I think
some to some degree but I think that you
know the the economic trade-offs are
really the thing that is that have
slowed action on this and and you know
there was a really interesting study
that came out a couple weeks ago that
compared the you know the the amount
that climate change would cost
particular countries over the coming
decades with how much each of those
countries was responsible for warming
and the u.s. actually was came
surprisingly high on the list of
countries that were going to be affected
economically they had the second highest
economic cost of climate change
and we are in this weird kind of karmic
balance we're actually just as our share
of the climb of our responsibility is
exactly the same as our share of the
climate burden that will be bearing
India is by far the worst on this metric
they have their share of climate
suffering is four times higher than
their share of climate responsibility
and they're the country in the world is
going to be hit hardest by climate
change and China is in the reverse
situation China is at the moment they
are four times more responsible for
climate change than they are you know
going to be seeing impacts themselves so
the economic incentives in China are
actually running in the opposite
direction that we'd want them to run
wiid they can theoretically pollute more
and this cost will be known by mostly by
other yeah and that's the real problem
is that generally we haven't developed a
system where we're all in this together
and so particular countries have an
incentive to slow-walk their own
commitments do less than they need to
because fossil fuel is cheap growth but
if we all do that we're really I
mean and there needs to be you know one
body one coat one coalition that dresses
this totally head-on I think that's
really the lost opportunity for from
American leadership but I I don't think
that we'd be much farther along right
now and I don't think that we'd be
facing a different set of dilemmas than
we do now it's really what are the
Chinese going to do what are the Indians
going to do and what are countries like
Nigeria and Kenya going to do as their
populations like double and triple over
the next couple decades David Wallace
wells thank you so much really
appreciate talking to you on it's it's
fascinating but also wildly depressing
but but thank you I appreciate the time
today any time thanks again right yeah
Boop say that again
the world will end not with a bang but a
boo doop yeah exactly
well I mean I kidding no it won't I you
know I am less hopeful that talking
about the implications of climate
are gonna bring about any major
political change in this country and
more encouraged that maybe a United
States that is more aggressive couldn't
convince or provide some incentives for
other countries but I'm increasingly you
know starting to believe that you know
the best way to solve climate change is
to look for an issue set that you know a
somebody who has a platform of dealing
with climate change shares in other
words you know backdoor because it's
just you can tell me on one hand that
like 30 40 years from now everybody's
gonna have less money in their pocket or
you could tell me hey I'm gonna put more
money in your pocket I'm gonna vote for
the person who's gonna put more money in
my pocket and if they end up dealing
with climate change great but I want
somebody who's gonna put more money in
my pocket right now well I'm being a
little bit I'm being a little bit over
broad but I'm saying I want direct
benefit now not it's too abstract for
you to say you've got to avoid you know
some type of disadvantage twenty years
down the road thirty years down the road
well there's always been a sector of
capital that's very short-sighted right
they care more about whatever benefit
the market gets in the short term which
is one more reason that Democrats are
actually the one saving capitalism right
cuz you can't have capitalism if we're
all dead I guess that's true
you know I guess China is also I mean I
don't know I mean there's nothing like
under what political formation could we
persuade the whole world to adopt the
strict climate standards that we've
adopted in a magical land where Bernie
Sanders is president and still have
capitalist growth but that I mean I
don't I don't think there is one but you
could call I mean I don't know I mean I
guess if you
want to call you know China as you know
operating under a capitalist system I
mean I think perhaps in Seoul ISM yeah I
mean but the I just don't know that the
answer at least in the context of you
know is I don't know that talking about
it in those terms is any more effective
than talking about it in the terms that
I think like growth is going to be less
or it's going to cost us more I mean
from a capitalist perspective here is a
guy who has a capitalist perspective on
that saying that it makes total sense to
avoid climate change and that's still
not compelling even within the context
of a capitalist system because the
problem is not that we're in the problem
is not that you know according to his
calculations it's not that it's
capitalism per se because from a
capitalist perspective it's gonna cost
more to not address climate change than
to address it well the problem is is
that we have a disequilibrium of power
in two different ways one at least in
the context of this country that there
are people who have political power that
is outsized
and are preventing it but also the
calculate the bottom line is that China
is going to externalize its costs well I
think you've hit on one of the very
important contradictions that exists
within capitalism which is that if you
believe in Marx's theory of how value is
created it only comes from human labor
and resource extraction and capitalism
has to have infinite growth in order to
function and you cannot have infinite
growth on a finite planet and it's
almost feels a little bit a little bit
mean for the industrialized countries of
the West who had their industrial age
based on the environment as an infinite
free gift to then turn around and tell
developing countries of the world that
they can't do that same thing
well I I mean that that may be the case
but that doesn't seem to be really the
the biggest problem I mean the India is
going to pay a lot more than they're
going to get out of this system China is
going to get a lot more than they're
gonna pay out of the system I mean that
seems to be sort of what is problematic
at least the u.s. is aligned it's going
to pay for what it for for what it you
know for all the there's gonna be no
free dance cards essentially for the
states anyways um but alright well
that's why we have a fun half folks know
that little palate cleanser
just a reminder the show relies your
support horrible week it's only Tuesday
this show relies on your support for us
to do this every day you can become a
member by going to join the majority
report com join the majority report calm
and is our way of saying thank you we
give you extra content every day so that
if you want to avoid something that is
super bleak you can just skip right
through to the fun half where we just
you know make fun of people and loosen
up so join the majority report calm also
don't forget just coffee co-op for a
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off we're sitting
here right now I'm staring right at our
five pound bag of majority report blend
that we keep in the office you can you
can do the same in your office or your
home five pound back you don't have to
get a five-pound bag
you don't want pound bagging you get a
bunch of different other flavors if you
want tonight is the Michael Brooks show
Michael is a sick but it'll be
interesting to see if he shows up for
his own program tonight my guess is
probably because hangovers don't
necessarily last that long
who's the get G no who's the guest is
tonight I have not looked at the sheet
Alix preen I think is Alex Breen okay so
it's Alex print so check out the Michael
Brooks show this evening you can or you
can listen to it after the fact on
iTunes but you can watch it on YouTube
at our YouTube channel and the ante fada
yeah so we did something a little bit
different this week on the ante fada
our friend Jacob bloomenfeld
was in town defending his dissertation
he is now a PhD so we had him on Wow and
he happens to be an expert on the German
egoist communist philosopher max Turner
he has a book coming out on with zero
books about him
we'd also been wanting to get dr. bones
on the show from the guillotine podcast
and he's also really into sterner so we
set up hosted a Socratic dialogue
between doctors bones and Blumenfeld
about Max Turner and anarchism and
radical egoism and all that good stuff
there you go I did not know anything
about it beforehand so if you don't know
anything about it that's fine and now I
do know something about it so check it
out if you want to learn about that very
crazy thing and Matt literary hangover
yeah we did Cory Robbins the reactionary
mind oh I can't wait yeah we actually
take a clip from this show from the zero
sum to make on the licensing for that I
mean what the well you can talk to my
first-amendment lawyers who are your
first memory I see
my lawyers about that and I'm gonna talk
to you lawyers to find out who your
lawyers are exactly all right very it's
well done you stay very insulated you
don't have to deal with any of this I
don't I don't even know who they are so
okay so uh you you you you review the
reactionary mind it's not really review
but no we just discuss it play a few
clips from it play a few clips from
Corey Robin discussing it at Harvard and
yeah it's good it's sort of if you want
to know why everything seems so hopeless
right now it's because conservatives
have won everything and Corey Robin says
explains that's what conservatism is
sort of incoherent and cruel there you
go all right folks a quick break heading
to the front half six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the number
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number we will be right
back with the fun half Jamie and I may
have a disagreement yeah you can't just
say whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
boss I am NOT your employee you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
[Music]
should rethink your defense of that you
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes
you feel like you are a dinosaur five
times all right a quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there take whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber jet
plastic I'm feeling more chill already
Donald Trump can kiss all of our asses
hey it's a free speech issue thank you
for calling into the majority report
them we'll be with you shortly
we are back it is the fun half of the
program we sure could use that ladies
and gentlemen today I don't even know if
I feel like it forget it no fun no fun
today let's go to I'll tell you what
let's go to the phones call from an
eight six five area code who's this
please be fun yeah can you hear me yes
who's this where you come from
Terry from Tennessee Terry from
Tennessee
what's on your mind Harry I'm sorry I'm
nervous
and uh I feel a little bit embarrassed I
used to be a Jordan Pederson fancy ooh
all right well this could be fun what
why well I'll get to that later but I
just want to thank you for everything
that you do because I actually
discovered you by watching videos
because they're in the recommended video
section and I actually uh after watching
some of your videos I had an epiphany
after I left that if you can
people that I just finished and I
realized that it's not individual person
I'm sorry I'm just below the clumps
because it that's just mean Jesus I
got chocolate anyway so yeah full
disclosure I'm I've actually had sex
before so obviously I'm not short and
pure span all right well but he got us I
said I I wanted to call and uh for first
obviously uh you know thanks for what
you do and all you had but also uh since
Michael Brooks isn't there
I just wanted to yep I'll be nice hoping
that um she is going to be reading a
book about the intellectual dark web and
I wanted to inform him without joe rogan
like well just if I could have or just
yes she has a forum that explains a lot
of why he has such a large all right
following and so if you kids just look
into that also remind people that back
in 2012 he had a scientist who claimed
that HIV does not cause eight Oh Joe
Rose oh yeah thank you 2012 I think it's
not the way to build an audience buddy
that's the way you build an audience not
with people calling in and pretending to
be Jordan Peterson fence I can tell you
that thank you so much Terry I
appreciate it
let's go to call from a 2-1 for area
code who's this where you call them from
uh from Dallas
hello Scott from Dallas what's on your
mind okay so bleep subject today but I'm
just kind of in part of the issue with
today's topic was that places like the
New York Times and CNN can't do math so
they talk about degree change from
Fahrenheit to Celsius and they say 1.5
Celsius equals two point seven
Fahrenheit okay well one Celsius
yeah it's not true yeah exactly it's
33.8 say right right and yeah yeah and
so that kite thing is just everywhere so
I think if Americans knew hey it's gonna
get 30 to 60 degrees hotter that would
make a difference
wait it's gonna get 30 to 60 degrees
hotter but if if the IPCC report is
right in saying that it's going to
increase one to two degrees Celsius and
that math is right up one degree Celsius
equals 33 Fahrenheit that's what that oh
no no you your math is wrong one degrees
Celsius as a measure equals 33
approximately 33 degrees Fahrenheit but
one unit of Celsius degrees equals one
point eight units of Fahrenheit well I
appreciate the call Scott that was damn
it would be really hot if you were good
that would be yes yes if it's 60 degrees
that it's gonna go in 20 years believe
me I'm digging a hole right right it
could always be worse people that's
right that's that's what's so galling
about the Bret Stevens type of climate
change lukewarm ISM where if you
remember his first column on climate
change for the New York Times were
saying well they might be wrong it might
be like in this you know right the the
the unpredictability and the
probabilities go either way
well I mean cuz it's like this right
it's like it's like if if there was a
you know if you smoke cigarettes there's
a 95 I mean it's not the case right I
mean your your the the chances of you
getting cancer increase if you smoke
cigarettes but it's not there's not like
a 95% chance that you're gonna get
cancer but even even in that instance
I'm sorry to think it's just all too
abstract and that really you if you're
looking in terms of politics you have to
elect politicians who are committed to
dealing with climate change but I'm not
convinced you can run on that I just
don't think that that is like I think
you you know I think in the same way
that you were not going to get the the
Republicans to all vote for Brett
Kavanaugh because he will undo the
Chevron doctrine no you you you get
tantalising out there with abortion
rights you need to find some other
issues set I think to get people to vote
for someone who is thoroughly committed
to dealing with climate change instead
of actually trying to like jazz people
up about that I'm increasingly convinced
of that
but who knows fortunately I'm not in
charge of the vast majority of all of
that so all right let's take one more
quick phone call we'll go to some sound
come from JA what is it a four seven is
Josh in Chicago you're very smart
oh well thank you Josh i I do know a
little bit about Celsius Fahrenheit just
about everything I've said is about the
extent in which I know and then I also
know there's a formula which is like x
to minus 32 degrees somewhere it's
something like that I can't remember
what it is but you could look that up
but good you're about right it's about
right living England I know the
southeast and then there's a fraction
again multiplied by a fraction or
something like a nine fifths I think it
is but go ahead um so I wanted to call
in and first of all Sam I wish you good
luck tonight in your baseball game but
also thank you yeah good luck I wanted
to call in and I think earlier this year
I called in and talked about how is
serving the sort of rehabilitation of
george w bush was yes especially among
liberals yeah and I think this Brett
Kavanaugh appointment shows just how
horrible a horrible george w bush's but
also be i do feel like this is also part
of the fact that obama less it's
actually if and I read this article
intercept how do
not let george w bush look and actually
for example i don't know
punish the people who deserve to be
punished for the war crimes they
committed we might not have a break have
now on the supreme court today and i
think we did there would be a whole i
mean it would be a radically different
we would be in a radically different
place if obama at the very least i mean
look i don't know what his ability would
have been to to hold them to account in
real terms right like i don't know if
the DOJ would have gone after these
people or would have been able to be
effective or they wouldn't have defenses
or would but i think just even taking
the position of reminding people of just
referring to george w bush as you know
even even though it says a world war
criminal it's like you like say like he
needs to be held to account to the way
that this country was led into that war
i mean to have done anything other than
let's just turn the page and forget
about it
which is what he did almost almost
verbatim anything else i think would
have in many respects kept us out of
this situation where now not to mention
the financial sector right obama oh yeah
like the financial sector off the hook I
don't think Trump would be president
right now I think that's probably true
as well and not even not even off I mean
in addition to like having the the AG
prosecute bankers but also to have taken
a different position there's there's a
whole host of things but in terms of
just sheer accountability yes we have a
problem in this country that we do not
hold certain sectors of society
accountable for anything but good point
Josh appreciate it
yeah and it's just it's Bush who got
Bush was the person who persuaded
Collins I think you're right I mean and
I think like there are other factors but
I mean you know to have bush call her
for four
times or whatever it was reportedly
certainly did not help appreciate the
call Josh yes I hope we can stop
pretending that George Bush in any way
was better than Donald Trump
stylistically I don't know but but
beyond but in terms of substance I mean
George Bush was I mean I think Donald
Trump may be more corrupt in the context
of his business dealings
then George Bush was but George Bush
didn't have to be and Bush seems more
potent yes well he had the ability to
kill more people but you know there's
still time for Donald Trump to catch up
I think the skills are starting to fall
from a lot of liberals eyes about these
things maybe it's wishful thinking on my
part but I really do hope so the kavanah
thing was interesting because all the
never Trump errs went to Trump except
for a couple yeah and and Bush was back
you know whipping votes for Cavanaugh so
any liberal that was maybe on the well
he shared a Werther's train has got to
be out there right it also took out like
people like Benjamin witness you know a
lot of those people were sort of like
revealed it's like what the problem is I
mean and I don't think enough during
this process attention was paid to the
fact that this is the Republican Party
folks Donald Trump was a complete
bystander in this process complete
bystander I don't think he really cared
one way or another I think he wanted the
win I think he resented the fact that a
sexual assault could have derailed
Cavanaugh but beyond that I don't think
I don't think you carry here is and this
you know I mean this speaks to it's just
a coincidence that I mentioned during
this interview with Dave Wallace wells
that maybe we need someone who is
talking about
leaving student debt and then also
happens to have a strong climate change
perspective to to win into office and
actually do something about climate
change at least to the extent that the
United States can influence it it was a
coincidence but there was a report that
was just recently put out I mean I think
like literally within the past couple of
days maybe it wasn't in the past couple
days but I've been seeing it more for
some reason that the economic case for
cancelling all student debt and there is
a report out maybe it's a very recent
actually that that suggests that
cancelling student debt one point four
trillion dollars of student debt would
end up bringing far more in economic
activity because of course student debt
holds you back you don't buy a house you
don't buy you don't have kids you stay
stuck in one job and you maybe maybe
there's a couple of entrepreneurs out
there that will never know about because
they have to continue their crappy job
at a podcast say because and they can't
go out on their own because they've got
to pay their student debt
here's Jacob Soboroff he's in UC Irvine
this is in Orange County
this is California's like sort of I
don't want to say Ground Zero but one of
the hearts of republicanism in
California he went out there to see what
motivates students to vote interesting
but stop at UC Irvine they're I think
twenty six thousand kids to go to school
here
if the Democrats can get all of them to
vote for them then maybe Republicans
will be in trouble in this district but
I don't know sorry not to be annoying
but we're with NBC News and I'm just
trying to figure out anybody you're
gonna vote in the election on November
6th anybody anybody nobody's gonna vote
is anybody gonna vote in the
congressional election in November you
are thank you sir what do you care about
school what about you I'll walk myself
you guys get on this bus yeah so if you
were gonna vote what is the thing that's
gonna get your vote probably school
expensive I was gonna say you're not
talking about the issues that people
talk about in the news all the time the
Russia investigation Supreme Court's you
don't watch that stuff are you
registered to vote
18:18 so this could be your first
election yeah
and ultimately you could decide whether
or not the House of Representatives
isn't democratic or Republican control
are you thinking about all that not
currently maybe if I took more time to
like get informed about like what's
going on right now in politics I assume
that the people voting have at least
some idea who they're voting for
are you gonna vote I should we're like
the most unreliable voter demographic so
I should vote to like increase those
numbers you know well that's what the
Democrats want but they can't count on
you guys necessarily solely you keep
passing all these questions
the rest of people our age are gonna
keep doing or like oh man better bow all
the old people tell me huh oh my old no
boy I mean I it's hard to get people I
think to tune into this stuff one year
in college and well they could run on
the things that the college kids care
about right yeah but I think it's also
just hard to get them to even be aware
like you know I don't know how much any
of these folks would even know like that
there was somebody suggesting that
they're addressing their and their needs
or their interests
I mean in college anyways I think people
are far you know just not necessarily
engaged in the same way I mean I think
for some students it's almost it almost
feels like - they're too young I mean I
know people are adults secondly at 18
but like a lot of these kids especially
freshmen they were what just under their
parents house roof like last year like
they they're still figuring stuff out
like I I don't expect much from and they
don't even and to be honest like the
student loan stuff hasn't even really
kicked into them right that's not even
real yeah oh yeah yeah you know what
radicalized me and made me politically
active trying to survive on my own in
the world well yeah that that's exactly
the point
and that's exactly the point I mean
everybody's a camp there on some level
and you know the thing about camp is
it's sort of like dream time you're
you're you know you don't deal with the
same stuff now I'd be interested in an
18 year old who's not in college and be
more curious as to how much attention
they're paying or how much they have a
list of issues you know or a 19 year old
18 is very difficult by the time these
folks are 22 they're gonna have a better
sense of at least what their agenda set
is
that said we just saw Jacob Soboroff in
the OSI this report from BuzzFeed news
so Taylor Swift and look I'm not gonna
lie to you folks if Taylor Swift was
sitting in this office right now I would
be like his dream is that a friend of
yours and that what's oh my god you have
a daughter I do have a daughter but my
daughter does not play Taylor Swift I
can tell you that right now
my little cardi B cardi B was in here
I'd know about it
but Taylor Swift sorry don't know her
and apparently Taylor Swift has broken
the hearts of all right writers and
conservatives who are desperately always
on the lookout desperate for for anyone
in show business as much as they hate it
when anybody in show business speaks out
or when Hollywood or musicians or
whatever it is whenever they speak out
all that just melts away if they say
something night's about conservatives or
conservatism or I guess the conservative
icons like Donald Trump and my
understanding is that Taylor Swift and I
will say I did not have first 2-handed
knowledge of this had to ask has not
been very political at all in her public
career she didn't say anything during
the 2016 elections and just by the fact
that she didn't say anything
conservatives considered her one of them
oh yeah she's there Aryan princess is
that was a big all right following is it
because she looks like an Aryan I think
you put a picture of do we have one cuz
I honestly yeah they're trying to find
like coated stuff and her music that's
like all right it's ridiculously good
doing this for years yeah okay and then
so she comes out the other day with the
pose
on instagram and basically said that you
should vote that Marshall black okay all
right there she is no idea don't think
I've ever seen her before in my entire
life god bless you and she came out and
said she apparently lives in Tennessee
is that right and she went to say that
she could not bring herself to vote for
Republican representative Marsha
Blackburn in Tennessee's US Senate race
because her voting record in Congress
appalls and terrifies me she voted
against the reauthorization of Violence
Against Women Act voted against equal
pay for women she believed businesses
have a right to refuse service to gay
couples she also believes they should
not have the right to marry these are
not my Tennessee values what does she
have against free enterprise instead she
put her support with Phil Bredesen and
Democratic Representative Jim Cooper she
encouraged her followers to make sure
they registered to vote before
Tennessee's October 9th dead languages
today go to vote.org
and you can find all the info oh hey wow
I think I know the chair of the
Tennessee Democratic Party Mary Mancini
said to have someone of her statute was
such a large microphone step up and
actually reinforced what we already know
here is definitively going to boost the
morale of people who have been told
Tennesseans are divisive apparently
vote.org saw tennessee registrations
spike specifically since that post they
received fifty one hundred almost fifty
two hundred in the state so far this
month and twenty one hundred were in the
last 36 hours up from twenty-eight
hundred in the entire month of September
so that's pretty big
and the site had seen a big jump in the
number of visitors since Swift's post
Wow
she should have made it a walk away
though she should have said I used to be
conservative hmm that would have been
much mister she used to care more about
her bottom line than making a political
statement
throw Bredesen apparently is in some
trouble in Tennessee since the Cavanaugh
nomination since basically he came out
in support of it he was leading in the
polls and when he came out in support of
it of Cavanaugh since that time it's
gone down now it's unclear to me it's
tough to disaggregate these things but
we'll see
see if Taylor Swift breaks the hearts of
concerns my understanding is that my a
good friend charlie Kirk he's very upset
about this he was all over the place and
I don't know if that will come up in the
debate you know week and a half at
Politico but yeah if Trump's hope in the
middle class so much why did Taylor
Swift endorse a Democrat there you go
well it was kind of a power move on Katy
Perry's part if you'd like to know the
history of why Taylor Swift didn't jump
on the Hilary bandwagon sooner Katy
Perry are you being facetious no no no
no no oh my god I used to be like a
pop-culture blogger I still know way
more about this stuff than I want to but
they had a little feud Taylor and Katy
they were kind of competitive and Katy
Perry in one of the smartest thing she's
ever done jumped on the Hilary bandwagon
first and was like appearing at her
rallies and stuff so then Taylor Swift
like what was she supposed to do she
wasn't gonna campaign for Trump hmm
interesting didn't realize that was the
dynamic yeah I will you know what now
that Taylor Swift has finally broken her
silence about politics despite my you
know skepticism of the Democratic Party
I'm going to come out I have been known
on occasion to enjoy a song or two by
Taylor Swift well there you go well
here's the problem
Donald Trump responded to Taylor Swift
and Taylor Swift of course like I said
earlier has increased voter registration
has broken the hearts of all right
wingers and here's Donald Trump Tantra
it is significantly diminished Donald
Trump's appreciation for Blackburn is
doing a very good job in Tennessee
leading now she's a tremendous woman I'm
George Ellis whip that's nothing
let's say that I like Taylor is music
about 25% less now
daddy goes yeah pretty good 23 still 75%
supportive of her despite the fact that
she's actively campaigning against them
you know his retaining the power in the
Senate she's a great songwriter yeah I
guess it's I got to listen to one of her
songs I gotta say I like Kanye's music
about 75% less alright yeah I know how
he's thinking about these well I think
these things balance out let's go to the
AIIMS Winnipeg Craig everybody's at camp
seems like an obnoxious way to talk
about younger University students Sam
these kids are constantly being told
they're responsible for saving the earth
and stopping school shootings by half of
the country the ones they've given up
trying themselves and called idiots buy
the other half and give the kids a break
ah I am giving them a break they're at
camp and they should not be given the
responsibility of saving us from climate
change or gun violence all right
that's that I mean that's what I'm
saying you're a camp you're you know you
you're not at the the the worries of the
world are not there that's the the best
thing about camp I having been a college
kid that's why I'm saying that I know
where I was just in terms of knowledge
about the world my freshman year exactly
I'm saying the same thing Bank Bart as
an alumni of UC Irvine I can tell you
that it's the least political campus in
Southern California maybe the entire
west coast so I wouldn't take that MSNBC
segment as a political litmus test the
average American college students that I
would also agree with fact I know
someone who taught there and she would
have said the similar thing and my
experience at other colleges are much
more in touch you know but some kids
wasn't um uh Berkeley a no-go zone well
that's true
you see I as a majority stem majors I
was undergrad there during the peak of
the Iraq invasion it wasn't even a booth
on campus protesting it everyone there
is programmed to get a degree and make
money that's it
also a question for Jamie's Molly
crabapple still friends with the famous
and Nazi hacker we've no I do not think
so there
falling out apparently sub Korca is
still alive and kicking and I'm always
glad to hear that but he has I suggest
found that he's probably not not going
to be going on his TV as much so
probably shaves a little bit less I
certainly know that's the way I react to
it I didn't have my Harry's raises mmm
but of course there's always Fox and
Friends I'll go on that let me somebody
tune up my what is he wearing
what is it what is that what is the pin
he's wearing here why is he wearing a
pin
what is the pin what is he what is he
doing that he wears a lapel pin I
believe that would be his fathers or
grandfather's of a desi Wren is that
still the Vitesse ear and I assume so
I'm still proud of being from Nazi
heritage but oh here he goes
his parents suffered under Nazi fascism
he's both wearing the fascistic medal
and complaining about them it's so he
never forgot exactly there is only one
party that has normalized violence in
America in the last two years and it's
not the Republicans let's remember James
Hodgkinson did not wear a manga hat when
he went to that baseball field in
Arlington
he was a Bernie Sanders supporter went
there with an automatic rifle and a
pistol with a hit list of what
Republican congressman and he almost
killed one of them Steve Scalise you
look at the violence of anti-fur they go
they go prepared for battle to those
demonstrations the right doesn't do that
I mean what what is that all he says
honestly the right doesn't do that well
let's just look at Gorka himself then we
could go on to pictures of proud boys
the little brown shirts you show up
there of the neo-nazis marched in
Charlottesville one of whom was just I
think convicted of beating somebody also
I don't know if people remember but a
woman was killed by a neo-nazi there
but here's Gorka himself talking to a
press person back when he had his
trademark Gucci
[Music]
it just shoves them and but but I mean
it's laughable the story they're telling
themselves and Mitch McConnell talking
about how senators were literally
subjects of violence interesting that no
nobody called the cops it's weird right
the depths they'll sink they'll even
disrupt a meal they'll disrupt a meal
well I should call the cops if you don't
report it right at that moment couldn't
possibly happen isn't necessary we're
told cept Orca
ladies and gentlemen still alive and
kicking all right let's just I know this
is gonna be difficult for people because
everybody gets disgusted now when they
hear Brett Kavanaugh but here is Brett
Kavanaugh pledging to be independent and
impartial this is what you want out of
your Supreme Court justice you want him
to or her him if it's a Republican
appointee obviously him or her to be
impartial to rise above the political
fray right to not not get caught up in
the politics are one part of American
life party disputes or another part of
it but when you're a judge all that just
goes away and listen to how he expresses
that article 3 of the Constitution
provides that the judicial power shall
be vested in one Supreme Court the
Supreme Court is an institution of law
it is not a partisan or political
institution the justices do not sit on
opposite sides of an aisle we do not
caucus in separate rooms the Supreme
Court is a team of nine and I will
always be a team player on the team of
nine
now he also knows that he's going to be
in the five of the four but let's put
that aside I don't want to be cynical I
don't want to be cynical the same five
everybody I don't want to be cynical
because he is what he's espousing there
I believe is that he is going to put
aside all of the rancor from the
committee hearings he's not going to
it's not about things like you know how
he got there or what not he understands
the political process he's not gonna
hold any grudges no hurt feelings you
know no hard feelings it's not a team
it's not team politics this is just
about being a judge so he's not going to
he's moved on from the process right
isn't blame anybody or anything like
that oh but wait a second the speech
continues I thank the members of the
United States Senate Senate Majority
Leader Mitch McConnell for his
leadership and steady resolve
I thank Judiciary Committee chairman
chuck Grassley for his wisdom and
fairness and I give special gratitude to
senators Rob Portman Susan Collins Joe
Manchin Jon Kyl and Lindsey Graham they
are credit to the country in the Senate
I'll be forever grateful to each of them
and to all the senators who carefully
considered my nomination oh he qualified
that it wasn't all the senator I think
he's gonna say do all the senators who
were doing their job but no in fact he's
basically saying in almost a polite way
it's almost a polite way f you to all
you senators who voted against me yeah
well if they didn't vote for him then
they clearly didn't consider it
carefully yeah well I mean the point
being that this is not a guy who's
showing any judicial temperament even
after winning right this is the easiest
thing in the world to do is to come up
after you win and say I understand there
is political rancor that is part of the
territory it's not pleasant but I
understand that's part of the process
and I appreciate all senators for doing
their job that is the way even a normal
just a baseline normal judge who cares
about just his own legacy and the legacy
of the institution of the judiciary
would respond even if it was completely
disingenuous the if you if you had one
shred of respect for the judiciary you
would come out and say I have to be
magnanimous here because I don't want
the people of this country to believe
that one of nine people sitting on the
highest court in the land that makes a
fundamental decision about the power of
government and the rights of its end of
American citizens is in any way biased
or holding grudges against political
parties or entities who may or may not
have supported me that would be the
baseline for someone who has even iota
of judicial temperament and even if
winning this Snively little privileged
man couldn't even work that up well he's
showing what these people are really
like right like if Trump had nominated
somebody with the exact same horrible
politics but maybe a better manner
people might still think that the
Supreme Court is an apolitical body when
in fact it's clearly not are there
advantages to it I suppose I mean I
suppose until we start seeing those
hearings if someone was going to vote
exactly the way this guy was but this is
an indication that this guy may be even
worse in some of these instances I mean
we don't know there's no way to know I
mean in a perfect world we would have
the ability to divine you know how is
one person gonna vote versus another but
this is indicative of of someone who
clearly had no judicial temperament and
it is a reflect
on exactly who the Republican Party is
because they saw this in this guy he's
Breezies parading it on public in public
well they're so yes well that's all it's
all about the politics of aggrievement
right like even when they're winning
they still need something to be pissed
off about otherwise they can't whip up
the base indeed indeed
and this guy's being overtly political
in the same speech where he's saying
that we're supposed to be not political
calling from 1/8 1/4 area code who's
this where he come from uh hi this is
Margaret calling from Erie Margaret from
Erie welcome to the program thank you I
I have a couple horrible things to
report the first one is that Trump is
coming here tomorrow for a rally I'm
sorry to hear that
I know and the second horrible thing is
that Sebastian Gorkhas coming here let's
see November 7th to discuss a god knows
what he's going to discuss he's got
coming to this Jefferson educational
societies global summit what did you
guys out Harry that you deserved us well
to be fair he's not the only person on
the bill I mean we've had we had Wendell
Potter for example came okay um I guess
this summit is trying to be inclusive
but I don't know whether to contact them
in protest or go heckle him sure which I
would sway to go I would have fun but
okay I mean that's what I would do but
alright I will and I'll call back and
let you know how that goes Thank You
Margaret
the others will the other thing I wanted
to mention I'm a mother of three adult
children and I have to admit that I have
ongoing angst about their future
specifically because of climate change
and I found this organization that I'm
going to join it's called mothers out
front I would urge all mothers Jamie
included I know you're not a mother but
to check it out I feel like I have to do
something right I wanted I want my
legacy to reflect that I didn't just die
in utter denial that I did try to do
something so I encourage your listeners
to check that out all right well Margit
be careful if you if you do heckle but
thank you for for the call
you bet them thank you bye bye good for
you for getting involved calling for you
mean in terms of the mothers uh front
not the heckling part both called from a
585 area code who's this where he come
from hi Sam this is Rebecca from
Boonville how are you hi Rebecca
what's on your mind I saw I wanted to
first of all just share that a couple
years ago and I was deeply into and
investigating climate change and I had
to actually stop looking at all the
documentaries for a while because I was
just it was too terrifying so we're all
gonna die but on a on a more positive
note
you mentioned Blackburn running in
Tennessee well we've got an equally
dismal and horrific representative by
the name of Claudia penny and I am very
active campaigning for Anthony Brindisi
who is running against her in New York
at 22nd and one of the mind people you
live in New York state that October 12th
is the last day to register people and
he talked about college students so my
youngest is a
and he just started school at a SUNY
College and I as his mother made sure he
got registered I made sure he had his
absentee ballot application and both he
and his girlfriend and he he is well
aware of what's going on
and excited about voting for the first
time so you know as Democrats with kids
that are in college you know harass your
past your kid explain to them just how
important all this is and get them out
there but in the meantime you know get
out and protest and all that but more
importantly get out and volunteer for a
campaign where you know we are Brindisi
is not accepting any corporate money so
we're behind on on money but he's
actually leading tinnie in the polls
because of his yeah because we're I mean
there are his he's got some an amazing
campaign staff full actually of college
students or wonderful young people can
we even in our small town of we'll put a
link in the podcast description to that
candidate so people want to check them
out
it's Brindisi for congress.com
so yep alright well thank you very much
October 12 yet you take care all right
bye-bye
yeah yeah folks if you have not
registered or if anyone you know and
your family or friends has not
registered today is the last day to
register in 15 states so call them get
on it right now this is an ad richard
linklater was the for me slackers was
like one of the seminal movies that I
saw that influenced me back in the day
and so this ad I don't know it is just a
richard linklater made it this is just
like two hours of people rambling about
life and the universe well we'll see I
feel like you could do too
of Ted Cruz on Ted Cruz but this is a an
ad about Ted Cruz directed by Richard
Linklater somebody left something on my
door the other day is it Ted Cruz
toughest taxes I mean come on if
somebody call my wife a dog and said my
daddy was in on the Kennedy
assassination I wouldn't be kissing
their ass you stick a finger in their
chest and give them a few choice words
or you dragged her ass out by the
woodshed and kick their ass Ted come on
Ted
political ad paper oh I love that you
know what I like about that ad is it so
clearly trolling like it's it's there's
like a there's like a wink in here like
we know this we're pretending you know
we're pretending but you can't say we're
pretending because you're pretending let
yeah here is uh here is that moment that
Ted Cruz pretended where he's and
someone caught the side are we so so Ted
Cruz is talking right to camera I want
to talk right to camera of course when
he didn't realize somebody was also
shooting him from the side when a
following this here let's just remind
people what that was I don't get angry
off but you mess with my wife you mess
with my kids that'll do it every time
Donald you're a sniveling coward and
leave Heidi the hell alone so will you
support him as the nominee Donald Trump
will not be he's leading right now you
looked in that camera and said he's a
coward will you support him as a nominal
there you go what it would it would a
man a character God he wrote the time
100 Blair Ted Cruz dead that's actually
almost the scariest thing about Ted Cruz
is that he's willing to endure something
so shameful as that moment and just
continue on that is the entire it seems
to me sort of like Republican project
it's like it doesn't matter
there is no there is no shame involved
in any of what we're doing here
good that's a big Nixon thing he would
like he would think about it as like
anxiety like this is a very pressure
pack mom but really he was just being
horrible and everybody hated him for it
but that's just part of the job they
close the ranks man they're an
ideologically unified party Democrats
could learn something from that I guess
I mean I they have a pretty narrow
ideology it's just put money in their
pocket and keep it from other people
yeah here is Donald Trump
announcing Brett Kavanaugh to the world
is number two and I mean you know Brett
Kavanaugh goes on to say how we
shouldn't be political or partisan or
anyway you know a honestly a Supreme
Court justice with that just an ounce of
shame would basically say yeah I just
want to say like I appreciate the job
that senators are doing but no that's
not the way it works in this regime I
mean you could sort of see like how
things can slip right on some level like
now we have reports coming out there's a
New York Times report on all the tax
shenanigans the Trump family has been
involved with for decades and then the
extreme money laundering that followed
that and you can you can ask people like
you can sort of project out like in 20
30 years like how did people vote for a
guy
was clearly a criminal in and what how
is it that there are other people in
government who basically just lined up
and didn't sort of step away and say
like I don't want to be tainted by this
and you can sort of see slowly how this
happens right even in this era where
there's such scrutiny like I mean
imagine an era an earlier era where it's
like there's no 24-hour news there's no
internet newspapers you know are far and
few between that type of stuff you could
see like much easier to understand how
it happening now but even with the
amount of scrutiny that we have while
watching it sort of unfold in our in
real time here is a Donald Trump
scolding the the Democrats for having
advice and consent for a guy who there
was very very credible allegations of
him being an attempted race rapist now
to be fair to Donald Trump he also has a
lot of credible allegations of sexual
assault against him but I would like to
begin tonight's proceeding differently
than perhaps any other event of such
magnitude on behalf of our nation I want
to apologize to Bret and the entire
Cavanaugh family for the terrible pain
and suffering you have been forced to
endure those who step forward to serve
our country deserve a fair and dignified
evaluation not a campaign of political
and personal destruction based on lies
and deception what happened to the
Cavanaugh family violates every notion
of fairness decency and due process
our country a man or a woman must always
be presumed innocent unless and until
proven guilty
[Applause]
and if we've got to prevent the
investigation into that guilt or
innocence then they with that I must
state that you sir under historic
scrutiny were proven innocent
thank you yeah well I mean obviously a
blatant lie
but this is the way that you know sort
of that extreme form of propaganda I
think everything was like back in the
day where it was like oh this is
propagandistic and you could argue about
it and you could sort of and then then
to start to see it so in lacking its
nuance is a little bit scary and of
course we're all like wow yeah but we
all know he's full but then you start to
remember like oh yeah that's what I mean
he gets again it's getting a little
scary folks you just watch
because it's not just when Trump doesn't
it's not just when it's cabinet members
when you start seeing like the third
branch of government sort of buy into
that stuff too I feel like it makes me
think of that lee atwater quote where
you you know you used to be able to say
the n-word and then you have to say you
know welfare and stuff it feels to me
like we've reached a moment in
communications technology that they've
just decided like they had been trying
to clean their act up for a while and
now we're starting to slip because
they're like no we can't do this anymore
right like BK and I think partially
because this stuff is so wildly covered
right it's easier to get a it's easy to
get a clip of everything and share it
because there's the internet now whereas
like it can't just disappear it like I'm
not sure I follow you basically like
there's a lot more media exposure right
it's not just a few news channels so
they as exposure was rising with like
cable channels or whatever they started
trying to clean their act up a little
bit right but now there's just too much
exposure right they can't clean their
act up enough so they're just going the
other way and like seeing like what's
the point of you flood the zone yeah
exactly
yeah well this general strategy is not
new right like you
talking about Edmund Burke the other day
this goes back to the French Revolution
and probably before that making the
oppressors look like the victims
that's conservatism yes I think that's
true but the way in which they're doing
it now is just I feels a little bit more
naked to me at least in the context of
my experience within politics I mean I'm
sure there's historical precedent for
stuff like this but in terms of like my
direct experience of it this is pretty
this is pretty intense there was always
at least some type of like facade like
some type of nuance and well they also
didn't have cable news back then right
but I'm they had cable news under the
Bush administration and they still had
to pretend like they still had to
pretend a little bit I am shocked Ivanka
Trump falled DARPA army chief fell
yesterday the day before nikki Haley
announced her resignation hmm
the implication being that she would be
appointed it's possible Casey Jamie
should I bow in the IWW the Industrial
Workers of the world why or why not oh I
need to know way more about you to
answer that question but generally
speaking I like the Wobs
I think they're good we just plugged an
event of theirs on the anti Fattah the
other day um so yeah go for it
I myself I'm a part of DSA so you know
you could join them too if you want
don't tell em BS the wopo author's dead
I don't get it
oh don't tell the NBS oh okay this is
about this is about the Saudi King I
guess I don't know mb/s yeah don't tell
Mohammed bin Salman that the authors or
the writers I think he probably knows so
after Susan Collins met with some
I was before the Cavanaugh speech and
was teary-eyed and was begged not to
vote for Cavanaugh can we check if
Collins had a history of childhood
animal abuse or fire-starting because
that's a sociopath stuff Christo despite
the rather depressing content in today's
first half I offer fun half salutations
a day in advance to Jaime and Brendan on
the occasion of their first anniversary
and the majority boy is that right I
guess it is is that right I started in
October okay celebration Trump change
wondered why I was spending breakfast
contemplating me in Congress career of
Tony Orlando and they figured out that
it was because I was excited about
listening to Mr today tie a yellow
ribbon y'all know where is it dawg
lobster have you guys heard about the
relationship between Brett Kavanaugh his
dad and John Roberts yeah vaguely no
let's look further into this I don't
know I'll be a ninja Lawrence Lessig is
starting a new podcast you should all
reach out and have mana again also any
thoughts on grand design versus
incremental change sometimes I think
we're leaving a sunk cost bias and
really need a massive global cooperative
effort to redesign our way of life to
truly address all our issues since many
of them are interconnected I agree
Lenny Bruce collapsed veins hey your guy
really got his math wrong any idiots
knows that 40 degrees Celsius equals 40
degrees Fahrenheit
therefore the scales are exactly the
same Tim Foyle hat trick I'm becoming
more convinced the oligarchs and power
players the world have given up and
doing anything about climate change
I think they built their huge
underground facilities with the plan to
just abandon the majority of the
population at surface or to live or die
as peasants for their underground feudal
strongholds am I mean maybe but that
just seems like that doesn't seem like
that fun right I mean if you could save
the planet why wouldn't you it's not
like it's gonna cost them anything
Andalucia
it's okay Sam I'll send you all the hugs
and kisses you
to feel loved through the apocalypse
that's very nice Thank You Heather
if you really want to make a difference
you should get into pop music Taylor
Swift got 65,000 people to register to
vote overnight with one inch grant post
Kanye did us a favor by mudding up
politics with his celebrity feuds who'd
a thunk at this late date that Taylor
Swift would be coming out for Democrats
and Kanye West we coming out for the
Republicans
hey girl swipe right says Sam's tinder
profile I know the difference between
Celsius and Fahrenheit
j-jane cool why are Americans against
the metric system also who would you
like to see replace Hayley I'm not
against the metric system I'm not that's
right I'm agnostic on the brezin
Brendon's achieved Chafee would have won
I mean who would I like to see replace
Haley there's not gonna be anybody from
the Trump administration I'm gonna be
happy about replacing Haley
it's very gonna be worse because Pompey
and Bolton they're gonna have are gonna
be basically in charge how about a
Republican in a vulnerable seat yeah
exactly i bunk got ya Marsha Blackburn
do you see we say elections have
consequences we also say that the Obama
administration overlooking torture and
white-collar crime for eight years has
had consequences putting another Clinton
forward as a successor at the end of
eight years of unfulfilled promises like
closing Guantanamo president and ending
Wars had consequences it's almost like
they planned to have Trump win yeah no I
don't think they did
do you see New York Times had the power
to report on Trump's crimes three years
ago epic international intentional fail
why would the New York Times be
reporting on Donald Trump so intensely
three years ago I mean this has been a
year in the making this investigation at
least the real question is not the New
York Times the real question is how is
it that the FBI didn't get this how is
it that this guy has been operating with
basic impunity it seems like
for decades and there this corrupt I you
know my theory this is not just
run-of-the-mill wealthy people get by
and I don't even think it's just twenty
five thousand bucks to Cyrus Vance
either Felix Haider it was an asset and
he was working for Trump
so Trump whether he knew it or not was
basically the cover story for an asset
maybe the reason Trump ran for president
was it was the only way he could get out
of this tax mess ever think about that I
think he ran for president because he
was gonna make him money that too well
that would all be that would certainly
he wasn't in any book that was the thing
is he wasn't any went to jail for tax
fraud I mean he got to pick his own
auditor at the IRS basically right well
after the fact yeah sure why wouldn't
you but I think that has more to do with
the Mercer's picking that auditor than
anything else I think Donald Trump must
think he's completely untouchable
because it appears it as if he was and
he probably thought it was because of
him I have a feeling he didn't he was
completely unwitting yeah that's fair
but nobody called Sean Hannity
sweatin it seems like the Cavanaugh
nomination is given a boost to a handful
of mostly Senate Republicans do you
think the Cavanaugh Nam motivation
factor for the GOP will wear off by
midterm election day yes I do I actually
think that it I mean I explained this
yesterday in the house it's because
there are House seats that are more that
are purple that will flip the Senate
you're looking at you know blood red
states but I do think that the net will
be Cavanaugh supporters are not as
intense about voting Eminem a candidate
that talks about canceling student debt
and cares about climate change that was
Stein 2016
it was also I think it's possibly Bernie
well that should tell you about the
feasibility of the Green Party because
even if she had those policies it didn't
lead to well I'm not saying that those
policies are going to get you to win I
just think that my point was that I
think we're that if climate change is
fixed I should say addressed by our
government in the short term it's going
to be as a bank shot it's not going to
be because someone's running as a as an
environmental candidate because it's
clear that it's that climate change is
never gonna be the first reason issue
why people vote don't say never
well not the short term it might be
coming sooner than we think it's very
possible but then we're not in the short
term anymore we're in the it's too late
term but left-handed lefty
Samri climate chaos talking points the
potential average degree changes ideas
completely abstract to most everyone
which allows it to be trivialized and
distorted as your guest mentioned today
economic losses may be a better metric
to highlight GIS property analysis would
would say how many billions of dollars
could be devalued by each successive
foot of sea rice well here's the funny
part about what you wrote is like you
talked about degree changes to be
trivialized and distorted because
they're so abstract and then what you
said after that I barely understood what
you're saying but to the extent that I
could it's completely abstract you know
like property devaluation by billions of
dollars is a super abstract concept
except for maybe those specific
homeowners but it's not abstract for
them that's what I'm saying like I don't
think that there is a way within the ten
years that we're looking at to make
people
perceive climate change is relevant to
them enough to motivate them uh to vote
that's just my my guess I think you got
to do a bank shot well that's that's
assuming that Democrats are even running
on policies that would do anything about
it no that's not assuming that it's
assuming that anybody would be whether
it's Jill Stein or the Democrats or the
Republicans I just don't think there's
ever a door or Bernie it doesn't matter
I don't think that the voters are gonna
respond to that I just don't think that
I think it's just too abstract for them
well I guess we'll see or maybe we won't
right James vote hi Sam I've been
listening in a member for about five
years now I'm reaching out because my
wife and I had a baby boy recently could
you please send me some some spent send
some time on how to discuss politics
with children as they grow up when did
you start now how complicated issues can
get how can I break it down of course
from a left perspective I don't I mean I
talk more about civics with milah and
who is now 13 than I do the specifics of
politics and with Saul I just try and
teach him to be a decent person and let
them fill in the specific issues later
they don't you know it's like it's not
relevant to my kids that Brett Kavanaugh
doesn't appreciate the Chevron doctrine
but I can you know talk to my Allah
about like what the role of government
should be broadly speaking or like she's
doing now like history I'm trying to get
her to listen to some of the podcasts
that we've done about reconstruction and
whatnot but it may be a bit of a reach
tell her listen to aunty Fattah more fun
I may do that come from a 575 area code
who's this where you come from hello
this is a the black African libertarian
again black African
arian again where you come from I'm
calling from New Mexico sir and what
what's on your mind what's on my mind is
that I just called to maybe give a
little bit of good news to everyone
about climate change and and and let
everyone know that that over over 30% of
US oil and gas is owned and and
nationalized by the Department of
Interior the other the other 15 to 20
percent is owned and nationalized by
state governments in the United States
then and and that in that and that if
our agencies are taking over whether we
whether we have a Supreme Court or not
that or against this mom there are
actually positive policies that we can
use to to to deploy these resources that
are already in the hands of the US
government to um as as a revenue stream
which they already are directly into
investing in in green technologies and
and greening up our economy I mean it
sounds like to me in terms of the timing
that using these sources as revenue
streams is part of the problem even more
than it is a solution right like the
idea is to just not is just to shut down
the wells well here's the thing I'm not
saying that I'm not I would personally
kind of disagree with that because
because it only took two in the 1930s
and 40s it only took about ten years to
deploy the West West West Texas oil
fields
and it would and it would only take
about 10 to 15 years to shut down the
oil production while and and I mean it
doesn't shut down in a day and that's a
revenue stream that that that cannot be
taken away by the by by by the
regulatory framework because it's
already deploy
into the system as a revenue stream and
as you use that money to invest you can
shut down fields one by one I mean this
is you're saying I mean I possible I
mean okay and and and the thing is that
a lot of this could be done directly by
but you know I you know we can also do
by uh you know we could also do is we
could say we're gonna shut down those
we're gonna shut those down as soon as
we just expend cash to replace them so
you don't even have to wait for them you
know when I guess you know go ahead no
no I see what you're saying I mean I
think yeah possibly I'd need to sort of
you know dig into a poor but I mean the
only reason that I would say that we
shouldn't announce that we're shutting
them down is because it would cause if
it would cause a huge risk throughout
the markets because and and and it would
and it would and it would uh and it
would affect the price of oil now you
could just do it but you can't just
announce that you're doing it and and
and all these things are possible and
they're possible with with with the
right because you can do this with uh
with by Presidential Decree you you
wouldn't even have to do it by by
through Congress pretty much the only
issue to to the viewers is that we we
would have to have somebody in office
who has the will to do this and then we
could we will have to expect that the
courts will go after this lock stock and
barrel right as soon as as soon as as
soon as it happened but I mean we one of
the big problems that I had with maybe
the guest is that is that um is that
when when you're talking about climate
change we have to talk about climate
change and then we have to talk about
the energy crisis in a programmatic way
that of how to deploy we have to give
people a programmatic programmatic
approach to understand how we can policy
wise fix these things
look I think the problem with the left
is that we're just not offering people
yeah I guess I mean I I appreciate
yourself I appreciate the call I know
you're saying but I think the bottom
line is I think those there there are
plans out there I think we just haven't
gotten there but maybe you're right that
that you know presenting but yes Jamie's
plan would be and capitalism and and and
growth but but I understand what your
your argument is and I think I mean I
think there are those plans I think
there's just like concern that maybe
bringing that out is premature but maybe
maybe not all right let's do one final
call of the day call from a two zero one
area code losses two seven two zero one
who's this gone
let's try nine one nine did I get it
call from a nine one nine area code yep
who's this where you come from
David David from Raleigh what's on your
mind so I just I've been caught all your
shows recently so maybe you've been
knocking it out but I've been really
worried about registration and probably
because I can see internally how it was
kind of an impediment with myself just
just feeling committed to vote basically
uh first off I think everybody listening
right now should check their
registration that's something that I
took too long to do and I had a little
trouble finding out if I was registered
so that kind of took me down to a
another concern that I had which was you
know if I'm not registered same-day
registration and I looked that up in my
state and it looks like there's one-stop
registration so if you're in North
Carolina
on October 17 that's the day where you
can register and vote on the same day
and there's got to be some of that in
some of the other states in the US and
I'm really concerned that you know the
Democrats just need to be hot and heavy
on making sure people are registered and
on top of that figuring out if there's a
way to get them registered and
apparently in my case there is so I
don't have an excuse you know is what
I'm getting it and today as you
mentioned there's 15 states that today
is the deadline to be registered them
Texas is one of them so if you're in
Texas and you want to vote bado
today's the day to get registered yeah
if you don't mind list the other 14
state very quickly this is the last day
to get registered in these states
Arizona Arkansas Florida Georgia Indiana
Kentucky Louisiana Michigan Mississippi
New Mexico Nevada Ohio Pennsylvania
Tennessee and Texas so yeah I just
you did good mention that earlier but I
think we need to mention it multiple
times that we got it we got to be
registered first off and then if we're
not you know to figure out how can we
how can we get registered and there is a
way in some state David I appreciate
your call thank you so much man good way
and like the calls for the day and let's
go a couple more Iams then we're out of
here
great leap forward students are
depressing demo however my daughter at
you as CSB is registered vote and has
helped several of Friends registry as
well go Alex Mac from Maryland I help my
friends who reside in Pennsylvania to
register vote the Cavanaugh confirmation
was the last straw for her great I
guided her through the online
registration mysteriously the online
portal was unable to confirm her
driver's license she was forced to print
it out and mail it in prior to the
postmark deadline and today
certainly not making it easier to
register to vote these days of course
not
visa I hope your you are as classically
smug Sam as possible when going against
mr. Kirk I'm very much looking forward
to this left his best speaking of camp I
went to an adult-themed camp Music
Festival this weekend called Dirty Bird
campout more adults need
can't party experience like this I miss
my mr crew they left his best Ben Sasse
I think the court packing needs to be
non-negotiable for Democrats although
maybe they shouldn't Telegraph that just
yet prepare with me on this I like this
idea of contracting the court
contracting the court by two seats on a
last in first out basis and then maybe a
year or so later you claim the caseload
is too much for a sub the caseload is
too much there should be more judges
anyway so three more producer Lauren
back in 2016 the Vice tv-show gay
keishon with Ellen Page interviewed
Jerry Jerry bolus on ro you should check
it out also I agree that Taylor Swift
did this despite Kanye's some more who I
think is getting more influenced by
certain log cabin Republican in long
that's a good point that's number one
stem and Matt's one stammen dent lawyer
Oh for a Matz First Amendment lawyer
you'll be hearing from my lawyer okay
and the final I am of the day hello -
salmon Mr Crew I don't know how you feel
about cryptocurrency in the mining there
but of but keeping with today's theme of
climate change there's good reason to
hate it turns out mining bit cone alone
dumps about seventeen point seven
million tons of carbon into the
atmosphere I heard one observer compare
it to the equivalent of 1 million
transatlantic flights benefits of
capitalism hashtag alright folks see you
tomorrow in that cig
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
total of Batman's
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
