Oh to the fun half everybody so you're
gonna watch this and experience this
with me in real time I had to run to the
bathroom and I came out and Matt and
Brendan asked me how is Megan McCain
gonna make the incitement against ill on
Omar about herself and I have a lot of
very strong ideas in my mind about this
but I don't know so it's your guest as
good as mine let's find out together
what to say about this mom no look it
was really just type in yes not I can't
wait I was trying to go out to dinner
and ignore politics my family's in town
and like every night yeah that's that's
okay
came home and sat on Twitter and then
sat on TV and look everyone at this
table and I think people to watch the
show or have ever seen the dumpster fire
that was my interview on Seth Meyers
knows that I've been one of on Omar's
most vocal critics on her policy
regarding Israel regarding some four
comments that I and many others
interpreted as anti-semitic but the
problem right now is you're taking away
it was nice of her to distinguish those
two things her policy on Israel and her
criticism which is anti-semitic usually
she I mean everyone come and even Meghan
McCain conflates those two things is the
same thing I've been one of Aloha
nomar's most vocal critics on her policy
regarding Israel regarding some four
comments that I and many others
interpreted as anti-semitic but the
problem right now is yeah never mind
make that distinction I would also say
you and many other disingenuous morons
but go ahead
apologies forgiven yeah look when in
doubt never I mean when in any situation
never give Megan McCain credit cuz by
the way and I say this because I'm
assuming that this isn't like a nice
clip where Megan McCain just says hey
you know I've smeared and demonize Dylan
Omar in the past because I'm an idiot
and don't know what I'm talking about
but the president obviously should not
say this it's pretty terrible okay next
topic Israel regarding some four
comments that I and many others
interpreted as anti-semitic but the
problem right now is your take
getting away my agency to criticize her
policy because you're making us so much
about race xenophobia racism I think any
time you're hitting in a territory where
you're telling any American citizen who
is of a different color than you are to
send them back mm-hmm I too didn't think
this was something that I would see in
in my country especially when we're
going into 2020 and let me tell you
Republicans right now we may be in power
and have I mean if you're gonna do the
center-back
chance at least do it like in 2017 or
2021 what are you talking you didn't see
a trump as president
what are you no ma'am oh my god
and now yeah by the way no ma'am which
is like our McCain's like great moment
no one stops to ever remember by the way
there was one person and I remember this
when Obama was first running for
president and no ma'am refers to some
crazy woman at a McCain rally and she
really did look just like deranged go up
to McCain and say he's an Arab and I
ain't and McCain's like no ma'am he's a
good family man and Colin Powell who
should primarily be remembered for going
to the UN and lying about before the
invasion of Iraq he was on Meet the
Press and he endorsed Obama and I I
don't remember the specifics but I
remember it stood out at the time cuz he
said the bigger answer to John McCain
should it should have been like no he's
not but so what if he was Arab or Muslim
I mean everybody has given McCain that
credit and sure like obviously compared
to Donald Trump I get you know fair
enough whatever but like the subtext of
that of him literally saying like no no
he's not Arabi he's a good person should
be noted and by the way making McCain's
entire goal with regards to her
critiques of Ilhan Omar are to remove
Ilhan OMERS agencies up yer ly to
demonize and lie about her I think this
was something that I would see in in my
country especially one or
going into 2020 and let me tell you
right now we may be in power and have
popularity and Trump's numbers may be
real high but let me tell you it's my
generation that's gonna answer high
among Republicans no not that I wear and
have popularity and Trump's numbers Beit
maybe real high but let me tell you it's
my generation that's going to answer for
this try selling conservatism to a
younger generation when the all they see
is this kind of crap on TV and the Trump
administration all of you Ivanka Jared
cuz you're around my age range what
where are you in this because if my
parents if my if my mom was reporting a
child is traffic at the airport in
Phoenix I would have to look at the
answer to that oh my god I mean Jesus
she gets an applause line I'll tell you
what though
that's uh that's so of course look she
made it about her because the big take I
thought she was gonna bring her dad into
it more so but she made it understand by
saying that you know this basically it
makes her ability to go out on TV and
smear and distort and spread lies about
Allah no more difficult and I'll say
that that's actually true but you know
what even though I'm sure I'm sure Megan
McCain's one of those like yeah whatever
haters like the fact that she feels a
need to come out on that segment and you
know be like this is horrible that
absolutely has something to do with the
fact that she is basically getting
constantly reminded that she represents
pure privilege and a bigoted party
there's no doubt about that
what is this gt-r thing she'd here
tweeted out tweeted out this story says
this and truth is the real source of a
lot of anger among never Trump errs that
Trump's blunt forthright racism makes it
harder to get away with dog-whistle
scurrilous honest that's exactly right
that's 100 presume that's not and I mean
we've been making that observation since
2015 yeah we've been saying that forever
but that's not I mean we're not going to
play it but I mean Mitt Romney said
something the other day like well these
web adieu represent ideas that are
you know he did his his vanilla ice
cream cone version of well I mean he's
the self-deport guy so let's be I'm to
the right of Trump on immigration
immigration
