[Music]
we're gonna talk more about the sort of
ongoing impeachment war that's happening
now that is uh Ben that is involving
Nancy Pelosi doctored Nancy Pelosi
videos a new narrative it seems on the
right in attacking Nancy Pelosi and
Donald Trump holding court with the
court gestures and all of his dukes I
guess and I have no idea commit her
tears yeah he show guys wearing cowboy
hats around him like I'm not unclear
what he had this press conference not
even a press conference some type of
presentation where he's surrounded by
everybody who works at the White House I
guess I don't know who all these people
were and he had to discuss the meeting
in which he stormed out of with Nancy
Pelosi cuz Pelosi had said that he's
engaged in a cover-up and of course the
cover-up reference was to the fact that
the administration on multiple fronts
not just involving the rush
investigation is refusing to release
documents and refusing people to testify
in front of Congress basically saying
you have no business involved in
oversight and to prove that he did not
storm out of this meeting like Nancy
Pelosi said crazy Nancy is what he's
calling you now disintegrating that's
disintegrating Nancy he decided to call
on people who work for the
administration to basically give him to
be what did character witnesses for him
and this is how that went
this is we're in we're in full-on you
know
authoritarian territory here
he said more live television maybe Regis
has you buy a little bit right not by
much Larry Larry you were competing
against and everything so they have this
narrative that they want to put it
because I saw crying shocked yes he gets
the microphone and Larry doesn't go it
he said he was stopping and he was this
and that and Larry you were there there
were many people there by the way many
people we can get you 25 20 other people
to say this what was my attitude
yesterday admit Mercy's right
Callahan's ready were very calm and you
laid out the pace yeah a lot of numbers
what you've contributed in terms of
paperwork and witnesses and so forth
while you were there they didn't say
anything speaker didn't say anything and
you like the major case let's comment
some of our 34 the first season they
went out to the six and addressed the
past and I think you should go back and
play speaker Pelosi's comments from that
day because she made very clear that it
was a productive constructive move
toward infrastructure and some of you
asked her how will you investigate him
and work on infrastructure and she said
we didn't talk about investigations we
were here to talk about infrastructure
so that changed yesterday and our
I said we're just talking about the
meeting you were there yesterday yes
just cuz anybody knows Sarah Sarah we're
just talking about the meeting yesterday
cause it there's so much of this
laughter is like just sort of this
nervous laughter of like weird this is
weird
good the meeting yesterday the narrative
was I was screaming and very calm I've
seen both and this was definitely not
angry or ranting very calm and
straightforward and clear that we have
to actually get to work and do good
things for the American people and it's
gonna be impossible to do that if we're
spending all of our time fighting so
there you go folks what a loyal crew of
people pay the best people I guess I
mean if there's a if there needs to be
some type of crime blotter after this
administration is over and people need
to bring all of them into trial like all
you need to do is refer to this tape and
just to walk them in and say can you
tell them how many people were at my
inauguration - exactly the biggest
inauguration right XANA right Sarah this
is really just disturbing but and we'll
talk about this with Maddie on some
level Trump is getting everything that I
think Nancy Pelosi is afraid that he
will get from an impeachment without the
impeachment at this point this week
we've had hearings on Medicare for all
which got no attention we're having just
you know a more onslaught of news we'll
talk more about this with
but before we do
