[Music]
is a Morning Joe and look the reason why
playing stuff like this is important at
this point is because when we get to
September which is the next debate the
that's when people are gonna start
paying attention I don't know what the
numbers were for the debates but I don't
think there were more than 10 million I
think it was less and both units and I
don't think that more than 30 to 45
percent of Democrats are really keyed in
no to the primary yet and so really I
mean this is the way this our power
politics work I don't know if it works
this way in other countries probably not
in the same way because there's not the
same amount of time and they're so much
shorter and the media is different too
but just like there's the invisible
primary with donors there's another
primary and that is sort of create these
narratives in the media and it's vastly
different than it used to be because of
Twitter I think yeah totally right
because the the they're journalists are
not they're probably having same amount
of conversations with each other but
they're not just having them with each
other yeah
yeah and there's other people in the
room and they're hearing other people
and so we're a big part of it gets
disseminated is on cable television and
particularly like in terms of like the
conventional wisdom because the
interesting thing about a Joe Biden's
candidacy is that I don't feel like the
Democratic establishment is as lined up
of behind him as it was again by Hillary
Clinton and the establishment adjacent
people like you know there's there's a
whole bunch of cohorts that are not with
Joe Biden yeah and there's a sense that
they don't want Bernie but then after
that things get really murky it seems to
me yeah so let's just see what Morning
Joe
has to say about the Democratic race
because who cares but also it's
important okay if you just taken that
democratic debate and you play that
let's say two or three years from now
the Lord you would have no idea that
that democratic debate was set right in
the middle of Donald Trump's amping up
of racial hostilities attacking Elijah
come ahead of oversight Hilma racist
attacking the city of Baltimore
attacking black leaders across the
United States of America
attacking urban centers where there are
majority people of color attacking women
of color who are in Congress leading
chance and they're going after leading
chance in North Carolina to stand her
back this again this is straight out of
a fascist playbook and yet they're
sitting there it can be yes like it's
it's you want to talk about how insane
things feel now the centrist
conventional wisdom this is like the
Kucinich is in the wrong part of the
stage thing right the center of
conventional wisdom now is that why
weren't the Democrats calling the
president of fashion during the bush and
Scarborough completely insane watching
this and also like why aren't they
playing identity politics everything it
is we're like in a parallel you don't
return her leading chance in North
Carolina to send her back this again
this is straight out of a fascist
playbook and yet they're sitting there
quibbling over what Barack Obama did
wrong quickly they need to wake up cuz
they just you know what they just handed
joe biden an advantage between now and
the next debate they need to wake up and
i said it before they didn't listen
that's fine
nobody listened when we said that trump
could win
everybody mocked us and ridicule this is
how we got this in the bag so a lot of
people stay down whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa I
would like to check the record on that
but be that it may also I would also
like to remind these two that to the
extent that there were people in the
media who were helpful to Donald Trump
mm-hmm like it to the point of coaching
him mm-hmm yeah I listened to Joe when
he when he replied positively to Trump
saying you make me look good right and
that hot mic mm-hmm but continued focus
on Donald Trump okay repeat after me I
will not attack Barack Obama I will
focus on Donald Trump and the dangers
his presidency brings it's really easy I
actually tweeted it you can read it
slowly five times before you go to bed
every night I'll even do a mindfulness
tape for you well gets like that sound
of bobbling Brooks in the background oh
that's no sign of mine five well I will
whisper focus your focus your focus be
present I can see what's happening right
now Lee that's what I'll do for you
because I care about you so much but
really you're letting yourself down
you're letting the country down sit all
right it's interesting because this is
what you know part of the reason why I
like the whole never Trump or phenomena
I never wanted to in ever give them any
type of legitimacy yeah because or
validate that I mean yeah you want to go
and fight against Donald Trump let's
super psyched yeah and you know if I can
lend you some provisions I'll drop it
off you know down by the rock you pick
it up and go take it good but they don't
want the Democrats to have a debate they
don't want the Democrats to to develop
any proposals they don't want a
reconsideration you know Matt Stoller
have you been reading math scholars to
get her feet on the
yeah because Matt Stoller has been
obviously a longtime critic of Barack
Obama I mean I had him on the show in
2012 I think we were debating you know
Mitt Romney do you vote for Mitt Romney
or Barack Obama I don't think he was
suggesting voting for Mitt Romney but I
think he was suggesting that there would
be no difference right and and I don't
think that that I still don't think that
was the case and certainly I was
critical of Barack Obama from you know
the cramdown on I think in terms of
bankruptcies but it is really relevant
to assess his his presidency and figure
out what the Democratic Party now thinks
is unacceptable yeah mass deportations
right like a whole host of provisions
that he did I think in policy there's
this really weird idea that saying I'm
like I'm critical of some things that
happened during the Obama administration
is going to like personally offenders
who voted who like who who supported him
basically like they will be personally
offended if you say well he shouldn't
have deported so many people I don't I
mean I don't think that maybe that is
something that would happen but I don't
really know there's any evidence of that
well they have to keep Khan in an attack
and it's like no one's asking people to
go milk shake Obama it's just like it's
just saying he should have gone further
in certain areas yeah I mean I guess the
theory is this that if you if you say
that Obama wasn't good
you're gonna lose you're gonna take
yourself out of the trust circle the
circle of trust which is the media
training term and then once you're out
of the circle trust anything you say
nobody's gonna listen to ya
because you're gonna think you come from
a different planet and I don't think
those people are that engaged in the
debates at this moment and and and
frankly I I also don't see how that
works
somebody's gonna come out and be I mean
maybe it's gonna help Joe Biden to do
that I mean that seems to me to be an
argument that you shouldn't attack Obama
because it's gonna help Biden
yeah III don't know if I agree with that
argument but I mean personally I would
have liked to see them instead of
cleaving Biden to Obama and attacking
Obama and Biden that way I mean I think
it's right to criticize the immigration
thing talk about it but I would have
asked what did you mean when you said
that when when Trump is gone you'll be
able to deal with Mitch McConnell well
like right like are you saying that that
that Obama blew it yeah
yeah right because that's the unfort of
that the unspoken part of that is Biden
hints a lot that other Republican to
listen to me like and you know why
that's exactly what I would like Cory
Booker or Kamala Harris in particular to
ask Joe Biden why do you think you're
better than Barack Obama yeah why yeah
well how are you gonna succeed here
where where you feel I'm quite frankly
I'm shocked that none of them have
brought that up in the context because
that seems to me to be a line of
questioning that reporters would like ya
to go after I don't know why nobody has
but
