Ronald Reagan you are an immigration
lawyer and so you would have particular
insight into the huge danger that that
the the women and children and men who
are in Mexico a thousand miles away from
the border walking towards us represent
to this country right this is a clip of
secretary nielsen of the Department of
Homeland Security she's being asked by
who is it on Fox News here is it Martha
McAllen Martha McCallum I think it's
Cobra the Sylvester Stallone and Cobra
the glasses they are wearing the Ray
Bans and they're both there it's almost
like they're interviewing themselves but
be that today
Martha McAllen is the premier journalist
at Fox or she builds herself I think is
that myself our Guatemalan scary yes
indeed self there are two 2,500 people
mostly families walking because they
don't have the resources to to come in
another safe way through Mexico
presumably headed to the United States
although we don't know how many of them
are ultimately but let's assume all of
them are and they're it's not exactly a
surprise attack right because we have
over a month's worth of notice that
they're walking towards it that's what
that's what Reagan said could happen
right this is the Sandinistas were just
you know a five week walk away from our
southern border but no one concede now
fortunately it appears like Department
of Homeland Security is prepared for
this let's listen to this exchange there
any scenario under which if people
forced their way across the border they
could be shot at we do not have any
intention right now to shoot at people
they will be apprehended however
but I also take my officer and agent
their own personal safety
extraordinarily seriously they do have
the ability of course to defend
themselves so if shot at they would
shoot back now I just I think we'd have
to work through that but I want to make
it very clear we will absolutely not
tolerate violence against Border Patrol
in this situation these are dedicated
men and women risking their lives every
day I will not tolerate Mexicans or
anybody else acting in a violent way
towards our men and women on the border
has there been any any notion that these
people are armed or interested in
actually shooting at American border
agents as a way of busting through the
border with their kids I I like that
they thought it was a question that
needed to be asked like what would
American law enforcement dealer shot at
by a brown person right like as if we
have any doubt what would happen mmm no
and you know there I think there was a
nice Twitter account that tweeted out
that there were some people in the crowd
with gang ties which first of all if you
already know that it should be super
easy to keep them out of the country if
you've already been able to run
background checks and and suss out like
stuff out who who has criminal history
then it's going to be super easy by the
time they get to the border to just not
let those people in let me ask you this
yeah if we thought that were silent if
we thought there were violent gang
members in that Caravan and we could
take them off the violent playing field
for five or six weeks because they were
taking they were doing a walkathon
essentially would be great I mean to
like to have like all of these gang
members sidelined for a month because
they're walking through Mexico on a
walkabout seems to me to be quite
advantageous to everybody involved
they went from violence to being human
rights of protesters right sounds like a
good evolution this is d-dear it seems
like the worst way to try and
sneak into the country like in a giant
group that's on the news every day so
yeah it actually makes the job a lot
easier or Border Patrol I mean basically
what I think we'll probably end up
happening what happens in like Tijuana
is we've actually given over a lot of
the power to the Mexican government to
basically create like a waiting list
they give out certain numbers of people
who can come and and present themselves
and and there's actually a lawsuit on
that right now and my guess is they'll
try and get the Mexican government to
basically implement some sort of lottery
system or a waiting list and the people
will get to Tijuana or wherever they're
going and they'll just sort of languish
there while we let in you know ten
people a day for interviews but yeah I
mean I had court yesterday in Seattle I
tweeted about this and and there was a
lady from Guatemala and her two little
girls and they didn't speak Spanish they
speak a dialect and and the judge asked
if she spoke Spanish and she I couldn't
answer that question and so he kept
asking her more questions in Spanish
anyway that it was yeah this is an
immigration court for you but you know I
sat there and just watched these two
little girls who were scared and like
didn't really know what was going on and
to think about the journey of this woman
and what she's probably been through and
and you know it's to and then to imagine
living a life where these people were
you felt threatened by these people in
any way is it's really sad but you know
there's mechanisms in place to to
interview these people and see who's at
risk of persecution and and it's
something we've been doing for years and
it hasn't caused any major crises or
catastrophes so it's weird that it's on
than it is but you know this elections
all
caravan and Cavanaugh that's what Trump
said the other day so appreciate the
phone call Ron Reagan but now the bomb
is distracting I also will make a
prediction that 15 minutes after the
election will be the last time you hear
about the caravan
