[Music]
well mention that like that Felix Seder
thing just because I think people know
that's my my pet my pet theory about
that
Felix aider plays a big role largely in
part just because to and some odd years
ago Wayne Barrett just kept telling me
over and over again it's all Felix aider
and with the Muller report having
dropped maybe we will see it I suspect
we will see at least parts of it don't
know how much he sounds like a
white-collar criminal
Felix aider oh yeah well he's I mean
what we do know about Felix aider is
seems to be some type of FBI CIA asset
to the extent that Loretta Lynch former
attorney general but when she was back
at the Eastern District of of the US
Attorney's Office wrote an affidavit on
his behalf after he stabbed a guy in the
face with a broken glass dam which is a
weird thing for someone to do but
apparently he's been an asset to the FBI
supposedly there's reporting that he was
the guy who got the CIA bin Laden's
phone number which is in the way that
they tracked him and there's this
lawsuit that basically claims he ran off
with the another I guess it was a
mayor's family in Kazak with four
hundred some odd million dollars that he
was going to launder this is with the
lawsuit alleges he was going to launder
through the Trump Tower in Moscow as
well as other places around the world
and also coming back to Trump Soho Tower
and so this guy was a money launderer
and a special adviser to Donald Trump
and he sounds like the antagonist from a
Bond movie yeah exactly honest without
even knowing any of that stuff you just
said well he says I think he was a he
was a stoolie he was an asset and and he
was probably run out of the New York FBI
office so I know you start to get you
know you obviously I mean nothing I've
said is is speculative it's all been
reported there is a lawsuit there is an
affidavit that Loretta Lynch put in
there what the meaning of it is I don't
know but
there is some intrigue here and it
suggests you know the in terms of the
the genesis of the investigation that
Muller ultimately took over from Comey
after Comey was fired by the president
the president said I fired him because
he was investigating I mean that's you
know I there's no doubt that I can see
our way to look past this right I mean
look there's no doubt that there were
people who used this investigation for
their own purposes ranging from you know
people who want to be on TV quite a bit
and to people who thought that maybe it
would help them electoral II we know the
Democrats didn't run on that
particularly but you know on some level
it's in the background I think it was
used at times that it you know when it
looked like Donald Trump was in serious
legal jeopardy that it may have made
some legislators more hesitant
Republicans to push certain things but
in terms and and and certainly there
were people who have I think who used it
for you know to inflate their podcast
numbers or to promote a a foreign policy
I mean that's what happens in politics
people use different things that are
happening but as far as the genesis of
it
you have a campaign where they bring on
a guy who's been monitored by spy
services you know Carter Paige who I met
and I think is it's just a rant a raving
lunatic and I'm not sure you know I
would trust him to lead me out of a you
know building with two sets of stairs
frankly but this is a guy that they had
been monitoring because of his behavior
and then he joins the Trump campaign
there are other connections they I don't
know to what extent you know you see
Felix Seder and if you know he's an
asset at that time well then it makes a
lot of sense if you don't know he's an
asset then you start to wonder like why
is all this money coming into these uh
into these Trump Towers why are all
these meetings I happen to think Donald
Trump did not think he was gonna win and
in those situations like you promised
people stuff if you think it's going to
help your relationship that's called
business right I mean come making deals
yeah hey Brendan I may get a TV show so
why don't you hang out here and put in a
couple of extra hours and when I get
that TV show you're gonna be a producer
I don't think I'm gonna get the TV show
but Brendan comes in and puts in extra
hours and all of a sudden I get the TV
show and like oh damn it I've got to
I've got to let Brendan work on the show
now I screwed up but I'm not convinced
that wasn't the nature of it but from
the perspective of investigators who are
looking into this in the summer of 2015
or 2016
and then the president fires the lead
investigator and announces I needed to
get him off basically like a didn't like
the fact he was investigating me you
know like well I'm not sure what people
are supposed to do at that point did
other people run with it absolutely and
and I think people have to be held to
account with how far they got out in
front of this story but the story
was real the investigation did exactly
what it should do and in the meantime it
also found a lot of malfeasance by a lot
of different players which has been
going on and and and I don't think that
excuses it though
I think we should be rounding up more of
them and I don't you know whether it's
you know whatever firms were we're doing
crap like this I don't know why they
weren't rounded up in the first place I
do know why they weren't so I don't you
know I have no idea what's in the report
at this point I don't know that we have
an accurate reflection from William Barr
who you know but I imagine we're gonna
see parts of the report I don't know
that I should believe William bars
assessment that in fact Russia
interfered in the election but you know
like I said up from sin from day one of
course they did it would be malfeasance
for them not to we do it I mean how
could we not be doing this that's what's
done and there's a fundamental problem
with the country that you know allows
for that level of interference to even
be considered to have any implications
on the outcome of an election there were
you know 20 different things that I
think had gone a different way
the outcome would have been different
but yes there's an underlying problem in
the country that that it would be so
close and you know I'm not gonna we can
have other conversations we've had
millions of them as to what the
underlying problems are but that aside
you know the idea that this was a hoax
from the beginning is absurd yes there
were people who who got out in front of
where the the investigation was but to
suggest that the whole thing should have
been completely ignored like I mean I
even think like the first Benghazi
hearing probably was worthwhile
it was the eighth one that became you
somewhere along that spectrum where
became ridiculous and to spend your time
covering it would have been a joke but
to have to completely ignore this and to
assume that it was initiated because of
like these weird that these other sort
of like narrow agendas like and it may
be the case that this was exploited to
achieve other goals definitely I mean
that's that's what happens all the time
right I mean it's it's not explained my
interest in it well I mean it it it does
all things people try to use in politics
people try to make a case from Donald
Trump's win that we should have a
different type of Democrat win and we
make those arguments or you know be the
nominee people look at you know I mean
this is this is the this is the way that
politics work and you can I think it's a
perfectly legitimate criticism to make
of the way that this was exploited and I
think we did a fairly decent job over
the course of this to not you know
reward those who were I think
transparently or even less transparently
trying to use this investigation and get
out in front of it and so wait now I
happen to not think that any of this is
resolved in any way I think there's you
know from the beginning I think we were
talking like most of this is gonna come
down to financial I mean I think we were
saying that and you know they want
literally that it was just gonna be
stories about money laundering but that
was basically all based upon you know
some discussions and an interview that
we did on this program with Wayne
Barrett who's been following Donald
Trump and this whole stuff for for a
long time but I can understand why
people in Washington might been like hey
we're investigating him and a fairly
routine thing and then he fires the the
head of the FBI that's weird
it's a little bit weird and but yes
we're there politicians and media
figures who basically thought like I'm
gonna ride this yeah of course and you
know they've got to dig themselves out
of a hole but hundreds of thousands of
people did not die
millions of people were not made
internal and external refugees we ended
up not having World War three if we
haven't at this point I don't think
we're going to at least as this is a
foundation I'm not saying there weren't
bad things that came out of this but
certainly no worse than you know what's
happening to people in Puerto Rico for
God's sakes
there's no comparison right exactly
the to the extent that there's been any
damage done by this it's that maybe we
don't see as much about what's going on
in Puerto Rico but you know to the
extent that we do know a stuff about
Puerto Rico there's there's a decent
crossover by you know like and you know
I don't to the extent that I saw the
most coverage of Puerto Rico it mostly
came on Hayes's show and and then you
know no me cons going down there and you
know the the Democracy Now and stuff
like this but it's not like Fox News was
covering a lot of stuff is going on Rico
they were doing white nationalist yeah
Chuck Carlson was not featuring the the
the plight of Puerto Ricans and and
their lack of electricity so that is the
media is bad folks yeah and and and and
here's the thing I think that is also a
media here's the thing that I think is
also good well III think here's the
thing but we don't do any you know of
first hand reporting and and everything
that we do on this program is contingent
upon their being reporters and so make
no mistake about that we're not
we are not reporters we are aggregators
who assess and essentially curate and
editorialize based upon reporting that
exists and anybody on YouTube who tells
you they're reporting anything it's full
of garbage and to the extent that we
provide any service it's you know we
read it and we make assessments so that
you don't have to in overtime you judge
whether our assessments and what we
present is relevant and at least sound
in some manner and that's the way you
should approach all of your media and
when you find that it's not then you
theoretically act accordingly
yeah the amount of funding that it takes
the amount of overhead that it takes to
go out there and do real reporting in
the world is a lot it's too much for a
podcast certainly and it scares me that
it's drying up yes it's very problematic
and and I will add that the the power of
cable news is greatly diminished from
where it was just even 10-15 years ago
certainly 20 years ago in the run-up to
the Iraq war if you looked on page 8 or
10 of The New York Times or The
Washington Post or maybe you saw
reporting from McClatchy you could see
tells that this the run-up to the Iraq
war was full of crap but it was
overwhelmed because there was no
mechanism like there is today to amplify
those stories to push back but social
media the growth of YouTube which did
not exist at that time but to basically
social media
allowed for people who were you know
small groups of people smaller groups of
people to amplify counter narratives so
it is true there was a lot of people who
anticipated Muller to go in there I
guess then arrest Donald Trump even
though we knew early on that you can't
that according to the DOJ of which he is
a part of as special and vessel
you can't indict a sitting president but
there was a lot of motivated reasoning
there and that motivated reasoning was
certainly not inhibited in any way by
various commentators and newsreaders in
cable news outlets but the bottom line
is is that cable news does not have the
same power it did then and it did not
lead to the and it did not lead and I
don't think there was ever a danger it
seems to me of leading to you know
people who speak Russian getting beat up
in Coney Island or and and people make a
decent argument that that news outlets
various news outlets were punished in
the wake of this but I will remind you
they were punished or you know singled
out and D ranked or smeared in some way
not because of the story that Donald
Trump was colluding with the Russian
government but that the Russian
government was interfering with the
election which it did they were teachers
well I mean I don't know what I'm not I
don't know that it brought about a
different result
but if you're gonna believe William Bar
they did and just like we should not be
doing this with Venezuela or any other
country and I'm not sure
that they did but they did and so that
becomes a pretext to to punish different
media outlets I understand that sucks
when there was white Nationals you know
AT&T was ended up through YouTube
advertising on on Nazi sites we got
demonetised for months it was scary but
the you know the at the end of the day
the investigation ran its course found
that there was no criminal charges that
could be pursued we're not going to know
one third of this story by the end of it
I'm convinced too that there's gonna be
fuck-ups there's gonna bend
cover-your-ass situations that's always
the case with this we always see the
shadows we see the reflections the the
outlines but I don't see how the
government could have reacted the
apparatus could have reacted any
differently I mean at any at any
juncture and Trump was obviously very
worried about an investigation and it
turns out he was probably worried about
it for a different reason because of
other criminal activities he's been up
to that we're a lot more banal but you
started acting that way you know they
think you might have a body in the trunk
and it turns out all you have is like 10
kilos of cocaine but if you speed off as
the cops coming after you they're
they're going to act as if they think I
mean they thought that you might have a
body in the in the car and you drive
down the road and you speed off they're
gonna chase you so I mean I think that's
a lot of what we we saw in this instance
and then definitely guilty of something
well I mean we know like you know weep
and that's you know that raises a whole
nother set of questions it's like how is
it that this guy got away with all this
stuff in New York for so long when you
have some very ambitious prosecutors and
that is a story I also don't know that
we will and I think they look to service
their ambition elsewhere
yeah well the question is why and I
think it's probably a different answer
depending on who it is I mean look we
know why let's say a guy like
Schneiderman maybe who maybe for reasons
like he didn't feel comfortable going
after Trump because maybe maybe there's
a whole host of people he didn't feel
comfortable going after because of of
aspects of his personal life and that
you know but New York does have a long
history of corruption indeed which you
know brings up questions once again of
the level of influence that money has in
politics and Oleg arcs and all that
stuff indeed
