here's larry summers weighing in on what
progressives are doing in terms of
taxation and just as stunning I you know
it's just important the reason why we
play this I mean cuz honestly it's like
you know why like like why are we giving
Larry Summers the the time of day he
represents the he's sort of like the
frontline of I think like the well III I
don't want to call it neoliberal because
I get annoyed when that word is used I
think it's one of the most appropriate
yeah that would actually be like a
pretty much he Aki exact use of that
word in this instance he is representing
a not just a neoliberal but just really
ultimately you know the the moneyed view
on this I'm driving to Wall Street
Harvard axis exactly and he is going to
couch it in the context of a policy
analysis and here it is of real estate
there's no reason why proper base
broadening reforms of the income tax a
positive just go back let's let's go
back to the start he is criticizing the
really slamming Warren and Sanders a
wealth tax proposal and and here it is
other provisions that are in the spirit
of carried interest or exchanges of real
estate there's no reason why proper base
broadening reforms of the income tax
that reduce distortions within the
income tax couldn't raise more than two
trillion dollars
which is over 10 years which is
substantially more than the revenue
claims that are held out for the wealth
tax I think for progressives to invest
their energy in a proposal that the
Supreme Court has better than a 50%
chance of declaring unconstitutional
that has very little chance of passing
through the Congress these revenue
potential is extraordinarily in doubt
for that to be the defining element in
the progressive agenda in the United
States it seems to me is to potentially
sacrifice and immense opportunity now is
it which Peterson Institute is it's not
the Pete Peterson Institute right will
you check on that there's a couple of
things to sort of break down here first
off he's hiding the ball because the
idea of a wealth tax is not only to get
revenue he's suggesting you can do that
much more efficiently through the income
tax now Warren and Sanders and people
who support a wealth tax would have to
be total idiots to think that you can't
just raise that money through raising
the income tax the idea is is that
having people with that amount of wealth
in society distorts our democracy it
distorts our politics it is it creates
instability in society and the idea of a
wealth tax is not just to raise money it
is to diminish the amount of money that
is held in literally the hands of the
number of people who could fit in a
of the the conference hall I'm in right
now not even a quarter I mean two or
three hundred people we're talking about
maybe less even and the idea that it
can't pass through Congress if it can't
pass through Congress then it doesn't
pass through Congress and the idea that
there isn't a host of policies that are
being talked about now that the Supreme
Court isn't possibly going to strike
down we don't know that medicare-for-all
or the public option for that matter
would be unchallenged by the Supreme
Court
we have no idea and and then he makes
this shirt a straw man about it being
like the central position I mean from a
tax from a tax perspective it might be
because it's you have both Warren and
Sanders that is like the most prominent
tax they're talking about but this
Sanders talks about his Wall Street
transaction tax a lot too I mean I don't
I don't even necessarily and they both
talk in fact all of them are at stalk
about repealing you know the Trump top
end cuts I just want to add to I mean to
the extent and I think it's important to
balance all of the variables from you
know the white identity politics the
Republican Party but also this this
model that has produced such disastrous
outcomes for many people across the
country Larry Summers is like the
embodiment of it I mean he is at every
single decision making point of bad
policy that Democratic administrations
have done from the perspective of people
who work in this country
he's also personally worked at de Shaw
on Wall Street big hedge and I believe
it was the SH I think he worked there
and also this is tangential but I really
would welcome that everybody should look
up
Larry Summers world bank case for toxic
dumping in the third world and remember
that he's acting for his job he's angry
for a job - like it's isn't even like
you know I might those days are behind
me and I'm just gonna give you the
straight dope he knows that he's not
getting a job in Sanders or Warren
administration in Warren's case very
personal reasons so nice is very
self-interested even beyond he's been
going out slamming more Warren I mean
Warren kept him from becoming the
chairman of the Fed yep almost
single-handedly prevented him from
becoming chairman of the Fed and that
was a job apparently that he coveted
like no other and he's and I think he
still does and I and I noticed you know
Ryan grim pointing this out that it when
news outlets are saying you know just
giving you the you know summers says
plan is unrealistic and at the very
least you got a cover I mean I have you
know purse there there is a huge
personal dimension with Warren right you
know all right let's
