[Music]
on the majority report on the phone
Denis Lewicki who has been involved in
managing and facilitating social justice
and development for almost 45 years
works with community groups government
agencies to address issues of poverty
homelessness and discrimination and
author of magnificent fight the Winnipeg
general strike Denis welcome to the
program good to hear from you so all
right so we are today's the 100
anniversary is that correct absolutely
in May 15th 1919 all the action started
all right well I mean let's just start
just briefly and I want to circle back
to this and and and and tease it out
more but briefly why why is it important
for us to remember this strike you know
I'm not a historian I'm a journalist by
training and activist by inclination but
I think that what history gives us is
it's it's a it's a prism through which
we can see ourselves today and the 1919
strike was a struggle for social justice
for human rights so by looking back at
it I think we can see some of the
dynamics in our own society our own time
and how we're relating to them so I
think it's a useful tool of course it's
not a blueprint we don't get a blueprint
from history but it helps us understand
and especially when we're doing anything
that requires collective thinking you
know it helps a group for example I do a
lot of work with young people high
school students and it doesn't take them
long to draw the links between the past
and the present and then the discussions
about the present and I think that's
where history and especially the strike
in our case is a really dynamic it's a
great resource alright let's talk a
little bit about just so the folks get a
sense of
of Winnipeg it is a city now I say
probably about the size of like a
Seattle yeah but a million population
million okay you know so alright and so
uh tell us a little bit about what
Winnipeg was like a hundred years ago
Winnipeg at one point was the third
biggest city in Canada and they actually
was called the Chicago of the north
because of the amount of grain that was
traded through the Grain Exchange so in
both between 1900 and 1920 it was a
booming place I mean the population grew
from 40,000 in 1900 almost a hundred and
eighty thousand twenty years later and
it was a real agricultural and
industrial center three railroads
converged here there were 13 banks the
Grain Exchange the industry's
metalworking industries huge yield
production for the for the construction
of big buildings at one time there were
13 what we calls or what people call
skyscrapers at the time and one of them
that was built in 1906 was to consider
the tallest building in the British
Empire so these are just indicators of
an economy that was really really
growing fast and and really involving a
lot of new people so a lot of those
thousands of growth there were
immigrants there were people coming from
Britain the United Kingdom and Eastern
Europe to work in the industries or to
work in agriculture so there was a huge
influx of immigrants that really was
changing not only the economic and labor
relations situation but was really
affecting the the cultural character of
the time so it was really a dynamic time
for most it was an exciting time for
some it was bringing about change that
was a threat so it
it was it was good in many ways but it
also created stresses and strains on the
society at the time okay and so you
mentioned that it was renowned for
having a skyscraper and the strikes
started at least in part with some of
those construction workers tell us but
what what led up to the strike well
there were two real key groups at the
time that were negotiating for better
wages and working reduced to working
hours that was people working in the
construction trades electricians
carpenters that kind of skilled
tradesmen and then on the other side
there were the metal trades workers or
tinsmith Boilermakers these two groups
were negotiating with their employers at
the time and mainly it was around wages
but if you remember at that time it was
eight to ten hour days and six day weeks
it was you know nothing like we have
today so they were always trying to
negotiate better working conditions and
benefits for workers the employers were
very resistant to that and at that time
remember that the unions were not
formally or legally recognized so there
was a very informal relationship between
the unions and the employer so on one
hand for example in the construction
trades the contractors the big
construction companies that were
building those buildings they knew that
they had to pay more they agreed that
workers were not getting paid much there
was a time when during the First World
War when wages were in effect frozen as
part of the National response to the war
effort
so the employers in some cases knew
there had to be improved and sent
increased wages but there were
disagreements over how much and and when
to apply these changes so it was a like
I say a dynamic time lots of
construction lots of
work being done but it was a situation
where the workers we're expecting more
out of their labor at the time all right
and so and so give us a sense of I mean
it's injury so the dynamic from almost a
generic sense is a situation where the
workers are aware of just how much those
owning these companies and presumably
the growth of who are benefiting the
capitalists who are benefiting from the
the growth of the city and this is
building resentment walk us through how
you know who went on strike first
how this things spread but I'm also
curious at this point because in the
states at this time particularly 1919 in
many respects and certainly in 1920
there's a lot of rather you know famous
like a mate Juan was in the states I
think it was maybe 1920 there were there
was a lot of striking that was going
around particularly through the the
19-teens there at least in the earlier
part so how much how much were the
unions in Canada what was their
relationship with the unions where I
should say you know the the workers in
the States good I'm glad you brought
that out because prior to the strike
there was a lot of labor action in these
states and in Europe this was a global
phenomenon where unions were organizing
they were in the night in the 1880s and
1890s a lot of their workers were
organizing into unions both in Canada
and the United States so they were
really developing and testing the their
Union muscle at the time and there was
resistance obviously from employers they
wanted to control wages and control
workers so it was a time when there were
thousands of strikes even in Europe
bring back
- like 1906 1907 Belgium Spain there
were major major strikes the the
Russians you know before they took power
in 1917 they were using general strikes
as a way of putting pressure on the
government at the time so you know it
was a pretty universal phenomenon in
fact I'm glad you mentioned you know
Seattle in January of 1919 at a huge
strike 65,000 workers went off for a
week and it in many ways was a template
for what happened here in Winnipeg so
this does you to respond to your
question about how it all got launched
here the metal trades and the
construction trades workers were
negotiating in March and April not
getting very far so both of those went
on strike
on May 1st and made 2nd of 1919 that
really was the catalyst to there was a
strike they were pushing for wages and
reduced hours they went on strike that
then got the Winnipeg trades and labor
council which represented other unions
in the city who then called for a vote
on whether or not they would support
those workers on on strike while the
response was overwhelming eleven
thousand eight thousand members voted to
own a general strike only about six
hundred voted not to go on a general
strike so right from the beginning you
can see there was a lot of union
solidarity and and in common interest of
course at the time that then brought out
roughly another twelve thousand workers
or eighteen thousand workers and as I
said earlier the population of about a
hundred and eighty thousand so you had
10 times 10 percent of the population on
strike on May the 15th 1919 100 years
ago today the other interesting factor a
phenomenon was that within a few days
another 12,000 workers who were not
unionized went on strike they were
immigrants large
working in small businesses some of them
domestic servants for example and in the
homes of her the city's rich and they
basically walked off their jobs as well
so that surprised everyone but what it
meant was that there was now thirty
thousand workers on strike in a city of
a hundred and eighty thousand and just
to add to another dimension so we're
talking numbers the veterans who were
coming back to Canada from the first
world war they saw a lot of them saw
common cause with the strikers mean they
wanted jobs they wanted to be treated
fairly
they had just sacrificed a lot in the
name of democracy and they already
wanted to enjoy the fruits of that
democracy so about another four or five
thousand veterans got involved so within
a few days after May 15 because almost
thirty five thousand workers on strike
they carried through that in a labor
action for six weeks and so yeah I mean
you're talking about almost twenty
percent of the population and I would
imagine much higher figure relative to
the working age population right because
we're you know I mean and and so that
has devastating effects I'm curious
about this dynamic before we get to you
know how this ends
and what happens over those six weeks
but the the idea that you'd have 12,000
non-union workers join the the Union
strikes the idea that you had four to 4
to 5 thousand veterans who are obviously
you know sort of I would imagine they
still have particularly close bonds
particularly at that time having just
come back from the war so there's a
tremendous amount of solidarity amongst
the veterans there is in this country
now and I imagine there's some maybe
analog in Canada although to be honest
with you I don't know a movement amongst
unions that are trying to turn away from
the managerial unionism that has
dominated the union movement of
past I don't know four or five six six
decades and move towards a more of a
social justice unionism which you know
as in broad swaths basically means that
you as a union you don't just fight for
your own wages and your own job you
fight for issues you create solidarity
across society by picking up and and
fighting for the issues that are shared
by folks in the working class and shared
by folks across you know some amount of
classes the non capitalist class let's
let's put it that way and so how much of
like well what was what was the
consciousness of of how the approach was
taking at that time I mean if the if the
unions were able to mobilize twelve
thousand non-union workers which is you
know more that I mean almost you know
almost the same amount of unionized
workers maybe a little bit less but in
total with the veterans they were able
to mobilize uh you know a significant
amount of the population how what was
that a function just of everyone having
a shared resentment or was there a plan
to build cross you know intra unions
solidarity or was it because they were
immigrants or what was that well there
were a number of things I would say
however one of the key elements that
kind of glued together that class
solidarity was a lot of these immigrants
came from situations in Europe where
they had felt oppression you know they
were living under draconian regimes
feudal regimes so they came to Canada
with a couple of expectations one they
were coming to Canada to build a new
country to build a new nation and it
wasn't just their labor it
their their tenacity their courage their
resilience that they knew they were
bringing to Canada secondly a lot of
these organizations were very very
independent these people were very very
independent so they built their
synagogues they built their labor
temples they built their churches they
set up their community organizations
they started benevolent societies you
know they were they were not waiting for
government I mean there was no
expectation the government would provide
these these service and so there was an
ethic right from the beginning of people
helping themselves helping each other
and we can tell many stories of you know
different ethnic groups that may have
been fighting in Europe but became to
Canada and started working together
there was a collaboration around issues
so I think that was a kind of a seminal
part of the changes that were taking
place a lot of the social services prior
to the 1920s were provided by church
groups or by benevolent groups many of
the middle class and there was a sense
of and you know that it was important to
help one's neighbor to to help the disc
destitute remember there were a lot of
widows created from the first world war
and daily they rarely had a good
alternative income so there were these
women and children that needed support
and because we're kind of a smaller
country than the states and our cities
were smaller at the time there you know
people knew and could see the conditions
that people were living in and there was
that effort to respond so one of the
things that's maybe a little different
between Canada and States is that we had
a bit of that social unionism right from
the early 1900s and so we pushed through
and whether directly initiated by the
unions or initiated by the progressive
political parties with the support of
the unions but we've got a lot of you
know socialized medicine and improved
educational services you know
unemployment insurance and things like
that and that we've had
you know decades here so it's a little
different but I I'm really glad you
mentioned this in terms of the the
union's responding to economic and
cultural conditions today and especially
a lot of young people want to get
involved in organizing around
environmental issues and social issues
you know confronting races and the
things like that and the unions are
responding they are getting on board and
seeing that there is that sense of both
obligation and benefit when we all work
together around these issues so the
strike ends on six weeks later more or
less at least officially I guess on what
is known as bloody Saturday what what
happened on that day yes I was you know
it was a constructed spontaneous
conflict State the local elite had been
planning and trying to figure out ways
of confronting the unions they were
ready for a fight you know they had
special police hired ready to to
intervene they had military ready so
that when the veterans planned a silent
march a silent demonstration on June the
21st and it started out very very
peacefully about 8,000 people
congregated in front of City Hall in
downtown Winnipeg but the authorities
were not up for tolerating any of that
they they charged in with horses and
clubs and at one point they even pulled
out the revolvers and killed a couple of
men killed two men so it was a brutal
suppression of the of the workers and of
the veterans
anyways that like I say they were very
clear that it had to be a peaceful
violent protest and they were protesting
the arrest of 10 men that had been
arrested just a few days earlier and the
raids that took place on three of the
labor temples again the state had no
authority to make these raids and
arrests but they did and
public was incensed and so there were
demonstrations all across Canada and the
one plant here in Winnipeg on june 21st
was to culminate and really expressed
the the the public's criticism of the
government and what they had done with
these men and with the labor temples and
so what happened in the wake of Bloody
Saturday well you know the workers I'm
sure know not being there but you know
from the records we had the workers were
obviously disillusioned by that because
it seemed that strike had become very
violent throughout these six weeks the
unions were constantly saying the best
thing that for the workers to do during
the strike the wind was to do nothing
not confront not challenged not
demonstrate so when this happened it
demoralized everyone and the sexual
strike committee and called an end to
the strike for June 25th now in a way
the the interesting echo or waves that
came out of that in the next two years a
number of very progressive and labor
oriented politicians were elected to
office in the city government the
provincial government and the federal
government and just to give you a
snapshot three of the so-called strike
leaders that were charged with and
convicted of seditious conspiracy they
were in jail in 1920 when they ran for
the provincial legislature and they were
elected overwhelmingly elected even
though they were never allowed out of
jail so you know the the the the
aftermath really was a vote of the
people on the strike and they voted
their support for the strike and
described the strike leaders and in so
following that like what were the I
guess the I guess you know then the
echoes and the ripples of that's right I
mean did we see any type of reforms I'm
curious if there was ever any analogous
legislation and you know I'm jumping
ahead of course taft-hartley happened in
this country the in the 40s late 40s and
that ultimately I think has really
undercut the power of unions and you
know I think people are working on
trying to figure out ways in which to to
rebuild that union power but it the
worst thing about taft-hartley in terms
of power is it really prevented general
strikes and of this health but was there
anything equivalent to that in Canada
and to the extent that there was or
wasn't was there also any other sort of
ripple effects of this strike well a
couple of things first of all right
after the strike in the 1920s it was a
period for the economy where there
wasn't the same kind of growth that
preceded the 1920s so that was the
person and then by 1929 30 then there
was the depression that put our capital
and a lot of economic development and
changed so you know things that had kind
of national dimensions to them that had
nothing to do with the strike where
we're really dominant at the time
however the union's there were it was a
setback for the unions because workers
were disappointed in failure of the
strike and so there was a time when the
unions had to build back their
credibility and and they're there their
strengths but the significant thing one
of the significant things that came out
of the strike was that the living
conditions that the workers had
experienced and we're experiencing was
really exposed and in Canada we have
something called royal commissions
that's when a government is it gets
high-powered credible people to do an
investigation to do an analysis of an
important issue and so in Canada there
was a federal Royal Commission and then
a provincial Royal Commission to look
into what were the underlying causes of
the labor unrest
and the Winnipeg Strait and both of
these clearly pointed out that there was
you know the workers were frustrated
they were unemployed they were facing
poor working conditions
wages were low at the same time there
was a wealthy class that was benefiting
from the from the labor of the workers
you know so these commissions and these
are very very elite government oriented
commissions both of them were run by
judges judges both of them came out and
basically endorsed what the strikers
were fighting for so that didn't lead to
immediate social service development for
example but it did put in place and it
did show the importance of government
and non-governmental agencies working to
provide the kind of supports that
workers needed that you can't just
expect workers to be slaves they do have
their their personal lives and and by
the 1940s and 50s you saw an awareness
that when workers are well clothed well
fed educated it benefits the economy and
benefits industry and business so you
know it took time but the strike and the
Commission's that came out of that so
clearly articulated the living
conditions and the exploitation of
workers that it did register for the
future I wouldn't say there are a direct
relation I'd love to say that something
that was done in during the strike and
you know led to certain legislation but
there's very few links okay give me one
example one of the strike leaders I got
named Jay s Woodsworth became quite
famous and he really really pushed the
Canadian government through institute a
pension plan for Canadians which we now
have and it's a fairly healthy plan and
a lot of Canadians rely on it well you
know he was a strike leader he was in
Parliament in the 1920s and 30s and it
took him a long time and other
progressive politicians but they were
able to get something very significant
that not only been
feted unionists but benefited everyone
in the country all all citizens so there
wasn't direct relationships to what
happened after but you can see that
there was a that it were that the strike
was a catalyst in a way that allowed
progressive politicians then move
forward and push for a more progressive
agenda that I think is a huge huge
lesson for folks to take from this story
and I have to say also I'd be remiss if
I didn't say the the idea of those elite
Commission's resolving that the strikers
were right sounds about the most
Canadian thing I could ever imagine but
Denis Lewicki the book is magnificent
fight the 1919 Winnipeg general strike
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it it's been a
pleasure great to meet you
