ow Mick Mulvaney is on Fox News and he's
responding to basically a trump wanting
to host the g7 summit at his private
golf club which he's no longer doing
which he is no longer doing after a
apparent exhaustion of Republicans being
like dude how many different corrupt
self enriching things can you do we've
got our own disgusting things that we've
got to defend give us a little space
this is Mick Mulvaney I think not
exactly helping and of course remember
Mick Mulvaney is a extraordinarily
disgusting horrible horrible person
president Trump has decided after he
puts you out there at that briefing to
announce Corral he is back he's decided
that he's not going to hold it at Doral
he blames it on a hostile media and
their Democratic partners but again he
was getting hammered by Republicans so
why did he cave I we talked about it a
great length last night and it's not
lost on me that if we had made this
decision on Thursday we would have had
the press conference on Thursday
regarding regarding everything else
that's fine but we didn't talk about it
last night and I honestly think what you
saw in the tweet was real the president
isn't one for holding back his feelings
in his motions about something he was
honestly surprised at the level of
pushback at the end of the day you know
he still considers himself to be a in
the hospitality business and he saw an
opportunity to take the biggest leaders
from around the world we wanted to put
on the absolute best show the best visit
that he possibly could and he was very
comfortable doing it at Doral and I
think we're all surprised the level of
pushback I think it's the right decision
to change we'll have to find someplace
else and my guess is we'll find
someplace else that the media won't like
either for another reason I just have to
pick up you say he considers himself in
the hospitality isn't it because he'll
be a silent partner in the other place
like say wait let's do the one that
Ivanka owns and make sure to say that
everybody will hate that too because
they will because they're so unfair
therefore another reason I just have to
pick up you say he considers himself in
the hospitality business he's the
President of the United States but he
said it's his background it's like I
used to be in the real estate business I
don't know what you used to do before
you were in media nothing that's all
I've ever done because you're a
trust-fund baby nepotism case go ahead
and mediate nothing that's all I've ever
done he wanted to put on a show he
wanted to take care of folks that's the
visit he's in the hotel business remedy
was does he understand forget the the
media and does he understand that it
looked lousy I I think he knows he
thinks that think people think it looks
close it could we put on an excellent g7
at drought absolutely will we end up
putting on excellent g7 someplace else
yes we will oh my god
it's got Mulvaney in the hospitality
industry now what's more of a
hospitality job than being president you
were in here on Friday but we played a
clip from the press conference where
Mulvaney basically gives like a
timeshare like sales pitch of why to go
to Doral and it was it's like Diamond
Resorts International it's that
exclusive he's acting like Trump's gonna
be like running around making all the
canapes himself like you never know
you're not doing dude yeah you own
the thing that's fantastic it's also
great like what friend Frank Katoon
makes the best lasagna he used to be the
Bonanno family is everybody excited to
be here I really wanted everyone to meet
George at the prime rib counter he's
such a nice such a nice guys a terrific
guy hasn't been paid in 20 years still
loves it he lost a finger didn't have
good hair you know he's pretty good with
nyeh we bandaged it right up and he's
still out there is he's still making the
cake isn't that unbelievable amazing
it's terrific guy it's like when you
pull a totally boner move that you know
is bad and someone gets annoyed and
you're like oh did you not want me to
pee on your leg
I didn't realize oh oh I guess we don't
want great Hospital you know people are
always saying that we should be kind to
everybody and not racist and then I
tried to do the g7 give every
buddy no matter where they're from a
great time but I guess we don't want I
have friends in the g7 have a great time
by the way I'm not gonna talk unless
somebody calls her AIIMS about it but
Trump's tweet on the Tulsa Aires HRC
drama was the funniest thing I have seen
it day oh my god did you see that one no
he said I'm paraphrasing maybe we have
to find it but he said crooked Hillary
is now accusing congresswoman Tulsi
Gabbard of being a Russian asset and
Green Party candidate Jill Stein I as
you may remember it was accused of being
a big Russian lover and he goes in
parenthesis because actually I do like
Russian people I like all people she's
got it crazy so good
I let he did one specifically for Jill
Stein which included the phrase thank
God we have a gut Green Party because of
the Democrats disastrous and far he's
been shining the last few days on
Twitter that's really all he should be
doing it's like just just try to do
corrupt deals and tweet
