we still have a couple of things that
you know we should talk about in terms
of like what we have seen Trump do and
and by Trump I'm talking about the
Republican Party I mean there really is
no daylight here
and when I say Trump I'm also talking
about obviously the Fox News there is no
daylight between any of these entities
on Fox News you get Shep Smith came out
and said you know - the Fox News viewers
during the afternoon there is no threat
from the caravan they don't carry
diseases they're on foot they're not a
total evasion like Michelle Malkin said
on the network it doesn't matter that
they're all of military-age males like
Gorka said on the network they don't
carry diseases like what's said on the
network and you know I watched that and
I thought like the this is not helpful
this is Shep Smith making you know just
basically operating with his core brand
proposition I'm the guy on in the loony
bin who basically gets up and says
something rational and it makes all the
other people work in a fox feel like
well at least we're delivering the other
side of the argument right and so
frankly I I'm done with Shep Smith's you
know game that he plays there he may be
sincere about it but he serves a bad
function in my estimation but I'm off a
topic here but the point being that
we're seeing all this we're seeing the
the the rhetoric that has inspired
violence we're seeing the the the the
sort of the claims that they're going to
remove birthright citizenship all is a
function of leading up to the election
and then another thing happened this
week that I'm also convinced was about
the election it was sort of a twofer and
that was the attempt by some
right-wingers coming out of like gateway
pundit this guy Jack Burkman who has I
think a radio show or a youtube show or
something to that effect
to come up with a story where Robert
Muller had apparently according to this
story had a sexually assaulted a woman
in 1974 I believe it was at a law firm
and the whole story falls apart in one
of the most ridiculous and comedic ways
you know this story about was it Josh
wall yeah well just ok so just tell us
what what you know about this story and
I will fill in some of those blanks well
you probably probable or on Jacob well
yeah I mean first of all Jacob wall but
my he's one of my favorite right-wing
tweeters because yeah he has this this
this little stick that he does that he
sent he'd write and he's done it like I
don't know at least half a dozen times
where I'm said I've just been sitting in
a hipster coffee house in downtown LA
and I just overheard this conversation
where they're all saying that you know
Trump's actually a pretty good guy or
something like that you know all these
different things
in a hipster coffee house in downtown LA
I can almost guarantee you I don't know
what hipster coffeehouse he's talking
about but I live in LA but I'm gonna
guarantee I'm in a pretty much
guaranteed these conversations never
happened if there is this place this
never happened it's like a it's like a
rich cheap Twitter version of Tom
Friedman and his you know I heard I had
a conversation with a taxi driver you
know that whole thing and it's hilarious
and and he was caught out on it just
recently but in any case apparently he
isn't but he has some what he called
what was the name of his intelligence
firm I don't even know it's your fire
tell their intelligence and it turns out
and and this this this firm which isn't
apparently really a firm it's just
something that he's set up on LinkedIn I
guess with a bunch was a bunch of stock
photos including Christopher walls the
actor as being one of the principals of
this company I mean he's really this
guy's not that bright but you know he's
playing with fire here I mean I don't
know what he thought why he thought he
could get away with this but they were
apparently
calling up women and offer he and
apparently under the auspices of this
guy Jack Burkman who is a more seasoned
right-wing operative although not very
bright himself yeah and so they were
calling up women and offering them money
to say and they even put it in emails I
mean I can't even believe they actually
wrote this down and the emails exist and
now they're out in the public that
offering women money to say that they
had had they had been assaulted by
Robert Muller
I mean the play is clear right I mean we
understand what they're trying to do
here which is you know get tangled
robert muller up in the me2 movement and
paying somebody to say that it happened
and as far as i know maybe you can tell
me otherwise there were actually some
women who evidently were willing to do
that but what happened was is that the
women some of the women who were being
approached went to robert muller and
also went to the media and said look
these things happening I mean here's
here's the proof these guys are asking
me and so they got exposed before this
thing ever ever hit yeah and that's
basically what happened it fell apart I
mean the apparently there was some
online journalists who had sort of
gotten suspicious about it it had been
marking around I mean it feels like it
was a twofer in the sense that they were
hoping to smear Muller and we're at the
point now right where you can just
getting a story to rise above a certain
level get put out there just for a
moment it can be completely react
retracted or corrected or whatnot but it
lives in the right-wing echoes fear
forever
right like I saw clips of people out in
front of one of trumps rallies that were
you know saying like oh I've heard that
the bombs were sent to Obama himself
sent them to himself and so didn't
Hillary and maybe a Bernie support as
Sanders supporters sent it and you know
this is after the guy's been caught this
stuff lives behind
beyond you know any any way of pulling
it back so I think there was a sense
that they wanted to try and get in into
the bloodstream but then they also
wanted to burn the reporters who
reported on it and maybe that's why they
made the story sort of unravel so easily
but it's like almost like a bomb maker
in there bomb shop they don't know quite
what they're doing and it blows up in
their face yeah and that's exactly what
happened to these guys and I mean I
imagine there might be some you know I
think paying money to get people to
publicly attest to a lie about a special
prosecutor you know seems like maybe
you're obstructing justice in some
fashion I mean I wouldn't want to be
these guys right now if I wanted to not
be in prison let's put it that way I
mean I mean I wouldn't either I mean I
think I think I think this was they were
in way over their heads you know I mean
this is not this isn't that Roger stone
caliber no appalling
NBC contacted this uh Jacob wall and
apparently he stopped returning their
phone calls after they left a message or
sent a message that the number for
surefire intelligence which wall claimed
to have no relationship to the phone
number the main phone number forwards to
walls mom's voicemail come on I mean you
know this is just this is just pathetic
I mean it makes uh what's the same
project veritas James O'Keefe looked
like a you know like a top-flight
superspy tourism wellness I mean it's a
joke listen we've been talking about
what the Republicans have been doing to
try and motivate their base for much of
this show
we got one segment left when we come
back let's talk about what's going to
happen come on just a couple of days in
terms of these midterm elections I'm Sam
cedar this is ring of fire radio we'll
be right back with the great Digby
