[Music]
the minuchin because he's in some hot
water this is this Rasheeda Talib and
Steve Nugent is this from yesterday this
is me this morning okay House Financial
Services hearing this is following the
reports that there's an internal IRS
memo that had been drawn up long before
Steve minuchin pretended like he could
reject the the Congressional demand to
see Donald Trump's taxes based upon his
assessment that there wasn't a
legitimate reason to do so the IRS had
already informed him that not only does
there not have to be a legitimate reason
there doesn't have to be a reason if
they request it we have to give it the
only way to even stop that would be the
extraordinary measure of the president
invoking executive privilege it's not
clear to me why that would even hold to
but at the very least it's clear that
Steve minuchin did not even follow the
the actual advisement that he got from
the IRS despite the fact that he claimed
otherwise and talib is just like you got
problems buddy I will be remiss as
somebody that truly believes in the rule
of law as somebody that I has practiced
law and as an attorney I would revise
you secretary to get personal legal
advice because the cover-up by this
administration it goes beyond just
providing the taxes you can consult the
Department of Justice but you personally
making decisions not on the best part of
the American people but to cover up the
the occupant of the White House I think
you need to be very very clear about
what your role is and what your
responsibility is to the American people
this is goes beyond just providing taxes
right it goes about transparency and the
fact that no one is above the law so
secretary please seek out legal advice
personally what your obligations are
because the Department of Justice is not
protecting you it's protecting the press
ooh boy you know I would remind Steve
Newton the best time to get a defense
attorney is when you don't need one now
I would imagine that time has long gone
Maruchan should have probably got to
probably had a defense attorney on
retainer for the past 10 years really
procrastinating this I know the campaign
contributions take care of it I mean
this is this is the type of stuff that
is going to lead to impeachment here is
representative Alma Adams questioning
minuchin about this IRS memo that
clearly undercuts every excuse that
minuchin has even been trying to pretend
that he can get away with for you to
release your tax returns are you aware
that I am but that's the president's
decision and I'm not involved in the
president's decision right let me
reclaim my time I want to get through my
questions so are you familiar with
Congress's oversight authority yes I am
okay so it's found in the Constitution
and public laws and the House and Senate
rules and it does say that when the
request is made by the appropriate
offices that that he should release him
are you aware of that
I've read the law I've also been advised
of the interpretation of the law and I
understand the constitutional issues all
right so why haven't you complied with
with Chairman Neal's request because I
think that would be unlawful as advised
by the Department of Justice and that's
why there's a third branch of government
that most likely we're aware of that
made me clean my time so so are you
aware then that by denying this that you
are in direct violation of the law no
absolutely not I have been advised I am
not violating the law I never would have
done anything that violated the law and
quite the contrary I've been advised to
had I turn them over I would be
violating around once
so are you alleging that chairman Neal
lacks a legislative purpose and that is
the basis for your refusing his request
well given that this is now most likely
going to litigation I think my letters
have been quite clear and why we have
denied the request and that's all right
okay let me move on thank you very much
so are you intending to comply with the
request at all no I've made clear sent
him a letter that it would be unlawful
for all right okay sir I'm reclaiming my
time now have you told the IRS not to
respond to Chairman Neal's request the
IRS independently the Chairman
independently wrote a letter concurring
with yes can you give me yes or no have
you you repeat the question have you
told the IRS not to respond to the
bequest again I just said the IRS
independently wrote a letter okay let me
clean my time can you give me yes or no
I don't all right
okay you might not you you now he
understands the question the question
isn't whether the IRS wrote a letter the
question is did you tell the IRS not to
do it because now it seems very
suspicious that the 10 page memo
outlining all the reasons why the IRS
must comply with this request from
Congress was ignored like on what basis
would the IRS chief make an independent
determination that he shouldn't give the
taxes to Congress when their own
internal review says they've got to so
Steve minuchin will not answer that
question as to whether he was the one
who directed the IRS to not give it and
he's asked the question two times there
and he keeps saying they wrote a letter
well that's not the answer to did you
tell them to withhold the taxes was it
against your instructions
there's no follow up he won't answer the
first one that they wrote a letter
independently
could have easily happened after he said
don't release the taxes and then the IRS
chief was like I've been told by my boss
at Treasury don't release the taxes and
I'm getting a request so I'm gonna write
a letter that's how you write a letter
independently after you've been told not
to do something
he's a mean you know where does this
lead to
I'll tell you where it leads to here's
Nancy Pelosi who so far has probably
been the most outspoken bulwark against
impeachment in the Democratic caucus
most outspoken I mean maybe she's doing
it on behalf of of members of hers that
are in purple districts maybe this is
the price that she you know is paying to
get them to vote with her on other thing
I don't know but what I think we're
starting to witness now is her plan B I
think she did not want to go to
impeachment but I think this is where
pressure starts to have implications and
not just pressure I mean look the
pressure is founded on events that have
taken place in the past two or three
weeks bar refusing to testify minuchin
lying withholding of documents not even
going with the EPA EPA ignored Congress
to talk about their their plans to
basically allow for more mercury in the
air so here she is she's she's talking
about well listen to this it was a very
positive meeting of a respectful sharing
of ideas and I think a very impressive
presentation by our chairs would you
believe that it's important for the to
follow the facts we believe that no one
is above the law including the President
of the United States and we believe that
the President of the United States is
engaged in a cover-up
and a cover-up and that was the nature
so they've shared ideas and they believe
that the president I states is involved
in a cover-up what we're watching is I
think and I don't think this was Nancy
Pelosi's plan I think Nancy's Pelosi's
plan was no impeachment let's just try
and focus on doing business so that we
cannot be criticized as it do-nothing
Congress I mean a dumb idea but that was
her plan but now I think that the
actions of the Trump administration and
I think the Trump administration is
probably baiting the Democrats into
calling for impeachment but again there
are between a rock and a hard place
because it's not just you don't just do
you don't just do things we don't just
not impeach because you think Trump
wants you to impeach you also have to
calculate and what are the costs of us
not doing this and maybe Donald Trump is
not such a great strategist maybe he's
just a better tactician maybe he's just
a good blowhard maybe he can just
motivate racialized politics I mean
there's a whole host of other things
that you have to take into consideration
so I think what's happening with Pelosi
right now there's my sense and I don't
think this is a fait accompli
I think there needs to be more but III
think it's it feels like it's inevitable
that it's going this way
I think we're watching Pelosi change her
mind and do so in a way I believe that
she's coming to the conclusion that like
okay the the pro-impeachment force is
too strong so instead of me just
reversing myself I am going to publicly
show how I'm being convinced and this is
why the American public should be
convinced I think this is a plan B for
her but this is what you would do to
execute it yeah I mean here's what I
think happened is that they polled
people and found out that Democrats
don't believe that impeachment is gonna
do anything and they kind of mistook
that for they don't want impeachment
when in
like I absolutely want impeachment but I
don't believe the Democrats are gonna do
it like that's why I groaned when
Rasheeda to leave was like let's impeach
the not cuz I don't want it
to happen but cuz I don't think they're
gonna do it and now like they are
finally responding to what their base
actually wants well I mean I think her
calculation could also be to protect
those Congress folks who won from purple
districts who are gonna be up for
re-election in two years in districts
that you know aren't safe districts and
I protect those members because that's
what protects our majority and in return
from them they know I'm protecting them
so I get certain votes they they they
have to make some hard votes on XYZ I
protect them UMP impeachment but it's
unclear whether impeachment will like
you say actually endanger these people
and the more that she has and shows
political pressure on her the easier it
is for her to keep those people in line
even if she ultimately comes down in
favor of impeachment I mean this is this
stuff is look and here's the thing
people and I'm not I'm not saying you're
doing this but but but you read this you
know too many people who on the left
I'm sure there's similar problems on the
right but there's just too many people
who perceive this as an ideological
thing as opposed to just straight
straight a Stratus you know strategy or
tactical questions and her and Pelosi's
perspective on this is obviously
different than ours she has a better
sense of on some level of like what's
going on within her caucus than we do
but at the same time you know she's also
in a bubble and she also you know is
naturally those in power and naturally
very often more conservative not
ideologically but in terms of the way
they they use their power I had a friend
who was on a plane next to us
for I can't remember what the senator
was a Democratic senator from the
Northeast and the staffer was currently
getting their mind blown by Jane Mayer's
dark money so that's where they're right
right right
