[Music]
old buddy Mike Serna Shawn
don't you remember Mike Serna
they're just exchanging ideas
you remember Mike Tsarevich he is the
guy who is a documented date rape denier
he was also documented a promoter of
pizza gate which ultimately led to a man
going into a pizza parlor in Washington
DC with a weapon looking for hidden
dungeons where there were pedophile and
prostitution rings don't forget he's an
alleged rapist but he pled it down to
battery so that's true that is also true
there's there's more of course he also
was famous for stepping on a rake and
getting hit in the face or rather I
should say more specifically trying to
get me fired and not getting me fired or
getting me fired and then and then
having that not work out for him he
accused Barack Obama of all sorts of of
things obviously and he also failed
miserably on his on-air screen-test on
Infowars
which was difficult for him also a
professional what do they call him
pickup artist wasn't he basically was
telling people to how to neg neg women
and basically you know that's the way
you pick up the ladies I guess but so
Dave Rubin had him on for a second time
and I think look Dave Rubin can have on
whoever he wants and he can obviously
not have on whomever he wants but it
seems to me
there should be some accounting for
platforming a guy like that
and they talked about some of the stuff
of course the massive amounts of
pedophile rings that that he is
convinced to happen but as far as I know
Dave did not bring up the widely
publicised attempt to get me fired they
did complain however about how hard it
is and how online culture is so
despicable in fact we have that clip
let's let's play that now there was a
here is is this is clip number five
right is that it or is that the best one
I think so oh yeah okay yeah so let's
play a compilation from the actual
filmmaker vic burger as opposed to the
fake filmmaker that is mike Serna vich
and here he is doing his rendition of of
the talk between dave rubin and mike
Tsarevich wherein mike Tsarevich really
is upset i will remind you that mike
Serna vich claims to have paid someone
to dig through my tweets they found a
tweet from 2009 where i satirically
chastised those people who were being
apologists for roman polanski as a
rapist wherein i wrote in response to a
petition that was going around in
hollywood trying to get roman polanski
get him some type of Lifetime
Achievement Award or something to that
effect
wherein I wrote regarding Polanski don't
care about him but if my daughter is
ever raped I hope it's by a much older
man with a great sense of meson sin and
the satire there obviously was that I it
is absurd that you would let someone off
for
for the rape of an underage girl because
they're a great filmmaker that seems
absurd well of course Mike Tsarevich
hired someone to dig through my tweets
that's all they could find they tried to
weaponize that with the use of BOTS they
had Donald Trump jr. retweeted they had
said Gorka retweeted mike Tsarevich and
his folks pretended to be outraged
citizens members of a pedophile victims
group and emailed all of our advertisers
in an attempt to get them to to end
their association with this program and
ultimately got me fired from MSNBC and
then ultimately I was rehired that did
not come up in this conversation but
what did come up is how hard being a
public figure is from Mike Serna vich as
told through this vic burger video
burger did you know yes all right I
think we're live we're live we're live
Mike's turn to how you doing man I
think about every day how I ruined my
life by ever becoming a public figure
and I could just write my books and live
a good life and nobody knew who I was
before Trump ran I was in a Parisian
cafe just writing having fun with my
wife walking around looking in our trade
on before it burned down and everything
and every day I think I ruined my life
by becoming a public figure because just
the fundamental and decency of it all is
not something that I was prepared for I
was there for a hit but
the the angry little weird left people
the freaks and weird Mike and the people
who support my family being harassed
they'll do all the dunking on Twitter it
does make you in a way image is sad and
the problem with making people like me
sad is sometimes I hope my daughter and
I think about the people who are trying
to hurt her I remember we went to some
party cuz my buddy's girlfriend said
that this guy raped her and we go let's
go kill him you all know what Vic burger
did you know we had he to fake videos
about my wife and daughter fact you know
that he's edited multiple videos about
my daughter fact and four back sorry my
child is trying to be in this but this
isn't really yes these are all real so
just ask them what did they mean by that
and you know the emails he sent me the
threats you know that I've gone to
police you've seen the police reports so
this is it some clown he calls me all
right yeah this is my message that he
made fake videos about my wife he
thought this could be an actual
pedophile ring so I have to just make it
public and publicize it they're all
connected this guy his Twitter handle is
v.i.c ber ger the fourth please vet call
the cops again they're all connected to
this one guy he's at the middle of all
dick Berggren you sue me you know
like I just don't give a
alright man well on that note I hope we
cleaned up some of this the trips will
fall where they may and we'll both keep
going I suppose and my pleasure thanks
again yeah good talking to you
yes there it is folks
and apparently dave rubin now wants to
hope a host Democratic presidential
candidate Pete put against and boy it
seems to me that would be a huge mistake
for that Democratic primary hopeful to
appear in that same very seat where and
as but if he wants to be seen in the
same light as as someone like Mike
 I mean I'm not you know I have no
bone to pick with Mayor Pete he's not
necessarily my favorite candidate I have
plenty but if that's what he wants to do
then I say more power to you I hope that
that brings you dividends I just have a
feeling it won't bring you the dividends
you think it will if you are a fan of
Mayor Pete's I would suggest to him
probably not a good idea but you know
like I say to each their own and again I
want to remind you what Mike answered
the question the eternal question of
Mike's tarnish who's laughing now Sam
it's me
I'm laughing now ha ha all right we're
gonna take quick
