[Music]
meanwhile we spoke with de Vigo about
Joe Biden on the campaign trail and
Bernie Sanders was on with John Carl on
ABC this week Joe Biden Bernie Sanders
the two frontrunners although it's
Elizabeth Warren is starting to pick up
some attention on in the polls - and
again it is very very early but here is
Bernie comparing his approach to Joe
Biden's approach I'm sure you saw Joe
Biden say that he is the most
progressive candidate in this race yeah
look good Joe is a good friend of mine
and not here to attack Joe Joe voted for
the war in Iraq I led the effort against
it Joe voted for NAFTA and permanent
normal trade relations trade agreements
with China I have led the effort against
that Joe voted for the deregulation of
Wall Street I voted against that you
know I think if you look at Joe's record
and you look at my record I don't think
there's much question about who's more
progressive um and I like Bernie's
really man he's so committed this time
he that face or just oh okay this is
where I'm not at a delicatessen or the
phone call disingenuous question that
was a bit disingenuous but look Joe is a
good friend of mine that's what
everybody says in these situations that
now PNTR a rock credit cards or I could
just say are you kidding me
here is Bernie comparing his approach to
Biden's in that same interview with John
Carlin ABC this week on Sunday well one
of those issues obviously is your
proposal for Medicare for all
Biden says that he would like to see a
more incremental approach fix Obamacare
provide a Medicare option for anybody
but allow people to still have some have
private health insurance if they want
why not do an approach like that I'll
tell you why because
system today is is truly dysfunctional
we are spending twice as much per capita
on health care as through the people of
any other country Medicare right now is
the most popular health insurance
program in the country but it only
applies to people 65 years of age or
older
all that I want to do is expand Medicare
over a four-year period to cover every
man woman and child in this country but
to do that you would eliminate private
health insurance and for basic needs yes
so what do you say to the firefighter in
Iowa who has a health plan that they
like what I would say is that if you
want a better program a more
comprehensive program with no
deductibles with no co-payments with
know premiums which will cost you a
family less support Medicare for all but
there are some trade-offs are positive
for one second there's a couple of
things that's interesting about this so
far one only firefighters care about
their health insurance and first
responders sort of a fascinating thing
the people provide that health insurance
would probably be a government in some
fashion but nevertheless it's also
interesting to see that Bernie is not
pushing which I think is smart and it's
a I don't know if it's how much of a
change it's a slight one he's not making
a big argument that this is the
elimination of private insurance he is
now sort of saying for the basic stuff
which of course is the point there's
always this notion of a supplemental and
I think there there's no reason to make
this about eliminating private insurance
as much as there is a reason to make
private insurance obsolete and that is
that is a distinction with a difference
because the agenda should not be to get
rid of private insurance who cares it
should make it irrelevant and if there
are people who want to go out like you
know I don't think you should have a fur
sink it seems impractical but if you
really want one and that's the way you
want to spend your money god be with you
now I don't think we should have allow
for
so much wealth that people can buy a lot
of fur sinks but if you want to get one
be my guest
continue premiums which will cost you a
family less support Medicare for all but
there are some trade-offs on there I
mean are people going to be able to see
the doctor if you guarantee make that
guarantee absolutely no vomiting cause
it's the strangest question to me we're
talking about getting rid of insurance
if you're providing health insurance for
I don't know let's just say 92% of the
of the people in this country the other
8% they'll take the Medicare but then
they'll get their supplemental insurance
so they can go see their doctor there's
not enough of those people to support
this huge new medical industry first of
all they're already getting concierge
doctors they're already I mean that has
already almost been sorted out but let's
say you have more defectors from the
Medicare system and and and as consumers
as patients of medicine there's only so
many suppliers that that's going to
support so this idea that the vast
majority of doctors or even a
significant minority of doctors would
opt out of the system is bizarre the
doctors aren't going away they're all
going to be there and because you have a
uniform system as opposed to this is the
problem with the Affordable Care Act
it's because you're having it compete
against other private insurers and
you're having these private insurers try
and determine what is gonna be the least
expensive for them and so they're the
ones who are narrowing this stuff this
is why it happens but the doctors aren't
going to disappear they're just it's
actually gonna make it less likely you
will lose your doctor because the doctor
doesn't have that many options anymore
they can't opt out and just take one you
know insurance or another like I could
not go see when I got my colonoscopy
last year I couldn't see the doctor that
I saw the last time because my insurance
would no longer pay for the
anesthesiologist
that apparently the doctor wanted to
bring in so that he could do more
business and I had to go to a different
doctor and isn't basically everyone in
America familiar with that dynamic - I I
don't I think people are but they don't
know what to attribute it to more often
than not and they know they don't like
it so they don't want to be if you know
if this like even the question implies
that that's going to happen it's like if
I was to ask Bernie like with this
Medicare for all I mean how concerned
would you be that people are going to
have an anvil fall on their head when
they go into the doctors and as absurd
as that premise is if I say that enough
people are gonna be like what's this
whole thing with the anvil dropping on
your head when you go into the doctor's
office I don't want that and I know he
keeps saying it's not gonna happen but
why do they keep asking the question
there must be something to it also why
doesn't anyone ever ask Joe Biden why he
favors an incremental approach to
insurance like if I feel like the only
people who ever get asked this question
are the Medicare for all people right
well and it's especially galling
considering the incremental approach has
already been tried for you recently and
it hasn't gone that well I mean people
like it better than it was before but
all right let's continue
but there are some trade-offs on that I
mean are people gonna be able to see the
doctor guarantee make that guarantee
absolutely go vomiting you'll be able to
keep your doctor
absolutely look the truth is right now
you may have an insurance plan that the
doctor you really like is not on that
network well what everybody wants to see
dr. Sanders here in the morning and
there's one want more people that's the
same problem they have today yeah but
very much but that's look if you have a
popular doctor right now
under your current closet literally just
mentioned one thing that would not like
no single-payer and having this health
care system will not eliminate the
problem of relative popularity in an
overbooked practice that's true John
John Carl that question like there's got
to be trade-offs is
you know that question communicates to
me like I don't know this stuff enough
but I know you're wrong no no no I just
think I used to sound challenging yeah
can you can you give me like I'm asking
you for the critique because I don't I
don't quite have it that's another thing
that's just really unfair and
doctrinaire about Bernie Sanders which
is that he won't present dishonest
criticisms of his own policies in
national television get out in front of
the critiques
he always says like taxes will go up he
totally presents that right I mean I and
that's that I mean that's what Carl
should have started with that I guess
and that's probably why he doesn't good
work well what everybody wants to see
dr. Sanders here in the morning and
there's one more people that's the same
problem you have today if you have a
very much but that's look if you have a
popular doctor right now under your
current policy it may take you a while
to get in there look Carl I was waiting
plan at the free school and but
understand what what what could also be
underneath that question which is really
on some level the deeply ideological
problem with this right because and that
is you're gonna give everybody access to
dr. Sanders and now the way we sort that
out is a lot of people can't afford to
see dr. Sanders I guess on the TV yes
but but if you make the popular doctors
accessible to everyone then how do we
sort this stuff out is who deserves to
see dr. Sanders yeah people are we
really gonna just let this go to chance
I mean when some of us have earned more
money and have proven to our moral
wealth and our moral deserving as' to
see dr. Sanders and you're just gonna
willy-nilly let anybody come in that
that is and I don't know if that's why
John Karl meant that because the answer
is obvious like wait a second popular
doctors are hard to see that happens now
but underneath that and I don't know if
that was John Karl's intention or
certainly but that is part of the
criticism like this is what we've heard
from like hardcore libertarians and the
only ones who would will basically
articulate it but it is it does draw
this is that you're gonna give like the
for them this is the bug what is the
feature for people who want Medicare for
all is sort of the bug for the right and
they can't quite articulate that because
that makes them look like heartless
human beings we have a great system that
prices the poor out without us needing
to do it hands on exactly we can keep
the riffraff out of here we don't need
to put a sign that says no riffraff we
have them world ania but we have a
plausible deniability right exactly
people act like care is not already
being rationed by the market and it is
of course that's a hundred right exactly
and also that and as other people point
out that it's being rationed it's being
rationed with the rationale because when
you care when when care is rationed but
when a system that everybody has access
to it that gets a little bit like what's
the logic behind that there's no there's
no it's funny because these interest
types or whatever you want to call them
it's so it's like that's another reason
why Obama care works for them so well
because you know it's one thing to go
complete complete sociopathic and just
like you don't get to have health care
but it's another to be like health care
should be like air travel you know I'm
not saying I want these people just died
but I should have a much better
experience be more highly because it's
another there's only soggy seats up in
first-class
that's exactly how would you that's the
idea logic it's people that are
threatened by the concept of your money
is no good here
and I went to when I was in France a
year ago
I had an issue with my the person I was
with had to go to the hospital got IV
treatments got a bunch of tests done we
were there for like 12 hours in hospital
bed and when we left we're like is
there's a bill we have to sign or
anything like that nothing they're just
like see and that was an amazing
experience and there's certain people
that want to be able to walk into a
hospital room and make sure they can get
like a nicer room or get in cut lines
because they've used to it with a
certain type of insurance that's exactly
that's a threaten to them
right and it's so funny how some of
those people metabolize like going and
seeing a system like that in France and
they're just sort of like well I like
well or isn't that interesting and I get
to take vacations and see that because
I've worked so hard let's go to the
