let's get into this we're gonna be
starting off today's program with
something that is probably largely
irrelevant in the great scheme of things
although it does give you a certain
amount of hope later in the fun half we
will discuss how some people are
reacting to it and why it's ridiculous
their reaction but as you know or may
not know the world series is now we're
on game 6 now right and Houston Astros
and Washington Nationals Astros are up
now for two and and because the game was
played in Washington DC they my
understanding is that the owners of the
Nationals were sort of hoping that the
president wouldn't ask to sit with them
I which I can understand and as is
customary the presence of the president
in the United States is announced to
everyone in the ball field and well
people weren't so psyched to see them
here it is and they have a picture of
some marines on the big Jumbotron
everybody's cheering they're Marines of
course military
that's what sporting events are all
about
[Music]
then they cut back to the Marines yeah
just for the juxtaposition yeah here is
here's Donald Trump's perspective on it
as he's getting booed he is it's a
little hurtful to him so if you if you
have problems seeing someone as feelings
get hurt you might want to look away
from from Donald Trump's expression
clapping there's booing and then he just
waves quickly and then he's so mad and I
gotta say it's it's like one of those
things that's like we're like he looks
like a freshman in high school who's
walking down the hallway and he sees
somebody wave and you're like hey and
you realize they're not waving at you
and you just sort of like take your hand
and just go oh hey that's AJ he's really
cool hey what's up oh I was oh my god I
can't believe the seniors away I don't
even know them anyway stupid I hate all
of those people hate Washington DC I
hate everybody and then sadly and we
will talk about this more in our
analysis later in the program of just
what has happened to this country but
the audience at the Washington Nationals
World Series game came up with a plan in
which to salute their president and here
is what they came up with
[Applause]
yeah I came up lock him up
finally yeah I wonder it right notes
like Democrats follow the lead of your
people it starts on the streets don't be
like I wonder if the higher up you are
in the stadium the more likely you are
to chant lock him up because that's the
upper decorate them interesting
interesting theory but we will get to
more of the reaction to that which is
actually almost as ridiculous as just
it's it's as ridiculous as anything I've
seen but we will check that out later
