[Music]
last night Christie hyde-smith won the
Mississippi Senate race over mic SB by
about 10 points a little bit uh you know
between nine and ten points the the
Delta the normal Delta the are the
partisan index for Mississippi's excuse
not the Mississippi Delta but the round
enough my nice he's good the the
partisan index Brian the note but the
partisan index is what I was talking
about the Delta between what the
partisan index is at seventeen and what
s we lost by seven points that could be
significant and also I should also say
that there was a couple of places where
in Mississippi where you've got some
some very helpful a change because of
down ballot races there was a bunch of
judicial run offs in the circuit court
and I think all of the the women who won
I got a double check that I think there
was like three or four it was the first
time three African American women will
be circuit judges in Hinds County I
think maybe because one or two women won
on November sixth so you know I mean in
losing you can sometimes win some other
things right you bringing people out to
the polls but here is a better look
what's that yeah exactly
very yeah very similar dynamic and here
is however just so that you don't walk
away thinking that Christy Hyde Smith
was a an unrequited racist and she won
in Mississippi so they don't get the
wrong impression about that state folks
or at least the 54% of people who voted
for her here is the what's this show
called outnumbered where there's one guy
surrounded by the ladies how crazy is
that this is nuts
when there's when there's four four guys
in one woman you know what they call
that
I regular normal but they just can't
call a show normal they just come up
with some other name and here it is
Moya Pete exits he's surrounded by the
ladies it's a red state hide Smith is
going it's going to win the polling
shows that the attempts by the media to
further spin listen you can say
graceless things foolish things that
doesn't make them racist things in every
way that you have said I really think
people that know her you think she's a
positive for one second we're gonna go
back the people who know her these are
the people who know her from that that
school that you went to so she didn't
have to go to segregated schools is it
those people all the other races she
surround herself with say that she's
perfectly nice Oh her you think she
doesn't have a racial connotation who's
a nice lady with a gift for saying
gracious thing first of all I don't want
to get into the semantics of it but
there will have to that I don't want to
get into the semantics there we get it
to the semantics it'll be the last thing
you want to get into in a conversation
on language Ivy's right I don't lead I
want to talk about the semantics of what
she said I'm not a linguist she did I go
out there is do a lynching she said good
public she did not say listen public
hanging which were which will refer to
lawful executions at certain times in
the 19th and 20th century no really
there I'm not saying it's your playing
on the fields you want a plan which is
saying this lady's racist no what'd she
say her public career shows that she
isn't and there are a lot of big issues
that people vote about and they're Paris
at the last minute this is a Republican
state she's going to win and and I and I
don't I don't think playing the race
card wins at the polls okay she didn't
say lynching okay well public hanging
public Lynch
it has connotations especially in the
south for the fact that African
Americans were lynched she also wore a
hat with the Confederate flag on it she
went to segregation at school but I'm
not here to call her a racist I'm here
to
I agree with you and I think that she is
going to win this election it's not like
doug jones who was running against an
alleged pedophile and even so he only
won by one point seven points i
understand it as the deep south but for
you to just say that this is graceless
to make a joke that is so utterly
inappropriate and should have been
condemned by everybody i think is
irresponsible
your impugning her motives and saying it
was rigged it's funny is that your sense
of it was Jesse it was funny he didn't
say it was funny yes yes this is Lee's
Eisley where my role on this network
comes in right about now and let me just
say I'm not just doing it as a an
african-american person I'm also doing
it as a woman to tell you're getting a
little hysterical ironically I would
like to engage in the most primitive
base form of identity yes about come on
now he's not laughing he takes this very
very seriously he's in charge of making
it sound like a unrequited racist is not
a racist and I am too so let's just calm
down little lady first of all be fair to
him he's not very bright and I remember
when Roger Ailes told me that he liked
chai chocolate machine oh and could I
run interference for racism and massage
on the network and I said by golly Roger
I can and then I pretended I had a
stomach flu so I didn't have the follows
grotesque obese repulsive carcass to a
hotel room in midtown Manhattan can we
not get our panties in a bunch that was
actually the working title of the show
panties in a bunch
panty is unbuttoned we can't possibly
have an all ladies show so we're gonna
call it outnumbered that's what we're
going to do time of the month I'm a
black woman and I'm not as upset about
this as you yes so don't forget I'm here
to give everyone license I'm agreeing
with Pete
that sound you hear in the background is
the cash register every time I come to
the defense of one of my white
colleagues I am one of these babies that
goes right into the threat in your
monitor that's right I guess it's a
performance-based a exactly
