[Music]
um we'll talk more about ro Java here's
the reality the reality is is that the
permission given and the removal of US
presence is facilitating a mass
slaughter conducted by a vicious Turkish
regime ro Java is not perfect it is not
a utopia but it is a dynamic left-wing
experiment and it is a group of people
that have fought enormous ly effectively
against Isis we should oppose all
imperialism's absolutely the most
empower phul imperialism the world today
is the us global order this is a micro
example where the greater harm is
obviously the precipitous withdrawal and
we see it happening right now which is
sort of stunning that people can still
build justifications or fantasies about
this now obviously Lindsey Graham and
other people are shedding crocodile
tears they were never serious about
safeguarding the Kurds and it may well
be that the only option left for the
Kurds in something that should have been
supported should have been supported
years ago is some type of strategic
alliance with Assad I mean this is
geopolitics the Kurds had to rely on a
hegemon to secure their safety maybe now
they have to partner with a government
and a leader who's engaged in multiple
crimes against humanity but right now
the Turks are engaging in crimes against
humanity and destroying an experiment
which we should and must have solidarity
with again with no equivocating nonsense
and simplistic one-dimensional thinking
and you know yes it makes there's plenty
of strange bedfellows it sure it's weird
to have the same position as a Lindsey
Graham for entirely different reasons
but I think it's weird that other
people have apparently the same position
as tie-up air21 and Donald Trump for
their own different reasons
this is Donald Trump today expressing
this was yesterday rather expressing his
profound contempt for the Kurdish people
and again this is historical the Kurds
are multi-sector victims they are the
victim of internal imperial internal
hegemonic projects which have thwarted
their autonomous will most glaringly in
Turkey but I mean also obviously in Iraq
where they were victims of genocide all
actions by the Saddam government all
across that region and now they have
generated an autonomous space of leftist
innovation which is certainly not
perfect certainly has mistakes and bla
bla bla bla bla but we I have never made
a perfection the metric of anything let
alone global politics and they're gonna
get routed and gutted unless something
significantly changes and this is the
contempt that this disgusting grotesque
leader and the White House has for them
and everybody who's supporting this
action is showing the Kurds are fighting
for the land just so you understand
they're fighting for their land and if
somebody wrote in a very very powerful
article today they didn't help us in the
second world war they didn't help us
with North Normandy as an example they
mentioned names of different battles
they were there but they're there to
help us with their land and that's a
different thing in addition to that we
we have spent tremendous amounts of
money on helping the Kurds in terms of
ammunition in terms of weapons in terms
of money in terms of pay with all of
that okay so first we actually do have a
minor fact check which is not the main
point but I do want to do the minor fact
check
we're okay setting aside the Kurds
traveling across Eurasian landmass to
volunteer for Normandy I think we can
ignore that one maybe Trump is confusing
it with other or with a British colonial
subjects like enforced soldiers from
India who fought on behalf of the
British Empire maybe that's what he has
in mind in his you know his his fizzle
brain but there actually was support for
the Kurds towards a broader global
effort against Hitler's Germany what was
that Brenton they were part of the Iraq
levies there are a quarter of the
fighting force and which eventually was
rolled into part of the British Royal
Marine Commando and they fought in
Albania Italy and in Greece Wow soon at
Normandy checkmate
- not Normandy checkmate so this bloated
idiot and this bloated disgusting
gets it wrong even by the same stupid
disingenuous metrics he's using I think
it's very interesting to watch actual
you know the way Trump gets played by
people with actual savvy like it air21
this and and again you know we'll keep
spelling this out this isn't a
preventative war this isn't this is
about to happen and we should deploy
u.s. airpower or troops those situations
have led to catastrophic US actions
across the globe so-called humanitarian
intervention but just in the same way
that we need to pivot radically from a
moralistic one-dimensional airbrushing
of u.s. hegemonic actions across the
globe we can still look at and deal with
the world as it is and appreciate the
historical irony that a US troop
presence was protecting first of all a
historically repressed and genocided
group by multiple middle-eastern
governments Turkish and Arabic
then also recognize that in fact and
that by the way should be sufficient
that should be sufficient the the same
dynamic could apply to the Kurds of
northern Iraq who have much more I would
say emirati politics and some respects
but it also then happens to extend to
the fact that they have a dynamic and
important political innovation an
experiment which is the only
recognizable left in that region not
nationalist but left and I'm on the left
so that's who I have solidarity with I
condemn this action I think it's
disgusting
I think it's horrifying I think it is
analogous not the same but it exists on
a spectrum of the Israeli occupation and
slaughters in Gaza with the Modi
regime's attacks on Kashmir with what's
happening in West Papua and and and and
this broader sort of formalization of
this type of brutality who wrote that
piece that brilliant piece that Donald
Trump wrote a man by the name of Kurtz
Lichter will Sumner summer pointed this
out
Lichter wrote a column here I'm not sure
what the headline is but this part is
the relevant portion it's also true that
the Kurds would have fought Isis anyway
since their psycho Caliphate was right
next door let's be honest the Kurds
didn't show up for us at Normandy or
Incheon or caisson or Kandahar the
Syrian Kurds allied with us in their
homeland because we have a shared common
interest in wiping out the head lobbying
freakshow that was Isis moreover not all
Kurds are not equal the PKK the Kurdish
stand Workers Party are a bunch of
commie terrorists who have been fighting
the Turks for a long time those are no
friends of ours of someone's getting
their Turkish talking points I mean look
there's actually reeled the the the SDF
is definitely connected to the PKK
there's no doubt about it and has the
PKK not the SDF but a separate
operations engaged in terrorist attacks
historically in Turkey
yes absolutely at the same time do they
represent a genuine aspiration for
rights and autonomy 100% and if I can
understand and think with some
complexity about a group like the IRA I
certainly can about the PKK now in
addition to that under the broader
leadership embracing the work of Murray
Bookchin so first of all their demands
and their suffering and their oppression
they're a hundred percent right about
anybody who would deny that is being
chauvinist or insincere delusional or
uninformed and now in the current
political context they have been a force
of a dynamic progressive experimentation
this is also another thing though that a
Kurt Schlichter apparently has on his
record did we have this up I don't even
know who Kurtz Lichter is I mean I know
he's I mean obviously he's just some
other grotesque idiot but this is a
photo
it's from CBS News a yemeni mother
fought for seventeen months to overcome
the u.s. travel ban visit her sick
two-year-old son he died only days after
she arrived and clerks licked her in the
epitome of trumpism quote tweeted this
story with I don't care but you know I I
guess my questions really though to a
lot of people is you know is that
frankly your same reaction to the
slaughter that's taking place now by
Turkey all right there's no elegant
transition so we'll just get to it well
change the mood up a little bit
Sam's got some some paid kids
