but lettuce also as long as we're
critiquing people now Bernie Sanders has
not entered the race officially or
really I mean in any way but you know
who knows I think there's a decent
chance he will at this point certainly
not quashing any of the speculation but
when Bernie enters the race he's going
to have to contend with his past and
there has been a video we saw a video
earlier of Kamala Harris from 2010 sort
of bragging about threatening to jail
parents whose kids don't go to school
enough
here is a trip apparently that Bernie
Sanders took to the Soviet Union in 1988
which if you recall is supposedly in an
era when we were trying to culturally
make inroads into the Soviet Union but
God help us is this the way you do it
he's out of dinner and he's sure David
cross was also I was not the young David
Cross in 88 I can assure you David cross
that hair big curly fro all right here
let's listen to this
[Applause]
[Applause]
there's bernie sanders on the light
they're lenient about how to share it on
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
posit think what it is if there's a
russian woman there and she's saying
when one side of the table
sings their song so this is a you know a
mixed Russian and or I should say Soviet
and American meal they have all sorts of
wine bottles out there I guess to sort
of hide the fact that what they're
really doing which is supposedly eating
and they are they are switching songs
back and forth I continue
[Applause]
[Music]
there's more footage of Bernie Sanders
man
[Music]
is a sign closed American pizza and
Moscow
[Music]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
Wow Bernie Sanders is so cool
everything you learn about him he just
gets cooler also can we say wait a sec
he's ageless wait it looks the same back
first off first off the idea that you
would be wearing no shirt at dinner
it's disgusting I'm sorry we're not
gonna let Bernie Sanders escape by this
there's a reason why they say no shirt
no shoes no service I don't know if he's
wearing shoes there I don't know why you
would if you're not gonna wear a shirt
at the dinner table but I hope I hope
enough people see this there we got yeah
yeah it'll be really damaging this is by
the way just like his point of reference
isn't this this 188 yeah so this was two
years after Mikhail Gorbachev and Reagan
tried to get rid of all of the world's
nukes at Reykjavik mmm so like how
bizarre like how out of the mainstream
that like at a time when like Esalen
Institute is facilitating cultural
diplomacy and all sorts of direct
relationships are forming and the cold
war that Bernie Sanders would do this
very damning oh I can explain to you
what was going on is this gonna involve
a Jonathan Chait theory okay Jonathan
shape the years 1980 88 a young KGB
officer named Vladimir Putin calls a
meeting with a young Burlington mayor
who already looks like a grandpa and a
real estate developer from New York City
named Donald Trump Putin knows that by
2016
late stage capitalism we're ruining
America you will run from left against
Hillary Clinton's you know you will know
who is here at this time is the Jonathan
shaped column Louie Gohmert
this land was made for bottom ear Putin
was at first it was a commitment to
socialism but then it became a
commitment to Russia as a country Donald
and I had our marching orders I saw a
tweet by someone who's an editor at
Wired and I've read you know stuff from
her before and I thought oh yeah she's
pretty good writer and I still for the
life of me can't figure out if she
wasn't joking that the implication is
that Sanders entire campaign is a a
Putin project yes there's a lot of
people going after the Bernie supporters
online right now in a way that they're
saying that it's an organized front for
Russia it's that's pretty frankly could
used to be a little bit more organized
this time yes it's definitely for Russia
Russia if you're listening release more
emails release bought emails had the
vine did good ads but he was a little
sloppy with the Ukraine stuff for God's
sake not exactly good PR really I I was
I I got a little disturbed by the whole
thing yeah yeah I can't even keep up no
but I just look I think there are people
obviously we talk a lot about the the
people on on well on both sides of that
that 2016 election lost their but I
honestly think that like you know some
people thought Hillary Clinton had
Parkinson's and that Seth rich was
rubbed out by the Clintons did you hear
the Harris has sickle cell but the the
but the idea that there are people who
genuinely believe that Bernie is some
type of Russian agent is pretty stunning
I given and this is actually another
good sort of political callback moment
and I in look correct me if I'm wrong
because I'm basically going off of
watching the war room documentary but
Bill Clinton when he was a Rhodes
Scholar
he took a road trip into the Soviet
Union right and they tried to make that
was a thing they tried to be well what
kind of young American protest Vietnam
and wants to visit the Soviet Union
right and there's actually a great clip
in that documentary James Carville's
like who was you know the best Clinton
operative he's like what are you talking
on a basketball man crazy and it's so
funny that's not that's some of the same
contingent of those Clinton Easter's are
now like it's like hey you were right
back then
