so Heather we are in now the week two
and the sort of waiting now for the
Muller report to be given to Congress
this week the Democrats in Congress
voted to subpoena the report it is
unclear there's I mean it seems to me
that it's unclear well you know what
what's going on with the report on one
hand we hear that there's a process in
which you know redactions must go
through and we don't know exactly the
size of the report we've heard all sorts
of different reporting as to the size of
the report that they must go to get a
order from a judge to to share parts of
the grand jury in testimony and
information if they're going to share it
with Congress but that to me seems like
it couldn't take that long the Democrats
certainly felt like there was a need to
subpoena it and you know I think that
regardless of what's in the report it
should be made at least available at
least it seems to me as a baseline
available to members of Congress I mean
I don't even see how it couldn't be at
this point right I mean presumably
there's also reports that at least the
Intel committee would have seen in terms
of the intelligence investigation into
this stuff right absolutely I mean look
this is this is the probably the most
momentous presidential scandal in our
history because of the foreign activity
around it I mean it's it goes beyond
Richard Nixon in in terms of the sort of
scope of it and the implications of it
for you know American national security
there has been you know people have been
you know seeing you know a story after
story after story for the last two years
that lend all kinds of suspicions to
what was going on there is absolutely no
way that the Congress shouldn't see it
and that the Congress shouldn't be in a
position to release virtually all of it
to the to the public I mean that this is
just that there's never been other than
maybe the 9/11 report I can think of
that that has the kind of you know
importance to the public to sort of get
the full story in order to understand
what happened there and and the idea
that they're going to try and suppress
this and look I think Jerry Nadler who's
the one who the chairman of the
Judiciary Committee who has you know
gone very aggressively saying we are
we're going to vote to subpoena all this
the subpoena the report and he also by
the way said that we're going to vote to
subpoena certain people about their
grand jury
you know testimony and there's a good
reason for that you know if they decide
to go in and you know fight this in the
courts which they probably will despite
all of the you know Republicans in the
house voting to release the report and
despite the president saying we can
release the report you know they're
going to fight it because they know that
no matter whether or not there's any
criminal charges stemming from this
investigation there's plenty to
implicate the president in really
disgusting wrongdoing so they don't want
that to come out but nonetheless this is
going to be a fight and what Kneedler
has done is he's put down a marker and
he's saying look we're not just going to
roll over here we are going to pursue
this this is this is on the table and
you can see the Republicans fighting
back their strategy is to say oh look
they're obsessed it's a witch hunt
they're caught you know they which time
to move on we need to you know start we
need to need to run the country the
president's been saying that and by the
way they're working the media on that
because the media started is this
democratic overreach they won't be able
to get these these documents and gosh
that you know are they making it easy
for Trump to call it a witch hunt etc
etc so you can see the sort of political
strategy around it it doesn't matter and
I think nade ler gets that and I think
shift us to an intelligence fide you
know they're saying look this is our did
have been zero oversight for two years
and all this stuff has been going on and
we are going to look at it one way or
the other and by subpoenaing these
people which are like Don began and
Reince Priebus and some of the other
people who were involved in potentially
the obstruction side of it what they're
going to do is ask them to agree
to release their grand jury testimony
and you know whether or not they do that
I don't know but that's another
direction you can go to if you know they
a person who testifies before the grand
jury can say whatever they want about
their testimony there's no law against
it is that the government can't release
that information so they're hoping to
put pressure on from that direction as
well these people all have reputations
they have you know their place in
history I mean it's unknown yet how far
all of them will go to protect on Trump
so I think that that you know the
Democrats are being very aggressive
about that and rightfully so and they're
going to have to learn to take some heat
from the media because I'm already
seeing Chuck Todd and you know people
you know villagers coming around going
oh this is really tough and the
Democrats are putting themselves in a
bad position and you know they need to
think about whether or not they can go
into the election you know pursuing
Donald Trump and I think that these
people are you know I think mailer and
chip and Pelosi - presumably are saying
you know yeah whatever
talk to the hand yeah well I mean look
the the bottom line is regardless of
what your disposition is on the the the
report it seems to me to be a almost
unconscionable that whether you think
that Donald Trump was completely this
was a complete witch-hunt or whether you
think there were there was you know
enough evidence that just couldn't be
that just didn't reach the threshold of
something that the that Muller thought
was worthy of an indictment or that the
the laws were are narrowly tailored
enough that like you could still have
you know some measure of quid pro quo or
the president could be operating because
you know he thought that he was going to
get business in Russia and didn't think
he'd ever have to make good on on on
anything that was implied that he would
do for the Russians or for anybody else
for that matter the Saudis the whoever
you'd want the report out there so that
the American public would have some
awareness of either the abuses that
gone on in the context of this
investigation or in the findings I mean
I just don't know how that is in any way
defensible at the very least you'd want
the representatives of the lawmakers to
see it I mean otherwise it just seems it
seems to do a disservice to regardless
of what your perspective on this I mean
if this was as some I think who are
certainly some Republicans are claiming
some type of witch-hunt and you know
assault on the presidency well then by
all means release the report and you
know let's hold people to account for
that if that's what it was so I think it
seems sort of shocking and all right
well let's take a break and when we come
back I guess we will talk a little more
about this I'm curious if you think that
it's possible for Democrats to run and
or walk and chew gum at the same time
and I also want to talk about some of
the demobilization that we may be seeing
in terms of the results of some
elections this week
we're going to take a quick break I'm
Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back
