[Music]
look at you always calling in early
these days Ronald Reagan didn't miss
there with the phone system for a second
but yeah figure it out so good for you
thank you
hey you guys played a clip of Van Jones
I'm Freddie oh yeah we did and you kind
of yeah you talked right over the the
punch line he said I've never seen a
bird fly with just a right wing or left
wing not even in Berkeley right get it
yeah no I get it cos Berkeley so
left-leaning that even their birds
compute even their birds need two wings
people laughed really hard like that
loud at that and I guess this is what
you and Andy are always talking about I
do don't understand it's not a joke it
doesn't make any sense like what is
wrong with their their brains but Reagan
haven't you ever been in like a date a
church and like the priest is trying to
be funny and he obviously is telling
jokes even though they're not funny
everybody laughs just because it's like
the form of example of what you're
talking about first of all there's two
types of people who are gonna get laughs
at CPAC okay one is a lefty who's
ostensibly owning or not sensible lefty
who's ostensibly owning the the left
right and that's by you know saying San
Francisco values or Berkeley values
right that's what that joke was and then
there's another and that is somebody who
is just there's just so much sick sick
sick a fan tree there that they laughed
at anything Ronald Reagan I give you
Donald Trump jr. on a panel with Charlie
Kirk what said Donald Trump Jr's
girlfriend's name Kim guilfoyle oh yeah
Kim Gilfoyle she's off of Fox now right
and who is the other one there's Jerry
Falwell and do we think it's Jerry
fellows wife Jerry Falwell and Jerry
Falwell wife now no mention of that
cabana boy right
wasn't that cabana boy there's there's a
settlement there I believe oh there's a
settlement well they're not let's know
what they're laughing about okay okay I
just want to be clear and here is the
joke that Donald Trump jr. tells this is
careful buddy you don't want to hurt
yourself three weeks ago tomorrow we had
our second granddaughter and like I said
a few weeks ago
yeah and her name is Reagan how
presidential is that beautiful Reagan
Elise I lobbied for Trump but it was a
little too soon maybe so Trump is not
the most feminine name that we could
make it the liberal playbook it doesn't
matter you know it doesn't matter we can
identify how we want oh by the way she
is a daughter she's our granddaughter
she's a and we're raising her as a girl
she's weird we're not letting her have a
choice
she's outraged tomorrow that you decided
for God God makes the choice of what the
babies are gonna be and God decided she
would be a girl you don't have to raise
them as a girl she just got a little
baby doll right there are every second
when my boys always have guns in their
hands
we didn't that's not something hashtag
me too that's not something you teach
but as far as those cows you mentioned
I've got 100 cows
you just let Alexandria Cortez show up
at my house and try to take my cows away
yes I love cows Jerry they're delicious
[Laughter]
first off let me just go cool let me
exactly let me just sort of like I have
to say this because I'm just sort of
amazed at the just sort of like how
rotten to the core these people are like
that in some way they're amused by sort
of mocking people who are struggling
with you know with establishing their
their gender identity like you sort of
like this is sort of it's literally like
some like first graders in like 1972 it
feels like did you sort of like just so
you know just the cruelty of being a
child but just the ignorance that came
you know just yeah total ignorance this
is the comedy equivalent of like
pointing a laser pointer in someone's
eye yeah Don jr. you know he gets it
yeah it feels like all of this is it's
kind of like having a political
convention after a long game of
telephone where they don't actually know
anything but it's like the issues have
been explained over and over again in
sort of a superficial way like through
20 different people and then the people
in the very end of that are the ones
that go and talk about these things at
the convention so like Alexandria how do
Cortes
to take away my cows you know I'm going
to murder her with my gun as if that
even remotely close to reality but hey I
wanted to ask you real quick what's your
take on Michael Jackson total molest her
right uh I you know my understanding is
that he yeah that there was some issues
but I haven't watched as the the
documentary come out yet what is going
what is what is the newest news about
this I think part one came out last
night right yeah and there's a lawsuit
ongoing yeah I didn't see it I'm gonna
watch it tonight but but I mean my sense
is is that it was having a problem like
wacko Jacko right right yeah no wacko
Jacko it is weird yeah alright
appreciate the call
all right thanks
[Music]
