[Music]
talk about the the new strategy of the
left of Kevin Sorbo if you believe Kevin
Sorbo what's going to happen is the
anti-fog is going to take over
everywhere and is going to drive
everyone out of the suburbs they're
gonna have to take their weapons hell
yeah
bench Bureau the intellectual pillar of
the new right in this country we get one
of these every three or four years they
just cycle through bench Bureau
announces to the world based upon the
daily wires piece this is his outlet
Walmart caves too far left
stop selling ammo and guns and
interesting that that they they perceive
it to be the far left but you know I
think there may be probably a broader
audience that is a little bit upset at
the mass killings that have taken place
in Texas just in the past couple weeks
or all around the country but I will
credit conservatives with at the very
least not wanting their children to be
shot or their family members to be shot
sometimes the calculation that they're
willing to you know increase that risk
by allowing for guns doesn't make much
sense but nevertheless I don't think
they're happy about it and so Walmart
has responded in the marketplace right I
mean when we talk about the marketplace
when anybody talks about the marketplace
this is supposedly the the wonder of the
market if your consumers don't want you
to sell something they're gonna express
it in multiple ways and you make a
decision is it worth my while
I mean in fact all the libertarians will
tell you there won't be there wouldn't
be any racism if we didn't have a Civil
Rights Act because people would boycott
those you know
those lunch places that don't serve
black people now of course in practice
we know that's not the case what happens
you know when Chicka fillet was even was
you know funding anti-gay organizations
there was a lot of people who rallied
and specifically went to chick-fil-a but
nevertheless Ben Shapiro has a problem
with what's going on with Walmart he
says the left has found a new way of in
the plant implementing policy from the
top down this policy presumably is we
don't want big-box stores selling guns
without the use of government simply
pressure massive corporations to do
their political bidding now I don't know
if there was a boycott here or what he
goes on to say this is a dangerous
precedent and adds to the continuing
polarization of the country are we now
going to have politically segregated
big-box stores now what's fascinating
about both of these tweets is he
perceives pressure on massive
corporations as a national policy on
some level it's really just one store
that is not selling stuff it is a
corporation deciding it's not in their
best interest to sell these baby killing
machines and these people killing
machines to people it's a dangerous
precedent now can we look up what
precedent means can we look up what
precedent means because I'm curious
precedent I thought meant let me read
this it says an earlier event or action
that is regarded as an example or guide
to be considered in subsequent similar
circumstances in other words when he
says this is a precedent that would be
this is the first time that this has
happened and it's going to end up being
something that happens in the future
that political groups are going
pressure businesses to do something that
reflects their values let's see well
let's do can we Google it before we even
get to this this this era I want to just
go the the let's see okay let's just
Google let's google conservative boycott
from what's the most recent one like
just today if we were to just google
conservative boycott let's see we got a
brief history of batshit conservative
boycotts boycott lists for conservatives
boycott left-wingers dot-com that's an
actual website that has a list click on
that let's see what we get here
okay this is updated oh this is as
recent as here it's slide it over I
can't see the you slide it over here we
go okay we have oh now they haven't done
anything since January of 2019 added
Gillette for their man-hating
commercials added Nike for honoring
Kaepernick added in-and-out burger a
burger to the support list added
MasterCard to the boycott list for
attempting to silence conservatives
added Publix to the support list Waffle
House removed from the support list
because they're gun free policy coolers
added to the boycott list Yeti coolers
adidas added to the list for supporting
an American hater Ace Hardware moved
from boycott to support I don't know
that I call myself an America hater now
this is weird because based upon the
definition of precedent we're actually
going back in time to establish this as
a pattern can we go back to the google
list maybe this is just something that's
recent and it's so close let's go to
January 2011 to January 2016
conservative
boycott of Mozilla after gays press CEO
I don't even know what the rest of that
is freedom from facebook wants
conservatives to boycott conservative
groups call for a national boycott of
Girl Scouts five corporations that
should be blacklisted by conservative
rights townhall in 2013 that's weird
boycotted advertises matters help but
stop fake news back in 2015
why conservatives shouldn't boycott
Chipotle they must have been cutting
Chipotle a conservative op-ed promotes a
boycott of a hundred and forty
seven-year-old student newspaper there
you go
wait a second let's just go back in time
even to 2006 to 2010 we have boycott
movement against Jim Crow streetcars oh
that's not bad a Christian let's say
boycott Christian conservative boycott
of Disney back in the time GM bailout
call a triggers calls for boycott from
the conservative right why I'm done with
Whole Foods there you go ladies and
gentlemen the idea that that in some way
it's a precedent for people and there
was no boycott for Walmart it was just
pressure and who is he defining as the
top in that I feel like we might need to
look up what that means to the top would
be of course down the the power and I
guess he's saying that Walmart consumers
are the elite in this country who are
forcing this change there you go
once again the pillar of the
intellectual right in this country
ben shapiro shows you know it's not
going to cut it hey Jeff the ball on
that one a little bit
