[Music]
we've changed change of plan
in lieu of usually I like I'll call
during the break and bring on one of
these things but but I'm gonna give it
it's been a while for me but I certainly
have been known to do some in my past
[Music]
hello gullible rube industries Chris
speaking yeah you have a Prince Albert
in the can Oh No one of the classic
pranksters oh no it's real I'm curious
I'm looking for some tobacco that was
sold in the 30s mm-hmm okay
so you're not even really a good one
okay Chris I it's it's actually Sam
cedar I'm sorry wait say yes Chris
that's all right thanks Sam thanks for
having me on really appreciate I know
you I know you already talked about the
debate but I am I'm excited to talk a
little politics with some fellow polit
politic head oh good well we'll do that
but but before we do that we have to go
through basically what you do because
it's fantastic this is it's a great era
for something like this to happen like a
you know in the past there have been
people who have done stuff like this I
have done one or two myself of this type
of stuff but you have made it into a
show the not even a show but and it's
pretty amazing well III just want to
play a couple of clips to show people we
can talk about this this is Curt
Schilling that we just accept I don't
know it to be honest if he playing in
two clips from my if I might have to
DMCA you so that your algorithm can't
find it okay that's good yeah well I'm
not sure what are you gonna play okay
we're gonna play first this is show
episode
I guess back into 2017 where you called
and curt schilling I guess at this time
I didn't know maybe he still has one but
he he had a show yeah on Breitbart
breitbart.com that was the first show I
ever called was Curt Schilling I came
across it on Twitter and he was just
sort of doing it on periscope but it
yeah it wasn't it was just him in his in
his house you know sort of doing a show
but yeah was on Breitbart now had you
decided to do a show yet or were you
just like god this guy I got a call in
and just mess with him well I I'm a
stand-up comedian that's what my
background is from a stand-up comedian
and I sort of decided I don't really
want to be a stand-up comedian I want a
tour around so I have to look for
something that I can do at home and I
really love editing I love like what Vic
burger a DJ Doug pound on Tim and Eric
they're sort of taking footage and
making it funny or just with editing
right so I became really obsessed with
that and I started looking at ways of
getting footage and yeah I came across
so I had it in mind that I was doing a
channel I also had an idea before that
to do a Twitter account where basically
we organize pranks large pranks so it
would be like an account that would have
whatever however many followers meet say
okay today we're calling Hannity and
everyone's going to say this but I
couldn't get it off the ground because I
had no followers and nobody cared so I
just started the channel well it's gonna
happen we're gonna do this in the
meantime here is Curt Schilling now I
have to say Curt Schilling for me
obviously there's there's some there's
some pleasure in watching this but
there's also some pain I'm not gonna lie
Schilling part of the Oh for team where
the Red Sox won the World Series after
what was it 80 some odd years I can't
remember now how long the curse was and
but here is Curt Schilling Willa let's
start with a clip where he busts him on
Curt attributing muzzle attack on
Muslims when they wasn't them so we just
couldn't get the flavor okay we'll get
the flavor first huh clean your ears
clean your ears out big boy all right
shaker how are you doing good some big
fan of yours you look fat as today
but I Love You Man that's funny okay are
you calling it for something yeah yeah
no I was telling him I'm a really big
fan of yours I'm raised almost like it
just say your California that covers all
those what else what else you got for me
crest
Oh am I still there no yeah we go ahead
come on go ahead come on it's usually a
hang-up really
I'm really scared all the time and I'm
always looking for outlets as far as the
big things that I can point to you're
liberal that covers it all I'm not a
liberal a conservative no there's
nothing conservative about you you're a
coward and a fraud because you can't
call in with anything to debate or talk
about other the fact that you're a
dumbass well anyway go ahead a lot of
college sure you are not a cowardly sure
exactly what you want me to say that I'm
running for Senate and then go out of my
life never not okay now one second here
I forgot that this is that wasn't the
must know I was still pretty funny yeah
that was when I remember that he said he
was running for Senate and then he said
all I have to do is that's my wife and
then he came out like two days later and
he's like I will not be running for
Senate very alpha move I've been there
let's just let's go to the let's go
missions yeah let's go to the defamation
cuz this is pretty good and I really
this I had a lot of respect for what you
work you the work you did here because
you would not let this die and and so
this is Kurt making the mistake okay
this is later in the show this is Kurt
making what you write as a truly
wonderful mistake quote Trump
administration chose to defame me call
me said I didn't realize that Fame was
part of his appointment for his position
but apparently he was a posit we should
just be clear here he doesn't know what
the word defame means
he thinks it means removing his fame
like a child the way a child would think
right I think if I said that to my
six-year-old like what do you think
defame means get rid of Fame like defang
right but so you call in to just sort of
talk to him about this I'm a big fan i
calling all the time i know what i am a
fan i'm as much of a fan as anyone else
I listen to your show every single
morning I wake up for it stick to
talking the one stop I noticed last week
you seem to not really understand what
the word the fame means and I was
curious if you if you figured out yeah
what the word means
yeah it means to slander somebody to - I
mean to slander somebody too - so why do
you seem to feel like it has something
to do with Fame though because I don't
question what somebody's name somebody
who isn't actually famous but you think
you understand that you can but by law
right right if you're damaging
somebody's reputation then you're
defamed yeah but you understand that you
can do that why are you not defaming
somebody by damaging their reputation
yeah you are nothing to do a thing but
you can if somebody's famous and you
damage their reputation you're defending
them right awesome
I think it's awesome that you spent your
entire weekend worrying about my use of
the word defame that's that to me is
funny you got anything else in it can I
talk sure
so why did you say it's something to do
with Fame
I said how somebody who is saying it
shouldn't be yes right yeah so that
shows that you don't understand the word
and then you're dumb nine o'clock in the
morning listen to somebody's show that
they don't like and we can tell em that
when they're here yeah okay but you
don't and I yeah good yeah you do you do
want to you don't want to miss this
right at the end that was when I
reminded him was actually 6:00 a.m. for
me because he doesn't understand how
time
that is now let me ask you this do you
such an irritant do you have a device or
a system of spoofing your caller ID
yeah I do yeah I have to like once I
started calling more shows and they
started to know my numbers and I had to
get yeah get a call spoofer to spoof my
call which I guess you're not actually
allowed to really do know in America
you're not it but I live in Canada
luckily so there's really nothing that
anybody can do cuz back in the day
hypothetically if I lived in America and
I had done this I would have used I tell
us that I tell us calm but apparently
you can't do that so yeah yeah no I I
use an it's just a simple application
it's good it records the calls and it
allows me to change my number because
yeah there's a lot of the hosts Kurt
doesn't do is show anymore there's a lot
of the hosts that stopped doing their
shows since we've been up and running
but you know there's people like JJ
McCartney's a guy we regularly call and
I can just call back over and over again
from different numbers and he's got no
one calling in so he's just picking up
my call after my call well so here we go
so 19 episodes later in fact now you
publish this on June 19 so this is
almost like a year and a half later this
is four seasons in 19 episodes oh my god
so this is a long time later curt
schilling this is the best of clip I
should say okay Kurt Schilling is on is
it on the Howie Carr show is that what
he's on oh yes this is this is from an
earlier episode but yeah he went on the
howard car show with a the guest host
steve something who's like the producer
and I had already pranked him that day
so I had already pranked him at his home
and then he got into his car drove to a
studio and then I pranked him on the
show that he was at that time as well
let's look at the M on the gas I
admitted I made a mistake it was my
mistake but so Broadway do you know what
the word that they means yet
waking up this early to call in for that
one we'll go to the phone lines again
Chris you're next on this one with
Stephen Curt go ahead Chris
oh hey how are you today good can you
ask her a question before we occur to
you yes for yourself go ahead buddy oh
hey Curt I was just curious do you know
could you tell me the definition of the
word two-faced oh so this is this week
who calls into my show every day he's I
think he's Canadian he's high every
morning by 9:15 we followed and he has
absolutely no no like political
awareness whatsoever but he tries to
like call in and ask about because I
really have good Canadians who kindness
a lot but I had mentioned I've mentioned
we were talking about James call me and
and somebody had said he was being I
said he was being how do you do Fame
somebody that isn't actually famous oh
oh you used the word defamed in the
wrong sentence and the wrong context
like well in that case I think you might
have we need to stop it marinate in that
moment where the e6 first of all I don't
know why I felt so you've got under his
skin so badly this is what I think it's
really impressive about what you're
doing here is like you found something
that reduced Curt Schilling the guy who
like pitched through a bloody ankle and
you found something that stayed in his
brain in such a way that he could not
even let it go on a a major regional
radio show where he was like that's just
some guy I got a lot of trolls what are
you gonna do buck but he actually has to
explain the whole thing to him keep it
up there cuz we're gonna keep going and
the host basically says oh yeah yeah you
did get it wrong Curt Schilling tried
dig himself out of this all the hosts I
think you might have
right and then I get you Kirk as someone
who's also very funny I understand
sometimes people just don't get it no
see and this is where I would do the MIT
Romney laughs I was over on the board
but see here's the thing as grace grace
obviously calls you a quasi celebrity
right so you all by your understanding
could not be defamed
[Music]
[Laughter]
brought him onto the show and presumably
agrees with them on know stuff is just
absolutely mocking the out of it
not only stupid but you're not even
famous yeah that's that's the thing that
I like to do and that's like with my
channel what I've sort of focused on is
honing in on one thing and and just not
letting it go I found that sort of the
best way to drive the hosts crazy and
there's the JJ McCartney is the one I
have a supercut of three hours and we
only ever call them about his shirt and
that's like sort of a well-known one
please and please some of that the FB I
do I thought in my head I thought can I
invent something can I invent something
that has no meaning whatsoever so it
does it's not even insulting it's not
bad
there's nothing to it and just invent it
from nothing and create a thing that now
is the bane of his existence and drives
them insane and it it worked 110 this is
that this is this is this is this guy
what's his name now this is Jim O'Connor
JJ McCartney JJ McCartney he's in like
Nebraska he's an extremely right-wing
like key one on false flag really truly
disgraceful you know religious bigot
just a terrible terrible guy and and
you're you just picked the shirt
randomly and random yeah we're just
gonna pick up randomly this is a three
hour super good three hour super guy
yeah the attacks of 9/11 or say that
your your family member of yours was
killed by a member of the Hells Angels
[Music]
trade and I'm really worried that if
China cuts out the trade altogether then
where are you gonna get your cheap
shirts from
you're so funny gosh I miss a real
knee-slapper
that's where you know folks the these
people are you know they're clever
aren't they 5 8 5 3 5 2 2 s 5 7 this one
says it's Janice hello Janice welcome to
the show oh no no no it's not and you're
not sorry and I'm sorry but I don't have
time to waste
and you know we're just not gonna play
your games you know seriously okay let
me go next it says you're in Tennessee
but who knows hello welcome to the show
I told you not to mess with the water
skis my bed don't mess with the wok
Chris do you want to explain the locking
a little bit well the law king is there
was an old host that we used to call
named Jim Lockwood who was the blind
lawyer in I forget where but and when we
called him and we started a bit where we
pretended to be a gang supporting him
and we wouldn't call other hosts and say
don't you know double-cross Lockwood in
the lock today it was sort of like in a
way of mocking him sort of became a big
part but he again he's one of the other
hosts that he's gone now he doesn't do a
show anymore I mean I this is so
fantastic if if if YouTube it existed
when I was younger I know this is that's
this I think basically let's just skip
ahead I just want to see JJ McCarthy
McCartney like you know months into this
you can see him year than do it everyone
huh okay this is too complicated to
explain he starts playing this weird
clip that every time somebody calls so
it's gonna move I would never wish that
on anybody else that they would have to
be you that's the bottom line you never
know
you just never know hello you're on the
Jay Jay McCartney show not this one oh
hang on hang on
got a little bit of a hitch in the
giddyup don't go away stay with us we're
taking care of this I promise okay okay
now our caller you there David David
I'm gonna I'm gonna give you a 20 I'm
gonna give you 20 seconds to to tell me
why you're calling and what's going on
go ahead okay well you mentioned earlier
you were looking for a news report and I
was just I was just saying that if out
here in California Doris right now he's
organizing a bunch of youth groups and
it's really worrying to me they're
they're indoctrinating all these kids
and I think the worst of them have you
heard of any of these I think the worst
one is youth bed no I am not heard of
youth Ben tell me much because you'd
been yeah
[Laughter]
like that is by Prince Albert in the can
basic yeah it really is amazing to think
that we've we've honestly called there's
there's genuinely five hours of material
of calling this guy I mean he I don't
know why he kind of still does his show
it to be honest because the chat he had
to shut down his YouTube chat because it
was 95% people and from my channel just
pretending to be other people
and honestly 75 to 80 percent of the
callers are I don't really well that's
fantastic I think I think that's
fantastic like have you come in have you
come across anybody and I sort of feel
like I feel like I maybe I'm aware of
something that but have you come across
a guy like this when you start calling
realizes like I'm just gonna change the
nature of my show and have it be a
receptacle for prank calls I mean that's
essentially what Jim Lockwood did the
guys are blind and and oh I forgot to
mention about Jim Lockwood he had swords
hanging up behind the money his wall so
that was like a key thing we would
always call them about his swords like
as pretending we were just sort
enthusiasts and we will only want to
talk about the swords but yeah
definitely I mean we've had we there's
been a lot of shows where they just
stopped taking phone calls they just
decided you know what maybe we just
won't be a Colin show anymore maybe
we'll just talk for an hour or whatever
like there was one guy there was a show
called the deplorable radio that was the
name of the show so you can imagine
right what it was but I have a character
named the fat master who he like a
really homophobic host the fat master
gets aroused by that and he calls in and
watches the live stream and bashes off
which is his way of saying Jack's off
and this guy was the most homophobic
 ever on the deploy was radio
the fat master called him one single
time and he just shut down the phone
lines forever
never took another call in its entire
life that's fantastic that's that's so
great
and so yeah so how many how many years
have you been doing this - two and a
half years I want to say like I said I'm
a I'm a stand-up so you know I've been
doing comedy for a long time and I grew
up you know watching the I mean I
watched Crank Yankers I think you might
even refer have you know and and the
Jerky Boys when I was a kid I was like
it it was when the Jerky Boys were which
is insane to think they had like the
number-one album in North America as a
prank always do which is just crazy to
think that's like my formidable years
and then salhan Richard as well on on
Howard Stern sellin radio song
yeah the Trey do calls and all that
stuff so I've been obsessed with sort of
you know where I've I've had an interest
in prank calling for for a long time
it's very can you hear me Chris yeah
it's very it's very Trey do call like
and the difference is is that the the
Trey do calls that the Howard Stern guys
do are incredibly funny but you have to
like it the hosts of Trey do are these
very nice hapless coasts and these
 from New York these scumbags
are bothering them and they're nice
little slop shop program so it's really
funny but you have the same dynamic
except with the payoff of oh like their
horrible person oh that's so it all were
it's like you don't have that I love
those pranks but there's always a little
twinge of like oh just leave them alone
and let me sell their tractor or
whatever they're doing but this has none
of that
please waste all of their time yeah that
that is that's really the beauty of it
it's like the Quentin Tarantino thing
where it's like the villains are so bad
I can do whatever you want to them and
nobody feels bad for them so it's yeah
work so really well where I can be
really ambitious to these people
sometimes what I do have to do is and
people have told me in the past but I
have to do is sort of frame it a little
bit show a little bit of them talking
and saying some of the really bad stuff
I don't want to I don't thing is I want
it it's a fine line because it's a
balancing act I don't want to put that
out there on my channel
have too much of that actually you know
I just I don't want people watching that
it's just it sucks but you know
I do want to frame it up a little bit to
say okay I'm actually happy that this
guy JJ is considering flying to
Vancouver to try to kill you you know
like that's actually funny to me cos he
wants it he has he has said that before
a number of times he sort of let on that
like hey I'm I'm considering hiring
somebody to kill you probably not the
best I'll do context in which to
announce that that was such a great
father like a hey JJ they hit bad it's
Jack back back when back in my early
could in my early days of comedy this
guy Carl Perry and I who was sort of
like a like a legendary comedic
influence on lacrosse and those guys but
it was very in his own world yeah we
would call the production offices of
this TV show called Cobra with Michael
Dudikoff as if we were the Michael
Dudikoff fan club and different
storylines as to like we think that
Michael could get involved with
Christine but if you're holding off for
later in the episode that's cool and
then it would be stuff like I would call
and I'd say listen I just want you to
know because I don't want to be I want
to be upfront about this we had to
remove the president it was perfectly
you know a long parliamentary procedure
I am the acting vice president but I do
have authorization to make this call by
a vote that I can send you the minutes
if you need to see the minutes and they
would put us on speakerphone because
they are all thinking like these guys
are insane the thing is like I think we
recorded it but it was doubt that's the
beauty of like this YouTube here is that
you could actually like do this stuff
and show it to other people we would
just do it and then just I don't know
get high and then laugh about it like
yeah but we weren't 12
we were 25 I think well that's what a
lot of the time I'll tell people like I
have a prank calling channel and they're
like oh yeah I used to love doing prank
calls when I was nine you know like yeah
I know child what you do is on some
level I mean it it's like it is a form
of political trench warfare you are
jamming their signal to the extent like
what's the big well let's play this one
here this is the fat mass really need to
call that guy as I can find the right
stone that would be so funny I am oh
this is the Roger stone call yeah this
was it's really hard to get on with in
fours I'm actually in my head as
somebody who tries to prank call shows
all the time I'm convinced that Alex
Jones doesn't have real callers to his
show like he never did it was all sort
of pre done because I mean we've called
thousands of times and never gotten even
through to a screener but yeah we
managed to get on this other show that
Roger stone was co-hosting that's
interesting I definitely know I can I
can assure you that in talk radio people
would put planted calls in I know that
but I was I was definitely aware that
people would do that but that's
interesting maybe he never got any real
calls at all that's in chat but here is
this is the fat master calling in to
Roger stone I just got to say that
checkered tie really digging it today
Roger really digging it I appreciate
that coming from a man who's whose tie
and whose pocket square are perfectly
coordinated today it's a hardcore perch
well thank you and revealing the
suspenders to after coming off the Joan
show up no all right let's go out to the
phone lines indeed your calls for Roger
stone or myself let's go to Chris in
Florida as well go ahead Chris oh hey
good afternoon fellas how are you
we're great I'm excited to talk to Roger
a big fan here's Roger I love you I love
that you're on the live stream you're
looking good with those the spenders
thank you it's kind of the Larry King
look but I wanted to change it up from
the Alex Jones Show you look a lot
better than Larry King sir you like a
whole lot Larry King years younger I
think but go ahead yeah yeah my name's
my name is a fat master I'm kind of a
well known figure and I like to watch
these radio shows and I find the most
handsome hosts and I liked it again I
guess back off to him today yeah my
question is have you ever heard of Jim
Lockwood in the locker game I cannot say
that I have did you want to talk about
South Korea and North Korea like it says
on the board here or are you are you
just calling in for a good time I am
having a good time Jack it off yeah yeah
I I feel nervous to get nervous calling
you know what I'd get on with a big
person and it doesn't happen as much now
it makes it a lot easier like on that
call I was really nervous you know to
have gotten through you think stone was
really flattered by that yeah I think
yeah I think he definitely was yeah that
was the thing about it when I did it I
heard that what he wasn't the best
target for that type of thing because
he's very open sexually as the truth you
know he's famously he was that
posting or whatever right right I mean
you want to you want to call into like
someone who's very conservative and you
creep them out that you exactly yeah the
idea I just the fact that they're on a
camera and there's nothing they can do
like they could turn the camera off I
guess but they're on the camera they
can't you know pick who's watching them
or what that person is doing while
they're watching them it's really sort
of you know you're it you're on a live
stream right now isn't it a little
uncomfortable to think of that
a little bit I guess I mean if you tell
me that you are I would say I'm not
surprised I think a huge percentage of
our audience is probably doing this game
but that's why that's why franking
left-wing shows doesn't work as well
that's that's the reason I mean if you
try to call them it it you would just
say something like that and then it
would be over and it wouldn't be a great
clip no we don't care if you jack off to
us in fact I like it we actually
actually are enrolled in a an affiliate
program where and if you're jerking off
while you watch the majority report be
sure to let credo mobile know actually
supports plane Parenthood use the coupon
code majority black code majority let
you know you jerked off to rise let's
let's watch with the fat master calling
in on one of these homophobic radio this
is the deplorable yeah this is the guy
who never took another phone lines all
together the number here I guess my to
give him the wrong number earlier 202
eight three eight zero one zero one
that's the call in number someone
tweeted me that maybe I gave the wrong
one which not be the first time I got a
call here this is Roger from ID oh let's
go ahead get his input on this so hey
Roger how's it going
not too bad how you doing today hey good
so what's your comments with Witkin uh
what's your thoughts on this hey I
questioned is deplorable is that a play
on that commented Hilary made yeah it
actually was kind of going around before
that but then Hillary kind of helped
codify it yes that that helped get
helped kind of a common banner Russian
people that the Democrats and the
establishment don't like it all so you
gave the wrong number originally that's
kind of an important part of a call and
show sure is so do you have any any be
input to the show yeah I wanted to talk
about mid-to McConnell okay I'm sorry
is that you on the live stream it is
I like to call these shows in the night
I got that batch off while I watch okay
so what about McConnell what's your
point well McConnell I would never batch
off in the car and he's not in good
looking at you these are what we call
trolls people Lutz
it had nothing better to do thanks so
much and thus ends his phone taking
career yeah he didn't say the thing
because it's it is really amazing one
thing that I've learned from calling all
these different shows it's amazing top
to bottom doesn't matter how big the
show is they all use the insult living
in your mom's basement it is just every
single one says it's crazy how many
dennis prager Gorka like all the way
down to JJ every single one of them now
we've got a bunch of you calling work
yeah it'd be like a spare bedroom or
something is that where you are in your
mom's house
yeah that's that's actually I actually
had my mom and dad call in to the shows
there's a clip where my dad calls Kurt
Schilling and says that I live in the
basement and he can't get me out of the
basement and Kurt like talks to him
father to father
how does this guy know what his son is
doing the bay like how does this I watch
YouTube and I stumbled across your show
and saw that my son called in and I just
wanted to tell you I'm sorry I'm trying
but we played a bunch of your Gorka
stuff where you would say like oh my
sister she's a Lib she says that you're
ugly and horrible and you're just
despicable and dishonest that's my
favorite prey it's my favorite prank to
do to the bigger shows it's so great
where you just position yourself as a
huge fan who has a detractor within
their life and then it just gives you
free rein to insult them is just right
to their face on their own radio show
it's the most insulting things you can
think of you know
and and do you have like a favorite
persona you used when you talk to
screeners do you have any screeners I
mean folks want to do this some of these
shows don't have screeners I had a thing
back during the air America days where
Janina was getting harassed by a
right-wing talk-show host in
Massachusetts which we ended up you know
it was it was the Ken something show and
I didn't realize that there were radio
shows that don't have screeners and that
they just pick up the calls and so I
just kept theoretically changing my my
caller ID and within like a show there
was not that many colors so I just think
you pick up a call it would be me he
would hang up on me he would pick up
another call and then he would pick up
another color with me and then it was me
and then it was me
doo-doo-doo mostly I would imagine most
of these YouTube shows don't have
screeners it it depends on the level of
the show so a lot of them like to any
show that's a bigger show so any show
that's happening at a radio you know a
terrestrial radio network and it's just
being simulcast on YouTube or Facebook
or whatever they all have screeners but
the unaffiliated ones the ones where
it's just a person who's streaming from
their home they often don't so yeah it's
a real I'm going to tell you just if
you're starting a right-wing radio show
and you have a live video stream and you
don't have a call screener it's just
it's really it's it's bad news for it's
not gonna work out well like it's just
those shows are like I mean yeah like
Jay Jay McCartney is like that where he
he has an automated screener so it says
what please tell the host what you would
like to talk about and then it just does
voice-to-text oh so so that's that's
like but yes I guess that's even one
step further because yeah some of them
they're just picking up the call
answering it and saying hello and
they're doing it on the radio on the air
which seems a crazy we do the crazy way
to do it that's what we do but again I'm
not as concerned about it
you have gotten pranked a few times
though I've noticed well you definitely
have gotten I think you did well you
know what's funny somebody praying too
last week I guess but it wasn't it was
somebody on behalf of my channel but not
somebody that was you know I had no idea
they just sent me a DM on Twitter saying
hey I I pranked him on behalf of the not
even a show oh yeah so that happened
quite a bit now which is nice I kind of
a cool thing about my channel too is if
it's like oh I like this channel you can
just be on it and be a part of it by
just making a prank call and sending it
to me you know right it's basically like
a bababooey type of situation I know
what was it Frank was the valve half
life and then someone called you a
Boomer I couldn't follow it but yeah
yeah I mean the big the big Keeneland
let you boomer that's the main thing
that you got to remember yeah well I
mean I'm a gen Xer so yeah me thinks
about doth protest too much
I like oh it's like a fact that you
can't even question its based on your
age and yet still I'm calling it into
question well I mean it's it's also
maybe a mentality on some way yeah right
well so folks can head over to not not
even a show on YouTube what is the what
is your YouTube channel will obviously
put a link at majority dot F M but just
do at youtube.com slash not even a show
and then I have a patreon patreon comm
slash not even a show I do a bonus
episode every week and a podcast and
then I also I do my own call-in show on
twitch no prank radio where I ask I sort
of beg people not to prank me but
unfortunately Sam you're not gonna
believe it like they they actually don't
listen if they do in fact all prank me
it's a show that is completely overrun
by pranksters exactly so another fun one
though where you can sort of you know
make your own character and call in and
so yeah it's been really fun I just kind
of started it as a bit of a goof but
yeah I do it three three days a week and
yeah it's a lot of fun okay all right
well Chris it was it was it was great to
talk to you really appreciate you work
and thanks for taking some time amen
thank you so much thank you to Matt and
everybody for you know boosting my stuff
it's been so huge for me
mean so much and and I really appreciate
it and the last thing I want to say Sam
is nice shirt bye
wait what's is there something what's
wrong with my shirt nothing it's just
you know it's you know JJ treatment
they're not yes okay doubt he goes away
and now I'm stuck
