um Donald Trump on 9/11 I haven't seen
the whole speech is this one he gave
this morning or something I haven't seen
the whole speech I don't know if he
talked about how brave he was when he
went down there or how many thousands of
Muslims he saw cheering out of his
window I don't know if he mentioned the
fact that on the upside on 9/11 it made
his building the tallest one in the city
like he did while there was still smoke
in the air I don't even know if the
second tower had fought with it we must
have been right after the second tower
fall fell where Donald Trump in an
interview bragged that his building was
now the biggest one in New York City I
mean the guy's a lunatic but here he is
in some ways it's his like this is why I
will be the national security adviser to
my sister
we do not seek conflict but if anyone
dares to strike our land we will respond
with the full measure of American power
and the iron will of the American spirit
and that spirit is unbreakable we had
peace talks scheduled a few days ago I
called them off when I learned that they
had killed a great American soldier from
Puerto Rico and 11 other innocent people
they thought they would use this attack
to show strength but actually what they
showed is unrelenting weakness the last
four days we have hit our enemy harder
than they have ever been hit before and
that will continue
and if for any reason they come back to
our country we will go wherever they are
and use power the likes of which the
United States has never used before and
I'm not even talking about nuclear power
they will never have seen anything like
what will happen to them no enemy on
earth enemy this is a written speech it
this actually feels like he wrote this
doesn't it like who the hell who who
even say it's like nuclear power like
it's not a nuclear power what power you
want to know why posad ism is making a
comeback with its fetishization of
global thermonuclear war it's stuff like
this well it's I mean he's talking
though beyond nuclear power something
that is like even the transcends new
hydrogen bomb the idea that he's using
this opportunity to provide himself
cover for screwing up this these peace
talks with the Taliban I mean the
reality is that there's been ongoing
hostilities and killings by the Taliban
and by American forces throughout this
entire eight or nine month process in
which I they've been negotiating this
stuff I mean it's a complete lie they
screwed up they screwed up they didn't
even let the Afghan government know that
it would that this was going on that the
deal had been made they just said show
up you're gonna be here so we can take
pictures with you when we signed this
with the Taliban and the Afghan
government sure shocking said dick
oh wait master oh yeah exactly I mean
it's and and the idea that he's using
this speech as a sort of a way of trying
to salvage something is I this is
impressive stuff he clearly I think they
must have fired Bolton's speechwriter
too or whoever it is the National
Security Adviser speech it brighter but
good no enemy on earth can match the
overwhelming strength of skill and might
of the American armed forces
well he's got a scientist developing ice
9 in a lab right now as we speak
I've going to use superpowers there it
is
calling for their the defense secretary
the new one I can't keep track of the
names right now ok oh no not to find
second post Shannon Oh posters oh I
can't even remember this guy's name
thank you um you gave a speech right
after and my jaw dropped when I heard it
because it it was on the same level but
not Trump they tailor it for Trump
they're all like him now
