alright lastly speaking about love
juices this was a very sentimental
moment where Mike Pence had to pretend
to not be freaked out by this is really
funny as you know Mike Pence is a is an
ideological and avowed homophobe
he is an ideological and avowed
oppressor of women is a fundamental
fundamentalist Christian who is also a
theocratic to swear in Christian cinema
who is going to probably be tied for my
least favorite Democratic senator but in
this one moment I'm going to allow
myself to enjoy the avowedly homophobic
Mike Pence having to swear in the first
out bisexual senator on a law book she's
also an atheist not a Bible and she
seems to be perfectly aware of the fact
that she might have the ability to make
Mike Pence uncomfortable and is enjoying
it almost as much as I am and here we go
[Applause]
why don't you stand you'll be right let
me get a spouse just posit did we should
hear it she said can we get a spouse
right because of course now Mike Pence
is not allowed to be alone with a woman
and that is what she's referring to
without you yeah without without his
wife there to protect him from the badge
in identity so Haley so if you hold here
[Applause]
see skips here I'm new at this with your
right hand rate do you solemnly swear to
support and defend the Constitution of
the United States against all enemies
foreign and domestic
I could bear true faith and allegiance
to the same that you take this
obligation freely without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion and
that you will well and faithfully
discharge the duties of the office upon
which you're about to enter so help you
God what did she ask him I feel like she
asked it like what it what it what is it
like working with with the President
Trump just play it back I can't make out
what she said she's just giving him a
hard time yeah in a very big way look at
look at the handshake that's what I also
notice like I think she like like she
pulled the Trump and like held on for a
while a slight Trump Paul there but it's
fun but it's like she's kind of what I
like it what's very funny to me is she's
like she's I mean she's flirting with
him like that's what's so funny about it
she's and she's wearing like it's you
know it's totally fine but it's not like
a typical like what you well she's
showing showing elbow she's dude she's
showing shoulders I mean I was big no I
mean but especially by pence and I I
think like I don't know when she's like
a horrible sort of joe manchin type i'll
like her style more right all right
let's just hear it let's see if we can
make out what she's saying and she will
also watch the hands here okay stop go
back he lets go and she does it
Yeah right there right there right there
right watch show him who's boss
he's got double the by germs now so does
he go from a horribly self reply
repressed person which is one theory or
like is he crushing on cinema there well
he no she he tried to let go of her hand
no I know but all that but at the end
but it was like did he try to let go
because this is I should not do modeling
what I feel by sex yeah there's too much
too much love juices ok dude that is
that's exactly why he that's that that's
the explanation for his entire world of
you like but that moment with the with
it where he let's tries to let go of her
hand and she holds it there to ask him
one more thing and he quickly deserted
like he doesn't not want to be alone
with women because he thinks he would
just not talk to them or touch them or
look at them right he doesn't want to be
tempted exactly temperature says he's
gonna go back and be like God is gonna
be so proud of me for how won't be proud
about that or do you think that he like
takes out some type of like of you know
thing that you slap your you whip your
own back right like an Opus Dei thing
their shirt on right my god he's beating
himself with a switch while she like
jokes about it with a friend
exactly exactly the film cut yeah
all right let's
