[Music]
look we need to be sensitive to the fact
that there are a lot of folks out there
who feel like they're getting a raw deal
right now they're not getting the credit
they deserve that people basically
moving into their prime positions and
prime slots and so they're they're mad
there's certain amount of backlash and
you sjw's out there going around saying
it's time that we have more
representation in the power structure of
different types of people well at least
the youth are getting the message right
here's this kid from disadvantaged kid
from where was it he's from Columbia
South Carolina
Oh Oh Columbia University oh wait a
second I thought we were well he's not
from South America he's one of these one
of these guys at Columbia University who
was home you know he might also be
taking classes at Prager University
yes exactly now look he's drunk and I
don't want to pick on a drunk college
student who's 19 or 20 or whoever LD is
but I'm going to just because he so
perfectly captures the essence of
everything he's absorbing from the Dave
Reubens the Jordan Peterson's molyneux
the molyneux the Tucker Carlson maybe
even the Sam Harris to a certain extent
I mean you set up a you know maybe it's
not so much white versus this but it's
certainly about the inherent problems
with other cultures whenever he analyzes
hate it's like Punjabi hate right and
here is this guy
getting a dual degree from Columbia and
Prager University
drunk on the town and here you were so
bad billions of people from starvation
now look he's drunk and he's sort of
there's a little bit of performance here
that I think he's trying to get a rise
out of people and there's a little bit
of provocateur he's just having fun and
so and I don't know this guy and maybe
he's not a bad guy there's certainly far
worst human beings out there that we
talk about on a daily basis some moments
that go and moments from now so I the
the idea is less about people getting
mad at this guy and more about
understanding like where that script
comes from and that there are a lot of
people out there feeding this guy that
script and I think in that moment my
sense is he's just trying to get a rise
out of some people and but he's like a
big Niall Ferguson fan that just got a
bit too intoxicated yeah and and I don't
you know like I I would encourage people
not to take it out on him as much as
taking it out on the sources of where
his misinformation comes from
because aside from the fact that he's
American not European and aside from the
fact that many many features of our
modern life are a function of of non
Europeans from things like math and all
sorts of Sciences and building
technology and gunpowder aside from that
it's not like white people haven't had
their opportunity to shine you know what
I mean it's not like we he's sitting
there going wee-wee it wins our turn
coming get those white guys
get them get them get them but that is
the the message that is the message of
privilege losing their privilege and
feeling like they're oppressed because
of it yeah I gotta give a few frowny
points to Columbia's core curriculum and
all this - speaking of somebody went
there it's a bit Eurocentric I must say
well are you good maybe they'll get a
little less sound now yeah don't tell
that guy I'll flip out again that's
maybe what's going on who knows maybe
that maybe it's changing who knows maybe
he can be an sjw in four years
