[Music]
and Donald Trump amongst white
evangelicals not evangelicals of other
backgrounds but white evangelicals he
maintains high popularity with and he's
rewarding the popularity of the
Christian king of the Ivan Jellicle
community with exactly the type of class
and respect that you'd expect from
Donald Trump I am NOT a Christian and
I'm not a particularly or maybe even not
even at all a religious person but this
struck me as a little bit disrespectful
and this is according to a reporter
Rachel Scott these are photos of signed
Bibles today President Trump signed
Bibles while visiting visiting
Beauregard Alabama that's a nice level
back there Jeff Beauregard sessions to
sign it a community devastated by two
deadly hurricanes tornadoes rather
excuse me so there you have it we're
gonna need more sharpies down we're
gonna need a lot more sharpies has
anybody got an extra King James and a
sharpie yeah
did someone find me two Corinthians I
was get such a contentment from that
passage you know it serves the
evangelicals right forgetting behind him
in the first place like they deserve
every ounce of degradation he dishes out
I wish I had I can't find the ben
shapiro quip ad because these guys are
really doing a lot for religious
expression and cover and commerce yeah
they're there right
