let's look at this clip as we're talking
about and I think we're gonna see this
we're gonna see the attempts by the
Republicans by the Trump pistas to the
way that they're going to be able to
deal with impeachment or the only way
that they have is through process or
simply saying we have no quibble with
the facts as you've presented them it's
just that what makes you think it's
wrong to do this and here is Matt
Whittaker he is the former acting
Attorney General
I know people remember he was the one
who stepped in after sessions and then
everybody said like you can't have this
guy be your attorney general he had some
type of hot tub business yeah I I don't
know people remember it I think it was
it like a multi-level marketing thing in
retrospect I think I would have rather
that idiot as opposed to Bill Barr who
is were without a doubt significantly
more intelligent but equally if not more
evil but here is Matt Whittaker
explaining his theory of the case it's
in Laura Ingraham well I really go back
to that they never saw him as legitimate
the insurance policy of Peter struck
failed Muller failed and now they're on
to the next thing well and he's again
he's you know these remember these
global elitist these these careerists
have made promises to our and and have
to have it set in place a world
establishment that operated a certain
way and president Trump has asked
questions like why do we do this this
way why don't people pay
why does it's Germany and France why
don't they pay 2% into NATO
and and these kind of questions which
again has completely upset the applecart
yeah has he is being punished for this
and again I'm a former prosecutor and
what I know
is this is a perfect time for
preliminary hearing where you would say
show us your evidence what evidence of a
crime you have I mean the Constitution
you know sort of abuse of power is not a
crime
let's fundamentally Bank you know the
Constitution is very clear that this has
to be some pretty egregious behavior and
they cannot tell the American people
what this case is even about right you
have to do it in secret
yeah and I'm reading this Bill Taylor
opening statement and ice my first
reaction was anything that's 15 pages
single-spaced it's like someone who has
to put their resume on two or three
pages that's never someone you want to
hire a nerd first off the idea that
presidential abuse of power would not be
an impeachable offense I mean it's it's
it's not even it's not a specific
offense it's a category of offenses that
you would that you would impeach for I
mean that's the whole point is literally
you have abused your power as president
or global elites would have you believe
that's the only old Maori right yeah how
many pages your resumes am i to be
honest with you I don't know that I've
ever had a resume but
that's it that's it it is sort of
stunning that they are can only rely on
the fact that it's single spaced and 15
pages long as opposed to talking about
any the substance in there in other
words we've got a guy who is so
detail-oriented and he Taylor apparently
took copious contemporary notes as we
read yeah trihard well he's trying to
impress people he this is something
apparently like career diplomats do all
the time and I think he was particularly
he was particularly sensitive to what
was going on and decided to take these
notes as a way of protecting himself and
the idea that this would be the way that
they're going to impeach it's like the
ACA they did the same thing with the
Affordable Care Act like it's just a
hundred pages long who needs a bill
that's a hundred pages long it's that
type of thing but that's a tough that's
a tough sell globalist diplomats to
notes you see a new world you can't
believe a any testimony that has been
typed out single-spaced let me ask you a
question you're gonna trust somebody in
a criminal proceeding who took notes
about the crime please
meanwhile the the rats are really
desperately trying to scurry off the
ship I think and God knows God knows
right exactly god knows what is
happening in the pence home Yes Mother
it's just a matter of time it's just a
matter of time mother here is Mike Pence
there's a lot happening like that so
yeah here's Mike Pence also on Laura
Ingraham talking about how like he had
no idea about any of this but I stand
with the president but there's no
question when when President Trump said
we were going to drain this wall but an
awful lot of the swamp has been caught
up in in the State Department
bureaucracy and we're just we're just
going to keep fighting it and we're
going to fight it with the truth I mean
the American people can read the
transcript of the phone call the
President had with President szalinski
and they will see there was no quid pro
quo and with regard to Ukraine we were
standing strong with Ukraine against
Russian aggression where the last
administration was only sending them
blankets we're sending resources we're
sending missiles we're gonna give it
make it possible for our ally in Ukraine
to be able to to defend themselves and
restore peace were you ever
uncomfortable with Giuliani's role in
kind of getting involved in some of this
I mean it's not against a law my
involvement with Ukraine was all
directly from my conversations with the
President and frankly my conversations
on the phone and in meetings with
President Solinsky and I what I can tell
you is that throughout all of that we
were focused on in ensuring that the
United States was standing with Ukraine
for its territorial integrity against
Russian aggression and that we were
supporting and encouraging Ukraine to
deal with years of court
option and calling on European allies to
do more to support the Ukrainian people
so in other words I didn't do anything
that the president didn't directly
instruct me to do and so I wasn't
involved in any of this
Laura you'd probably be familiar with
the Eichmann defense yeah exactly
I you in particular would probably be
very aware of a certain trials that
happened yeah I had no idea what was
happening and I have to say this too
about Mike Pence that in the event that
we do get some type of impeachment and
he becomes the president and has to run
again I find it hard to believe that
people are gonna be able to watch him
talk for more than like literally 60
seconds the guy looks like he's on the
brink of crying every time he says
something it's it's it's very
uncomfortable
much more comfortable I mean I don't
think it's gonna happen but pence would
be obviously better to run against the
Trump I don't think there's a doubt I
think so and and you know all the
concerns that people had a year or two
ago about a trump administration I think
we have had largely a trump
administration I mean excuse me a Penson
ministration we have we have the judges
that pence wanted we have the the entire
agenda from the EPA to the USDA the
administrative state destruction i I
think we largely have had the pence
administration during this time but
