[Music]
wait no no let's play the the Kudlow
first larry cudlow very I I don't I I
don't know what this was if this was a
hey this feels to me like a he's just
doing well like a like a like a
set-piece this does not feel like it was
an interview with the reporters it seems
like it was a set-piece that they were
looking to try to go viral trying to go
viral with this I can't because the news
doesn't do the soft focus in the back do
you notice that the background soft
focus he's come out it's almost like an
ad for the economy if you will and look
I've been in show business myself I've
had to do some performing sometimes you
get a little bit uptight before you go
on sometimes and look you know a lot of
professionals will look down on this but
sometimes you like to lubricate yourself
a little bit I'm not talking physically
or manually I'm talking in terms of like
psychologically and spiritually yeah you
might have a drink I might have a drink
or something like that so yeah CBD oil
or something like that to loosen up I
don't think that this is CBD oil I'm not
talking I'm just talking about my own
personal experience right
maybe grocery Gatorade something like
that electrolytes electrolytes or
alcohol gotta get the exact I knew
people who would occasionally have a
little sip in fact the guy who played
the Avengers the not the the Avenger
originally the guy who played Michael
Steele Bridge guy I can't remember his
name now and I did a sitcom with him
actually he was a and he well you're
British I'm Jewish he thinks you know we
didn't have that type of dynamic you
wouldn't understand anyway so anyways I
don't know what makes me think of that
but here's Larry Kudlow Wow low
unemployment high jobs high wages big
consumer confidence major productivity
and no inflation it's totally awesome
work
want it on the economy it's a little bit
of his MSNBC days with Kramer you know
what it reminds me of though is let's
take a look at some used car salesman
ads because that's I think where you get
that technique at the pet it's really
its pinnacle hi this is low profit Glen
from Glen Grant Chevrolet and I'm here
to shoot down high prices the eighty
Force are almost here so every remaining
new car and truck will go for 399 over
invoice and we show you the invoice
there you go
that's pretty cool ad are we playing I
think fun of it because I don't really
get it no the idea was that there was a
gin it's totally awesome we're killing
it on the economy 399 over invoice we
can deliver it tomorrow
he looks really awesome I did the
economy so good I'm sorry
so alright one more phone call and my
dad money last phone call of the day
