I don't want to wait open up a whole
sort of you know debate about comedy and
so on but I think that this is really
obvious a distinction between irony and
humor and people being sensitive or
insensitive because this is the
President of the United States in an
environment where there was already a
power military force terrorizing
migrants where children have died in ice
custody where families have been
separated still to this day not reunited
because of the racist terrorist policies
of this administration there are insane
crazy people at the border deeply deeply
damaged people living out like Bruce
Willis fantasies who you know their own
profound you know unease fragmentation
and lack of meaning is manifesting and
some sort of horrifying fantasy the
border fueled by Donald Trump and
Breitbart and Fox and all of the other
sort of prime purveyors of racism
conspiracy and poison that's why this
actually matters and this matters from
the perspective of somebody who both
thinks Trump can be funny and thinks
that people need to like let's just get
on with meeting this or
frankly impeach him or don't you know
this is part of that I actually don't
oppose impeaching Donald Trump if they
actually had a serious path that they
were not messing around and they were
like you know what Donald Trump and his
administration are regularly breaking
the law and showing disdain to Congress
they are what this was made for right so
what we're going to do is we're going to
impeach him we're not gonna like this
person called that person and then we
had a hearing and then we did this and
we did that in the beautiful words of
Rasheeda Talib impeach the
or don't and if you're not then we've
got to beat him and that's it and I'm
not gonna freak out over every last this
and that but this matters because this
is a wink in my opinion this is a wink
to murder I mean when you have 15,000
people marching up and you have hundreds
hundreds of people and you have two or
three border security people that are
brave and great and don't forget we
don't let them and we can't let them use
weapons we can't other countries do we
can't I would never do that but how do
you stop these people you can't there's
not posit so the person said shoot him
from the audience you can hear it okay
but how do you stop these people
you can't busines
that's only in the Panhandle you can get
away with that state even the woman
behind him right to the left her if
she's doing like the e right right
solely in the Panhandle you can get away
with that
oh you
these people are cheering so it's a
tough situation but these people are
cheering murdering on are migrants these
people are cheering somebody who said
I'm escaping a power military that might
murder me by the way I'll be covering
this later but there's an incredible
piece in Harper's reported piece on a
process that began I think in 2009 where
a former leader of one of the leftist
guerrilla organizations who had gone on
to run a small business after the civil
war stopped and dealt with gangs because
he had to pay them extortion and stuff
and then a former leader of the military
teamed up to create a peace process for
gangs in El Salvador that yielded big
results that guy is now in jail because
the current government has decided that
it wasn't a peace process it was a pro
gang scheme and violence has re exploded
in the interview in that prison he holds
the United States primarily responsible
for asserting that you need to get back
to get tough policies so again our
policy set is always at the center of
these things I'm saying like people make
their own decisions countries have their
own problems it's not all reducible to
one things but we're always involved and
you know so take somebody who's fleeing
that situation you at this point heard
endless amount of stories about what
that actually means they're joking about
killing one of those people I've just
I've just scrapped my way to get to the
us-mexico border which I already know
the United States is run by a
scumbag clown fascist who was empowered
a paramilitary organization to terrorize
people like me that they're totally
violating every type of norm on refugees
and I'm here because I literally have no
choice but to leave and other and maybe
get my neck slit
and uh these people are joking about
shooting him in the face that's great
here is an and button by the way I mean
like literally like this is this is one
of the reasons why you should sometimes
reserve your moral outrage because that
does that requires moral outrage yeah
not everything does a lot of things
don't in my opinion but that's something
you need to be clear about that is
disgusting that is it that is a
cancelling of any basic human sentiment
you're supposed to have your wirings off
if you think that's funny
it's such a disgusting trope and it's an
old one that we've been seeing for many
decades does anytime anytime that the
government needs to paint some people as
the other as less than human so that we
can kill them in a war terrorize them at
the border don't hurt them it's camps
yes score some political points it's
disgusting and it goes back to that
genre spy camp of the saints in the
1970s that book in which the in the
immigrants to to the west which is by
the way a very recent concept and not
something that has always existed there
just portrayed as this like Brown
invading horde and like the descriptions
of them are like some of the most
disgusting racist things I've ever read
and I don't think that Trump has read
that book but I do know that Steve
Bannon has read that book all the blue
cells one of his favorite books Tucker
Carlson has read that book and these
ideas are filtering into this
administration definitely or they could
all just be trying to have fun former
chief of staff to Senate Majority Leader
Mitch McConnell Josh welcome back and
good morning to you strikes me the
campaign kicked off last night you get a
sense of yet yeah no question and I you
know I think there's a good golden rule
of politics it's the candidate it looks
like he's having the most fun is usually
the one that's winning and the contrast
there from President Trump in his rally
last night in Florida I mean everybody
seemed to be having a lot of fun and and
and you can contrast that with how these
twenty twenty years have been marching
around the country in this sort of dour
mood full of negativity and and so you
know I think you're right the campaign
is
and I think it looks a psychopath um
ourselves right I mean it does it's very
it is it is and nobody does it better
than president trumping that starts with
the nicknames but he also just keeps it
light I mean he's got to be the first
entertaining rallies in the history of
politics I mean mostly these things are
pretty dry and it's all about speaking
of the partisans but I mean I think most
people can watch this and be entertained
what well I think we had some failure in
attack use me I mean maybe Americans
don't appreciate the effort we put into
art and design but I think a lot of
people in the flames the wheel yeah no
you wouldn't because you are
American pigs who don't like art didn't
even have any choreography there okay
yeah first of all these guys are
psychopaths and secondly yes the
campaign started you're gonna hear a
hell of a lot more of this absolutely
and thirdly chief of staff to Mitch
McConnell there's people to this day who
still want to make a distinction between
Donald Trump and the Republican Party
and you know who the leered lead person
in the country is right now who wants to
distinguish between Donald Trump in the
Republican Party Biden Biden
recognize how delusional and dangerous
that is and again just as Bhaskar
Bhaskar soukara cut an ad for Bernie
Sanders at the point he made I'm making
for a very long time I think Joe Biden
probably would be Donald Trump I do I
don't under my eye from the beginning I
think I've usually been warned in the
room who's like guys I get we all hate
him but this guy's super formidable as a
candidate but you know what after two
years of joe biden telling millennials
he doesn't have empathy for them and
trying to reimpose the Davos agenda on
us all of the symptoms all of the poison
Bill Fletcher jr. right-wing populism is
the herpes of capitalism that stuff is
not going anywhere if there's it's only
gonna metastasize it does not start and
end with Donald Trump think
strategically if there's a row
historically if there's a route Joe
Biden could take to lose he's taking it
that's absolute that's also totally true
that's also totally true yes and as the
Democratic Party I mean if anybody could
snatch defeat of snatch victory from the
jaws excuse me
snatch defeat from the jaws of victory
it's them
