[Music]
hey part of the Monday a district court
judge Amit Mehta basically struck down
the president's effort to quash a
subpoena that the House Oversight and
Reform Committee had issued to the
accounting firm maze R's USA looking for
Trump's financial records this is going
to impact I think the attempt by the
Trump administration also quash a
Deutsche Bank subpoena as well from I
think it's from the from a different
committee there was a 41 page opinion
and apparently I've yet to read the
opinion but according to Politico Mehta
systematically dismantled the trumps
legal teams arguments against the
validity of the subpoena pushback on
claims from congressional Republicans
that the House Judiciary Committee must
formally launch an impeachment inquiry
before issuing such subpoenas which is
the one of the most relevant reasons to
set up impeachment inquiries because
there is far less controversy over the
whether the judiciary will uphold
subpoenas from a an impeachment
committee
the judge said it's simply not
fathomable that a constitution that
grants Congress the power to remove a
president for reasons including criminal
behavior would deny Congress the power
to investigate him for unlawful conduct
past or present without even without
formally opening an impeachment inquiry
meta noted that Congress had twice
investigated alleged illegal activity by
presidents Richard Nixon and Bill
Clinton Congress plainly views itself as
having sweeping authority to investigate
illegal conduct of a president before
and after taking
this we could go on but this case has
now been will be if it hasn't already
appealed by Trump's attorneys and the
appeal will be filed with the DC Circuit
Court of Appeals now just a little
reminder about this court it is the
chief judge is Merrick garland you may
remember him for the guy who did not get
a hearing on whether he should be on his
nomination of the Supreme Court but even
more relevant that you must keep in mind
I can't remember how many years ago now
this was five or six years ago
Republicans refused in the Senate to
hold hearings to seat three more judges
it's an 11 panel court 11 judge Court
they have actually others that are sort
of emeritus that sit in on on some cases
but it's essentially an 11 judge Court
there were only eight it was deadlocked
Republicans kept obstructing via use of
the filibuster and would not seat the
other three they started to make the
argument that you only need eight judges
there and that's when Harry Reid
basically nuked the filibuster so that
they could seat those other three judges
and of course this is the second most
powerful court in the country that deals
with questions like this because it's in
Washington it also deals with the
authority that government agencies have
and that can cut both ways insofar as
people can sue the EPA for not living up
to their statutory obligations which is
happening now back during the Obama
administration you had people like Kris
Kobach who would sue the EPA for
supposedly overstepping their
statutory limitations and so you see
that that changes depending on the
administration where people are using
the law as a way of getting the agencies
to do a certain job and but when a
Democrats in the office
Republicans are suing to keep the agency
from doing their job so interesting
turnabout and this process is not going
to go on too far they're gonna file this
with in a timely manner I'm not sure how
many weeks they have and they will file
it and I would imagine the DC Circuit
Court is going to hear it rather quickly
but it is all this delay tactics that is
pushing the Democratic caucus to push
for impeachment here is Donald Trump
complaining about this ruling by this
federal judge plate and Obama appointed
[Applause]
well we disagree with that ruling it's
crazy because you look at it this never
happened to any other president they're
trying to get a redo they're trying to
get what we used to call in school a
deal a do-over and if you look you know
we had no collusion we had no
obstruction we had no nothing
the Democrats were very upset with the
Muller report as perhaps they should be
but I mean the country is very happy
about it because it was never anything
like that and they're trying to get a
redo or a do-over and you can't do that
as far as the financials are concerned
we think it's the wrong it's totally the
wrong decision by obviously an Obama
appointed judge he was a recent Obama
appointed judge I mean I'm not sure
exactly what he's talking about the redo
or the do the do-over that we used to
call it in school I guess he's talking
about the election but in fact on about
the Moller report well yes but the the
judge clearly said there is precedent
for Congress to provide oversight so
maybe he didn't read the maybe he didn't
read the decision but to what extent the
fact that it is an Obama judge I think
sadly has more and more relevance
because we have 1/6 of the judiciary the
circuit court judiciary which actually
is where this this this case is headed
1/6 is now pointed by Trump it is the
most of any president in this point in
their term and the amount of
conservative judges on the federal
courts is extraordinary and you could
almost I mean there are occasions where
you get a George Herbert Walker judge
who will rule against Donald Trump
occasionally a GWB judge occasionally
less so than his poppy bush the Trump
judges they all rule down the line for
Trump
and and and as you would imagine also
for business and against government uh
Authority and whatnot so one more
example of the relevance of the
judiciary and even as horrific as Joe
Biden is he is not going to appoint
judges from the Federalist Society which
is the exclusive feeder for Trump judges
which is a which has huge import huge
import well when Trump says that he's
hinting it's something that people
already suspect about judges which is
that they rule not based on these like
arcane close readings of the
Constitution or whatever but based on
their politics and their ideology it
just so happens that all of the judge
most of the judges appointed by
Democrats their politics and their
ideology are to preserve norms and you
know justify everything with like a good
faith reading of the Constitution
whereas the ones appointed by
Republicans are just like openly
ideological reactionary activists so
much more so the more recent ones
because that has been the project of the
Federalist Society over the years so
like given that fact it would make sense
maybe for Democrats who are actually
progressive to be more naked ly
political with the judiciary well I
think that's the that's the argument
that people are making in terms of like
expanding the the Supreme Court and why
not I mean it's not not political now
the way the Democrats do it but I guess
what I really mean is more more open
about it and you know further to the
left from your mouth to Bernie's ears
because he is still I think a little bit
slow on the idea of some type of Supreme
Court reform but here is oh we didn't
have we haven't played this of Nadler
Jared Nadler Jerry Nadler the chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee was
anticipating as of about 48 hours ago
Don McGann the White House lawyer who
apparently cooperated extensively with
the mall
report in talking about the various
times that Donald Trump tried or ordered
him essentially to break the law and Don
McGann did not but Jarrell
Jerry Nadler wanted to air this publicly
because of course so few people have
read the Muller report not aware of the
instances of obstruction that Trump is
engaged in and other issues frankly that
are in the report may not rise to the
specific nature of a conspiracy as
defined narrowly by the Justice
Department but certainly stuff that we
wouldn't that that is impeachable
offenses frankly by a president but here
is Nadler announcing that he will be
holding Don McGann in contempt after
McGann just blew off a subpoena this
committee issues a subpoena even to a
senior presidential adviser the witness
must show up our subpoenas are not
optional mr. McGann has a legal
obligation to be here for this scheduled
appearance if he does not immediately
correct his mistake this committee will
have no choice but to enforce the
subpoena against him mr. McGann did not
appear today because the president
prevented it just as the president has
said the that he would quote fight all
subpoenas close quote issued by Congress
as part of his broader efforts to cover
up his misconduct this stonewalling
makes it all the more important to
highlight some of the incidents that mr.
McGann is said to have witnessed let me
recount some of them we know that the
president directed mr. McGann to prevent
then Attorney General Sessions from
accusing himself from overseeing the
investigation into Russian election
interference on March 3rd 2017
shortly after Attorney General Jeff
Sessions did recuse himself from
Russian investigation the President
summoned mr. McGann to the Oval Office
according to the Muller report quote the
president opened the conversation by
saying I don't have a lawyer unquote the
president told mr. McGann that he wished
that Roy Cohn was his attorney instead
or a cone of course is known principally
as the chief architect of the army
McCarthy hearings that destroyed so many
lives back in 1954 an actual political
witch-hunt not the imaginary kind - the
president - cries mr. Cohn served as
president Trump's lawyer for a long time
defending the president against federal
discrimination suits before he that is
Mr McGowan was ultimately disbarred for
unethical practices in 1986 mr. McGann
refused to follow blindly into unethical
behavior mr. McGann told the president
that the Department of Justice ethics
officials had weighed in that mr.
sessions would not unruhe cues himself
and he advised the president not to have
any contact with mr. sessions on I mean
it goes on and of course Donald Trump
did not have contact with Jeff sessions
or at least that we know of in this
regard he just went publicly out and
shamed him publicly and which is you
know in some respects sort of parallel
to the whole involvement with Russia he
didn't did include he just said hey if
you're wondering what our state of mind
is in the campaign in regards to the
30,000 other emails go for it
that's what Trump means when he says
he's the most transparent president I'm
gonna route he's miles little recuse by
Trump's amazing Jeff Sessions impression
I'm coming on the heels of denying
vehemently that he called sessions
mentally in a dumb southerner
he had tried it out that Beverly
Hillbillies impression of hip like month
later month later so this is gonna be
interesting to see where this goes with
dawn McGann and particularly
in the wake of this ruling about the
subpoenaing of trumps records from his
accounting firm and this is gonna build
I mean there it seems to me an
inevitability at this point that we're
going to get to some type of impeachment
I mean it's gonna take another I think
month or two before the pressure builds
enough but they can't keep avoiding
Congress's constitutional role of
oversight they just can't keep doing it
I mean they can Stonewall but this is
just not it's just not sustainable for
them
