where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam cedar it
is friday february 1st 2019 my name is
sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
joining us from the Benjamin Dixon show
Benjamin Dixon also on the program today
joining us from the Chapo Trap House
show
[Applause]
[Music]
sorry no words it was a joke that was
missing the technical difficulties would
not work retriever
Virgil Texas will be here with us also
on the program today Trump running out
of options
national emergency to build a wall may
be coming soon
and speaking of Trump running out of
options
announces pulling out of the INF missile
treaty meanwhile Senate Dems actually
Senate Democratic presidential
candidates declared and undeclared push
an anti nuclear arms race legislation
meanwhile speaking of declaring cory
booker makes it seven official
Democratic presidential candidates much
more to come Sanders wants to expand the
estate tax and add a new top marginal
rate also be prepared Trump wants to run
on late term abortion he will be
unveiling that at the State of the Union
address on Tuesday and inadvertently
Trump shows why we need a single-payer
by streamlining drug prices for Medicare
and Medicaid meanwhile Adams pushing for
fed contractors to get some back pay
Republicans not so much and
conservatives and Republicans seem
really mad at Republican senator Tim
Scott for not liking racists enough and
good news good news colonization of
Americas in 15th century offers a
possible solution to climate change it
involves massive debt and lastly a Utah
GOP trying to undo the voters call for
Medicaid expansion all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen
it's a very exciting day we have a
couple
majority report audience luminaries in
studio with us are you not drinking
alcohol are you okay it appears to be
red bull I don't know what's in the Red
Bull can but the biggest can of Red Bull
I didn't realize
well I and II realized he made it that
big Wow
alright so Jeff go to a bodega and get
that Jeff from Georgia is here Kentucky
Fried comrade is here and then some
other get these other guys who are these
guys these it's Chris producer of and
and Keith and friend of Chris Wow you
guys were all deep OC started from the
bottom now the whole team here
they're Virgil's advance guys full crew
exactly his advancement are there
I just reminder if you are in the
Brooklyn area there'll be a show at the
Bell House tonight right Michael are you
yes indeed we're good he's wearing a
press shirt today well this very got
even what I'm wearing tonight I'm back
to the tracksuit not a force just
reminder of this program runs on the
support of its members you can become a
member at join the majority report calm
the announcement today by Mike Pompeo
that the United States pulling out of
the INF treaty not totally unexpected
the US government has been saying that
Russia is in violation of the treaty
since I think it was 2014 2014 with the
introduction of a new long-range missile
that that Russia had introduced the this
is a treaty that was signed 30 years ago
I guess that basically took thousands a
couple thousand I should say ballistic
and cruise missiles off off the board as
they
say I think and it was supported by
on-site inspections that allowed both
sides to trust and verify compliance
with the treaty and Trump has decided to
unilaterally pull out of the treaty here
is Mike Pompeo explaining supposedly why
Russia has jeopardized the United States
security interest and we can no longer
be restricted by the treaty while Russia
shamelessly violates it if Russia does
not return to full and verifiable
compliance with the treaty within this
six-month period by verifiably
destroying its INF violating missiles
their launchers and associated equipment
the treaty will terminate not sure why
this is happening now per se and not
sure what the the six months is about
either that puts us into the middle of
the summer I'm not 100% sure what what
that's about but I'm not unconvinced
that Trump doesn't want to campaign on
it well I think that that's why it's
weird I think to do it now and to talk
about it six months from now right
what do you mean campaigned on it I
think that what we talked about with
Joseph Soren Sione when I had him on a
couple weeks ago makes I mean first of
all there's a history to this and all
Bush was trying to pull out of he didn't
he destroy the ABM Treaty to do the
missile defense shield fantasy so
there's a I mean Republican people don't
like these arms control agreements and I
also think that what we kind of
established this through line with
Surrency Oney where he said there's all
of these discredited ridiculous fifties
and sixties Strangelove ideas that have
that have been rebranded and her back in
Washington and he said like part of it
is just like getting our mojo back our
vital bodily fluids and so I think that
you know it wouldn't be a prime thing
but I could see him saying something
about we're gonna have the best Arsenal
and the same we would say build that
wall yeah
that's why I just find the timing just
weird to do yeah I can't tell you the
timing but I mean I'm sure has he'll hit
it but could it overlap with some of the
I mean I don't usually go to the Russia
place but cuz this overlap with some of
the heat around Russia and him being
like yo it's you're talking about how I
have a deal at Rush I just jumped as
well try it's been hurt I actually think
that that's what is driving a lot of
this this this attempt to show that he's
being tough with Russia frankly I'm not
sure that Russia necessarily cares if
they were we're all under there
violation okay that's not this is gonna
make them not in violation meanwhile
organs Senator Jeff Merkley Elizabeth
Warren Christian Gillibrand ed Mackie
Ron Wyden and Bernie Sanders along with
Kamala Harris sherrod Brown Tammy
Baldwin and Van Hollen were there as
well those names sound familiar it's
because most of them are running for
president and they introduced the
prevention of arms race act of 2019 and
it basically calls on a series of
measures it acknowledges that Russia has
broken the treaty but it calls on a
series of measures to try and inhibit
Trump's unilateral move so ops the Ed
Markey though he's been the arms control
guy for his whole career yeah and this
is going to be one of the nice things
about having seven senators or six
senators running for president because
they're all going to be out racing each
other to do the right thing we don't
have you know joe Manchin's not going to
be running and so everyone's going to be
pulled to the left theoretically and
push to do the right thing not it won't
necessarily make a big difference in
terms of legislation but in the short
term but it will make a big difference
going forward and we'll talk about this
a little bit maybe later in the program
too because there are three different
more than three but three or four major
pieces of legislation to reduce the cost
of drugs in this in this country that
are being that
are all being presented by presidential
candidates
so that's hoozy a Stickley backed by
Cory Booker yeah play the video on I we
should play the audio but everybody's
got their like stick in your craw
candidate and yours is definitely Cory
Booker I don't know it's just that I
listened to the video and it's just like
they how many takes did it take for him
to like get it out to the beats the the
the rising music I just was I don't know
folks better help is affordable private
online counseling you get unlimited
access to licensed trained fully
accredited therapists that's perfect for
you on your phone and computer through
text voice or video chat there
lgbt-friendly it's great for couples
counseling
anything else you're going through in
life right now all you need to do is go
to better help calm slash majority you
fill out a questionnaire they match you
with a counselor who's perfect for you
you can start counseling today and if
you decide you don't vibe with the
therapist your match with you can switch
whenever you want it's less expensive
than in-person counseling you're still
getting the same great help from
licensed professionals if you have
trouble affording it better help has
financial aid available you're always
connected to your counselor you have
unlimited access you can talk to them
like I say every day if you want you can
connect from anywhere like I say so
you're not wasting time traveling to
someone's office you're not particularly
interested in sitting in front of
someone you're also not having to sit in
their waiting room a lot of people just
don't feel comfortable with therapy or
have never been to a therapist this is a
good way to stick your toe into the
proverbial pool of therapy better help
solves all of these problems you can
sign up right now save on quality
professional therapy by going to better
help calm slash majority all right we're
going to take a quick break and when we
come back we'll be talking about Dixon
from the Benjamin Dixon show
you
you
like we--okay like to welcome to the
program the proprietor of the Benjamin
Dixon show and the one of the forces
behind the North Star dot-com
yeah Benjamin Dixon welcome to the
program again amen thanks Sam fie always
have me man it's a pleasure
alright so a lot of stuff going on this
week we have two new Democratic nominees
or that would be nominees for president
we have a someone from the billionaire
party who is running ostensibly to to
beat the Democratic nominee I guess it's
been revealed and we're we're
theoretically still possibly looking at
another shutdown although that seems
less likely why don't we start there
just because that's where all of this
stuff you know that's going on I think
is it's sort of that's the backdrop in
fact I guess it was just last Friday
that the shutdown ended it seems like a
long time ago but I don't think that the
the labor actions got enough credit in
terms of the pressure they put on on
Trump what's your sense of how all that
went down first are you sure it was last
Friday because that it does seem so long
with the last Friday's laughs that's
that's amazing yes that's amazing man
we're all getting older like we're aging
in dog years or something with Donald
Trump as president but now absolutely
like you know the moment I think
everyone realized the moment LaGuardia
said it was gonna have to delay or
cancel flights all together everyone
knew that was the end you know and that
demonstrates the power of the labor
unions there of the labor force there
specifically in terms of the aftermath
and and you know Nancy Pelosi getting a
lot of credit you know you know that's
what politicians do politicians take
credit for things she held the line I
will give her credit for this I think
Chuck Schumer would
I've slipped and caved in and had it not
been for Nancy Pelosi being as firm as
she was so if we're gonna credit her
with anything I think we definitely
should credit her for helping the
Democrats have a backbone in the spine
in this process but there's no doubt in
my mind that there weren't members of
the Democratic caucus who I mean you
started to hear right like some like
some squawking about we should really
take this measured even Tulsi Gabbard
was saying that you know both sides are
are problematic she a Pelosi really kept
her caucus in line and yeah I agree with
you if Chuck Schumer had any opportunity
to this up he would have yeah like
that's his specialty right so I you know
I do appreciate Nancy Pelosi for holding
the line but you know at the end of the
day it was the labor force that yet you
know with their with their strategy
calling in sick and just think about
like how how how terrifying it is to
have air-traffic controllers not own
deck and not at their best and not at
their peak and then they having to call
out sick you know enough for them to
have to cancel flights that type of
movement you know Bali was so dangerous
in the bigger scheme of things it was so
necessary or else we would still be in a
shutdown right now yeah so but you know
I think we always underestimate and not
us on the left in general we like we're
always pushing for the labor to step up
but I think the political system right
now really underestimates the force that
the labor unions across the country can
actually continue to be I mean take a
look at the teacher strikes that have
happened over the last year I think
we're just over a week I mean yeah the
the the I mean I think that they're you
know West Virginia has voted that
they're going to that they're willing to
strike again this is you know just
months after they did before so there is
a the you know I think to a certain
extent this is it's a little bit
contagious when people start to realize
that they have
power in their labor I think it starts
to becoming contagious
and certainly you know I spoke to those
teachers at the the the aft union
conference over the summer in Pittsburgh
and to a person they were all their
biggest regret was that they hadn't done
this sooner and m'as fascinating to just
watch the psychology of this so we had
Virginia teachers walked out on Monday
for the day
Denver teachers have voted to strike but
they got held off for 60 days or
something there was a state law that
says that they have to wait if the state
intervenes but they're still ready to go
West Virginia like I said have voted to
authorize another strike so you know
that's done in the backdrop particularly
of the flight attendant Union that came
out and said the real problem is going
to be when we decide that it's too
dangerous
we're gonna walk off and this is the
thing that I think is also in the
backdrop of the of the of the of the
negotiations now is I don't think if in
three weeks or two weeks now I guess
there's a government shutdown I don't
think we wait forty days for a labor
action I think it happens on day two I
mean III know and on some level I mean
people have been through a lot of grief
and they're still if you're a contractor
you haven't gotten paid back but it
would be interesting to see to see that
I think you because you're good I'm
sorry no no I was gonna say you're
spot-on there you know it's it's
contagious and we've seen this steady
buildup of labor action over the last
well particularly since Donald Trump was
elected and you know you know if it's a
if it's a side effect of this election
yeah okay that's fine you know we can we
can calculate that into our calculus
right but I think in general that the
the taste and the the the experience
that these teachers unions are having in
the
for unions across the country having it
is beyond contagious if they are most
certainly going to act right away
because they are going to question
themselves like why would we continue to
put our financial stability at risk
along with the safety of security of the
United States people flying for example
put them at risk when we have this power
that we just flexed so yeah there
they're going to have to flex it again
but I think it's so politically toxic at
this point that if Donald Trump takes it
back there again
I'd be surprised you know he's Donald
Trump and maybe I shouldn't say it but I
think maybe he is smart enough to
realize that this is going to be
entirely too toxic for around - this
quickly it's gonna be interesting though
I think he's gonna I think he's gonna
announce the national emergency but I
think he's also gonna have problems
doing that from you know the the freedom
caucus so he's really in a bind here
only because he I think pathologically
believes that if he doesn't deliver not
even the actual wall but the illusion of
a wall and that somehow his people will
desert him although and maybe that's a
good way to segue he has that I think
that belief it's going to be interesting
because I think at the State of the
Union on Tuesday night he's going to try
his plan B
and I think it's gonna be around
abortion they're gonna take advantage of
what of Virginia and New York state
passing laws that remove any obstacles
to the late term abortion right or not
any obstacles I should say but any of
the any potential obstacles coming from
the federal government and I think
they're going to use that because at the
end of the day one of the big reasons
why Donald Trump is in office is because
Merrick garland seat was open and
evangelicals don't need to believe that
this guy is a saint they just need to
believe that he's gonna deliver what he
says he's gonna deliver and he did that
yeah yeah I mean that is the the one
promise that he doesn't get I think
enough credit
which is he said he was just gonna take
the Heritage Foundation and the federal
society's list and just the worst of the
worst I'm gonna put him on the Supreme
Court and he did it yeah yes it did yes
he did and and if you notice have you
noticed that like a really subtle shift
and not to stuff I actually all the
language in the jargon about guy
pointing him in his references to the
Bible Sarah Sarah Huckabee Sanders
coming out you know they are most
certainly making this pivot to to appeal
to the evangelical base which is not to
you know if you look at the Venn diagram
there's quite a bit of an overlap
between their evangelical base and their
white supremacist base it might be a
one-for-one but I digress the point is
is that where they can't win on the wall
issue do you always know and this isn't
just Donald Trump George W Bush did it
George HW Bush did it Ronald Reagan
start at the entire process with the
with this marriage with evangelicals but
they know all they have to do is pedal
to their moral values because quote
unquote moral values and they can push
their voters their base back to the
polls yeah and I don't even think it's
like the they're they're appealing to
their moral values I think it's a
material it's it's they are delivering a
material benefit which to them is
judiciary and they have largely
certainly done it in a way that has been
more effective than we've seen in the
past right I mean the the federal
judiciary is dramatically different
today they would have you been under
like Marco Rubio right right exactly no
you're absolutely right so he has
delivered like I wrote a book some years
ago about religion and politics and and
one of the things that was so easy to
kind of smack evangelicals around the
face with was the fact that none of
these presidents had delivered anything
for them you know up to george w bush
there was nothing you know he had the
opportunity he had the space he had the
time he had the political capital to do
something and he really didn't well now
i have to kind of revise the entire book
now because Donald Trump has delivered
what they needed in terms of the Supreme
Court and the judiciary all across the
board which which which you know I I'm
not sure if you're ready to pivot but
when you think
about the number of appointments he has
had that just really Sobers me up in
terms of the conversations about our
primary fights the the everything you
know 2016 relitigated in 2016 like we
have a real we have a problem ahead of
us for an entire generation and it can
continue to get worse
there there there are two things that
people should look out for well two
specific things but then one more
broader Trump's talking about abortion
you know because we haven't had a
conversation about abortion you know it
seems to me in the national news for at
least a couple of years right outside of
the ones that he probably paid for yeah
Trump's gonna talk about portion in the
State of the Union and they're gonna
make a big deal if Ginsburg is not there
and she won't be because she skipped it
in 2018 and there's no reason to expect
that she's gonna go now unless she wants
to show that specifically like I'm I'm
I'm healthy enough to show up there but
that is going to be and then overall
there's gonna be more this God Squad
talk I think you're right yeah and all
of that is gonna be this could be his
his plan B right like I may not have the
wall but if I can make something else
big enough maybe maybe my boobs will not
remember the wall I personally I don't
think they care I think as long as the
rhetoric is there they're gonna feel
good about it yeah but you know he has
of course he has the and cultures and
the Rush Limbaugh's on his back but you
know I think at some point he's gonna
make the call that you know he may just
have to lose an Ann Coulter she might
end up being an enemy of his you'll be
back everything she'll be back exactly
she'll be going to this conversation
would bring her back and even if she
didn't come back it would put her at
odds with all of the evangelicals in
their base so she'll be forced back into
his loving arms I I I'm quite you know
even it just occurs to me like even Dave
Rubin now is talking about like I may
have to be anti choice be
because of the video clip I saw from
Virginia it's an interesting way to sort
of establish a way to develop nation
states and I also think that looks like
they they they talk and I would imagine
in in ways that you know that we talk
and and certainly like I've had
conversations in the past where I'm like
what do you think is gonna be on the
horizon antitrust all right yeah I'm
gonna dig into that I imagine that they
have those conversations too it's just
more like it's just a little thinner and
and I I wouldn't be surprised if there
was a sense of like we're gonna be
talking more about abortion because we
need to go somewhere and we need to make
it about we need to like set you know we
need to say something that that triggers
the sapote because of the Supreme Court
right and right it's true they do we do
too right
I mean the counterbalance of that
obviously the countervailing force would
be people finally realizing on the on
the left that you know as bad as any of
our candidates will be we have to vote
also right I mean we're already in a
precarious situation that if the right
case got to the Supreme Court I mean the
numbers are in the favor of overturning
Roe versus Wade you know it really
depends on the chief justice but you
don't even need to do that today today
as we sit here the Supreme Court is is
debating I don't know if they're
actually debating item exactly sure how
that works but they have been asked by
some lawyers in and abortion providers
in Louisiana to to respond to a case
that went through the Fifth Circuit this
is the key versus gosh what's the name
of that case well nevertheless it's a
Louisiana case what is it June medical
services versus ghee and this is a trap
law identical to the one
if out of Texas three years ago in the
Heller stet case and our whole woman's
health I guess they call it and the
Supreme Court at that time as
constructed at that time after Scalia
had had night you know appreciate Lee
left us very very very considerately
left us and a a very nice time
they five to three Kennedy voted with
the the those you know liberals on the
court and that trap law which infringed
upon a woman's right to an abortion was
rejected this is the exact same law
where if the Supreme Court decides not
to take up this case which has been in
my mind purposefully miss you know
mishandled by the the Fifth Circuit
right they've gone directly against
Supreme Court precedent then that is the
law of the land within the region that
is governed by this circuit and then
we're going to see that in about three
or four other circuits around the
country and it could be a matter of you
know months maybe a year when the
Republican legislatures passed these
laws and abortion will be effectively
outlawed and yeah half a dozen dozen
states and so you know we don't even
need to see roe v wade overturned
directly for this type of outcome and
we've seen hints of this but this would
be on a bigger scale right right and I
mean and this this speaks to the little
of the longevity dropped my phone there
for a second is the longevity of our
problems that we're facing I mean Trump
the last I checked I think that take
earlier this week eighty-five
appointments including two to the
Supreme Court Supreme Court I mean he
these are lifetime appointments and you
know what is our strategy to recuperate
from this as progressives as people of
the on the Left I get the feeling that
we are we're still you know the taste in
our mouth it takes a blood from the 2016
primaries is still in our mouths and and
and and I think we really rather focus
on
that fight I guess as a way of coping or
distracting ourselves away from what's
really ahead of us over the next
generation yeah
well it's easier right yeah well and
let's that's a good sell out that's
exactly enjoy your little neoliberal
whatever silly old liberal she'll sell
out exactly speaking of which let's play
cory booker's oh boy
video it's a it's I mean it's a
well-done video like I like the it
starts with a drum universal love huh
yeah let's let's just play it play a
little bit of like the fur I can't watch
the whole thing again but let's a little
7 a little bit Sam can we do those have
you not I have not this is all I wanted
to wait to have a real live reaction to
it alright we're just gonna play I'm
already nauseous well play the first 20
I'll tell you what we'll play the first
20 seconds and then the last 20 seconds
and then maybe we'll play more of it
when when Virgil assists now with us but
here it is one drunk in America we have
a common pain but what we're lacking is
a sense of common purpose I throw a
shadow in it the only way we can make
change is when people come together when
I was a baby my parents tried to move us
into a neighborhood with great public
schools but Realtors wouldn't sell us a
home because of the color of our skin a
group of white lawyers would watch the
courage of civil rights activists or
inspired to help black families in their
own community including mine and they
changed the course of my entire life
because an America courage is contagious
my dad told me boy positive for one
second I see winging I don't know I
don't know cory booker's story enough to
know what those white lawyers did ya
health 'as is a family movement to a
suburb oh did they did and I believe
that's the story I'm where's that I mean
I'm not even it's a cheap shot maybe but
like where's a picture of him which muli
both hey ik when he's talking about like
housing discrimination it's like no
housing discrimination here but home
bulldozing there it's a little bit early
to roll that out and you're in know I
always appear but but let's go now now
get fast-forward to like you know the
last 20 seconds because that's when the
music really starts to swell there's
more drummers now and go ahead jump
instead of shuffling more children into
cages and coffins where we see the faces
of our leaders on television and feel
pride not shame it is not a matter of
can we it's a matter of do we have the
collective will the American will I
believe we do together we will channel
or common pain back into our common
purpose together America we will rise
so I'm Cory Booker and I'm running for
president of the United States we know I
you know now part of it is like look
i-i've spent a decent amount over the
past 30 25 years doing voiceovers and in
one form or another and I can't help but
see him in the studio when he's hitting
every point and the the Poetry Slam that
he went to to to get the cadence like
that and I am Sam cedar saying that and
now but most people won't have that
problem and I know that's sort of Patti
responds to it but Kamala Harris had a
had her big speech 20,000 people that's
pretty impressive Booker has this it
shows some polish but both of these two
candidates are running on sort of like
pretty general stuff now Kamal Harrison
followed it up with a town hall on CNN
where she came out very forcefully for
Medicare for all and then the next day
[Music]
and so I don't know what what's what's
your sense oh okay so this is this is my
line throughout the entire primaries I
don't like anybody all of them are going
to have like as much as I like Bernie
Sanders Bernie Sanders if he runs like
which we all assume he is he's got some
issues that I just do not like about him
but you know he just came out I guess
BDS unnecessarily so he could have made
its point without even preface it with
that he you know he has a couple of
blind spots but I want to bring that up
to say that I don't like any of them but
whoever wins this primary I'm going to
love that person put on their t-shirt
I'm gonna go door to door you can call
me a neoliberal shill and you can thank
me later when we're not hemorrhaging
even more judicial appointments and even
more Supreme Court picks so you know I I
can I can easily jump on on board with
like how
I really really dislike Cory Booker I
think I got a video out there called
Cory Booker's trash feel free to come
give me some clicks because I explained
a great detail how inauthentic he is
right phony but man I will eat my socks
and my words if he gets this nomination
I'm gonna put on a cory booker's t-shirt
and I'm gonna go door and I'm gonna talk
with the same cadence and tenor it might
yeah you know and say you need to go
it's almost like a Jim Kirk you really
need to go vote for Cory Booker but um
but you know that's that's my take man
I'm not in love with any of these
candidates and I think it's important
for us realistically to not approach
this like one of them are boyfriend or a
girlfriend like we don't have to defend
their honor we just need to you know
let's let's find out these primaries see
who has the best policies realistically
who has the best ground game because
that's what's gonna matter the most and
and then when it's all said and done you
know let's let's let's get this madman
out of the White House I've been in a
committed relationship with Bernie since
2016 but I do you think though when you
look at this video just like he's not as
good in my estimation of performer as
Kamala Harris and he's also doing what
like you know Obama didn't matter to be
boys
so vice president okay that's very
revealing because it's so far as the
only actual policy thing or the only
specific thing he talked about in there
it's like oh my family we had the money
to buy a house but they wouldn't sell it
to us because of the color of our skin
and that's a problem
that he can help you with if you don't
have the money to buy a house mmm he's
probably out of ideas and that's what it
means to be a normal - to be fair he did
expand affordable housing in Newark now
there was also a lot of things that he
did that were not particularly good that
he did in Newark but fortunately for him
Newark was was it mean it remains an
incredibly
the poor and sort of debilitated city
government now by a progressive
education activist who ran explicitly on
repudiating all of Booker's work yeah
and and fortunately for Booker when when
he came on the scene there it was a
disaster like it is about as disastrous
as it could be but yeah I think your
your your perspective on this is as an
interesting one I guess I have one
question for you in terms of Kamala
Harris which is yeah you know this came
up it seems to me that the there's going
to be an opportunity for candidates like
her to avoid dealing with going too deep
into the specifics of policies like look
she came out and was forceful in saying
no private insurers and then had to back
off that a day later that to me suggests
that her relationship to that issue was
not necessarily as deep as she wanted to
communicate yeah and but I think when
you have 20 people in a race you can
maintain that like you you know you can
hide quite a bit and the one area where
I think that she is not going to be able
to hide and I and I'm curious as to your
perspective on this is her record her
record as a prosecutor and I yeah I am
not against all prosecutors I think
right you could be a very good
prosecutor and healthy like I was hoping
Zephyr Teachout would be one but the
question to me is in my mind is will the
black lives matter folks who are best
situated to address this at least first
right with Kamala Harris the people who
have worked in judicial in criminal
justice reform you know across the board
they are best situated to address this
first - Kamala Harris my question is are
they going to do it
yeah it you know it really depends so I
mean if I'm gonna answer this question
honestly it might open up a can of worms
here so the honest answer is they
probably will and and more than happily
do it because of her clear and abysmal
record you know targeting truancy and
and you know to with policies that
disproportionately affect people of
color because they disproportionately
affect affect uh impoverished
communities and so it's really a slam
dunk and and it's already happening
right so let's be clear like there are
plenty of voices who are not like
officially affiliated with black lives
matter who were speaking out because of
just their personal opinion with regard
to Kabbalah and her and her track record
and and and more importantly her her
attempt to spin herself to be a
progressive prosecutor which she was not
so it's already happening it's going to
continue to happen but where where it
gets complicated is is if there is this
expectation that they have to do it for
one because then they'll you know I mean
realistically be like well no I don't
have to do it you know if I feel like
doing it I will and is that petty yeah
but it's also a dynamic that you have to
keep in mind like you know if the
expectation is for black lives matter to
save you all from Kamala Harris then
then that's not gonna that's not gonna
resonate really well with with us and I
just I just use that kind of like
categorically I'm not even affiliated
with black lives matter to be sure but
um but but but you know just just keep
that in mind that people are doing it
individually but uh you know everybody
pitched in and if you really just like
Kamala as much as you probably should
let's just uh just keep putting keep
replete repeating her videos over and
over again I think they speak for
themselves
yeah I think so and I think I think once
that what once that wall is breached
right from one she is put on the
defensive for her process or her record
as a prosecutor then you're gonna start
to see the people who are coming in
saying like and here's who you didn't
prosecute right yeah because that's
gonna open up a whole nother group of
folks because if she gets lumped in with
Booker as a friend of big finance
that is going to set up that's
ultimately going to be the dividing line
but we shall see and we're going to talk
more about this with Virgil Texas in a
minute but Ben thanks so much for your
time today I really appreciate it
oh man we didn't get to slam slam dunk
on Howard Schultz but I'm going to do
that
yeah I mean almost like being rude to a
guest I you know I've already I think
I've done it right just just by being
able to bring it up Sam I really
appreciate it
if there's anybody in this race that I
honestly would fight tooth and nail and
scorch the earth with it's got to be the
guy who's willing to invest billions of
dollars own money to make sure that we
understand that we don't deserve
Medicare for all like that's the guy
like out of all the people all the
things wrong with the Kumalo all things
wrong with Booker and him being so
inauthentic with everything wrong with
all of our candidates Howard Schultz is
a unifying force and I really
simultaneously appreciate him and hate
the fact that he's running because I
think he is the guy who's going to unify
us all around like we might have some
crappy Democrats but this guy he has a
vested interest in making sure that we
understand we don't deserve anything
better so you know not a lot of slick
don't murder
you gotta give gotta give Elberton
credit you got it
and you got to give Schultz credit
because he's clearly thought about this
stuff and there's an authenticity to his
Oleg ARCIC perspectives that I think is
you know is sincere did you say I didn't
even see he definitely thinks we're the
little people did you see Trump's
greeting him in the race
I guess in one of Schultz's interviews
he said he did when he's like look I'm
not the smartest guy in the room but
like I know who to put in the room or
whatever at Trump immediately hits he's
like he doesn't have the guts and he
says it himself not the smartest guy
what's really crazy is like all the way
you set it up which is perfect Sam how
Kamala Harris and Cory Booker are like
really friends of the financier
establishment well we you know if you
think that is bad here we have a guy
directly from like the uber 1% right
who's showing us that as bad as a Kamala
Harris is all around the board like this
guy in what he stands for really is
representative of the donor class of the
Democratic Party like you really want to
get down to the brass tacks of it the he
is the donor class of the Democratic
Party and they are coming out kicking
and screaming because they hate the
prepare to the possibility of an AOC in
a couple of years so these are the
people that Cory Booker answers the you
see this is the interesting thing about
it on one hand he makes them look a
little better on the other hand if it's
look oh if Warren and Sanders and maybe
as someone like sherry brown if these
people are smart in this race he will
end up being the club that they smacked
them with oh yeah we're gonna be hearing
about Howard Schultz Democrats or Howard
Schultz types like he's going to be an
icon hopefully how it shows Democrats
like sellout Bendixon exactly been
exactly go back and enjoy your whatever
you need liberals do on the Friday
hey man joy we're counting our doors all
right thanks I appreciate it Benjamin
Dixon show also check out the North Star
dot-com folks going to take a very quick
break and then when we come back Virgil
Texas will be here from chat votre house
in studio and Matt do we have a Jimmy
reefer cake song or anything like that
Wow everybody just too shook their heads
okay all right I'm sorry we've guests I
shouldn't have I shouldn't have raised
that all right let's take a quick break
we'll be right back in a sec
you
[Music]
you
I mean if you want to hear we are back
ladies and gentlemen his pleasure
welcome back to the majority report
studio
Virgil Texas from a show called chapo
Trap House which I think people are
familiar with also one of the co-authors
of what what's the name of your book
well I'm glad you asked the chapel guide
to revolution a manifesto against logic
facts and reason and that was a best a
New York Times best selling New York
Times bestseller yeah that's very
exciting and so but I didn't even bring
a copy I did I thought would be gauche
if I were waving it around but I can if
you want no I just thought you would be
gauche I didn't I didn't realize that I
mean I but if I were gonna be gauche
this is the place to do it is this is
this is go yes sent you are
complimenting you and your impeccable
relentless self-promotion skills last
time you were on we respect the hustle
here oh definitely now that's a big
compliment coming from Michael that's
exactly right
there is no facetiousness whatsoever in
that oh yeah your board board doesn't
he's my that was that was a compliment
from Jamie
alright so Virgil let's start with this
I know you mentioned you're a bit of a
Schulz head yeah yeah yeah yeah I've got
all his books
how many books does Howard Schultz have
I think the one that just came out is
the third one because when we went on
our West Coast tour last year we did a
show a couple shows in Seattle and so
you know we had to read the to Howard
Schultz books and Rosamund we just put
out a bonus episode a few days ago with
live cuts from that live show I think so
yes we're the first two also coffee puns
oh god I can't remember off the top of
my head but I'm gonna say yes with was
it was like one top it off or you know
why our ground that's who that's great
now the first one is onward how
Starbucks fought for its life without
losing its purpose he also wrote pour
your heart into it there you go
we're here hard it's it's in its it was
pour your heart into it the the second
but I was the second no that was a 1997
so he left he also has one from the
ground up well that's the new one came
out that's a new one but but so he his
middle book he left he sort of eschewed
the pun for the middle one and then came
back to it when he realized like that
maybe Dave wasn't a succeed also edited
about or is co-wrote for love of country
what our veterans can teach us about
citizenship heroism we should try to
think of a coffee pun for a book about
veterans veterans don't die on a hill of
beans yeah I don't know thank you for
your service but no use crying alright
well so your your shield said I don't
know if you've seen you know his his his
two top I guess advisors Steve Schmidt
and and Bill Burton these are he hired
them yet they're on contract with them
do you oh you so you don't think they're
working pro bono I'm I'm asking I'm
asking how long that arrangements been
going on that is a good question now
Steve Schmidt has left MSNBC as a
contributor you get III well III don't
know that his check from Emison knows
that max no no yeah the check must be
really good that he's getting I mean
they must be getting an enormous amount
of money I guess what I'm saying is you
hire Steve Schmidt if a clue is a
political consultant if you're going to
go join the political arena if you're
going to run for an office you wouldn't
just hire him to be your friend right
your your regular consultant though
after reading Schultz his two books
that's sort of the stupid sort of
 thing he might do well I think
he's still I find here I lost the kid
he's committed Oh running he wouldn't he
would do a thing that's like you know
we're gonna run this coffee shop like a
political campaign right
or we're gonna solve the race issue in
America through suggesting that you
bother your barista with a question
about race while they're preparing your
latte which was a thing here ago well
did you think let me ask you this do you
think that he has made a determination
to run at this point or do you think
he's still in that mode of like I'll see
there's certain I need to see a certain
poll number before I declare I don't I
don't know because my honest instinct is
that he's selling a book I mean that's
what he is he's on a book tour right now
when this kind of thing chins up sales
but people also said the same thing
about Trump when he ran in 2015 and but
you just made the point to do you hire
Bill Burton and and Steve Schmidt if you
do in a book like that's why I'm curious
about the nature of their of their
employment well it's enough that that
Steve Schmidt had to quit MSNBC and I
know that you know every now and then I
get a email from in fact I just got one
like yesterday maybe this was a function
of it I don't know because it seemed but
it's I got one that is from what is it
called the the you know MSNBC trust
thing or something like something like
that basically saying can you know make
sure you tell us if you're getting paid
by someone what the email said yeah I I
tell MSNBC all the time whenever I get
money from another source there you go
soon we all right well here is Steve
Schmidt on Nicole Wallace Nicole Wallace
is interesting in this clip and just in
fairness to the critics of an
independent run the the the 2016
election was decided by a razor thin
margin and the third-party candidates
could have done just what they're afraid
they did so I could open up both to tip
the election well let's let's look at
what Howard Schultz has said that has
set off this frenzy he said that I'm
seriously considering running for
president it's the right of every
American
cause if for one second I want to go
back but Steve Schmidt I'll uh he's
guiding so much money that he feels
completely comfortable like totally
dressing down now you know that like
every like every time he's been on MSNBC
for the pet he's worn a tie and now he's
going out there like he's got that I've
got a hit look he was a type of guy
who'd gone Bill Maher and where some
type of poor fit this is that that to me
is a sign of how much money he's making
off of this that has set off this frenzy
he said that I'm seriously considering
running for president it's the right of
every American should they choose to do
so and if I do so I'll do it as a
centrist independent candidate he also
has said he will not be a spoiler in the
race he has also said he views it as an
urgent national imperative to remove
this morally unfit president from office
he believes that he's not Jill Stein
he's not Ross Perot he's not Ralph Nader
what he said is he wants to have a
conversation with the American people to
see if perhaps the hour of disruption
may be at hand he utterly broken a
political system and make no mistake
about it the brokenness of that
political system is what resulted in the
election of Donald John Trump pausing
for one second
wasn't Trump that thing precisely
wasn't Trump victory the disruption of
the political moment it was disruptive
yeah in many respects innovative and it
reflected the actual center more which
is socially more to the right and
economically populist if you pull it but
he wants to say that the disruption was
the victory of Trump who was the as
opposed to the disruption that allowed
Trump to okay
election of Donald John Trump are we
faded in perpetuity to be in this cycle
of revenge politics of self-interest
where the American people are not
represented their future is not
represented or can we do something
better it so six hundred days before the
election he's asked a question and so we
decry rightly the illiberal ism of
Donald Trump his
tax on the press his attacks on the rule
of law but what about the illiberal ISM
of people who claim to oppose Trump who
shout down people from the public square
it seems that for some the progressive
utopia that is on the horizon is one
that will not come about by persuasion
but by imposition because you better
dare not speak out of line out of turn
no deviation or you were shouted down
and by the way the people are doing the
shouting almost universally are the same
people who said that's impossible I want
to go back some he's just some
 who the are you to show up
and say oh you know I'm just asking the
question of should I run for president I
don't care I don't have to answer that
you know but it's also sort of the idea
that this guy's been shouted off the
national stage there if you were to take
the total sum of the airtime or the
public exposure that 99% of the country
who are even remotely interested in the
idea of politics and somehow quantify
that he would have blown that figure
away in the first 24 hours that he
decided he's thinking about this is the
IDW principle exactly if you criticize
me that is the suppression the deep
platforming is any response to anything
I've said that's negative on all of the
endless platforms I've been given so I
mean and it was also funny he's like the
person who literally shouted and down
was a citizen who went to Barnes and
Noble in Union Square to beg this
 to not help get Trump get
reelected but here is the the best part
of this it seems to me who they're
villainizing and this is what I find
like even the most despicable thing that
they're doing because we now know from a
story I guess it was in Politico
Washington Post that the advisers have
admitted well what we realized we really
have to do is knock whoever the
Democratic candidate is out of the box
and make Howard
I can't even say it without laughing
Howard Schultz more palatable to 51% of
the country than any Democratic
candidate but look at the they're
getting a little scorched too earthy
here or at least attempting to by who
they're blaming they like theirs listen
to this
Oh's Trump who shout down people from
the public square it seems that for some
the progressive utopia that is on the
horizon is one that will not come about
by persuasion but by imposition because
you better dare not speak out of line
out of turn no deviation or you were
shouted down and by the way the people
are doing the shouting almost
universally are the same people who said
Joe Biden shouldn't run because it was
Hillary Clinton's turn and the same
people who put their thumb on the scale
for Hillary Clinton against Bernie
Sanders because he couldn't win and they
guaranteed us Trump would never be
elected you're on TV you can't complain
about being shouted down when you're
shouting at me from television but can
you believe that he's bringing up the
rigging the that Bernie was raised in
Sciences that's Hoffman's you go
generalized pseudo populism
which so it makes it actually even more
like Trump so right now we have I'm a
billionaire who knows nothing and you
should vote for me because I'm rich and
we live in it's capitalism so I'll just
do stuff good yeah and then the rest of
it is um and then there's this
generalized thing that you should never
concentrate on anything to do with the
economic elites obviously or the actual
system that's screwing you but there is
this sort of broad richness that I'm
opposed to vote me now well but they're
going Alize the same that he's
specifically saying it was the Clinton
people who delivered Trump
I mean it's fascinating that he's those
are the people that he's isolated like
its corruption powers Nemo's float
everywhere if you don't hook it to an
analysis but it's almost like either
either Steve Schmidt is purposely
tanking it or they're that deluded where
they think like the Sanders folk
gonna be the ones who turn you-know-who
or they don't gather around cos yeah I
think it's safe to say they really don't
care
this is mumait 'king that both Burton
and Schmidt could have made like
you money with this right like we're
signing a payer play contract you can
fire us in a month but you get a pants
for the next you know 12 months and it's
million each or something and for hit
four I mean III I'd buy that I'm just
picturing meetings with Burton and
Schmidt are like looking at their
iPhones like coordinating like
babysitting plans or something and
occasionally looking absolutely bring
America back yep that's exactly it
it's a moment of disruption innovation I
can't remember the risk of the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
that's actually how they open the chapo
book it really is a win-win for these
schools right because if Trump wins
again they're not gonna be the ones who
suffer they're actually gonna be better
off financially under Trump than under a
left-wing president like Bernie and if
he doesn't win they'll still pocket all
the money so good for them ultimately I
think we're all kind of everyone's been
hyperventilating about this Schultz
thing and exaggerating the actual impact
of this I mean you want to use this as
an opportunity like a OC did to point
out the the basic inequality in society
that just because you're very very
wealthy you get to change the discussion
and you get to have everyone talk about
you being president and you just seem
like someone who could be President as
opposed to say one of the baristas who
works it is one of his coffee shops when
the election is 21 months away the
filing deadlines are like 17 16 months
away we mean there could be five other
adventurous billionaires running for
office I'm sure a lot of them are
thinking about it I know for at least
several years now people been talking
about like Mark Cuban or the rockers
right thing or either one of these silly
sees humans should shake on Trump in a
Republican
primary the country needs it go do it
mark yeah and only spent a lot of money
on them and the thing is everyone is
obsessed and and and and nauseated by
the Schultz thing because there are that
that is just be lingering anxiety from
2016 of a spoiler you know preventing a
democratic victory allowing Trump to be
elected on a national scale which says
to me that okay these people just didn't
internalize the lessons of 2016 or they
have they don't have a heuristic to
explain why that happened so they're
still just kind of you know that tank is
pretty much empty and they're just
making up at this point the I I do
think that there is value to someone
like maybe a Warren and certainly a
Sanders in making the idea of a third
party billionaire candidate super super
toxic right now right because now it is
making it a generically toxic as opposed
to the the not the greater than zero
chance that if Bernie Sanders as opposed
to really any other possible Democratic
nominee is the nominee that a Howard
Schultz comes in and there is enough
people in the Democratic Party who are
you know scared of a of a socialist and
you know you get Bill Kristol and Anna
Navarro and then all of a sudden you you
think maybe we could win a couple of
states
he's a very classic guy I mean I don't I
mean again this is all so far away so
this is like playing fantasy football
but I I would rather I mean III don't
really care that much about Schultz's
presidential ambitions I would rather he
as a person with his position aside he
just not exist right he a bill should be
abolished playing the Starbucks you
should freakin be abolished having the
name Howard probably if that's where the
discussion goes that I would say that's
a productive discussion of that if this
if this leads to you know millions of
people questioning who is this
and why does he want every night
and frankly if he decides to run and I
think the on
I mean the only chance he will actually
do it is if Sanders our Warren or
potentially sherrod Brown nominee and if
he decides to run I think he'll spend an
unbelievable amount of money and I think
look I don't want to put another
variable in the race I won't Trump out
of there but I think he'll get I think I
think you could do a very fun graph
where you compare the amount of spending
he spends to the amount Jill Stein spent
and then their national vote basically
coming to about the same total he's
gonna have no resonance with the broader
public this grid of far-right economics
and sort of not even liberalism just
like basic social tolerance is only
popular in the morning Joe green room so
and if he does run and in that scenario
it will solidify the lesson Virgil's
talking about which is like these people
are a menace the other thing is on a
mentally narcissistic the other the
other thing is yeah he only plays in
green rooms and op-ed pages and I've
seen just so much blather in the past
few days of people say you know well
thank you Howard Schultz for injecting
ideas into this discussion you know
because we've been we've all those crazy
crazy pie-in-the-sky about a green
new deal in Medicare for all and thanks
for giving us serious stuff it's like
what what's a single policy or idea
you've heard from Howard show they're
gonna disrupt the possibility of
imagination yeah it's all I see I swear
I I seen it with my own two eyes
I knew somebody saying that okay so this
is fit some is done with some done okay
we're all gonna get it we're all gonna
harass the hell out oh wait you're gonna
make him afraid I think we found the
dunce here is a this is a clip from your
behind me no well it's right here too
okay it's it's you can look over here is
a dunce can be for the know who is a
Mike Slater do we know who this is a Fox
radio host okay and he's on the he's a
fox radio from the course the Mike
Slater show I would call he he is on
what is this the yeah this is the well
let's see what they're saying on Fox
sci-fi writer Robert Heinlein said the
natural state of man is poverty and it's
only for the makers not the moochers the
makers like mr. Howard Schultz that we
have jobs that we have industries that
we have growth that we have prosperity
and when you start attacking those
people then you were gonna fall back
into a state of poverty as Kat was
talking about as we see in positive as
well I love the fact that you have to
you have to cite a sci-fi writer and
that's the other thing about Schultz's
your utter lack of Appeals because yeah
he could pay for these expensive
consultants who are gonna tell him to
run a campaign like the losing campaign
since they run in the past it says you
know you just want to say some
about you know rolling up your sleeves
that kind of crap and the vast majority
people at this point know that they're
being it everyone bullshit's
them and if you're the kind of person
who thinks you know oh gosh roll up your
sleeves that's a great message your
votes pretty much irrelevant at that
point anyway
no one is actively alienating you
because you can't be alienate B's you
don't actually have political views so
all right so give me yours do you think
I think this whole event is well I'm not
suggesting that most Americans are like
excited about defending the Bolivarian
revolution but I think that like do you
always talk about how like Chicago
politics like what does that mean I get
that people generally probably think
like oh that's a bad situation in
Venezuela but I think that the average
person in voter is very able to
distinguish between a country and Latin
America that they know they don't
understand versus like oh you know
Bernie Sanders aoc are on television
saying that rich people shouldn't be
able to just like bequeath their kids
like castles and we don't have health
care I don't think that the vast
majority of the American cause we're
Venezuela it right frankly but I think
if they're setting the table that if
there's I mean this is what the right
does I think very well they they plant a
lot of flowers and they see what's going
to bloom and if we start having images
on our TV of you know of riots in
Venezuela it doesn't even really matter
what they are the idea that they have
built this sort of association with AOC
and Bernie with Venezuela is going to
pay some dividends for them even if
people have no idea what any of it means
mmm I think back to that ridiculous
tweet for a second where he says the
natural state of man is poverty and the
only reason anyone has any money
is because billionaires gave it to them
like how a historical is that well it's
it's like a everything a coracle like
it's it's that there's no there like the
idea that if it were not for
billionaires we would not have food is
just absurd like how does he think
things are produced and how does he
think things were produced before
capitalism he say they weren't it's a
sci-fi writer maybe you know yeah maybe
in the future maybe in the future that's
what he's saying maybe this is a warning
well Jamie all right you're right that
that's their line because that's a thing
that a lot of I hear a lot of dumb
people say that's a dumb guy thing to
say you know you don't like this
billionaire well what do you have a job
and I think that's you know part of it
is just that's how we've been raised and
socialized in this country to think in
those rigid terms we don't think about
the actual components of wealth and the
actual position of labour in society is
creating wealth and the critique of that
is the anxiety that's driving Howard
Schultz to run for prep there's the
narcissism but there's also the primal
anxiety of some of these things being
called into question yes and you and
those guys freaking out Davos so when
you see the the the media class you know
put up guys like Schultz and
increasingly Mike Bloomberg who's
planning to run for president and
frequently being quoted as as attacking
a list Warren or Bernie Sanders or any
OC I think that's that's like you said
you know we're worth Berkeley have put
some stuff up and see what hits and yeah
maybe these billionaires these these
deeply uncharismatic bullshitting
billionaires who are just lecturing you
will convince people to tamp down on
their their populist urges I mean if I'm
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders I
think I am pretty psyched about maybe
these guys getting in the Democratic
primary even just being on the scene oh
yes it is like you know now I don't have
to sort of like talk theoretically or
you know conceptually I can just say
like look at that guy look at him
he's five foot five and he's screeching
at you in this Reedy voice about big
gulps exactly yeah I won't pay taxes but
you can't drink a soda but here's the
thing I think that guys like Bloomberg
joining the race and expanding the the
rightward bound of the field also
benefits of people like mala Harris and
Cory Booker and helps them kind of
escape some of the criticism they're
going to be receiving from yeah I think
that's absolutely right and here is
let's put this this is a pretty funny
tweet by Amy Klobuchar oh this is
wonderful this is so you know I'm a
member of the DSA and this is we're
talking about endorsing this as our next
big class Sen cloture who is supposedly
contemplating jumping into the race and
I don't think so here is it the American
workforce is changing and there isn't
one path to success I've introduced
bipartisan legislation you know that
could go so many different like when you
say the American workforce is changing
and there isn't one path to success like
it could be opening up and that's why I
am introducing a plan to support people
who want to work in non-commercial
endeavors and we're going to provide
stipends for people who are doing social
services and teaching no that's not
where it goes so I try to understand
this I consider myself a relatively
intelligent person and here's my guess
just from reading this yeah I don't know
that I haven't even finished the whole
thing yet yeah no sorry I've introduced
bipartisan legislation with Senator sass
that spends as to allow people to use
tax advantage savings accounts to pay
for educational expenses like skills
training apprenticeships and
professional development in other words
we're gonna do 529s and instead of just
paying for college in private school now
you can also use that for stuff that may
not be accredited goals like a
for-profit universities or other places
like that so we're going to the
funds to the US government and put it in
the hands of people who you know may be
scrupulous but probably not as well the
people who have that brew reported they
saw the people who actually do need
skill training and professional
development things like that are not
don't have the means to save money they
aren't that means to pay for it and they
don't would not have had the means to
save for it like would I be using this
account I don't know I mean what
podcasting you know gets gets obsoleted
at some point and you know it's replaced
with an AI and or those Korean mukbang
videos or whatever and I you know I need
a new job but I don't think tax
advantages when you're low income a tax
credit doesn't do that much for you know
the idea that you're going to have the
idea that you're going to increase
savings by just simply meaning that you
can avoid taxes by putting is is absurd
this is a giveaway to wealthy people and
it to the extent that they use it I mean
so it also echoes Paul Ryan frankly yeah
a lion would say all the time that I
mean you know you literally had a
proposal that I want to give poor people
life coaches to help them manage their
finances and plan and it was like give
them or give them like a tax advantage
having some wall for that I you know and
again I remember I mean I would live now
we'd take a free life coach oh yeah
right yeah well again one upper middle
class people would definitely take a
free life coach I will take your real
life coach yes maybe now the children of
the professional managerial class will
finally get to go to college but it is
it is amazing though like there's
something I think what stands out about
this at least in my mind is it's one
thing to not be embracing the current
and the energy of things like
medicare-for-all in the surge of let's
just say social democracy broadly but
the fact that this actually it's not
like I support a Medicare buy-in instead
of Medicare for all this is like I want
to run on
George W Bush mm I like a compassionate
conservative PPI that basically ends up
benefiting wealthy people that is the
level of disconnect there and this
speaks to her staff and everybody well
on so I you know when I read this I
think of like an old neutral subterfuge
when I think this I think of like you
see a commercial shot or some video shot
and the lighting is really bad right or
someone has a piece of hair sticking up
and I think like oh the crew hates that
that person they're not going to tell
them that they've got you know we should
tweet this out knots and they're like oh
this is gonna be great people realize
that you've paired with Ben Sasse like I
don't even know like there isn't I don't
even think there's like I don't even
think like what's-his-face
Chuck Chuck Todd looks at this and goes
wow like I don't think like I don't
think there's any I don't think there's
anybody like left I think Ben says if
you're working with Ben Sasse are you
and you think this is the oh he's a good
guy and you know we could reach across
the aisle I mean you're a soccer that's
it plain and simple and Ben Zion says I
think if we're talking about throwing
stuff up and seeing what works in a way
to dissipate people from developing
class consciousness I think Ben Sasse
has a very dangerous tack there yeah
yeah I think that's true
and maybe we need a solution to it that
risks the imagination of a new kind of
possibility the law and maybe we need a
solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
I'm not I'm not ready to take those
risks that sounds risky number up then
it says his face after Bill Maher said
the thing that he got in trouble for
that was that was funny is there is
there a is there an acronym we can come
out of there are I a new kind and maybe
we need a solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
do you know what that means the RT on
Cup Act coming soon uh yeah you got to
hear it again risks the imagination of a
new kind of possibility a solution to it
that risks the imagination of a new kind
of possibility
you put the imagination at risk so you
you gamble with it will gamble the risks
will gamble the imagination of
possibility it's or there's a
possibility you will lose your
imagination connoisseur deposit like me
like I can't figure out what this means
well there's an it starts within it so
it probably depends on the dissident of
it it sounds like you translated the
phrase audacity of hope' into like 80
different languages and bad audacity of
hope' translated into is the way back in
English that's the way they come up with
like website names that's the way they
come up with website names it's like
they do a lot of like just like cross
translating until they just sort of like
it's so far away is not like putting
people calm that's what his books are
like - it's just all full of crap like
that he talks about going on shoot sorry
this was a while ago but I remember
vaguely remember he talked about going
on some corporate retreat that was like
kind of like I'm stupid like primal
scream type things you know for the
frickin c-suite and that was one where
he just may he paid some consultant some
fake guru like a hell of a lot of money
to lead them on this thing to you know
get him you know get the c-suite
recharged and ready to tackle the the
challenges of a new business day so I
think hiring consultants for paying a
lot of money to consultants who
ultimately don't ever do anything that's
something Howard Schultz right that's
part yeah well I think party people were
broadly speaking I think wealthy people
do that all the time is the whole thing
I've just received a point from Sean
Milwaukee a who's in a union and he has
noted that unions do not charge for
friendship programs they actually pay
you to work in them so this tweet is not
talking about good union jobs when they
say apprenticeships they're talking
about some do liberal neoliberal serfdom
garbage risking the imagination of a new
kind of possibility well is that I think
ami clover start saying well you know
what it is it's more personal
responsibility that's why I'm
very opposed to I'm opposed the personal
responsibility I want less of it far
less of it than I currently have it I
cannot manage my own affairs
I spend you know well dressed I mean you
thank you yeah I'll take responsibility
for that all right you know that's gonna
consuming a lot of my time I had to buy
the health insurance on the public
market and in the exchanges and I'd
spend you know for 15 minutes doing this
and then I think I don't want
responsibility I don't want this I want
a bureaucrat to decide what health
insurance I again I wanted to be put on
the Road to Serfdom
if it means I don't have to look at this
 website Diane Abbott who's and
she's I think she's on the labor front
bench but a couple years ago and she was
like you know very treated in distel are
treated in a very marginal way by the
British press which is unbelievable but
she she said that point I think actually
you know she was contesting leadership
before a Corbin when it was Ed Miliband
and she you know go anywhere for but
there was a segment where they were
talking about all of these like Blair
right interventions and things like the
NHS and she's like poor people don't
need to have to make more choices and
more responsibilities they they already
have more than you do they already have
far more stress far more things to deal
with and this is not Liberatore it's
actually like choice is oppressive mmm
she effectively flipped that and they
were all just they didn't buy it let me
ask you about this about this you know I
don't know if you you have more you want
to talk about the 2020 candidates at
this point if you want or whatever well
I mean what was your sense of Kamala
Harris's rollout I mean it was very
successful for her and you know I think
that's reflected in the poll numbers
which
it's early it doesn't doesn't really
freaking matter but it seemed to go
pretty smoothly and you have the the
whole kind of culture Tom from the
laughs all this criticism of a
prosecutable record which I'm really of
two minds about that because some of the
stuff that I've seen that's come out of
her speeches about that time has been
very very gross stuff you know it's it's
it's there's some meat on the bones with
the criticism of her record that I'm not
sure she'll I'm not sure whether or not
that's actually gonna drive a wedge
between her and the voters she's she's
going to try to appeal right
and I'm wondering well should this come
out now and isn't that better for her if
that if we're all talking about this now
and then we forget about it in a year
from now when the first votes are cast
or is it good that this is out now and
more people are firmed up and saying you
know no III can't support this or there
needs to be some kind of you some of
those lips would have been nice they
dropped a couple days before Iowa well
no I I don't know about that I think I
think I don't think that there is enough
broad-based concern in the Democratic
Party that would that that would set an
alarm
I think it's will there be where the
will there will there be criticism
essentially from people of color and and
and activists who care about criminal
justice reform who are going to provide
the legitimacy of critique of her right
because there's the there seems to me to
be look the the game plan for the
Clinton folk and this is not to diminish
the reality of misogyny but the game
plan for the Clinton folk and to a
certain extent the game plan of the
Obama folks which is obviously not to to
not to you know
make a claim about the legitimacy of
racism obviously but that is like we're
going to build this force field and it
is going to make it difficult to
criticize willy nilly about certain
things and I think with Kamala Harris I
think they're going to use you know I
think there's gonna be this sense we
hear a little bit of it like you know
critiquing her she's a woman and we're
talking about at a time where the energy
in the Democratic Party is undoubtedly
coming from women who are more or less
Kamala Harris's age and coming from
people of color particularly women and
so this is the this is the the most
energized constituency the most reliable
constituency of the Democratic Party and
I think like there has to be a valid
critique of that prosecutorial stuff
from people who've worked on it for a
long time like oh yeah absolutely it has
to come from people who have the
legitimate stakes in that issue it can't
be you know folks who just don't like
Kamala Harris because they like another
candidate but also look like okay I just
found out yesterday that a mother of
seven who was sent to jail because she
couldn't pay her truancy fines died in
her cell and like I'm allowed to be mad
about that whether or not I found out
about it yesterday or a few years ago
when it happened right the other thing
is I think Harris's game plan going
forward and you pretty much saw this in
a rollout is to just stake out you know
leftist positions on criminal justice
reform and hopefully that you don't just
absolve sir of whatever past sins that
she said your I support ending cash bail
I support polishing private prisons
which i think is a mainstream Democratic
plank at this point Oh bomber had done
that for federal prisons already right
right and I think just saying these
things that's gonna be enough for most
people I agree I agree you're gonna
you're gonna need to have activists come
up who who can really launch an attack
that is really that has enough
legitimacy that people can't sort of
like push back on it that they're gonna
have to actually address it so it's
gonna be interesting to see if that
happens
so a monadic said I think she's very
well positioned right now and it's hard
to see there being that many roadblocks
ahead for her I I think it's it's almost
like you know it's very hard to imagine
that if there are three or four people
at the end of this race or two even two
or three that she's not one of them oh
yeah maybe I'm being overly optimistic
but I do not think these issues are
going away if anything I think people
are becoming more and more conscious of
them every day especially considering
the stakes involved like people are
dying because of these policies and just
to use another example sex workers are
becoming a real vocal constituency
pretty much for the first time in u.s.
politics and something like Sessa FASTA
which she pushed very hard is still
leading to the deaths of sex workers and
I don't think people are gonna shut up
about it the question is like you know
is the mainstream gonna care she pushed
it hard but the thing about that is and
this this this goes back to your point
Sam about having a legitimacy of that
criticism all of her opponents also
voted for cesta Foster yeah but she
pushed the policy but some people are
more implicated than others Joe Biden
gamla Harris are definitely the most
implicated in criminal justice issues
period I mean she prosecuted it and put
all sorts of people in jail that
shouldn't be there and Joe Biden wrote
the 94 crime bill the other person who
had who was going to MIT who could be
well positioned to make that argument is
cory booker who you know it's gonna be
interesting to see if he raises that he
will he how could he not I mean that's
one of the only areas because he doesn't
I mean I'm sure he embraced some
aggressive tactics in Newark as mayor
but he doesn't have a particular
reputation for that in the first
legislation that he signed when he got
into the Senate was actual pretty
serious criminal justice reform packages
and marijuana legalization but his brain
should be all over that that would be
political malpractice
this from not two I also think like I
want to look again at how HIV AIDS
activists targeted Al Gore when he ran
for president because Al Gore was
notorious because he had the direct
bilateral responsibility relationship
with South Africa and he threatened to
sanction them if they put out generic
AIDS drugs and it was a huge controversy
and actually he he did have to reverse
himself and what was like I don't think
a competitive primary in 2000 at all for
the Democratic primary but I think if
you even in that environment which was
totally different politically and he
didn't have as serious a threat he did
have to reverse himself and felt some
heat because of how targeted and
specific it was so people should look at
that maybe as a model for how to be on
Carla Harris but they still went after
it in the context of reversing positions
right
not just litigating what she's not gonna
be able to go back to California no but
her answers can be more satisfactory
than some people just don't like
prosecutors and I don't apologize for
being one yeah well keep it by I mean
that's you know we're talking about
about using pressure to change what a
candidate who's trying to get elected
says and that's no guarantee whatsoever
what we'll do in office you know and
like the good example of that is the
Obama administration and its entirety I
do you think the Obama administration
promised stuff that I mean that they
didn't I mean the bankruptcy bill
cramdown was the first big you know sort
of reversal it seems to me but
everything else I think in terms of what
Obama promised what was it a roar of the
public option which it was they
delivered on but the problem is is that
people didn't require the same level of
promise right there's an ambiguity there
right it was dope I mean Obama did even
on the campaign trail go back on certain
things most famously Gandhi NAFTA's one
domestic spying z' and other and most
famously but he plants that vote when he
was still in the Senate right most
famously the
what do you call it the the healthcare
requirement the man thief the man Batman
thing yes yes he argued against the
mandate in the he argued for the public
option and against the mandate the real
the real problem here is you know if you
want a police a candidates positions if
you want a guarantee you have to attack
the source of where the positions come
from which is its money and that's it
and if I can be pretty certain that this
campaign will oppose private prisons if
they are taking zero dollars from the
private prison industry but if this
person is taking billions of dollars
from private prison interests and then
saying on-trail well you know gosh we
got to look at these private prisons I
personally oppose them I can be pretty
certain that that's all with
these criminal justice issues it's it's
a bit thorny er right I mean the the the
pressures there are more dispersed it's
not like you know I'm the I'm the police
brutality union and here's a you know
here's a big here's a shitload of money
it's interesting though I mean we look
at like the the the Medicare bills that
that that Harris herself has signed on
to right she signed on to Bernie's a
Medicare for all but she's also signed
on to Brian Schatz as Medicare buy-in
and she's also signed into a third one I
can't remember who's sponsoring it that
basically just rolls out the public
option yeah in a say she signed on all
of those
she's already you know it created some
wiggle room on the Medicare for all
thing but it does have it does you know
if every single Democratic candidate
comes out for Medicare for all you're
gonna see people down ticket also
support these things and there's going
to be just a broad-based expectation
that that that people are gonna be held
that said I mean for what it's worth and
there I the dynamics inside the
Democratic and Republican parties are
very different but I mean it is
interesting and maybe in a sick way it
speaks well of Democrats that they're
not
I guess not as lying as aggressively to
their constituencies but like
Republicans voted to take down Obamacare
what was it like over a hundred times or
something when they would be yeah while
they weren't empowering us and they got
in the power and grant there's a lot of
variables but they couldn't get it
together to do it the Democratic
leadership won't even do like a symbolic
let's
medicare-for-all out of the house to rev
our people up yeah and then we know it's
gonna get killed in the Senate they
won't even do that I'm not convinced
that that's the case they're about to do
that with Social Security expansion
right now so it looks 300 ads past them
that is in a sense that's wealthily but
I mean but but also that was you know
six years ago laughs I know Barack Obama
was still actively trying to cut Social
Security I was trying to cut those
double security we since have had the
Democratic caucus in the Senate vote to
expand it and there are now two hundred
some-odd co-sponsors co-sponsors it's
even right now I mean the stakes of
expanding Social Security are definitely
smaller than Medicare for all obviously
I mean I mean political implications of
saying we are going to pass a bill that
eliminates private insurance is a
absolutely different order of magnitude
than expanding a massively successful
pre-existing 1930s program a different
thing that's true but the idea of
expansion of Social Security if you had
brought it up six or seven years ago you
would look like you were coming from
Mars well and nobody brought up Medicare
for all six or seven that's right so
right but and we also have some for
Bernie now even from a policy standpoint
right the the entirety of the Democratic
Party understands the insufficiency of a
program that we have now so there's
almost like you know there there is
almost a an ironclad guarantee that
something is going to be done and it's
going to have to be meaningful because
everyone understands that we're going to
get back to this place what how
meaningful it is it's it's unclear but
we also have three competing bills
coming out of the Senate on how to deal
with prescription drugs ranging from
warrens you know the generic
manufacturing of generics which is
awesome but also purchasing and whatnot
and even Trump today announced that HHS
is going to get rid of the the the
benefit managers for Medicare and and
Medicaid I mean these these are we're
moving on that front in a
because it is it is non-elective in some
way I think for everyone everyone knows
that something is deeply broken social
security is more of like a an elective
right we're just going to make this more
generous I just want to know like if you
believe that health care is a right and
should be free for everybody at point of
service yada yada and you've seen all
the data and all the statistics on the
only good way to make that happen why
you would hedge by also supporting this
one that's still a little nicer to
private insurance companies like what
possible good faith reason could you
have for that I mean that you think it's
more doable that it's a negotiation
point I mean well I think I think the
problem and then this is the problem the
reformist run into is that the health
insurance is a sector of the economy is
very very very complicated and they and
the strategic thinking here is well you
know Donald Trump is president relic
control the Senate why bother
forcing a tough vote right now why even
put out legislation that you know then
Republicans go back and run ads and say
you know you will lose your private
health insurance right I mean and and
that stuff I mean I think that the the
moral position has to be to go to war
with the health insurance companies and
to drum up popular support against them
to demonize and villainize them because
what actually needs to happen is this
the seizure of every private health
insurer like that's it it's what a
trillion dollars just go to profits
every single year off you know the
misery that's the sector of the economy
it should not exist shouldn't exist of
their profits off of denying care to
people as Ryan Cooper pointed out yes a
lot of that trillion dollars is going to
go to war against any one of these
proposals yes any single one of them
indeed so you have to suit up for war
and that means every single Democrat
even the Blue Dogs cannot be taking
money from the health insurance
companies but they are and they're going
to and that's the sort of thing that
watered-down the ACA and it was the
intent to it was the resistance of the
health insurance companies in 1993 that
at
Clinton Clinton care you know I mean the
interesting thing is and I'll tell you
why I like a Medicare buy-in or one of
the things that we're going to like it's
almost seems to me to be definitive
we're gonna see Medicare age drop right
we're gonna see it drop to like 55 is is
it is a total no-brainer and this is
something the insurance industry was in
favor of before the ACA showed up
because if they could offload that other
segment that age group which was
probably you know aside from
pre-existing conditions the the worst
part of their risk pool and they could
offload that to the government then they
would have you know 20 to 55 year-olds
and you know that's a business I
wouldn't mind being in I'll insure them
for for health things particularly if I
get to exclude pre-existing conditions
because that's a winner and prior to
that they did not have a business model
that could actually sustain itself as
the baby boomers got older and with the
Millennials coming in they had all this
money that is there that is fairly safe
bet that most of these people are not
gonna have to draw on their insurance
that much and they're gonna make their
profits yeah and so that's the structure
of the industry and you know that's
exactly what charter schools want to
turn education into yeah we're gonna get
the kids that are easy exactly that is
exactly and so long so the thing is the
fight right now is the setter that fight
is to prevent that from happening this
private sector takeover of the of the
education sector I think the the the
gold homes need to be moved
I think the center of the fight over
health care needs to be moved towards
that yes III was trying to use it I was
trying to have a football thing I just
totally not a goalpost is a very
reliable image no the cheerleaders
cheerleaders which side cheerleaders to
the other team yeah they got to be
putting a skyboxes all right well let's
take a break and head into the fun half
of the program and then we'll continue
to do what we're doing
sounds good
or we could just freebie Friday
touchdown go alright well let's let's
talk a little bit about this abortion
stuff because I think we're going to I
think this is I just have a sense that
this is going to come back and Brendon
was telling me that he thinks I'm just
having like PTSD from from the Bush
years but I that should be your memory
your autobiography yeah I've got like
any from those years I I
Janeane Garofalo yeah yeah just
afterward it just it just seems to me
that Trump is desperate to find
something right now that is going to
change the subject that is also going to
be and focusing stuff on the Supreme
Court as a reason to reelect him all the
Ducks seemed lined up in the row and
this is an opportunity here's a clip of
Ralph Northam he's the governor of
Virginia of course talking about we
played the clip the other day from there
was a Virginia lawmaker she was being
questioned on the law that they are are
pushing that it is legal this day to to
provide abortion services to a woman who
is signed off by a doctor for medical
reasons to receive an abortion as late
as 40 weeks could be literally a day
before labor begins because if it is a
threat to the mother's life and if it is
a threat to the mother's health and it
is a function of the viability of the
child and here is Northam and it was
fascinating I barely saw this but he
does this interview and this was spun by
the right
as saying that Northam says it's okay to
kill children after they to kill
children who are born and here is here
is that interview and then we'll talk
more about their no exception
there was a very contentious committee
hearing yesterday when Fairfax County
delegate Cathy Tran made her case for
lifting restrictions on third trimester
abortions as well as other restrictions
now in place and she was pressed by a
Republican delegate about whether her
bill would permit an abortion even as a
woman is essentially dilating ready to
give birth and she answered that it
would permit an abortion at that stage
of labor
do you support her measure and explain
her answer yeah I'm you know I wasn't
there
Julie and I certainly can't speak for
delegate Tran but I will tell you one
first thing I would say this is why
decisions such as this should be made by
providers physicians and the mothers and
fathers that are involved there are you
know when we talk about third trimester
abortions these are done with the
consent of obviously the mother with the
consent of the physicians more than one
physician by the way and it's done in
cases where there may be severe
deformities there may be a fetus that's
non-viable so in this particular example
if a mother is in labor I can tell you
exactly what would happen the infant
would be delivered the infant would be
kept comfortable the infant would be
resuscitated if that's what the mother
and the family desired and then a
discussion would ensue between the
physicians and the mother so so I think
this was really blown out of proportion
but again we want the government not to
be involved in these types of decisions
we want the decision to be made by the
the mothers and their providers and and
this is why Julie that legislators most
of whom are men by the way shouldn't be
telling a woman what she should and
shouldn't be doing with her body and do
you think multiple physicians should
have to weigh in as is currently
required she's trying to lift that
requirement
well I think it's always good to get a
second opinion and for at least two
providers to be involved in that
decision because these decisions
shouldn't be taken lightly and and so
you know I would certainly support more
than one provider all right let's go
back to know now of course in some
instances there aren't more than one
provider right I mean if you're living
in a rural area there aren't necessarily
multiple doctors on call who are we're
working in obstetricians
excuse me and so but the this is very
reminiscent of the Terri Schiavo thing
and because when you're talking about
these children that if a child is born
and the doctors know that this child has
no internal organs or you know is
missing internal organs or has you know
can survive perhaps for three or four
days in this instance that's what we're
talking about here and in these
instances and this is very much like the
Terri Schiavo situation which I don't
know if you guys remember you should
refresh people Terri Schiavo was a woman
who was in a vegetative state and her
she had you know before entering into
that state she had a conversations with
her husband that he would pull the plug
her parents did not want to and the the
the US Senate was trying to get involved
and into this decision because there
were protesters out there and it became
this big political football and it was
very successful for the Republicans it
was a very successful well ultimately I
think it was successful in so far is it
it was a way of rallying they lost but
they they lost this battle but it was a
way of rallying the evangelicals now
that was 2005 they lost the battle they
lost the midterms very badly and is well
they if you look at polls from that
period the vast majority of Americans
said what no the Senate should not be
involved III agree but I do think that
it it hardened their base 2006 was was
not about
Terri Schiavo it did was it it was and I
think she died yes abortion abortion I
think has a different resonance than
that in that instance right as an adult
you had the husband there he came out
and I I just can't help but think that
it the very least Trump is gonna try and
make this that type of thing regardless
of the you know direct comparison you
know whether we go with it one way or
another I mean you're a hundred percent
right in terms of abortion is just the
way of reaffirming like you said earlier
the one thing that he has actually been
he's absolutely kept his word on which
is I'm gonna fill the court with the
most extreme retrograde people
imaginable and I'm gonna take you know
an axe to everything obviously you know
regulation on the corporate sector first
and foremost but the whole app angelical
agenda as well and if that is put back
into the center of their minds for his
reelect that bodes better for him I
still think he's in pretty tough shape
no matter what yeah it goes back to that
chart that you showed yesterday right
Michael about how most voters are either
socially liberal or socially
conservative but definitely not
economically conservative right and like
people underestimate the degree to which
Trump won on like this vague vague
economic populist and that he injected
into his rhetoric combined with social
conservatism and he could do it again I
don't think he will but I think that's
the best play but I also don't ever take
that the Democrats could always snatch
defeat from the jaws of victory we'll
see I think he's gonna talk about
abortion quite a bit and do you think
he's been personally responsible for
abortions oh yeah I mean if he's ever
had sex I don't think he's a provider
yeah it's like my dad and I got into the
provider business helped a lot of women
okay I'm gonna be an annoying sjw now as
I am most of the time and remind
everyone that it's not only women who
can get pregnant and need abortions i
it's hard for me to remember
but you got a try okay fair enough I
don't know Donald Trump's involvement in
in that there but he's provided
abortions in every single scenario he
was actually that was his life's purpose
he was supposed to be an abortion
provider but he wanted to please his dad
um let you know he'll talk about
abortion a lot Shore and but at this
point I just don't think anything moves
the needle anymore you know
Vinson anyone and these these socially
conservative voters these are the
hardcore evangelical types they're
already a hundred percent going to vote
for him like that's it there's there's
not gonna be any dissension in those
ranks no I I mean I am still firmly in
the martin O'Malley can win a camp and
and and I think it's a question though
of of how motivated these voters will be
to come out that it's not a question of
convincing anybody it's a question of
turnout it seems to me they're gonna
turn out because they always turn out
they turned out in the in the midterms
and they turned out big Republicans yep
so they're gonna turn as one that's what
they do that's you know a lot of them
are just old people with nothing else to
do and it's it's of course you know
that's always what it comes down to at
the end of the day oh it's it's it's the
judges you want the judges I gave you
two judges but probably three by then
right that's gonna be super scary here
is uh let's look at this clip of
Elizabeth Warren who is going on
Bloomberg and and talking about her
brand and I am curious there I'm sorry
do you remember Bloomberg's book title
speaking of good book titles it was
really good any guesses the bloom is off
the rose let a thousand flowers bloom oh
god no it was a Bloomberg on Bloomberg
oh it's really that's good that's him
they rejected Bloomberg Bloomberg
Bloomberg as the that was the working
title here's Elizabeth Warren talking
about taxation on I think this was on
Loum burg and it's interesting well
let's play this clip first capitalism
without rules is theft encouraging
companies to build their business models
on cheating people
that's not capitalism that's not
competition in the marketplace that's
not producing consumer surplus so what I
believe is capitalism with serious rules
and that means rules where everybody
gets a chance to play the surplus is the
theft well alright so let me just ask
you the so the Bernie Sanders obviously
running on or at least his pedigree
right is democratic socialism socialism
the you know
hers is reformation of capitalism that
said she's suggested that the government
seize the means of production when it
comes to anything when it comes to
generic drugs she her proposals how much
at the end of the day do you think their
proposals land differently from each
other and how relevant is that
difference I don't know because she's
been throwing up a lot of stuff in the
past past few weeks now and I mean the
the legislative proposals from
Democratic senators have all been for
show for the past few years now that
being said you know I've excited by some
of the things she's proposed for
instance opening up corporate boards and
having labor representation on them
which would actually I think be a sea
change in the way that American
capitalism works
the thing about warren is in contrast to
the other reformist candidates she's the
only one who seems actually reformist
she actually seems to believe what she
says she seems to actually position
herself in opposition to the interests
of capital which is not something we've
seen from any Democratic nominee for a
long time now so that being said I as
far as the left goes Warren is a
perfectly acceptable candidate I guess
it depends how much it matters to you
how much you think the red
matters right because there are people
who would support Bernie over warned
people on the socialist left because
bernie is coming from a place of
democratic socialism structural reform
critique of capitalism yada yada I think
he's more of a social democrat than any
kind of chore anti-capitalist but
whatever at whereas Elizabeth Warren is
coming from a place of reform and
capitalism so the outcomes might look
relatively similar but it just matters
if you care that people are hearing
those words you know I'm very glad with
what Warren's doing and if he doesn't
run I'm happy to push my support over
but I I mean I think there are these
subtle differences that do matter in
terms of how you frame I'm less worried
about the words but I I'm I'm like to me
there is also just some unmovable facts
here that like because she opted not to
run in 2016 where maybe she could have
very well actually defeated Hillary
Clinton yes would have been incredible
but it's like Bernie did it and Bernie
has an entirely I mean all right well
yeah I don't want to get I want to let
me say on this I want to stay on this
point though I don't want to get in I
just want to stay out specifically on
this point you know what whether he
deserves it or not he's the most popular
politician yeah I don't know that's no
I'm talking about I want to talk about
like in terms of at the end of the day
is she gonna be able to even go further
in terms of her Reformation proposals
than Bernie because she is making it
like it's reforming capitalism as
opposed to rhetorically speaking I want
to replace the system Oh capital does
not care about that like I mean I
couldn't tell you I have absolutely no
idea what the next thing was Warren is
going to say I mean that being said I I
mean it's she could have you know roll
out oh you know I proposed the
nationalization of every major industry
right and it's just sort of something we
all accept that she believes that would
be the constituency that that would
speak because because the terms of the
base they don't care and in terms of the
lease they don't Bernie Sanders came out
with we should have the government make
generic drugs right I feel like there
would be
people's hair would go on fire III think
from from I think we're gonna hear that
from other candidates I think we could
hear that from a Kamala Harris
conceivably or receive ibly but I mean
at some point they're all gonna critique
each other's proposals but in terms of
the voting public and then of course
like Wall Street doesn't care either way
who in like an actual mass body of
voters without any difference with well
I I don't know that anybody's proposals
or any of the rhetoric will make a big
difference with anybody but I'm just
saying that the question is is that can
Elizabeth Warren go further under the
guise of capitalist reform than Bernie
Sanders can go because he he is labeled
as a socialist I guess we'll see well
okay we could have week and a half hours
ago like she is more acceptable to the
mainstream of the Democratic Party and I
think that is something that will help
her in the primary if not in the general
okay and so if that's the case is there
a substantive difference substantive not
rhetorical not pedigree just I want to
isolate it very but I'm trying to get at
a substantive difference in terms of
their proposals at this point and to the
extent that there is our hers you know
and I would say putting aside foreign
policy because I think that they clearly
can you though but well no no I mean her
the course of the conversation we can
answer this in two ways first neither
person has announced that they're
running for president right now there's
no we there's no he's announced that
she's gonna announce something right
she'll do it but there's no you know
kind of two column comparison that we
can make right now and and then you know
take a microscope and say oh this one's
actually more left than that other one
what we do know about the two candidates
is that Bernie Sanders has never been a
Democrat in his life he is currently
being in the Democratic Senate
leadership he is a socialist proclaims a
socialist and ostensibly this means he
wants to be a part of a burgeoning
socialist
movement in the country that can operate
as a political force Liz Warren of
course says she's a capitalist though
but I believe also she's very serious
about reform and government intervention
there and perhaps even challenging the
power of capital no great authority then
Jonathan che actually pointed this out
and was a hundred percent correct when
he said that socialist view the
Democratic Party not as partners or
something that they want to build but as
a marriage of convenience right now and
with liberals and with sadly some quite
a lot of conservatives in that party I
believe that one priority right now and
that that socials have the best
opportunity to do this is to take over
the Democratic Party into clean house
and that means getting rid of that right
flank and getting rid of the influence
of capital within the party and that
goes back to my earlier point about
challenging the power of health
insurance companies and not having any
Democrats take money from health
insurance companies and and
pharmaceutical companies and defense
contractors in wall street and so on so
part of it is how you're measuring the
power of the bully pulpit like maybe
part of my bias is that like part of how
I don't see the question working for me
is I just think that where it does
matter rhetorically is that his baseline
of that kind of fundamental challenge
already puts the goal posts so far in a
different left direction that that's a
that that's a parameter resetter in and
of itself and we'll see whether or not
it works but I don't you know yeah and I
also object to divorcing it from foreign
policy because really you can't if
you're going to have like regulated
capitalism and welfare state in one
country someone has to pay for that
right and it's going to be paid for by
imperial plunder like a socialist vision
is the vision that has to extend to the
whole world and we've seen Bernie
Chinese are very positive steps in the
right direction to form that like
progressive International which giannis
Bertrand Warren actually does how she
put out a decent
liberal foreign policy manifesto but
it's very interesting because it
parallels like essentially we should get
back to almost like JFK stuff in their
early 60s which is like don't be such a
dick and help people develop and have
some fair trade agreements but when you
don't talk about global oligarchy when
you don't talk about Lula when you don't
talk about restoring the Iran deal
you're leaving so much on the table and
this certainly matters when we're
talking about something like a green new
deal which thankfully we are talking
about now Mike Bloomberg says he's going
to announce his green New Deal plan aoc
he's going to announce it or agree to
deal plan iiiiii obviously don't like
Bloomberg and if he were the Democratic
nominee I would probably be opposed to
him I'd have to say that being said I'm
very curious what's in this green new
deal because just from reading some of
his past statements the outline of it
sounds like something that you know a
lot of people get behind environmentally
I have a feeling we're you know we he'll
be good live to transition away from a
carbon-based economy and you know that's
has to be matched with replacing those
jobs that are lost and economic
investment in places like West Virginia
ok the outline of that sounds good even
if we were gonna avoid the question of
how do you pay for it you know without
any sort of wealth transfers which
Bloomberg is opposed to the thing is
we're just talking about a green new
deal in a domestically as a way to
eliminate our emissions which is which
is possible it's very feasible we have
the capital we have the labor we have
know how any of the material inputs to
do that if we were the only country that
does that that does absolutely nothing
right Yanis is campaigning on greening
the deal across Europe right now and
he's coordinating with Bernie so that
also adds the answer and I would just
say well here's my green new deal I'm
gonna buy China public offer to China to
buy all of them that's a good example
you're been reducing emissions for the
past two decades several European
countries are
admissions neutral and that has done
nothing that's exactly right and also
not only that I mean I think as far as
Bloomberg's green policies environmental
policies go and again I don't mean this
all critically at all but just look at
what Jerry Brown's done in California
actually on the transition and tech side
he's done some really good things but if
you have a concept but on the drill and
supply side he hasn't and I doubt
Bloomberg would either and if you also
conceived of the environment as being
connected to people's needs and whole
and things like environmental justice
and other things that would be part of
an AOC vision Jerry Brown's not been
particularly good so I mean there's a
like look if the choice is Trump you
know or Jerry Brown or Bloomberg you
pick Jerry Brown or Bloomberg but we're
trying to put forth something different
here and I would say that any by
starting position in terms of green New
Deal or any sort of policy which again
is this this protein concept right now
would be the seizure of every energy
company in the country right that has to
be it and you use their capital that
they've accumulated destroying the
planet for the past century in order to
repair the planet and if Warren comes
out tomorrow and says ionization I just
think seizure just seems a little bit
abrupt and the nationalization just
sounds a lot metaphor when the
right-wing got very scared
or they're I guess they're still scared
of it right now that all Trump is gonna
sign this executive order and he's going
to do that which is going to make an
emergency loudly and we're going to
seize land at the border what's going to
prevent a socialist Democrat president
from signing executive order day one
saying well it's an actual climate
emergency as we all know at this point
I'm just go we're going to seize the
assets start with the refineries and
every single energy company are gonna
redirect those resources and I think
that has to happen that would be great
the most fun candidate would be someone
like Tony Blair or Bill Clinton or comma
Harris explaining why the real Third Way
position is seizing all our company's
assets that's what I would do if I ran
for office I would explain that it's a
new
form of a public-private partnership
while I mean exactly well I'm lining
people up against the wall back to the
question of party uh it's really not
totally clear to me I am more skeptical
than some of my more like Orthodox
Trotskyist comrade DSA on the question
of the party right because I think you
know these these are folks who think we
need a Socialist Party we need a
Socialist Party that is also a Labour
Party is not this bizarre cross class
alliance that we have right now in the
democratic party of workers and bosses
you know labor and capital but like
every time we've seen a Socialist Party
succeed at taking power they have
ultimately failed like look at what
happened with syriza in Greece like the
it's everything is just so over
determined by the wider political
economic climate that said I would still
prefer a uniquely did not have the
ability in their position to do much
more exactly but you need but Jeremy
Corbyn has more room to move Bernie
Sanders would have more rooms well we'll
see why but to be fair nothing has
worked yet so I can't totally write it
off but that said all of that said I
would still rather have a socialist
party in the US then the democratic
party that we have now here's but here's
a good counterpoint to that a big reason
why these left electoral movements have
failed is precisely because they even
getting elected on a national level in a
place like Greece or Venezuela does it
give you the actual levers of power that
you need to make fundamental changes to
society and an interesting news story
for the past week is the I believe the
the the British Royal Bank which has
control over Venezuela's gold reserves
is being urged to assign that over the
country's wealth to this insurrectionary
who's calling himself president they are
and they are they are doing that do that
yeah if you're the President of the
United States and you're picking the
chairman of the Federal Reserve you're
picking the head of the World Bank in
the head of the IMF I think you have a
bit more power at that point also
especially within the United States
armed revolution
the point to what I just said again
which is that you know a lot of the time
it's us intervention that is the primary
factor in killing these movements but
like you know we'll see all right let's
I don't want to get too too much into
the weeds with this this next clip but
here is Dave Rubin nice little palate
cleanser exactly he is he is
interviewing Maxime Bernier who is a
Quebec in a Quebec Ian that's French for
max boot that's right he's Quebec Oy
Garry Johnson okay so and who you know I
don't know I watched some videos of him
like he's if the proud boys are up in
Canada he's spoken to him he's that type
of guy right I'm speaking I mean like
he's not funny not yeah but I'm not
speaking literally but he's been he's
been dancing around stuff like this and
so here is on Dave Rubens show and dave
rubin you know it's been tough for him
lately he's he's he's dabbling he's
becoming anti-abortion curious and so
he's going through a transformation
right now because he's starting to
realize like maybe it's not even worth
it for me pretend anymore no we have our
sovereignty as a country and we must be
able to select our immigrants and so
that's coming from the UN so yes you're
right I don't like the UN I think that
they're not so efficient and and I'm
clear about that yeah do you guys have a
strain you know we're seeing in Europe
now where there's nationalist parties
that there does seem to be a strain of
sort of ethno-nationalism or something
that has a different racial kind of
connotation to it do you guys have a
strain as bad in Canada because it seems
to me that I think what's happening and
we're starting to see it here is that if
if the good liberals
and and the good libertarians and the
people who just want to live in level
if they don't start making some advances
against this radical left ISM that's
moving there's gonna be a lot of people
that break in a bad way
yeah and in a weird way I wouldn't be
able to blame them and I think Jill
racism in right yeah yeah but they would
be left with no alternative as they
watch their country yeah crumble do you
have any of that no we don't and it's a
good news but at the end that's why we
must have this discussion yeah and and I
don't fear to have the discussion for
now for those of you who are not
watching those that you are not watching
you're just listening sam harris is
naked and they're licking his body lying
on the coffee table they're looking his
body I just want to say I've always
liked the Rubin report set because it's
like a poly guys living room a single
basketball and a glass cubby yeah you
picture him and he's he's about to pull
out a go sets and care for a game yes
and oriental but I mean this is so so
yeah I I don't even know Dave Rubin here
is like basically saying that the the
sjw's are forcing us to have to be ethno
nationalists in this country I guess and
if we don't have the conversation of
course it'll get worse which is you know
also in a weird way he can't blame them
if they do that yeah he can't I mean he
doesn't have any race in minutes Hart
but he can't blame them because they
have no choice but to become white ethno
nationalists like the soft bigotry of
low expectations that is now starting to
like I can think of personally like you
know a bunch of sort of like different
choice they their maid service are the
different choices you might make like
you know sort of centrist you know
middle-aged crotchety white guys who are
annoyed by like I don't know dumb SJW
whatever and they've they've managed
there they're like you just have not
embraced white nationalism I think is
the
of least resistance to their like minor
irritations about internet controversies
that don't matter or whatever it is that
they like nobody went and like Dave
Rubin it was like you know family guy's
not doing gay jokes anymore I'm gonna
need to join the National Front yeah
exactly I have no choice because
anything is fueling the fires of
reaction worldwide it's this neoliberal
status quo that cannot continue it's not
radical left ism maybe but I still think
that those folks have a different option
even I'm not talking about individual
psychology I'm talking about world
systems yeah I Dave seems to be talking
about the individual psychology I'm
talking about I'm talking about a manual
of Seaworth systems I don't even think
that is an sgw I mean I don't think that
you know turning towards a white
supremacy as an option is is is
necessarily systemic this this system is
already set up that way I'm talking
about it on a totally different level
than him oh well yes I should hope so
too my own horn or anything you answer
that - well that I mean I just think
though what's interesting it's like okay
there's the abortion move in the last
couple of days and now there's this I
feel like and they're gonna launch their
own alternative platform and I feel like
the abortion thing makes me think
there's some type of partnership of
Glenn Beck and works but that also is
good like there and then that but that
also I feel like that Levin and back
maybe you're gonna see like they might
be letting go of the like you know I'm
okay was a great guy that's what I'm
talking about
they might have to make their own
transition to like did some research
that guy's actually a communist
it's not inconceivable but I mean look
they have no choice and they have no
other choice because that's what
what's-her-name
ayaan Hirsi Ali also said about Anders
Breivik on her Scioli literally said in
2011 I believe that Andrews brave Vic I
don't mean this is already way out of
butt
who went and committed some of the
greatest atrocities in our modern era
right he shot like 50 kids point-blank
after bombing city centre after drama
emerges draw emergency there right and
his closing statement in his trial and
I'd this isn't this isn't polemical it
reads like a Breitbart column I mean
just objectively and so a nine her CEO
Lee's big contribution to that
conversation was like well I understand
because Muslims the sjw's won't let us
talk about Mo's right you couldn't say
what he needed to say in Norway so he
needed to leave his mom's house and
commit mass murder well I'm sorry that
Reuben is struggling so much with this
if he was willing to talk to us maybe we
could educate him well it's funny that
you say that because look this can get
very juvenile stuff like this this this
I mean this is this is a little bit
juvenile all right
the apparently somebody set up a
GoFundMe to create a billboard to mock
Dave Rubin that he will not debate me
and it's going to go up in LA apparently
they only needed a thousand dollars they
dropped the amount that they did and
they're just gonna leave it up there
it's gonna be on a digital billboard for
an extended period of time and I think
that comes in the in the there's six
updates now of course this is juvenile
it's also juvenile to say hey let's look
at this clip from TYT the other night
that where they said we're you know just
almost randomly this came up that's also
juvenile and let me show you how
juvenile it's like this yeah exactly
to some degree I have and it's hard some
days but some degrees sympathy for dave
rubin no zero yeah because look he knows
thing he knows do you see what i'm
saying like he knows he's us he sold out
and so like I feel like ben shapiro
sleeps perfectly fine at night he's like
i'm doing a great thing this is
wonderful I'm idealogically cousin right
you know like he keeps denying that he's
a fraud mm-hm but like everyone knows I
watch your show and pretend like they
like it they know you're a fraud you
know like like the fact that he's so
scared to have a conversation with Sam
cedar I love watching it someone paid
$100 in YouTube super chat right to ask
Dave Rubin about Sam cedar like why
won't you debate him and he purposely
phrased the question to make it seem as
though he's on Dave Rubin side like
calling Sam cedar and SJW and so he's
reading this comment out live and then
once he starts realizing that this is a
question about debating Sam cedar you
went don't worry about those guys that
is that don't worry about those like oh
so by the way if you guys are new and
you don't know Dave used to work here
and then he went and like became a
right-winger pretending to be a classic
liberal whatever the that means
right by to some degree large degree by
the Koch brothers foundations etc and
it's just it's a little revolting to
look at and and we know for a fact that
he goes and lies about his time here
right yeah why he left and what his
experience was really what the that
what happened at all right yeah yeah but
sis he I we know for a fact that he
knows that he's lying that's what makes
me think east probably has a little
trouble sleeping at night but maybe I'm
wrong about that yeah I don't know I
think I sleep like a baby I have no
conscience or intellect it's yeah now
obviously that type of stuff is really
immature and beneath us and but I love
being immature with Anna and talking
about Dave Rubin we do that every single
time we do a segment together well I
mean it's interesting but the serious
point about it is of course that it's
very hard for Dave I would imagine to
maintain his
brand proposition of being someone who
wants to expand the the playing field
for conversations and welcomes you know
people who are from the alt-right and
people who deny things like date rape on
to his show but he won't have someone on
who will challenge some of his
assertions about liberalism and and
whatnot and so that's very difficult for
Dave and so he has to transition to
other things and so in that way I want
to say I'm sincerely sympathetic because
it would be very very difficult I think
to try and change your brand midstream
in front of tens of thousands of people
and he's saying that Dave is gonna
become a white nationalist so he doesn't
have to debate you I'm not saying that
but I'm saying that he's going to
probably have to find something new
because who could possibly believe his
whole branding of this of being
intellectually curious under these
circumstances
honestly like they're not gonna be I'm
sure that Barry Weiss who is that New
York Times writer wrote about I'm sure
now she regrets on some level that she
was so hoodwinked by this right so
that's all I'm saying it was really
getting hoodwinked by Dave Rubin I I
imagine she must have been because she
was but she's right golden retriever
well well a lot of people like golden
retrievers I had a yeah don't say that
about golden retrievers that's means a
great dog they're very loyal
never and so cold they don't do any has
bruh being deep platformed this is
interesting here we go so Jeff Stein
from the Washington Post
this morning I confirmed with Booker
Booker's aides that he supports Medicare
for all Bernie Sanders Medicare for all
bill which Booker has co-sponsored would
virtually eliminate private health
insurance in more or less four years
however Matt Weiser who I guess is
and it is a reporter at the Washington
Post
Cory Booker asked if he would be if he
would be in favor of eliminating private
health insurance No so you know stuff
like this makes me feel like the depth
in which they have really invested into
this policy is not so deep right like
that's that's what the tip-off here is
like you can say like I don't know if
you can measure someone's you know
genuineness about these things but you
can't measure the depth in which they
have like spent some time with an issue
and if you don't realize that you've
signed on to co-sponsor a bill that
would eliminate private insurance then I
think your any position you take on this
as suspect well it's a reluctance to
challenge the influence of private
insurers that's what it is
yep you want it everyone's talking about
no Medicare fraud yeah that's good I
support that I want to run for president
that's the thing you say when you have
to run for president in 2020 no and yeah
we're not talking about sort of yeah a
insurance company managed universal care
we're talking about Medicare for all
yeah and they are just the moderate
position frankly between NHS and what we
have and they are not different versions
of the same thing either when they're
like oh there's lots of different ways
we can get to there we can expropriate a
very powerful sector of the economy or
we can do it with tax credits like know
like we know that the tax credits thing
doesn't work because they already tried
it with Obamacare yeah and I think
Bernie would be just fine if he's the
only person on that stage saying yeah we
have to eliminate the private health
insurance companies and we have to rob
them to their ability to dictate policy
it'll be interesting to see how explicit
Warren is when she's asked that question
she's also a co-sponsor of that well if
Warren comes out and she says an in the
spirit of reforming capitalism we need
to also kill insurance companies the
executives that I think that would feed
your speculation he had this exchange
with Joe Weisman to download it
Bloomberg's develop it right now your
vision for Medicare out for all would it
be it would all be a public option or
would it awesome
private insurance so right now there are
multiple wheels on floor the United
States I have signed on to Medicare for
all I've signed on to another one that
gives an option for buying into Medicaid
that's the the Schatz bill from from
Hawaii there are different ways we can
get there but the key has always been to
keep the center of the bullseye in mine
and that is affordable health care for
every American well that's that's not a
great answer it doesn't sound so so
strong actually the best answer was a
comma comma Harris before she reversed
herself right just like like we're gonna
move past that and like insurance
companies know that's done like yes is
incredibly sure its companies are
canceled Yas Queen here is this is good
we're gonna have on Monday we're gonna
have Cory Johnson on he is the speaker
of the of the New York City Council and
he's also acting public advocate and he
spoke out pretty strongly or it sort of
grilled the Amazon of folks which was
nice to see when he came in and now he
he this was another oh this is another
Amazon one this is the same one oh they
did okay here's another hearing and he
you wanted to know why the city is
giving such subsidies to such a wealthy
company we are in favor of the positive
economic impact this project will bring
to the city well the people in Seattle
don't agree with that and how they felt
they've been treated by you all so you
can say that here today before you here
but city council members from Seattle
traveled to New York City to warn us
about your deceptive practices promises
that you make and break and how you
swallow up small businesses how you
attempt to water down local legislation
how you lobby local government municipal
government for your own means so if we
look at what you've done in Seattle it
doesn't add up to what you're doing here
today and you are in a Union City this
is a city that was built by unions a
city that loves unions a city is the
highest per capita of Union jobs in the
I United States and one of the first
answers to your question today is would
you be neutral you said no that is not a
way to come to our city a city where 20%
of people are living at or below the
poverty line it's nice to see somebody
talking to them that way and you know
particularly in light of what we now
know about the Foxconn deal in Wisconsin
it's going to be interesting to see how
much of a I guess a cautionary tale that
is for folks in this city I didn't think
people a lot of people are going to be
running and and positioning themselves
against Amazon kind of makes it awkward
for all the unions that support the
Amazon deal I would imagine they're
gonna have to come to some type of I
don't know deal with them but it's it's
hard you know New York State politics
such a mess in cross current of
transactions it seems to me that but you
know I I think the the key to this is
and these my understanding and and we're
gonna ask Cory Johnson about this my
understanding is that these subsidies
are available to anybody any company
it's just that they're gonna be
hoovering up so much of it that it's it
seems to me is problematic like that
that do we need a such a player with
such concentrated wealth and size any of
it when you think of the synergy of
having that kind of wealth near a large
public housing project that just
imagined Howard Schultz Ian's ideas well
you need it's like one of those those
skyways that they have and in in
Minneapolis right and you could just
folks who would never have to just have
like a commissary right in the middle
and opposite stop off get off keep
walking come back eat go back home just
like that mr. Wasik I'm running for a
third term I don't know I mean I it's
that's a that is a great sort of micro
expression a progress that you know in
2013 when he ran you know a nice enough
liberal campaign and was bold that he
was even just saying there's major
inequality crisis in New York City now
think he's gonna win and people thought
that Chris Cohen was gonna or Christine
Quinn was gonna win who now she works
for Cuomo now and so I mean yeah I if he
gets challenged from somebody saying we
need to do something about say rent
control and we need to kill this Amazon
deal that's great that's a move that's
another good movement
oh it PS the building trades unions that
support this deal are not gonna care I
love them I actually have insurance
through one of them but like no they're
there guys are still gonna get their
Union rates to do all this work and but
you know what we'll see all right let's
go do you need to go to I should I
should get going
I'll see everybody tonight looking
forward to it and elicit history this
weekend on CLR James and identity
politics yesterday Bill Fletcher jr. and
I talked about the anti-austerity
movements in Zimbabwe and Sudan and
there was extended coverage on Venezuela
we're what we're gonna play one more
clip and then we'll get out of here oh
okay all right patreon accomplished EMDs
thanks everybody
Michael doesn't even say goodbye anymore
that's the way he says god that's it's
also the way he answers his telephone
what are you doing tonight you going
bowling there's a Michaels got a show at
the at the Bell House now all right
let's uh let's play this clip from AOC
it's interesting it's you know what is
shocking about this for me is that why
have I been doing this for fifteen years
and I have the first time I'm hearing a
clip of a politician say this in a
hearing it's so it's either yes
we've had bad research team that could
that could possibly be it now we have
great researchers or I've been really
just
my wheels for the better part of really
my adult life so either way it's a
little bit sad in that way but when I
get past the sadness I'm overjoyed to
hear that we have someone sitting in
Congress who's willing to to present
this case which is a fairly obvious case
here's a Aussie asking a doctor if the
public gets any return on investment
from the research which subsidizes all
drug development and I will say this too
you know I got a an email from billa's
onic who we've talked about quite a bit
in the past particularly in the context
of stock buybacks and capital gains
taxes and what that's done to the the
modern corporation in this country and
he had seen the clip about Davos with
the guy from Dell and he said he sent a
couple papers I haven't dug into him
about how much we provided the platform
and the foundation as a society
specifically through our government for
Michael Dell to make all his money in
computing but here is cosmo Cortese
making the same point in the context of
drug drugs would it be correct dr.
Kassel hime to characterize the NIH
money that is being used in in
development and research as an early
investment yes so the public is acting
as an early investor in the production
of these in the production of these
drugs is the public receiving any sort
of direct return on that investment from
the highly profitable drugs that are
developed from that from that research
no in most cases there isn't when those
when those products are eventually
handed off to a for-profit company there
aren't licensing deals that bring money
back into the
of the NIH that usually doesn't happen
so the public is acting as early
investor putting tons of money in the
development of drugs that then become
privatized and then they received no
return on on the investment that they
have made right hmm that seems a little
messed up yeah that's that's how they do
it over there it's apparently the way
you do it you get the the dumb money as
the seed investment and then the way you
you take all the profits public risk for
private profit that in the American Way
that's because then the in the UK they
don't the government doesn't have any
operation to actually manufacture the
pharmaceuticals is that right wait we're
talking this is this is you know from
United States this is the US that came
from the United States so Cortes is not
a member of parliament no I thought she
might have brought a British guy over no
talk about the British system no no that
guy was an American who were yeah there
you go
god it's it's really like I keep
hammering on this because I think it's
so important when we talk about
neoliberalism it's not just free markets
because if you let the free markets be
free they would fail neoliberal
capitalism is a Hugh Hefner viagra boner
of capitalism on life support from
governments who take her around so that
we can have a market but but this isn't
I mean this is not this is the way that
it was structured and built I mean this
isn't a new phenomenon this is not in
fact what we're seeing is socialism it
just ends before our society gets the
benefit right because the support I
think it's perfectly legitimate that we
have a government and it's I think it's
something we want that develops these
drugs and promotes research over right
that's not that's not neoliberalism I
mean that's that's it is to a certain
extent I mean I guess it's more the
classical version right that they were
figuring out it at Mont Pelerin but the
idea is that it's not coming from market
there's no more this is completely there
is an absence of a market at that first
level
and and so this is the the problem here
is is just simply that we're giving away
stuff as a society with I mean it
doesn't take you from the public and
giving a private company indeed indeed
that seems like a thing that happens
more in the neoliberal period well it's
been happening I mean socializing the
the risk in privatizing the the profits
has been going on really I mean there's
these since the founding of this country
I mean we did it in the context of the
the I can't remember that book about why
we have a standing military and to what
was the odd it was that was autumn of
the black snake and uh during the
revolution for instance their mythology
of the minute man who just had his rifle
was played up a lot for popular effect
because cannons which were the big
decisive thing were state required state
investment so even back then they were
aware of like we need to boost the more
independent sort of entrepreneurial
thing and not the state right I mean
this is this is this is I think like a
deeper this is deeper than the the idea
of neoliberalism what it is is it is a
way of of shrouding and creating some
type of narrative that markets are not a
function of the state they are they
exist because of the state currency is a
function of the state your money you
know they say it's not it's not the
government's money yeah actually it is
the government's money it's not your
money you can have it in the bank but
you're just renting it from the
government and you're renting it for the
cost of your taxes is basically when it
comes down to and so there's a this is
just part and parcel of a fundamental
misunderstanding of how just about
everything that we have as a society is
is is generated and established and then
you know people get to walk away with
the credit and the credit in the form of
often in times of of just like huge
it's and you know whether it's Michael
Dell or Howard Schultz or whatever it is
I mean Howard Schultz is whatever
everything that built his company was
was undergirded and underwritten by our
taxes
I will admit I maybe just wanted to use
the phrase Hugh Hefner viagra boner
because I'm very proud of myself for
coming up with it but it certainly seems
like this process has accelerated during
this phase of capitalism that the the
boners are getting the viagra is even
bigger more and more Viagra if we didn't
have a free market how could one
visionary go to Italy and see something
and think oh I can just do this in back
at home in the United States what know
which job Howard Schultz Oh going to uh
he writes about that is book I got the
idea for Starbucks
you literally go sale you know they're
drinking coffee you know in a nice
setting he steals their intellectual
property basically yeah so let's make
this totally corporatized and put all of
those small coffee shops out of business
heavily subsidized those coffees those
coffees in Italy - I thought you were
gonna say he copied Berlusconi maybe
yeah we also had this book these guys on
for this book if you remember American
amnesia how the war on government led us
to forget what made America prosper and
that goes into sort of especially
technology and how much of that was
basically World War 2 era yeah
investment I forgot about that but
having that book on and appropriately so
as it is about America amnesia but you
know even even if and you know we can
agree on that you know how much of the
modern world is built just through
public investment I wouldn't discount
the fact that there is a great deal of
private investment that is driven by the
profit motive and markets and so on I
just don't think there has to be for
whatever pharmaceutical breakthroughs of
private pharmaceutical capital can just
be public breakthroughs they can be used
you can use public capital for that
right we have no doubt but that's a
function of just
we've decided to make it one thing as
opposed to another yeah and it doesn't
and in I think the evidence that
government can be just as effective at
this is that because it's laid the
foundation for so many so much of that
and you can also just look at the
numbers right I mean there's an X amount
of dollars that are in research and
develop and I would also argue that it
can be made better because the the
number of of medicines and just broadly
speaking devices that would increase our
health that are simply not profitable to
pursue yeah that's you know I think it's
extraordinary I mean I just think you
know the lime the lime vaccine is just a
you know one that always crops up
because having lived in an area where
there's a tremendous amount of lime
there was a lime vaccine in the the 70s
there was maybe the 80s or you are
people with rarer and more difficult to
treat conditions or you know you have a
situation where someone has a condition
that requires a lot of expensive
medications or to stay alive there's no
motive to break that up that's why we
have a VA we have a VA because there are
unique injuries that come with having a
people who you send in to war and the
private sector cannot cannot deal with
that because it's just not profitable
enough but you know in the United States
billions of decent people raise money to
help find cures for various cancers at
rare conditions and so on often through
these shady charities and isn't that
just a profound market failure that that
is the way we have to finance finding a
cure not to mention it doesn't matter
what kind of drugs you have if you can't
afford to buy them on the market like we
saw what happened with Martin shkreli
everyone hated him for jacking up the
price of this life-saving drug but like
that is what the kind of behavior that
is incentivized by this system like it
doesn't make any sense
on a human level well on that note I
think I want to say virtual Texas thank
you so much for coming by it was always
good to have you here people should go
out and get your book even though you
didn't you didn't bring it with you
today I did bring one you did bring why
are you hiding it I understand were
there I'm here all right can I do
another plug of course tune in to this
Sunday during the big game for the
chapel traphouse counter Super Bowl
halftime show
really yes smart counter programming yes
because it's like what does it maroon 5
or some crap like that I have no idea
it's gonna be dog don't watch that
watch our show which is gonna be bigger
and it's going to have bigger stars and
bigger special effects it's gonna knock
your socks off and after that we'll be
streaming our coverage of the big game
oh so you're gonna be you're gonna be
covering the game - we'll be covering
the second half yeah interesting in the
counter power if you will where can
people on the chapo trap house twitch
stream twitch.tv/esa pole trap house and
so let me ask you this how do you do
that would they not take it down why
does it work like I don't think they're
gonna be oh we're not showing the game
okay okay you can watch the game on like
a television set in your room we assume
you have that covered having DIY
personal responses
doing like the play-by-play yes yeah so
have a special guests phoning in phoning
in it
yep phony and also in studio in studio
okay Shawn and I are gonna be there I
didn't know much about football so this
is like this happened when I was a kid
you would you'd watch the Celtics and
then you'd listen to Johnny most on the
radio it's like people who all just look
like like I thought there would be some
recognition of what I said but it was
Johnny most was the inspiration
you just look so good for your age Sam
that sometimes we forget you're like a
million years old that's right I'm just
looking around just going oh my god
no one there's probably very few people
alive mad also we also grew up listening
to Johnny most in the old transistor
radio thank you well thank you for not
saying tube radio folks just a reminder
this show relies on the support of its
members it's a freebie Friday so enjoy
but this has been somewhat of a taste of
what you can get and tonight well if you
I think there's some tickets left for
the Michael Brooks show which is at the
Bell House check it out I'll be there
Matt will be there
I intend to to be there unless something
even remotely vaguely interesting shows
up and between now and it of course and
Jamie this week's anti Fattah oh yeah so
I really like the episode that we put
out this week with Leslie three Leslie
we the third of struggle session which
is an awesome podcast everyone should
check out if for some reason they have
it yet they talk about pop culture from
a leftist perspective so we talked about
The Handmaid's Tale and what it means to
resistance lives and why it's so
terrible and why so much resistance are
including SNL is also terrible in this
day and age and then we talk about the
purge movies which is like just like a
breath of fresh air for anyone who wants
to watch a drug dealer in the projects
and all of his community just Merc these
uh white nationalist Nazis that they
sent to kill them host of the Seven
Gables on literary hangover that's the
newest episode check it out alright
folks see you on Monday
on Monday
Oh God
here we go
[Music]
it mats it goes to get
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
I could see where the choice is made so
the option where you don't get paid
[Music]
their fans
brakes
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
