one of the theories floating around out
there that I think makes the most sense
is that the Republican Party one of the
thing that binds them together
regardless of what their class position
is or whether they've been college
educator non-college educated I want to
say what race they are but I mean we
know when we're talking about
Republicans at least nine out of ten of
them are gonna be white people the one
thing that binds them together is a
disdain for immigrants and we know it's
not just undocumented immigrants because
we see the Trump administration going
after people who are here legally and
not just you know citizens but people
here because their country suffered an
earthquake or a civil war and we have
allowed them in for an extended period
of time and they have made homes here
and they have made friends here and had
kids here etc etc same of course with
the daca kids but I think it's a very
rational thing to assume this is what's
gonna bind the Republican Party together
now let's talk about what's binding the
Democratic Party together we have a
couple of different sort of like little
dramas going on one is about a month or
two ago
Elano Maher was attacked by the right
but then some figures on the left I'm
thinking Chuck Schumer Steny Hoyer they
go to AIPAC they open the door to some
of these right-wing attacks if you ask
my opinion of it as a Jew I listen to
what Ilan Omar saying she was talking
specifically about the requirement in 26
states across the country that if you do
business with the state if your state
contractor if you're providing speech
therapy in a classroom for kids if
you're building a highway or whatnot
you've got to sign a pledge to not be
involved with the boycott and
divestitures movement against israel now
you don't have to agree with that to
know that like hey you don't have to
agree with the with a protest against
israel to know that the idea that a
state would require you to sign a pledge
that you're not going to protest a
specific country seems bizarre to me
and when Alana Mara was talking about
this there was a Marco Rubio had
sponsored a federal bill to do the same
thing it was bizarre and so when she
talked about I don't have to pledge
allegiance to another country that was
twisted into some accusation that she
was saying that the Jewish people had a
dual allegiance to to America which of
course is an anti-semitic trope but
that's not what she said she was talking
about something very concrete and real
that I don't think most people realize
exist but Steny Hoyer Chuck Schumer they
go to AIPAC they sort of like enhance
these uh the this false smear against
her Nancy Pelosi tries to have a
resolution to that ostensibly was aimed
towards her ostensibly to condemn so uh
anti-semitism there was enough pushback
that that didn't happen but it opened
this door where you know Donald Trump is
attacking her it's it's a I think a a
three-fer for him a woman a woman of
color a former immigrant I mean it's all
it's all there
and Muslim so for fur if you will so we
have that little playlet going on we
have this thing where Bernie Sanders and
the Center for American Progress are
going at each other based upon a video
that was put out by Think Progress
ostensibly not you know independently or
you know editorially independent from
Center for American Progress smearing or
attempting to smear Sanders in some way
or you know sort of very ham-fisted not
terribly nuanced criticism which you
would not expect from the left it was
sort of akin to how can you be for poor
people when you have an iPhone type of
thing and and then we also have Nancy
Pelosi her chief advisors going around
saying no Medicare for all and she's
sort of like pooh-poohing some of the
most popular Democrats in the country
you know I'm talking about
AOC and Katie Porter and Alana Marge
there's only five of them says in talib
what do you make of all this I mean is
this
this just like classic Democratic you
know infighting or is there are we at a
point where you know there's something
something something different I don't
know if it's going to end up being
something different but it's not
surprising to me that this is happening
it's a big coalition now you know
whenever you have you know a majority
and it's a pretty good sized majority in
the house which is the most
representative body you know
there's a big coalition there there
there are new Dems and Blue Dogs there
are there are the you know the
progressive wing there's the the
establishment leadership and all of
these things you know these people are
people are jockeying for power within
that coalition and it's normal and in
fact it's pretty healthy that you have
that I mean I don't see any any you know
anything particularly wrong with that
and we're going into a presidential
election where all those factions are
also playing out in the in the
presidential and when you talk about I
mean I think the Sanders Center for
American Progress flap is probably the
best sort of example of how that part of
it is playing out the jockeying for
power both sides and Sanders is running
for president he's running hard I mean I
think he definitely wants to win and he
understands that he has a very powerful
bit of leverage with this very you know
excited and devoted following that he
has it's a lot of people within the
Democratic Party you know it's not a
majority but it's a very strong faction
and it's a very dedicated faction and he
will have more than enough money to run
and he will also add you know they're
very vocal and active so I mean this is
the he's using that you know in fact
when he he responded to the cap the
Center for American Progress video which
was the the origin of this particular
argument and it was a video that was
critical of him for you know NOT saying
that the word millionaire anymore he
said only his billionaires because he is
a million it was a ridiculous video
completely absurd never should have been
done but it was a fairly petty saying
but but Sanders I think in his people
not doing his strategist I think
understood
this was a moment that he could leverage
very very successfully against the
political establishment he's running as
an outsider and so they went for it and
they're raising money off of it and
they've made a very you know they did
cap near Camden the head of Center for
American Progress he apologized or
distanced herself in any way any way
from the whole thing but nonetheless I
think there's a very that is a strategic
decision on Sanders part you know you
work the refs you use the leverage that
you have and you know this is a way of
kind of tamping down a certain kind of
criticism and also just showing hey you
know don't mess with me
I got no I've got some strength here and
I'm going to use it so I think that that
was a strategic decision on his part as
for the Elan Omar thing this is a
combination in my view of you know just
rank cowardice on the part of the
Democrats and unwillingness to see this
for what it is and it's just straight
off you know racist you know demagoguery
as far as I'm concerned and especially
once the president took it up and he's
basically yeah her unpatriotic I mean
and the fact that the Democrats haven't
taken the bull by the horns on that it
just it's kind of it's crazy to me
all right we gonna take a break let's
talk more about that when we come back
and let's talk about how health care is
implicated in this I also want to just
touch on the Bernie Sanders town hall on
Fox and the prospect of other Democrats
now who have all announced that they're
going on to Fox and and what the
implications are of that we got to take
a quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
I'm talking to the great Digby we'll be
right back
