oh there's a much better model sim than
single-payer medicare-for-all if you're
looking for a transitional service that
works better look at the Singapore model
for health care it's a much much more
robust model it works better across the
income spectrum it incorporates some
market scraps as forces risk a 50 net
price caps price caps and heavily
regulated yeah well Singapore the thing
is everybody has a health savings
account that ice caps for their life and
there's a mandatory amount of
withholding are you okay Nicholas dollar
chairman of the Libertarian Party with
price controls issued by the government
I am NOT well wait a second you're
proposing Singapore's model no I'm what
I said was if you are looking for
something better than what we have a
Singaporean model would be much better
than Medicare for all because you still
have people who receive services paying
something out of their own pocket which
makes them conscious of cost
that's what increases quality I mean you
want to look at it not be the case right
wait a second you just complained to me
about co-pays we do with the affordable
care health a as I complain to you about
deductibles a year well but is it a good
any service but wouldn't that make it
wouldn't that make it make your you as a
patient as a consumer more sensitive to
creating better quality no no when you
have it deductible that that that's that
large you actually create weird perverse
incentives to stack your health care
into one year so you have people putting
off care that they should get that would
cost them less because they want to you
know have their surgery and get Johnny's
teeth fixed and do everything in the
same year so they might actually hit
their damn deductible so the incentives
get perverted you know the if you look
at look at laser eye surgery Sam it's
not covered by any with you guys at
laser
what's his fun the prices went down and
the quality went up is exactly the
opposite of every other part of health
care it was because I got a model out of
technology that also happens with
stereos - I mean that is but it happens
with MRIs but those prices go up there
technology is getting better but because
it's an insurance model and because the
government is involved in setting the
prices through that same pricing we we
set prices where we get medicaid all set
prices now only sets prices knowing that
the guidelines for reimbursement care
right with with the AMA so it's
basically you have a cartel of doctors
you have a government agency what makes
you think that we're not gonna have a
cartel of ordinary Singapore the
Singaporean everything they regulate
sorry didn't I think that makes you
think we're not going to have a cartel
of doctors with the Singapore model
because the reason that the cartel is
less effective with a Singapore model is
as long as the first dollar is the
consumer is paying is an out-of-pocket
dollar they're going to be looking at
quality of service compared to price
they're going to be making the decisions
that you make when you go to Costco
about do I buy the cheap stuff or the
medium stuff or the expensive stuff I'm
just curious
I'm just curious back what is it that
we're buying at Costco I just want to
actually get a real-world sense of this
so I'm looking at the Cheerios at Costco
versus should I get some sort of organic
you know whole-grain whatever it is okay
and you make the choice of you want
cheaper calories or better calories okay
your money fair enough now when I go
into the doctor whatever when I go into
the doctor and they say well we can do
this type of radical surgery we can do
the Lapras callosotomy or we can use
radial surgery now how do I make that
assessment I mean I come on any other
I mean if you look let's go back to the
eye surgery
you know there's radial keratotomy
there's lasik there's you know some new
stuff with these little flaps that they
can change out where it's like a contact
lens inside your eyeball and you decide
between the you know you do the research
and you decide what's best for you okay
so I've got to learn about different
surgeries and not just eye LASIK I mean
that's gonna take me a while but if I
you know god forbid I get something that
I don't have I have to crunch crunch
time I'm like what's the best way to
treat this spreading cancer or something
I guess I get it read into that a little
bit more to figure it you talk to your
doctor about it I mean that's that is
how how do I know if my daughter's the
organic or the other type of Cheerios or
whatever it is uh well one of the ways
that people have been using now with the
advent of social networks and you know
better technology is they have services
like Yelp for doctors or medical
providers where you can say this doctor
sucks this doctor is great this doctor
had good outcomes this doctor had bad
ones the one that people would really
help but the doctors fight against is
actual published pricing for what
procedures cost there's a differential
of hundreds of percent percentage points
in the same geographic area for say an
MRI you don't know what the MRA are for
MRI provider charges and they work real
hard to make sure you can't comparison
shop that's how you get doubt now so on
the Singapore model if we were to adopt
this you'd be okay with everything that
comes with that right which is the price
controls with the taxes I didn't say I
it's not it's not my preferred policy I
see it's just better it is objectively
better than the policy that you're
suggesting because you still have a
consumer interest in getting good
quality care at a Eddy what is
considered to be a fair or good price
because it's their money upfront
and then singapore puts a safety net for
catastrophic care you handle you know
the the grave disease knowing that
you're not going to die penniless but
you have to spend your money first so
that for the normal routine things in
life you're you're discouraged you're
valuing your money you're valuing it as
your money not someone else's I'll tell
you a link
I think you would agree no you were more
careful with your money than someone
else's is that fair I when it comes to
when it comes to medicine I never know
what to do I'm spending your money then
someone else I never spend other
people's money nobody gives me that
opportunity but when it comes to
medicine I don't know I don't know it I
I mean when I went in for my colonoscopy
its it took me like three weeks to
figure out like what the gak was going
on just with the anesthesia to be honest
me so I found it to be very horrific I
will say this yeah there I like the idea
that I like the idea I feel like we see
this is why I think I have a chance to
win in the race because I've gotten you
to suggest to me a system that has price
controls that has more aggressive
taxation than we have in this country
also they have a system of what they
call government-run clinics so it's
actually yeah NHS but so be almost a VA
for civilians get really sick
oh then here I'm slower they end less
they spend less the government in
Singapore spends less than our
government spends and they get better
outcomes they only have 20 percent of
their population uses private hospitals
80 percent use subsidized hospitals by
the government I mean all this I feel
like I'm making some headway here but
let's let's not let's go from
mayor single-payer Singapore plan I
think maybe there's if we could get all
the things that come with that it really
is I would be I would be open I would be
open to it but it would so here's here's
the real problem with health policy in
this country and this is just real talk
when you try and create a policy that
solves a hundred percent of the
potential healthcare problems the policy
will be bad if you create a policy that
solves 90 to 95 percent of the
healthcare problems the policy will be
much better
the problem with Obamacare and the ACA
was these mandates to make insurance
cover all sorts of stuff in all
situations to not allow people who are
young and unlikely to need that kind of
care to buy different different packages
and solving for you know the the
life-threatening rare illness that cost
millions of dollars in treatment when
you solve for those edge cases the
overall solution gets worse but but it
exhaust for eighty to ninety percent
Nicholas you can design a solution that
works really well for most people
Nicholas I have two questions to ask you
to assess how well how much you've
thought about that statement okay where
does 80 percent of the cost of our
health care system come from what
percentage of the population I don't
know that answer you want to guess I I
don't want to guess I don't blame you
because they like that tape I feel like
they take longer than you just tell me
it you're not answering and me talking
about this also took longer but it
actually comes from 20 percent of our
patients so when you talk about trying
to aim 80 to 90 percent of solutions
you're basically missing the most
expensive people that's the tricky part
about health care yeah 80% costs of
health care no no I tried 20% of the
people then let me ask you one more
question how many people were in
created by the Affordable Care Act put
aside Medicaid right the Medicaid
expansion that some states did not do
some that did but in terms of the actual
number of people who were subject to
changing their insurance because of the
Affordable Care Act how many as I recall
I want to say it was somewhere between
20 and 30 million sorry a little bit
less a little bit less but but a little
bit closer to close enough it's close to
10 million and ok and so we talked about
the implications of the Affordable Care
Act really the only thing that impact
we're all buddy
that's a bait and switch though Sam that
that is not fair because while that
number of people who had to change their
insurance is a small number no no no
they didn't have to change it or any
plans but already existed did not
continue to exist and that affected a
much larger pool of American but yeah
that's like complaining that's like
saying hey this whole lemon law thing
with cars for instance you can't sell
bad cars that you know you know the less
you know what a lemon law is right yeah
for a new vehicle if you take it for
three repairs and it isn't successfully
repaired the dealer has to take it back
and refund your money if there's
something fundamentally flawed with the
car it's not ready it's not you can't
it's not a sale well that's basically
what
yeah the ACA did it said if you can't if
you if you have lifetime caps if you
have yearly caps if you can be denied
claims because of this if you can be
denied claims because if you can be
denied insurance because you're not
because you have some type of
pre-existing condition it's not really
health insurance and so you can't charge
for it it's basically a lemon bro it's
just you can't be denied for a
pre-existing condition the thing that
you're being sold isn't insurance
insurance is pooling risk if you know
that somebody has a pre-existing
condition you're not sowing
them insurance you're selling them a
chronic care plan exactly and that's a
different thing
I think it's a different product and I
think what we've gotten so there's no
way to make money on that product
exactly exactly
we have hit we have we have found the
fundamental flaw with the existence of
the health insurance industry it is not
yeah back in the 50s
yes it was in his death in with with
wartime price controls that made it tax
deductible for your employer to give
money to an insurance company on your
behalf but not tax deductible for you to
just give money to your doctor there was
we screwed this whole thing up high
government design I agree with you that
wasn't just government design that did
it I've done literally numerous
interviews with historians on this but
be that as it a wage and price control
yes maybe that is insurance or the
benefit yeah sure they not we have come
to the conclusion that the health
insurance industry is not a real
business because if the idea is that we
want to make sure that everyone has has
access actual access not a function of
their wealth but actual access to to
health care everyone
Universal then the health insurance
industry is not the way to do this
anyway anything a pie is not the way to
universality University is giving things
out for free
exactly free isn't free well we have to
pay for free right we can't act free
actually cost quite a bit we can tax
well in this instance we know we you
know we have actually libertarian think
tanks that have done the numbers and the
difference between the cost of
single-payer to society versus the cost
of the system we have now to society is
according to the Mercatus is that how
you say that
we're Cadence's Mercatus institute is
actually like two to three trillion
dollars less over the course of of ten
years
well this goes back to milton friedman's
paper for Hoover from the early 90s
where he pointed out that both
single-payer systems worldwide and
completely free market systems like Hong
Kong had both produced better health
outcomes at lower cost on a per patient
basis that our mixed system of
government provided health care plans
running next to private health insurance
plans that our system is our system is
the worst possible system and yet you
know we continue to do it because people
don't get down to the fundamental
distortion that was put in when they put
the tax benefits on health insurance
which is it is cheaper for me to give
money to my employer to give money to a
health insurance company to give money
to a doctor then for me to give money
directly to a doctor and eliminate those
other two people right that's the
distortion that makes health care so
expensive in the United States I mean
that is one of them in some of the
research has shown that actually it's
it's a function of I don't know if
you've ever read that I total go on day
a piece I think it was in The New Yorker
about 10 15 years ago about a checklist
manifesto about the tune of the two
cities in Texas one of them I can't
remember what they two were but they
showed that even Medicare billing was
higher 20 or 30% higher and one than the
other same health outcomes same
demographics it was a function of
doctors owning their own equipment and
basically using it when it wasn't
necessary now a single-payer system will
deal with that because it will it will
it will look at data across the spectrum
of 300 million people being treated and
no it is more effective than others that
that's not correct based exactly on the
Gawande piece you just mentioned that is
a single-payer system obviously with a
smaller market but if two medicare
cities can build different amounts of
money there the single there's nothing
special about having the government do
something that changes any of
the human behavioral incentives so if
some if doctors are gonna try and
defraud the system they're gonna try and
defraud a health insurance company or
they're gonna try and defraud Medicare
the government people aren't any smarter
or nicer or better trained than the
people who work it for the health
insurance companies in detecting this
kind of fraud right that the you have to
separate who does something and whether
it's government provision or there's a
market system from the question of how
humans behave with each other which is
more fundamental than that does that
make sense I mean I think so okay yeah
but I think so we're we're I mean I feel
like you're and we're in somewhat you
can try and pitch it I mean I'll tell
you that I think that you do better if
you're really trying to seek the
nomination with maybe not leading with
the places you don't agree with the
party on and maybe going with you know
the places you do agree with the party
on but you know you human frailty I
think that may be a problem
psychologically I have is that I like to
lead with that
