[Music]
come from a six one seven area code
who's this where are you calling from
my guess is Massachusetts actually this
is mica from Seattle I'm from
Massachusetts originally we're in
Massachusetts were you from originally
I'm not concerned about Seattle Newton
all right fair enough but you go to
Newton Newton South I'm new and I went
to that Newton South all right easy
times I'm calling
yeah they look ran Euler for a second
about a regional issue so as I mentioned
from Seattle
there's a profound risk of earthquakes
in the region there's a fault that runs
east-west through Seattle that has
caused numerous earthquakes in the 20th
century
last one in 2001 and offshore there's a
far greater chance or far greater
Schmeichel far greater magnitude
earthquake in a subduction zone that
will be absolutely devastating I'm an
equivalent earthquake happens in about
you that assuming 2010 in Japan that
flooded the reactor in Fukushima I'm not
cause all those eighteen thousand
casualties and 250 plus billion dollars
of damage that is in the most earthquake
prepared country RS Washington State is
a very little to reinforce the
building's Building Code FEMA estimates
when the subduction zone quake hits more
than 1 million structures will be
compromised or glass and it's projected
to be the largest natural disaster in
North American history by far and
there's just there's a really good a
series in the Seattle Times called
seismic neglect about how little is
being done and it's frankly terrifying
good thing you guys are building that
huge tunnel that's half built underneath
the city yeah that's opening up at a few
weeks actually oh is it
yep it will
I think it's January 11th we'll start
transferring over well yeah I guess I'd
like to make a larger point sort of
about our failure of our politics sort
of as a nation and even sort of as a
species to prepare for these sort of
events that we know we're going to
happen but they may happen today
tomorrow hundred years from now in
addition to you know sort of the issue
of climate change things that we know
we're gonna happen but we just don't do
anything about it and it's gonna be bad
and I guess it's just it's hard enough
to be pretty pretty worried pretty upset
about mean that is also it seems to me a
very strong case for you know effective
government because we know we now have a
corporate structure in this country
which completely disincentivizes
completely disincentivizes any of
corporate leadership to plan for the
future right I mean maybe smaller
privately owned corporations some of
them but but the most part it's you get
your cash quick and dirty you you you
cut you don't spend money on on planning
for the future you you you use that
money to create a profit margin that you
can exploit now and increase your stock
price and there is a problem with just
you know broadly speaking human beings
have trouble you know planning for the
future I think just broadly speaking you
need to have a forward-looking
government to do this and you know
sometimes that that fails like you know
we under fund pensions to some extent I
mean I think that's overstated about
under funding pensions it's really only
becomes underfunded when you have like a
major catastrophic event like a 2008
crisis or something like that but
broadly speaking we fund those pensions
you know state by state I think you know
it takes a collective to be able to make
those type of of plans and
but we have a breakdown in that right
now we can't even do it for what we know
is gonna be just broadly speaking the
biggest catastrophe we can imagine but
if I was in Seattle the first thing I
would do is to say to say to Amazon and
Microsoft like hey guys I would put it
on them I would put it on them you could
up your taxes so we can pay for this but
yeah real quick about the I guess I'm
sort of thinking about the interview did
recently about the Pentagon budget of
how you can't even do an audit of the
budget of how much you know money is
being wasted in defense and meanwhile we
have profound issues at home that are go
on address yeah I guess the last boy
I'll say about the earthquake earthquake
subject is the people who are most
likely going to get hit the hardest you
know are people of low socioeconomics s
these dangerous buildings that haven't
been updated in a hundred years you know
they're gonna be they're gonna be hurt
the worst um so it hits the people on
the bottom the hardest as usual thanks
for the call Michael alright take Africa
maybe the dude next time you leave
Massachusetts you think twice about it
because there's no earthquakes there
yeah oh I know where I'll go I'll leave
the best state in the entire Union to go
to a quake zone
