[Music]
Tom Holman is the former ice director
who was going around saying all sorts of
horrible crap about I can't even
remember now what it was but he's on
laura ingraham show I think he's taking
a quick break from maligning Brown
people and basically speaking out
against California wanting to ban
private prisons and or in private ice
detention centers so he's still
maligning brown people right of course
he's just not doing it explicitly
because I this is what I want to ask
people with find out which board of
directors he sits on of which private
prison company I mean I think it's like
there's or who is lobbying for but
whatever it is there's the idea that
this guy is not making any money from a
private prison complex very possible
highly unlikely and I would include in
that also like food services or whatever
it is that he's you know like we sell a
tasers to private prisons or whatever it
is well it's in the PR wing of private
prison industry for Fox News as a Fox
News contributor indeed but here he is
basically spreading and this is there's
so much data on the inefficiency of
private prisons that it's it's stunning
I mean it's really one of the most and
like all this work was done five or six
years ago but here he is some news
remember he's part of the United States
California's in the United States
there's a SIL Tom really he's supposed
to be in look he always spent less time
in El Salvador trying to talk more
people to come this country illegally
and take care of the homeless problem he
has in California and we many times been
in California how many how many homeless
veterans on the streets of California
yeah he's running down El Salvador to
try to get more illegally on its come
anyone saw da nice facilities but US
citizens out of work
he says he's to do it for the immigrant
community again let me be frank on this
this will damage the immigrant community
they don't want to leave the state they
don't want either families they
certainly don't want to go to college in
Louisiana or Texas our facilities are
great a heist attention Staters and
Industry anybody go to ice-sub website
look at the detention standards heissen
industry most deaths in custody of any
state a penalty so whether they're
for-profit or not-for-profit or they're
run by the government high standards
high standards and no just take one
second and contemplate who are in ice
detention facilities versus who are in
federal and state prisons and then ask
yourself is that really a big
achievement lowest number of deaths we
have you're putting people who have not
broken the law in any way certainly not
violent offenders into it mean families
into these detention centers and you're
bragging that we have fewer deaths then
in places where we have like people who
are there for murder or for assault or
nice of him to recognize the southern
prisons being especially bad that's
pretty woke yep
but continue but or not for profit or
they're run by the government high
standards high standards and highs in
the industry and plus the private sector
does things better than the government
the most expensive price has the most
expensive best ice has are the ones we
own we don't do it very well the
government the contractors they do this
for living their credit in the profit
yeah we're gonna shut down the
profit-making and we're gonna stop
profiting off of kidnapping children and
imprisoning people in a money-making
capacity haha the way that August 18th
2016 the Justice Department announces
that they plan to end the use of private
prisons because officials concluded the
facilities are both
safe and less effective at providing
correctional services than those run by
the government the idea that you can
have a business that sets aside a
certain amount of its resources for
profit and it be less expensive begs the
question is to like what's going on at
those prisons that you're able to both
set aside money for profit
and make them more cost-effective well
from their point of view it's a
win-win-win because they don't view
prisoners as people and if they get to
believe them dry for the commissary or
whatever and make profit off it that's a
added bonus there you go
