[Music]
now look that woman on the a from the AI
e han Meet the Press obviously either
not terribly bright or just assumes that
the rest of us aren't and it's probably
the latter
she's probably smart enough to know what
she's saying is all a bunch of lies and
the OP specification obfuscation thank
you she's probably better at enunciated
than I am nevertheless she's full of
wheat gruel so you're probably thinking
like who me it's christine Todd Whitman
apollo christine todd woman yes exactly
meg whitman we ran in california so we
heard from the woman from a aie who was
trying to sell us on the notion that
she's not a scientist so she can't
possibly say what causes global warming
she's a nothing the scientists who
conceive now that there is global
warming I don't know where she heard
that from probably scientists but she's
not enough of a scientist to agree with
the scientists that it is a function of
what humanity is doing to our planet and
she's not enough of a scientist to
accept that scientists are saying there
are certain things that we can do to
impact global climate change so she's
probably pretending to be somewhat dim
on this which leads us to the next
question is Mike Lee Senator Mike Lee
pretending to be so dim on this here he
is on Meet the Press making well I don't
know what kind of argument about global
climate change
final question I'm curious your reaction
to the climate report this is from the
federal government Congress you guys
ordered the federal government to do
this and let me give you read you one of
the conclusions with continued growth in
emissions at historic rates annual
losses and some economic sectors are
projected to reach hundreds of billions
of dollars by the end of the century
more than the current gross domestic
product of many US states essential
this document isn't just painting a
picture of an environmental catastrophe
that's coming but an economic
catastrophe what are you going to do
about it in the US Congress senator well
first of all I look forward to digging
into the report and listening to what
other experts on the outside have to say
about it I think it's important anytime
we take a report like that to examine
what public policies they might have in
mind what public policies that could be
brought forward that would address the
problem they're addressing without
simultaneously devastating the US
economy there's no point in that for a
variety of reasons and regardless of
where one stands on the issue of climate
change that the burning of fossil fuels
does emit into the environment a number
of things that aren't the healthy and we
put a price on carbon are you open to a
carbon tax are you open to a carbon tax
no no no I'm not at all the proposals
I've seen so far that would address any
of these issues would devastate the US
economy and have little or no benefit
that is demonstrable from our standpoint
and so I I have yet to see a proposal
that would bring this about I think if
we're going to move away from fossil
fuels that's got to be done through
innovation and innovation can be choked
out through excessive government relate
regulation we can't let that happen
all right Senator Mike Lee so so the US
government is choking the innovation to
come up with alternative energy sources
like maybe there what are they giving
too many loans to solar companies
there's a guy who seemingly completely
unprepared to answer that question
couldn't even come up with his own
talking points about that pretty
stunning I think especially when we talk
about energy it's great to remind
ourselves that there's nothing in
innately positive about innovation right
like company like Exxon is incredibly
innovative at finding new ways of
getting to further sort of look harder
and harder to reach oil deposits as an
example like part of Asian well and part
of that is also just the cost
of oil going up it's so no but as the
price of oil goes up a lot of things
open have become much more viable well
that's yes our innovative literally in
the way that people use these terms as
like some innate positive process of
like scientifically minded capable
people finding new ways to do things
that are difficult it doesn't mean
that's translated to more efficient
energy or getting us off of oil it
doesn't mean anything
well yeah I don't think Mike Lee is
interested in getting right oil any
worse thought I mean I think broadly
speaking the know Michael he's super
concerned yeah he's very concerned it's
ready to dig into that report yeah he's
ready to dig into that way to dig into
this it was funny before he got to his
full spin like midway through an
interview it's almost like it almost was
the like college didn't do your work
presentation really and with that all
concluded I will be happy to take your
questions he was totally that airy
definitely a report and it was clearly
put out by the federal government and so
concludes aah and I'm not just gonna
read that report I'm gonna get some
other reports of my own just from
holistic Port I want to really take this
in both sky level but also in the
details thank you reports are super
important which is why you will see them
reported so I've looked at that let's go
to the phones calling from a two
