one of the big stories that seems to be
emanating out of the house and to a
certain extent even the Trump
administration is a growing awareness of
the monopolies and the problems of the
monopolies of some of the giant tech
companies now this is and I know you
make this point quite a bit in in in
just your story selection and what
you're writing and you've we and I have
talked about this the that there's a
whole host of other problems in terms of
monopolies in other industries Tech is
sort of the shining a shiny object so I
want to talk about that with you because
you have a great piece about
investigations that have should have
started seven years ago but before we
get there you know it's almost like
we're putting out and we're it's we the
the problem let's put it this way is not
static the the we are not dealing with
the problem of the size of Google the
size of Facebook the size of Amazon all
with various different implications but
while we're not dealing with the problem
the problem is also getting worse and
that I find this story terrifying that
Facebook this week has unveiled a plan
to create what they're calling an
alternative financial system it's a
cryptocurrency and I will you explain to
folks what that even means yeah I mean
it's you know you read there they're
sort of white paper on this and you come
away with far more questions than
answers but to the best of my ability I
will try there is going to be this
currency called Libre there are a
consortium of organizations that are
sort of backing the start up of this
currency by putting up ten million
dollars they hope for a hundred
companies so that's a billion dollars to
sort of seed
you as a consumer will give Libra ten
bucks and you'll get eight Libra I mean
I don't know what the exchange rates
going to be this Libra will be backed by
the seed money as well as the money you
pay in as reserves so much like the
Federal Reserve actually backs dollars
there will be this thing of value that's
backing the Libra and that makes it more
stable so it's not Bitcoin where it's
backed by nothing except the confidence
of people that believe in Bitcoin it's
back what they say by International
basket of currencies and and and
government securities that will keep the
price the exchange rate for various
currencies around the world fairly
stable and then there you will be able
to use a Libra to exchange it for goods
and services or to trade it with
individuals now Facebook has two billion
people on its its platform so you can
imagine that you're talking about
remittances to potentially billions of
people around the world with this one
singular unit of value there will be you
know Facebook is also creating this this
thing that called calibra which is the
digital what can wait a second before we
get to before we get to that let's just
talk about I'm sorry
well no no I mean I think I just want to
make sure that we're digesting this as
we go so if people are familiar with
Bitcoin Bitcoin essentially is created
through computing power which is which
functions as to mind Bitcoin and the
value of Bitcoin is simply a function of
people deciding that it's going to be
valuable and essentially buying into it
you can buy into it or you can mine
these bitcoins you know
average person doesn't have the computer
capacity to do that in this Libre sounds
a little bit more like you go down to a
resort and the Caribbean and they give
you you buy you know a hundred plastic
seashells and you can use them at the
bar and you can use them at the
restaurant I made the exact I made the
exact same analogy it's like script so
in in the the Gilda days first Gilded
Age when we had these these mining or
coal mining or lumber operations and
money was kind of scarce they would pay
the workers in scrip which was only
redeemable at the general store in that
that mining town or in that logging town
and that's how you would pay for
everything that you needed all your
basic necessities there's some
similarities here because obviously
Facebook is trying to set this up as the
way to make purchases within Facebook
for the millions of small businesses
that could be able to you know offer
their goods on it it's saying that you
can use Libre to to exchange money
between your friends and it's it's like
scrip it's like this money that makes
that that is is is legal tender so to
speak within Facebook and and these
partner and and presumably these other
partner companies so you get into your
yeah uber you get into your uber and I
imagine you'll be able to pay with Libre
if Facebook you know works out if it's
maybe MasterCard you might be able to
pay part of your bill with Libre I guess
on some level theoretically and then
let's look at the best case of this and
the worst case just real quick so the
best case is that the fact that that our
payment system in the United States is
pretty terrible it takes days for for
for transactions to clear if you send a
cheque or if you try to exchange money
into a bank account uh it's it's clunky
is it it's particularly if you're doing
it internationally there are high fees
the the attempt here is to make
frictionless transactions across the
facebook network uh you know in a way
that is trusted which is you know kind
of debatable we're talking about
Facebook but you know use that to
supplant really the payment system but
no Meah United States but all over the
world alright well let me ask you this
then and obviously we're gonna get to
the other elements of this and we'll get
to the parts of this that could be super
super dangerous but what how is it I'm
going to just try and establish what the
benefit is like so how is it more
beneficial than say venmo venmo for
people who don't know I don't know how
widely adopted it is around the country
but fairly widely adopted at this point
and that is you basically just send
people money you can keep it in your
venmo account so that it's readily
available or you can then deposit it
that's sort of like PayPal but it's a
little bit less a little bit more
frictionless as you call it how is it
better than venmo like why do we have to
go into Libra why can't we just well
make it dollars if you did if you'd
asked Facebook they would say venmo
doesn't have two billion people that are
subscribers to it and so the scale is
bigger venmo is an international and so
if you want to remit something to
someone in Brazil or Mexico or Canada or
wherever you can use this Libre system
for that and and venmo doesn't always
maybe there are some cases where it does
but there aren't millions of sellers of
retailers that will accept right uh you
know payment through venmo and yet the
the theory is you would you would have
all these sellers with accept payment
through Libra so that's what Facebook I
think would say about it
okay the real just real quick the real
thing that you want to see as an as an
antecedent to this Libre thing is called
WeChat and that's in in China and we can
talk about that after break alright so
when we come back let's talk about the
dangers that are involved in Libra the
precedent that we've seen in terms of
something like WeChat and how Facebook
intends to essentially operate this new
currency and what the United States
should do about it we'll discuss all
that when we return
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back with David day and
in a minute
