with Sam Sita the best
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday February 19th 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA I just realized I lied cuz
we're live to tape forgive me
Elliott Abrams got a pardon that's all I
want to say and his life was a lot worse
on the program today despite the fact
that we are in fact on vacation at the
moment brand-new interviews for you well
1.5 let's say we're gonna play part two
of my interview with the billa's onic
that I did for ring of fire radio a
couple of weeks ago you could check out
Ring of Fire ahead over you can sign up
for the podcast on iTunes or head over
to our of' podcast com we do it every
week
shorter interviews more reporters some
analysis check it out I think you'll
like it
professor lisanna has done a lot of
research and work on stock buybacks the
things that I don't necessarily have the
macro economic implications but change
the culture of the corporation in such a
way change the incentive structure for
the leadership of corporations in such a
way that these corporations become
not just sclerotic but almost like like
secondary to the agendas of the
leadership of the corporation I know
that sounds weird but imagine if you
were playing poker and you really were
betting all your money on a side bet
that the guy next to you is gonna win
that's what's going on really
essentially with these with these
corporations it's a big deal
and billa zonic is the expert on it and
then after lisanna k-- we'll be talking
to edward Ballas Ian he is a professor
of history and public policy at Duke
University he's written a book fraud an
American history from Barnum to Madoff
fascinating look I've always considered
business basically to be fraud like that
to me is always just like we have a Mis
measure of an asymmetry of knowledge
about something and that's how I'm going
to make money that's what I'm I know
that's not exactly accurate but I sort
of feel like it is I did a paper on Wall
Street movies when I was at NYU and
that's like most of the plots for any of
those movies it's like we got some
information who's you guys access to it
and who doesn't and I mean going back to
that clip that we played about jihadists
on Stephanie ruhle responding to Robert
rice tweet that most billionaires either
you know it took advantage of a monopoly
or it's asymmetrical information
essentially the information that they
had access to that other people didn't
have or then you know inherited money
but so first we're gonna start with
Billa sonic then we will get to Edward
bass and and if you are a member you
will enjoy one of Brendan's deep vault
picks what we did is we and we do this
only like you know at late because it
makes it a little scarier sent Brendan
down into the vaults over the weekend
and
he's got to take the elevator he's gonna
take the dumbwaiter
then he's gonna take the stairs then
he's gonna take the basically the ladder
he goes into the vaults and he comes
back up with some reel-to-reel tapes and
some some some audio that was actually
first chipped away at a stone plaque
like a tablet and this was from the the
air america days and so i don't know
what he's picked I don't even know if he
actually made it out of there alive but
members members will get will get access
to that and you can be a member by going
to join the majority report dot-com
super easy you just go to join the
majority report comm and you join and it
costs you a couple of dimes or nickels a
day and then you'll be a member all
right so first up bill is on ik
professor of economics at the University
of Massachusetts Lowell and then I'll be
back before we go to Edward bouncing for
fraud in the last segment you explained
to us of the I guess the the the the
development in the mid 80s early 80s of
a practice that was born out of an
ideology of shareholder value in
corporations as a way of measuring the
success of a corporation as opposed to
sort of a broader more a civic-minded
not not to the exclusion of profits in
any way but in the that a company works
not just for its owners it does at that
time but also its success is measured as
to what it does for the community what
it does for its workers what it does for
the long-term prospects of the company
itself all had a bigger part in the
assessment of a successful company in
the 80s that ideology changed it became
about shareholder value and one of the
ways that that manifested itself was the
Reagan administration
essentially relaxing the rules via the
SEC on when a company could buy back its
own stocks you explained to us that in
what that does and more so than the idea
of increasing dividends to shareholders
broadly speaking because it has the
potential of benefiting the leadership
of the core of the company and they have
such an ability to manipulate
what the company does at any given point
it creates a uniquely perverse incentive
that then makes the corporation that
much less I guess functioning to the
benefit of those other stakeholders is
that is that basically it that's right
and even in terms of shareholders it
benefits share sellers not shareholders
and and since I'm holding shares in a
company long term I don't want them to
pay all the money out in dividends I
want them to reinvest and have a
competitive products in the future and
then when I sell the shares I'll
probably be at a higher and higher price
and I'll make a game ernie buybacks are
are really just moving the company on
and they're being done on top of
dividend so it's not instead of
dividends and to the point where back in
the early 1980s before the
implementation of this rule 10 B 18
maybe 50 percent of the profits of large
companies were being distributed in the
form of dividends of a very very tiny
percentage in buybacks to the point now
where it's 94 95 in the pharmaceutical
industry among large companies it's
almost 100 percent of their profits we
pay high drug prices of me they say they
need high profits to reinvest more in
R&D and they spend virtually 100 percent
many companies like Merck and Pfizer 150
percent year after year their profits go
to buybacks and dividends and so I don't
need the buybacks oh yeah well okay but
we have only have about four minutes
left here so Chuck Schumer Bernie
Sanders a bit of an odd couple perhaps
they've gotten together they have come
up with a a proposal on how to limit
stock buybacks and that is to have a
series of rather micro managed
conditions that would allow for a stock
buybacks what what are the problem
what's the problem with that proposal as
opposed to just simply returning to the
to the regime essentially that we had in
the early 80s yeah so so I should say
that senator Tammy Baldwin introduced
legislation last March for the reward
work Act which would rescind rule 10 B
18 this rule from 1982 this allows mark
his mastery purchases and if that were
done then the SEC as a regulator of the
stock market would have to start and
Congress probably as well would have to
discuss what's going on here or you know
what it's happening these companies are
argument accusing the market if you use
massive repurchases okay so that the
route that I think you should go on that
on all the issues that they raised about
you know $15 wage sick leave better
medical got full coverage or you know
retirement pay etc I agree with all that
said that's what company should do but
let's just do it we don't we don't need
to say well okay if you do that's
buybacks or if you do too much my legs
if you don't do those things and then
won't let you do buyback let's just say
you you have to have minimal standards
of living that a profitable corporation
pays to to its employees and that's a
starting point I think you know you
should just fight for that in its own
right now it's hampered their
willingness to do it is hampered by all
these buybacks so but I think there's
there's a another argument that
community buybacks basically they're
hugely damaging and I would say even
immoral and I think they should be
illegal and there's a lot of reason why
you would say they should be illegal
because we set up a cc in 1934-35 with
the notion that you eliminate fraud and
and the manipulation on stock markets
and there's nothing
that is more by going in the
manipulative then stock buybacks that's
being done on a massive scale in plain
view and so let's just have a discussion
about that and go for where the problem
is and just get rid of them they don't
they're unnecessary and they're
benefiting people are few a relatively
small number of people not just the top
executives but hedge fund activists and
Wall Street bankers like soy banks a
blind fine tweeted something about all
the money goes somewhere in the economy
no the money goes to him and Goldman
Sachs and we know what they do with the
money that's partly because so much
money comes out of these companies
people go to work every day and the
money that that is they help generate is
going into the financial sector and use
for for whatever they do and so there's
that just needs to be stopped and I
think it should be an easy sell to to
Democrats and I think some of them are
starting again and many of them are that
let's just put a stop to that and the
other side of that would be
let's have decent minimal legislation at
least for the pay that workers get the
benefits they get sick leave etc well
bill is on ik it's a it's a fascinating
topic and I guess we will have a sense
in the next couple of years how many
Democrats buy into this and where we go
from there thank you so much for your
time today I really appreciate it
hey folks I got some good news for you
there is no need to suffer through
another sleepless night thanks to
calming comfort by sharper image the
luxurious weighted blankets are made
with supersoft Velveteen material
designed with a high density comfort
fill to promote a sense of calmness plus
by applying even amount of pressure over
your body calming comfort helps the
production of serotonin and melatonin
and mimics the soothing feeling of being
hugged for a restful night's sleep now
I'll tell you something in my house Saul
and I fight over this blanket I know if
you've had children before you know that
what they tell you to do early on is
swaddle them do you know this man you
take that's why every time you see a
picture of like a new baby it's always
wearing that hospital blanket with the
blue stripe and they're wrapped tight
into like a like a Papoose or something
they you learn how to swaddle the babies
and the idea is that like it makes their
it is archetypal or primal well because
that's what it feels like in the womb
and I don't this is my theory the this
is they I hope but I'm not getting you
know I'm not stepping out of line but
that's my theory about it is that it
makes you feel it brings you back to
that time in the womb which i think is
embedded deep in some part of your brain
we all want to go back there on some
level but I'll tell you this though it
definitely it helps me go to sleep and
stay asleep and I'm not sure why Saul
gets so excited about it I mean because
I don't let him it's mine he just comes
in in the morning and he's like let me
get out of the blanket please calm and
comfort way to blanket comes with a
90-day anxiety free stress free best
night's sleep of your life guarantee
from sharper image and right now our
listeners can go to calming comfort
blanket calm and use the promo code
majority at checkout to receive $15 off
the displayed
price again that's calming comfort
blanket calm promo code majority because
you can't put a price on a great night's
sleep common comfort blanket dot-com
promo code majority also as you know
Harry's has been a sponsor of this
program for years and when you see me
well I guess like on days like today
although this is during vacation so I
probably have not shaved but today when
I recorded it I did when you see me this
way it's think it's there's two things
you know one I've held my Harry's razor
two I'm probably going on television
that's it I don't like to shave but when
I do i always use harry's harry's
founders were tired of paying for up for
razors that were overpriced and over
designed they knew that great shave
doesn't come from gimmicks like
vibrating heads flex balls or handles
that looks like spaceships so they
bought a world-class blade factory in
germany started making grazers that
combine simple clean design with quality
durable blades at a fair price
harry's replacement cartridges are just
two bucks each and all Harry's blades
come with a hundred percent quality
guarantee it's no surprise they've
received over twenty thousand five star
reviews on Trustpilot
and Google get a thirteen value try a
dollar trial set that comes with
everything you need for a close
comfortable shave weighted ergonomic
handle five blade razor with lubricating
strip and trimmer blade my favorite rich
lathering shave gels and a travel blade
cover listeners of my show can redeem
their trial set at harrys.com slash
majority report make sure you go to
harrys.com slash majority report to
redeem your offer and let them know I
sent you to help support this show hey
your dog's health is as important as
every other member of your family and it
starts with what you feed them all these
offers vet formulated recipes and fully
transparent and
readings to give your dog the healthiest
food possible we're talking real
all-natural that even people can eat no
preservatives and source from us family
farms no wonder all he beat out
store-bought dog food at a ten-to-one on
the palate ability scale try for
yourself just go to my alley
dot-com answer a few questions about
your dog they'll ship you custom recipes
in pre proportion meals straight to your
door on a regular schedule shipping is
free and if your dog doesn't like the
meals they have a money-back guarantee
Kelly I don't have a dog but old Kelly
not old you know what I mean former
prior to prior Kelly she got it for her
dog what was it was her dog's name again
oh my god we both forgot we both have
blanked Edie and and she said Edie loves
it and she said in the past when she
switched dog foods that she had to sort
of like combine them together to get et
to sort of like accept the new dog food
not this time she loved it best of all
Ollie is offering our listeners 60% off
your first box plus a free bag of treats
at my all e.com slash try slash majority
are you clear on that
it's my Ollie calm slash try the words t
ry slash majority this is the best deal
they have made available anywhere go to
my all a.com slash try slash majority
for 60% off plus a free bag of treats
alright now we will get to the interview
on the idea of fraud an American history
from Barnum tomato made off with Edward
ballast and a professor of history and
public policy at Duke University
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
history at Duke University
Edward Bala sin' on his new book or I
should say fairly recent book it's now
out in paperback fraud an American
history from Barnum to Madoff welcome to
the program professor well thanks so
much Dan thanks for having me
so in at least to a large extent fraud
basically explains the the history or
recounts the history of fraud in in in
for I guess the major eras in America
but before we we embark on that well
what is fraud or is there is does that
change well I think the the nature that
question is there is a great one and
it's it's you can think about fraud from
a couple of different perspectives
there's the question of what anybody
means when when they say just in sort of
ordinary conversation oh he's a fraud or
that business is a fraud and I think
what they mean there is well it's a scam
it's it's it's a ripoff it's deceitful
in some way or another but there's also
another meaning that's more technical
which is the legal definition of fraud
which is much more complicated in any
society but in the United States and an
anglo-american legal context it has a
whole bunch of different evidentiary
thresholds that have to be met the
deceit has to be intentional the victim
has to rely on the deceit their whole
series of additional questions that have
to be answered before you can say bring
a criminal case against someone for
fraud or a civil case to try and void a
contract and the particulars there do
change over time but this difference
between
what people might think of as the common
meaning of fraud and and and the legal
meaning of fraud that's that's that's an
enduring an enduring question or
different in to what extent does is this
is our legal definition of the American
legal definition to what extent is that
a is that different from from other
societies I mean because just in the
concept of deceit right like what we're
talking about is some type of asymmetry
of information and that's right it
occurs to me and that you know that's
almost like just like the definition of
business on some level - right like I
mean I'm a little bit jaded in that
respect but that you know does that line
of what constitutes deceit change
depending on society and time as well it
can and you know one of the obviously
misrepresentation deceit is a crucial
dimension of fraud I think everywhere
what can vary is how much we weigh we
give when say business gets aggressive
about marketing what's enthusiasm what's
puffery as opposed to intentional deceit
and that line that line can be hard to
draw it's often hard to draw I would say
in the American context we perhaps have
maybe more often given leeway to
entrepreneurs to innovators relative to
other societies ok well that's that's
not terribly surprising to me that
that's where we would fall relative to -
I guess some other societies but let's
let's let's talk about the history of
fraud to a certain extent and what we're
actually talking about is is almost less
a history of fraud I guess and more a
history of
anti-fraud measures and like where we
draw that line is that right
that's exactly right fraud is always
with us
there's no society that I know of that
doesn't have it
people lie businesses lie and so the the
question is what are the legal
frameworks and the non-governmental
frameworks that any given era has
produced in any given society to put
some constraints around that behavior so
in summary all right that's what I try
and track in the book and in some
respects we were just like sort of I
guess measuring the negative space on
some level right like where and and and
and and by that I guess we can look at
like that first era of of anti-fraud
efforts or lack thereof I guess would be
starting in the early 1800s through most
of the 18th century now excuse me the
19th century yeah so the argument I make
about that era is is that it's really a
time of de-facto caveat emptor the latin
phrase for let the buyer beware
there were prohibitions against
deceitful behavior on the book on the
books there were statutes there was
common law that laid out a prohibitions
against deceitful behavior in the
marketplace but they were really hard in
many cases to vindicate with a criminal
charge or or with us with this even a
civil case in many cases and that was
because of a relatively close balance in
terms of access to information between
buyers and sellers in many contexts and
and a sense on the part of many judges
many lawyers many juries that in light
of that economic context people should
be able to look out for themselves
particularly adult white men the sort of
prototypical citizen you'd expect that
person to be able to keep their eyes
open and their ears pricked and that
they would David as a
either figure out what they from whether
the claims they were hearing say from
from an economic counterparty whether
they were legitimate or not or or they
would learn from the experience that it
was it was better to live in a school of
hard knocks than to go running to the
government to solve a problem after a
contract that went bad alright so I mean
can you like give us a like a concrete
example of this I mean I you know I
spend probably more time than I should
debating libertarians and I think
there's sort of a sentimentality about
this period which i think is you know
when you talk about you know the why
caveat emptor could sustain itself for
this period of time we're talking about
fairly simplistic transactions right in
a fairly simplistic society or I mean
give me an example of what would be sort
of a classic I guess exchange at that
time and one where there were
protections either there was a lack of
protections from fraud or just society
felt like being a victim of fraud is is
probably a healthy developmental tool
well to be clear you can find cases
where people went to jail for fraud in
every era of American history and you
can you can find examples of courts
voiding contracts because of a
demonstration of illegal deceit it was
just hard to do in terms into later eras
the the legal standards were more
exacting especially in practice so the
the rationale though was very much in
line with what you suggested if I'm a
merchant purchasing a particular kind of
cloth I can see it I can assess its
quality
I know what the market prices have been
recently the the ability that I have to
access relevant information to the
question of whether I accept an offer or
not is it
is is there for anybody with reasonable
diligence to find and and so the the
view was that the costs associated with
allowing people to revisit their
contractual relationships were
sufficiently high that you just didn't
need a really strong policing of the
marketplace now that that that
presumption might be relaxed depending
on who the the parties were so there are
some sort of classic instances where you
know the counterparty is not a savvy
merchant but an an old widow who might
not be expected to know much about land
prices for example of course that
individual might might well have been
quite savvy about that but it given the
the cultural presumptions of the time
about who you could expect to look out
for themselves and who might need
assistance that played into into legal
decision making and what would I'm sorry
would like over paying for a piece of
land constitute fraud in that respect I
mean I can see it like you know you know
if I sold you a horse that I had the
ability to know they had cancer and was
gonna die in a week right but that type
of technology didn't necessarily exist
in the way that like today I could sell
you a car that I know like is just been
you know was submerged underwater for a
year or two because of a flood or
something like I mean that there it has
to do with sort of like a knowledge of
either past or future performance of a
product which when you're buying a shirt
you have a pretty good sense of it as
opposed to you know like some type of
mechanical device I guess that's right
and and there there are some examples
where one side to a transaction was not
new about say the the disease that was
beginning to afflict a you know uh
livestock that the seller had and kept
that from the buyer where the buyer is
able to say look there was no way that I
could have
awesomely found this out and and the
other person knew and kept it for me
and so there cases where you can meet
these very difficult thresholds for for
a legal demonstration of a fraud even
and even in the early 19th century what
what begins to shift the legal
definitions though and also the
institutional mechanisms for policing
fraud is is the emergence of more
markets where they're just structural
differences in access to information
really nice example is the fertilizer
market in the 1840s 1850s enterprising
merchants start marketing guano bird
droppings as a fertilizer and it works
incredibly well in many agricultural
contexts and so there's huge demand for
for this product throughout rural
America but at the same time almost
immediately you start getting people
marketing basically fake guano and
there's no way for farmers to tell
there's no way to know that this product
that they're buying isn't actually the
real deal and so you start getting a
drumbeat of political support from rural
Americans for the state to step in and
do something about this this problem and
and as it happens there's a group of
experts who comes forward and says ah we
have a solution for you the group of
early chemists who've been trained in
Europe and you come to the United States
and say we can do chemical tests on on
fertilizer and tell you whether it has
the components of nitrogen and and and
other key elements that would make it
effective on fields and farms and so
what emerges is a regulatory structure
the state government state legislatures
start surpassing laws which which
mandate the creation of an office of
official chemist in in state governments
across the United States that will be
charged with actually doing inspections
and a now
and and then publishing results and also
monitoring fertilizer bags and fining or
bringing other kinds of legal action
against firms that are selling spurious
fertilizer to the public you know why
again I'm like I've got my libertarian
the my inner libertarian I'm going to
express like why couldn't there be
private agencies that would hire these
chemicals like why did that not develop
that way well and you can see you can
see examples of that you can also see
some manufacturers trying to develop
brands that would have reputation behind
them you you can't trust everyone out
there in the fertilizer market but you
can trust us the problem is that those
brands are also potentially you know
subject to counterfeiting so not only
that but some companies could develop a
brand and then trade against it so they
they could proclaim that they had
wonderful wonderful results but it would
be very hard to know keep in mind that
it's hard to connect the fertilizer that
you've you know let's say you put fake
fertilizer down on your your farm plot
and then it turns out that you don't
have a great yield many other things may
have happened that you're including bad
weather and so so being able to actually
demonstrate this fact without without
testing is difficult now there could
have been private testing mechanisms as
well but they their reputation had to
have some basis as well and in in the
view of the the majority of the the farm
population the only way to solve this
problem was to rely actually on the
state right I mean I guess theoretically
you could have a private testing entity
but it could very well be the same
entity that's putting out the fraudulent
the fraudulent fertilizer like you could
the the the potential for for fraud
within the context of this private
tester
no less or greater I guess than it would
be for the manufacturer the fertilizer
in the first place that's exactly right
that's exactly right in fact one of the
things that emerged very powerfully in
the 19th century as a private mechanism
of protecting people against imposition
of one kind or another was a robust anti
fraud discourse in newspapers and trade
magazines trade journals newsletters in
which you had essentially a an anti
fraud beat you'd have you know newspaper
journalists who would be covering this
in New York or Philadelphia and you had
in in many in many trade journals you
had actual sections devoted to frauds
and humbugs which involved not just
coverage from journalists but also
printing of letters from readers about
what was going on in their particular
part of the marketplace circulation of
warnings and either about specific
frauds or more general things to be
alarmed about or to be on the lookout
for so so there are very important
nongovernmental responses to fraud as a
problem here again though there's an
there's a constant interplay between any
attempt to protect people from deceit
and also providing insights to those who
who would deceive so you know you you
know there are plenty of books in the
19th century that warn people about you
know what they should what they should
be on the lookout for but that's also a
how-to manual right for anyone who wants
to actually be effectively deceitful
right okay and so then we move into a
another era which comes in the wake of
the the Great Depression yeah so so a
little bit before that just say a quick
couple of words about the late 19th and
early 20th century you
a growing set of institutional responses
to deceit in specific markets that
begins to really harm the economic
interests of establishment companies so
you see this in mail-order in the late
19th century there's rampant fraud in
mail-order Commerce and and partly the
response there is the creation of mail
fraud as a new offense a new criminal
offense and the creation of a structure
within the federal government through
the post office to combat mail fraud
within with postal inspectors and
actually mechanisms to take away
people's access to the mail a fraud
order so you see developments like that
what happens by the way let me just I
just want to just I just want to put a
flag there too because that is a another
or a really explicit example of the
government essentially allowing this
market to exist right that it that it
were it not for the government basically
interceding and saying we're going to
bring our authority to this market it
was one that couldn't develop without
that I mean I feel like we had something
not too dissimilar at one point in the
past 20 years or so with online
purchases and whatnot it's this idea of
like we there's recourse here that's
very true and it's true on two levels
first there's providing the
infrastructure in the first place so the
the roads and and other structures
Postal Service right and the Postal
Service on top of it that makes that
makes sending goods through the mail
plausible and frankly there was also a
rate structure that involved a degree of
subsidization that made it cheaper to
send things through the mail that also
helped to get the business off the
ground but then once once you had an
incipient new form of commerce emerging
the the problems of confidence around
being able to actually trust any
business that was that
operating literally hundreds of miles
away so new new kinds of information
problems that that was another problem
for the government to tackle one that it
did through these postal regulations
okay and so and that takes us up into
this era of basically the the Great
Depression and some sense that you know
we had there was a fraud was endemic on
on Wall Street and there may have been
just sort of something that was even
more structurally fraudulent yes and and
also concerned not just about confidence
in specific markets but actually growing
concern about threats to economic
confidence more generally that were
reflected in the remarkable downturn of
the early 1919 early you know Duchy 29
in the early 1930s where you had
unemployment reaching 25 percent and
even higher and a complete capital
strike on on Wall Street nobody bringing
forward new issues because nobody had
any trust in the system and so you you
began to get a more cohesive kind of
anti-fraud policy that that was not
concerned simply about this particular
market or that particular market but
actually about shoring up the
macroeconomic system so the federal
government starts getting much more
essentially involved as opposed to state
governments or private organizations the
earlier period in the early 20th century
had witnessed the creation of a network
of private Better Business Bureaus that
had a very strong anti-fraud mission by
the 1930s you're seeing either the
extension of federal authority through
the Federal Trade Commission extending
its anti-deception jurisdiction or the
creation of entirely new regulatory
entities like the Securities and
Exchange Commission which has as a one
of its crucial mandates still to this
day though of course it's momentarily
shuttered under this current partial
federal shutdown the Mandate of
ensuring candor truthfulness in the
securities markets and and and where
where was the impetus where did the
impetus for this come from was it was it
specifically from consumers was it
specifically from the I guess the the
the business class was it just more
broadly was it business class on on
behalf of the consumers I mean what
where where was the biggest pushes for
this from from a from I guess a
political perspective well there were
certainly some businessmen by the early
1930s the depths of the depression who
who realized there needed that the
government needed to step in but this
was very much a coalition effort that
involved a group of experts economists
lawyers also some people from the
investment community many individuals
who were either from a consumer
incipient consumer movement or from to
some extent organized labor all of whom
had a sense that one needed to one
needed to re set the basic premises of
market activity in a whole host of ways
and that part of that was was restoring
the confidence that individuals had in
the workings of the financial markets I
will say that one could have imagined
many other responses to the the problems
in the securities markets during the New
Deal than the one chosen by new dealers
you know the there were a lot of
different proposals that were under
consideration in the 1920s and early
1930s some of which involved the
government basically deciding what kinds
of stocks should be brought forward for
sale in the public markets and those
were entirely rejected for
much more of a disclosure model which
actually has been at the core of an
awful lot of anti-fraud policy in the
United States so the the basic idea here
is that what we're going to ensure is
that what what sellers say about their
goods or services or financial products
is truthful
and and then we'll let and then we'll
let people decide rather than having the
government basically decide what is
sufficiently valuable or worthwhile or
of a sufficient quality standard to show
up in the market at all and that in that
in that I mean we enter a new era in in
the 70s but of deregulation but the
foundation of that of that anti-fraud
regulatory scheme is that comes from
various agencies basically saying that
you know the the fault you you must make
clear the following about your product
essentially right and that becomes the
sort of the the the the leverage point
particularly within the context of like
civil recourse that's right
and and so the the idea is focusing on
on disclosing truthful characteristic
facts about your product now what you
get in the in the 1940s 50s 60s I think
is a decline in the worst kinds of
corporate predation you don't have the
the the terrible scandals of deceit that
occurred all the way through the 19th
century and into the 1920s and I think
what happened in part was a bit of
generational amnesia as a result by the
19th by 1970s people have not seen some
of the problems that really rampant
deceit can bring in the marketplace
which is not to suggest that the era was
devoid of of frauds you can find it
everywhere but the scale of those frauds
had a constraint on them and you tended
not to see them in the in the most
profitable companies in America
why do you think that was I mean I
imagine there's there's there's there's
two elements one is we're in a post-war
era where there's probably more social
cohesion on one level and - it strikes
me that the there's also probably more
segregation so that there's more
cohesion in in terms of like the
narrower groups of people that we're
dealing with I I think the memory of the
Great Depression and also World War two
are very significant here the people who
ran firms I think had whatever other
limitations we can identify about their
decision-making the there I think was a
sense of needing to take stakeholders
into account and having some
appreciation for social responsibility
at some level and there are many strands
into the deregulation movement of the
1970s but one of them is a
reconfiguration of how corporations
ought to orient themselves toward the
rest of society with a much greater
emphasis on on profits and shareholder
value right which which took away a very
important normative constraint on
decision-making which again is not to
say that you can't find predation in the
mid 20th century I just had a constraint
on it that was I think significantly
relaxed in the 1970s do you think it was
immediate I wonder to what extent Reese
played in that as well I mean in in so
far as like we have a socially cohesive
society where there is a greater sense
by corporations that they have a civic
responsibility and I wonder if you know
segregation which was you know obviously
maintained through there also you know
allowed for them I mean that's maybe the
wrong word but
the you know the made it harder for them
to escape that's sort of like mutually
shared sense of civic responsibility I
perhaps I mean it certainly is the case
that individuals from lower-income
groups of any ethnic or racial
background have always been
disproportionately targeted as potential
fraud victims in part because of the
difficulty they have in effectively
relying on mechanisms of of legal
redress right so if you're if you're
poor you don't have a ready way to go to
court you may not have the social
capital to know how to do it you
certainly can't afford more expensive
legal representation so that's been a
hardy perennial in American in history
and you and you don't have the political
power either I would imagine for there
to be implications to hold any of these
people to account in addition to the
sort of the more mechanical aspects of
accessing the legal system yes
so it's Amin it's only in the 1960s with
emergence of the civil rights movement
that you begin to see policy makers
really focusing on this problem so even
though even though at a macroeconomic
level I would say that we have we have
evidence that worst kinds of the largest
or you know grandest kinds of fraud
scandals actually became tamp down in
the mid 20th century this did not at all
mean that the kind of smaller scale
consumer fraud against less advantaged
communities disappeared hardly very much
was still a reality again you know
because it just the the idea that this
is sorta can be self-correcting I think
you know in each era is disproved in a
different way in some ways right like
it's just reputations of firms there's
just not enough information
and enough power for this to be
self-regulating well we've seen as I
think a very powerful demonstration of
that in the era of deregulation so since
the mid 1970s one has seen relaxation of
anti-fraud policies across a number of
fronts in some cases not moving quickly
to regulate in new areas like on the
internet online commerce in other cases
declines in budgets for anti-fraud
agencies like the Federal Trade
Commission or the Securities and
Exchange Commission in other cases the
appointment of leaders to those agencies
who have less concern about confidence
in the marketplace and they do about
facilitating opportunities for
entrepreneurs to bring forward new
products with aggressive marketing and
the result has been you know the growth
of really massive fraud scandals that
are that run into the billions tens of
billions and that has involved some of
the biggest corporations on the planet
how do we how do we measure that I mean
off the top of my head I can just think
of like obviously Enron is one of those
but I would also say frankly the opioid
crisis that we have in this country is a
function of of various strains of fraud
starting with the depiction of of this
class of opioids as being less addictive
down to you know the the distributors
who who had a statutory obligation to
say like hey you know it's weird that a
town of 500 people are ordering a
million pills or something like that I
mean how do we how do we though measure
this well I think in in the way that you
have has just put your finger on another
another context you can think about
banks like Wells Fargo creating fake
accounts right and engaging in in
transactions that never received any
any okay from from customers you can
look at Volkswagen and and what it did
with emissions testing the entire
financial crisis and in many respects
was a function of fraud in terms of the
ratings the quality of these mortgages
fraud in terms of the fiduciary
responsibilities of the lenders in
issuing these mortgages the fraud and
the way that they they they tracked
ownership of these mortgages I mean it
was rife with fraud but how do we like
hi is is there any there's is there has
there been a an index to compare this to
other eras and it's not easy right
because one of the things about about
financial fraud is that it is not it is
not something that we have a census of
right and and we never can be certain
that we've uncovered everything that's
happened so can we know for certain that
there were fraud that there weren't
important frauds in the 1950s that just
did not come to light because of a
stronger economy you know that that's
not entirely impossible as uh sort of a
my sense is though that that the worst
kinds of depredations tend to come out
eventually
and you know the other the other dynamic
that has become much easier since the
1970s 1980s has been the ability of
managers to take advantage of their
inside information in a variety of ways
to wrest value out of companies and
sometimes that's been predicated on on
you know deceitful kinds of of tactics
so you know what what seems to me
distinctive about the last 40 years is
the degree to which these types of of
problems and scandals have cropped up at
so many large scale corporations with
with the harms measured into the again
the billions or tens of billions you
just don't see that in the mid twentieth
century in the United States
is that a function of the of like other
trends to in the concentration like we
now the 70s also marked the beginning of
of not only of this sort of shareholder
value but a change in the way that we
perceive antitrust and so when the
frauds are committed they're committed
by ever increasingly larger entities I
think that's that that that is very much
a possibility as is the significance of
a globalized market do you do you think
that because I mean that it is in in
inherent that the that as we get our
society gets more complex I mean maybe
this is obvious that that that the idea
of of like of you know market-based
incentives to prevent this you know
diminish almost like in a know if it's a
perfect an inverse relationship but the
you know the the the need for government
regulation has that been borne out with
the with the 70 I mean with the the past
40 years well I would certainly say that
within our ferment financial markets now
we've never had more complex financial
instruments or a bigger Gulf and
understanding between ordinary investors
and savers and really sophisticated
market players in fact I think there
were as has been borne out by all the
analyses of the financial crisis that
we've seen there were huge imbalances of
information between even sophisticated
finance players and some of the
individuals who were pitching credit
default swaps or engaging in some of the
other really abstruse financial
instruments of of the last 20 years so
in that kind of environment I it's hard
to envisage a world that that is going
to be stable in any way that's not
structured by regulatory frameworks I
obviously it's unfair to ask a historian
to predict the future but when you look
back
get the the era's in which the
relationship between I guess or the
expectation or the definition of fraud
and the expectation as to where
government would intervene you know to
to protect people from fraud what is
there a way that you can characterize
the catalyst for these shifts or is it
is it different each time and impossible
to predict what might trigger the next
shift in our perspective as to the the
role of government in protecting us in
the form of regulation well I think I
think you're you're far more likely to
move away from stringent anti-fraud
regulation with if you've had a process
over a period of stab it relative
stability I mean I really think it's
striking that the the shifts in the
1970s and 80s only come into play at the
point at which decision makers really
didn't experience the Great Depression
right and and similarly I think once you
move into an arena of really significant
turmoil where you have palpable social
costs emerging from fraud scandals that
that you know it's such that you you
begin to see a coalition emerging of
different interest groups worried about
the problem in conjunction this is very
important with experts who've been
thinking about the problem and who have
come up with plausible kinds of policy
responses to it that's a that's a recipe
for for more significant government
action do you think that we are
developing a sort of a more rapid rate
of amnesia I mean because we're already
on what we've already unwound you know a
significant portion of the response to
the 2008 crisis it seems at least the
impetus is there
the you know reaction to Enron I feel
fairly confident that as I say Enron
there's a significant portion the
audience who doesn't even remember what
I'm talking about yet it was so
devastating in many respects I mean what
what do you think that we've that that
are sort of like is that a function do
you think that that premise is correct
and in in if so do you think it's a
function of a greater rate of amnesia or
just a function of the severity of the
crisis no it's a really good question I
mean that the truth is that the response
even to the crisis itself went in
multiple directions so yes it meant
creating the consumer potential
financial protection agency aboard
rather extreme financial protection but
it also it also meant it also meant the
JOBS Act in the very same year in
Congress which actually reduced a lot of
the protections around initial public
offerings of of new companies and so
there were there wasn't a actual
consensus amongst policy elites about
what caused the financial crisis or what
the most sensible response to it was
similarly the CFPB actually included
carve outs for auto loans why well
because there was huge concern about
getting the economy back in in in action
getting getting people back to work and
there was a worry that if there was too
much stringency and oversight of
automobile loans that that you might be
further limiting the ability of the
automakers to to get to get cars out of
the factories and to be able to pay
their workers as follows in the Yale of
the bailout of two of our major car
companies that that's right and so you
know there's there's there's these
interesting trade-offs with anti-fraud
policy that make it a little bit
difficult to predict honestly what the
next phase will be because the most
effective way to curb fraud are to take
steps that actually really cut back on
the opportunities for innovation and the
most effective so they also are they
tend to be in conflict with our values
about the rule of law so you know you
can you can have government regulators
at the minute that they kind of sniff
that they are worried about somebody's
tendency to be truthful or not you can
give them the power to do things like
bar people from the mails or more
recently bar people as occurred with
operation choke point in the federal
government under the Obama
administration to gain access to online
payment mechanisms that's a very good
way of cutting off a business's oxygen
but it immediately raises concerns about
whether we're we're giving people due
process or notice or the opportunity to
defend themselves in some way before
this action occurs so there there aren't
there aren't easy answers but it's a
it's it's a set of problems that any
government is going to confront the book
is fraud in American history from Barnum
to Madoff Edward baon thank you so much
for your time today I really appreciate
it oh well thank thank you so much then
