there's also another development that
has less to do with party and more to do
with sort of I guess I guess with the in
the center-left coalition and a guy who
I have you know read considerably I
think over the years not necessarily
fully aligned with his politics but
certainly close enough and with someone
who had sort of an expertise and an
access to establish parts of the party
he was a I think it was a Deputy
Secretary of Treasury under the Clinton
administration and Bob Rubin and he came
out with an op-ed this week and
subsequent interview where he basically
said I am a member of the so-called neo
liberal wing of the Democratic Party
he's self-described in this way and he
said look our project
on a political level was a total failure
and regardless of our misgivings about
some of the policy prescriptions of
people to the left of us there they are
our only option we must not just make a
coalition with them but also basically
maybe this is a little bit of an
exaggeration
you know bend the knee to the left and
it was a fascinating turn of events
because you and I have witnessed the
absolute opposite in the context of the
Democratic Party over the past 15 years
and it's fascinating to see what's
happening right now well it is and you
know I mean I when I read the piece that
he wrote and I've known him for a while
too as as a you know someone that I read
and that I've sort of had some
communication with over the years and he
is sort of that he's a perfect example
of what you might have called the
Democratic establishment from say the
90s on and and you know good guy I think
he's got you know progressive instincts
he's you know definitely somebody that I
agreed with
after the time he wasn't somebody that I
was just wasn't like Joe Lieberman or
something you know I mean he was you
know like a regular mainstream Democrat
but what he said was really important
because of that because he's been so
part of much a part of that
establishment which is you know he
admitted that what they had tried to do
hadn't worked and on a political level I
think he really nailed exactly what that
was that he had assumed they had gone on
the assumption that they were going to
find people on the right sensible you
know pragmatic people that they could
work with around the center to try and
come up with you know these practical
pragmatic compromises that would move
the ball in a progressive direction and
you know that had been needed
look I mean Barack Obama he absolutely
ran on that I mean Bill Clinton of
course did that you know he was up the
era of big government over you know I
mean that that was the Democratic
approach for 25 years they it was just
they had made that decision that they
were going to use and ain't and it
spilled over into policy as well well
we're going to use market forces to
achieve progressive goals we're not
going to do big government programs
we'll do these private public
partnerships you know they had all these
that's the neoliberal the center the the
fundamental of the neoliberal philosophy
in America it's not the same in other
countries but in America that's what it
was and he comes right out and says you
know look it didn't work and politically
it didn't work because the other side
has just not ever operated in good faith
and we have to accept that and
understand that yeah I mean he had
particularly I think it was one
interview you did with Vox where he said
look Obama came in with with Mitt
Romney's health care plan with John
McCain's gosh I can't remember what one
of John McCain's
plans and with George Herbert Walker
Bush is foreign policy and when they
pursued these things those three guys in
particular basically never showed up to
defend the host policies at all
and and so the way he phrases it I found
it fascinating he said even if we find
that the policy prescriptions of those
to the left of us are not only not as
desirable but not as effective it is
still far better than what we will get
to the right of us like they are
basically he's basically saying we're at
the edge of a cliff as the sort of do
liberals market-driven Democrats we're
at the edge of the cliff and we can
either take one step to the left or two
steps to the left or three steps to the
left and compromise in that way or we
can take one step to the right and fall
off a cliff and and so it's it's
fascinating to to see that change
because it's so dramatically different
from when you and I first started
talking you know over a decade ago um
can we just say that we were talking
about this very thing from the beginning
I mean this was not something that came
I mean throughout the period I you know
I know I've been screaming into the void
that you know do you are this idea in
fact when Obama came in and he tried to
do his grand bargain you know I was
little screaming to high heaven so I'm
going don't you see that this is that
you are not going to take you know two
steps forward one step back you're going
to take one step forward two steps back
you don't understand how these people
operate and you know I've taken a while
but it appears that they have you know
at least some have recognized that that
particular thing that that philosophy is
just it's no longer operative it hasn't
been for many many years yeah I agree
with that and I wanna I won't want to
take a break and when we come back I
want to talk about the implications of
that because it it means a lot
particularly coming at the beginning of
the Democratic primary which is going to
be about as robust of a primary is I
think you and I have seen in
ever you know yeah ever and and also to
I want to just address one other aspect
of this which is that the failure of
these so-called neoliberal policies
these sort of like third way
triangulation market-based solutions is
not just been political but it's also
been a failure in terms of economics
right they take a quick break we'll be
right back with more I'm Sam cedar this
is ring a fire radio I'm talking to the
great Heather pardon
