[Music]
meanwhile you know I've been saying for
four years that Israel is going to lose
the Democratic Party and it is and they
I think I have come to this realization
they don't seem to care about it what's
fascinating is that now critique of
Israel is becoming more and more
mainstream and is becoming less and less
taboo Peter Beinart who 15 20 years ago
it's in a radically different place when
it came to Israel part of it is I think
I think part of it frankly is also the
past 15 years in terms of what has
happened in Israel 15 to 20 years has
been dramatic in many ways since Reuben
was assassinated I think there has been
sort of a growing awareness in the
center left in this country that Israel
has gone further and further off the
rails as a as a terms of its politics
and its leadership and in terms of like
where the population is heading and
Peter Beinart who was a big Iraq war
advocate and then subsequently made what
I think is the probably the most
legitimate evolved amia culpas and then
actively working towards fixing money it
wasn't just like I get that one wrong
but I'm going back at it you know it
wasn't like a larry cudlow like okay
yeah yeah nobody bats a thousand he
actively like dedicated himself to
understanding why he got it wrong and
what he didn't you know what his
predispositions towards that region were
and here is on CNN in what I think is
probably one of the most
maduk arguments about the injustice
that's happening in israel that we've
seen on that you could see on cable news
this is a big deal to see on cable news
israel critiqued in this manner by
someone who is considered mainstream by
cable news they're not bringing somebody
on you know because they're they're
wearing a funny hat at a rave party you
know and you know protesting on stilts
haitian that he's talking about is
called myth de which is an organization
that in the past has published articles
on their website using phrases like
blood libel which in the past on their
website has praised palestinians who've
carried out attacks against Israelis and
this was the organization that was
involved with the planning of that trip
now you heard johann omar refer to that
obliquely in her statement but is that a
type of organization that you should be
connected with as a u.s. member of
Congress Palestinians don't have to be
Saints in order to deserve the basic
rights that all of us take for granted
right Miha has said things that I
disagree what they made an anti-semitic
statement that they apologized for the
point is when you go there I say this is
an American Jew my children go to Jewish
day school I lead services in an
Orthodox synagogue Judaism at the center
of my life the first time I went to
spend time with Palestinian the West
Bank it was a shattering experience the
only thing I could imagine would be
similar for American would be going to
visit the Jim Crow South
when you see people living under the
control of the state with no rights they
cannot become citizens they cannot vote
for the control for the state that
controls their lives they do not have
free movement they need a pass to move
from city to city they live under a
military legal system the consequences
are more brutal than we can imagine
sitting here so do I agree with myth
doubt of course not I had a close friend
who was killed in a suicide bombing but
Palestinians don't you could have made
the same argument he went to visit snick
and said oh they were connected with
communist some of their people have made
anti-white statements the point is what
Allah Omar said is the true is the most
important point people need to go and
see for themselves I've never seen
anyone who's gone and seen for
themselves and not been transformed by
the experience I that I think it's true
in a political that it is worth going to
Israel worth going to the West Bank so
you can see for yourself you get a real
sense of the situation on the ground
rich Lowry on the subject of move to the
other side of that is that there has
been a congressional trip that was led
by miffed ax before in the Israeli
government let it happen now I know it
was before the actual law what they
didn't need a law to keep people out if
they didn't want to but they allowed it
to happen before now they're not in
claiming it's because of this
organization yeah well obviously the
proximate cause here was the Trump tweet
which highlighted this and made a major
issue but there is a law that allows
Israel to ban foreigners who support the
BDS movement to isolate and D legitimize
Israel it's been not applied against
members of Congress before it's been
applied against French politicians
against EU politicians but these are
strong supporters of the BDS movement
and they are not honest brokers we
wouldn't afford a white nationalist
organization the the leeway that Peter
is giving this organization oh they're
not Saints this is an anti-semitic a
group that supported terrorism supports
blowing up innocent civilians and
children and no matter what you think of
the dispute between Palestinians and
Israel that is an illegitimate tactic
that no one should associate with
advocates of what a quick response to
that Peter the nor Brasher honish raw is
actually very well known as a nonviolent
activist but a critic of the Palestinian
Authority one of the most important
Palestinian feminists there are many
Palestinians who believe that
Palestinians have the EU's right to use
violence because of the daily violent
oppression they feel I disagree with
them I believe in only nonviolent
protest but the point is every time any
Palestinian leader or any Palestinian
organization tries to expose what
happens this is exactly what happens
people read them because they don't want
to talk about the real issue the real
issue is an absolutely indefensible
denial of basic human right what's that
have to do with supporting terrorism I
mean no one has any problem with harshly
criticizing Israel that's fine but you
don't support blowing up innocent people
that's just a bottom line no something
we all agree
purpose behind focusing on this is to
try to distract attention from the
reality under which is funded by America
would you stallers our tax dollars blow
up the homes of people who cannot get
permits to build because they're
non-citizens under military with the
sphere standard for white nationalist
organizations no they just say terrorism
with all due respect that's okay you
haven't seen this on the ground honest
Raleigh she is nothing close to a white
nationalist she is someone seeking so
read out their widest organization why
is the organization publish things
supporting terrorism rich I disagree
with violent resist but why because
because a lot of Palestinians believe
that because they are subject to daily
violence of a system which denies them
basic rights they have the right to
respond violently I dislike reality have
sympathy for an african-american who
supported violence against the United
States under slavery or Jim Crow that
did not excuse their denial of basic
rights because I disagree with the
tactic they were using to resist it I
mean it's again it's fine to harshly
criticize Israel in the occupation pause
I don't think anyone's is that true is
it true that it's fine to harshly
criticize Israel and the occupation
isn't this entire I mean look at the
look at the chyron underneath I mean
this whole news segment is a function of
why it's wrong for Omarion and to live
in anybody else for criticizing Israel
in this way I mean though the whole
premise of why this is on the news it's
not because of miffed uh nobody watching
this knows whom IFTA is the whole
premise is like they're criticizing
Israel completely disingenuous but go
using to resist it I mean it's again
it's fine to harshly criticize Israel in
the occupation but I don't think any one
species associated with the group that
supports terrorism and this isn't black
and white I mean they publish this stuff
no one's man years ago there were
certain yet again you know it's like
Honduras Robbie's devoted her life as a
nonviolent activist to opposing an
oppression which none of us doesn't do
it's does not accord with the
that any of us believe in as a matter
she doesn't control her own organization
and what it publishes rich why don't you
try spending a little bit of time
focusing on the fact that almost 4
billion dollars of US aid is used to put
children you're denying you're the
one distracting from the issue I don't
know emeritus trash outage natural
review shouting in an offended apart a
and just do you defended segregation you
now defend Israel's oppression of
Palestinian basic right it's a tradition
for you guys look and if an organization
supports to finally forced Peter by
neurology and correct yeah you know
that's so important that's all it is and
every argument they have is what about
ISM it's also just the fundamental
dishonesty that you pointed out that of
course you're not allowed to talk about
the Israeli occupation and now it's just
all of a sudden seamlessly moved into
this lie about this organization and
also frankly like the distinction
between we have to have some universal
standards you have to say that there are
certain actions that states or groups
should not undertake period or else we
just don't have any ground for anything
but as a broader proposition the notion
that rich Lowry has anything to say
about how the Palestinians conduct their
struggle violently non violently or
otherwise I mean that and and they've
been saying this for years but well
that's the place amended and the US aid
he used to put children you're the lion
Jim you're the one distracting from the
issue I don't know Larry distract
shouting natural review shouting in
offended apartheid and just do you
defended segregation you now defend
Israel's oppression of Palestinian basic
right fight it's a tradition for you
guys look and if an organization
supports terrorism that organization
should be on beyond the pale and
violently when they protest
non-violently right so you're sending
them is way of saying that in some sense
justifies terrorism of course yeah I
disagree with terrorism what I'm saying
is you're trying to distract from the
real issue the real issue is American
complicity in the denial of basic palace
torrent of your opposition mean we're
gonna leave this endeavor this
organization please go there yourself
we're gonna leave that of course you
it's also just I mean of course they
won't and of course like this will keep
going like this is all they've got there
right nothing else this this is a that
look
the this plays into everything the
Republicans want to run on because they
get the angry brown ladies they get the
evangelicals they pump the prime for I
don't know you know some some right-wing
dollars because on and why you really
can't I mean you know I'm not just so
critical of of the equivocating from
Warren because I she's not my candidate
it's because really anybody in any type
of broad claim of center-left politics
that still calls you know that still
says something go well when Israel
doesn't give them visas they're
undermining their image as a tolerant
democracy it's it is offensive
thank you Framingham heart eyes is
indicative children a problem row by
soldiers this is their governance right
and it should be offensive to every
Jewish person in America that any Jews
are supporting this or anyone is
supporting the Trump administration
somehow in our name when you know most
of their attention is on brown people
right now and putting them in camps once
they achieve that they're absolutely
going to try to do it to us
the Jews yeah I mean we become a lot
less relevant particularly once Jesus
comes back like there's only one there's
a just completely chucked that fascism
works for Jews Israel
