[Music]
should we get into this my understanding
you are that you are tweeting out the
tour I mean I think we've talked about
this and for longtime listeners you
probably want to you know you're
probably sick of us talking about Dennis
Miller at this point but for near new
listeners I'm sure you're gonna be
excited blame what he does that please
explain well here's a new listener
Dennis Miller apparently broke up with
Bill O'Reilly when her O'Reilly could
never show and he finally was able to
say to bill like you know you and I we
are not a good comedy match and so I'm
going to have to jettison you because my
good friend and apparently he's being
billed as a comedian Mark Steyn I'm now
he annoyed mark he's the guy he's
traveling with him he's the guy who got
paid out four million dollars when his
pay or play show for CR TV fell apart
which is just absurd this is a wedding
on TV yes exactly exactly
it's sites finally would buy TV by
Mercer's or that we're not clear exactly
who's who's paying for it but so here's
Mark Steyn and Dennis Miller here's a
clip somebody videotaped part of their
show probably illicitly I am totally
against this but it is newsworthy and
therefore we need to pay and play it
this is a clip from their show where
would we know where the show was
Pennsylvania this one was in
Pennsylvania how do they build this show
cuz I and II I noticed you tweeted out
something about it right yeah who like
Nazis that my bad the tour the tour is
called the adorable deplorable tour
[Laughter]
[Music]
rhymed it yeah yeah it rhymes
and here is a clip of this stuff hold on
to your hats
[Music]
pause it for one second now she this is
a teacher she gets up she's asking
question this is the key I I realize now
for these tours is if you have a long
question and answer period that way you
don't have to do much work easy you
don't have to prepare right like like
week we basically do their version of a
live show every day that we take phone
calls and Iams and she's a she's a
professor at a liberal arts college
presumably in New York I would say
western New York probably because it's a
high tax state and so she's come down
and she's probably like it elmira
someone maybe a SUNY Fredonia she's out
of state she's at a state school and
she's complaining about taxes she's got
a real problem
miss Marris in New York it's Catholics
Marist is but I don't feel like it's way
out there out in Western Mac and Western
private tours Bennington Bennington
Vermont now we're just naming colleges
but alright so she's up there she says
she's doing read pilled now I don't know
how Dennis Miller and Mark Steyn don't
know what this means but read pilled
means that like he took the pill that
you get offered in the matrix so you
really see what's going on and by the
way the audio sounds great on that show
and looks like a fun time well this is
not a professional recording to be
was it wait a second oh yeah yeah what
she's complaining about her students who
are all group thinking and I can assure
you there's not a single dissenter in
this audience
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
your loss I think life might bring them
around when they start to send those
checks out to a government but I think
if you think you can go in now to kids
super eighth grade on have been taught
to think one way and quibble with your
ability to make a living
pause it for one second Andy how many
times you think Dennis Miller has been
in a school where eighth graders are
being taught in the past 30 years
I didn't bear any actual privacy haven't
been anywhere that wasn't a mansion in
many years like I I don't understand how
they can just disregard that young
people are more liberal in every part of
history from the beginning of time I
mean except for like Israel right now
but I mean that's really how it is on
the boom in soon it's not indoctrination
it's just human nature continue they
don't like to hear not they don't like
they're not open to hearing not neo-nazi
messages the kids this is the group
think the group think
[Laughter]
for the first time two nights ago and
there were teachers there and I remember
thinking you know Jesus Christ came on
to a college campus now and talk to kids
and change water into wine Wow I'm sorry
allow me to step out of this group thing
to wine and John the Baptist was Bob I
love the fact that that the the proof of
Jesus being the Son of God because of
his miracles is really just reduced to
like an act he does is he tours college
campuses that would be the perfect
FoxNews Hey look at me I'm walking a
water Jesus's carrot top and he just
thought they don't like the magic
tricks anymore because I've got kids you
to appreciate thank you having beehive
Ducker yeah the kids are too sensitive
for water at the Y rocky by day we
thought that was awesome and far out it
was a great bit cuz they're politically
correct culture all of a sudden I got
Bill W going as a map this is great
stuff let's continue they just pounding
waters up there to good
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
what is the coup d'etat that he's
talking about he said it twice he also
said it twice I think he just get a
laugh so he put it back again what is
happening in Venezuela right now you can
make juice yeah they can't Guido's like
hey I don't like medoras dating material
anymore what he's talking about the
truth I got people that use gas lighting
and don't know what it means he doesn't
know it
oh we're getting gas lit into a coup de
taille over here but you took the red
pill like Stacy - didn't clueless what
he meant is that you used to be able to
make jokes and now you can't make jokes
because they have gotten control of
weather who can make joke but Trump fend
it off a day ya know he stops the coup
d'etat I'm the only one letting you do a
venue in Teaneck New Jersey where you
 and whine about college kids the
person standing against history Dave
Rubens gonna come out the plane for 15
minutes about a D monetization on his
YouTube channel we've got a great show
tonight mark Stein has a weird accent
that makes no sense
he's from Canada but he tries to talk
like an Oxford Don doesn't like black
people then Dave Rubin is gonna talk
about Ivy with the cleanup hitter of
Dennis Miller with 1970s gerbil
reference so here they're arguing the
one this is the sort of like the you
know Donald Trump may be horrible at
everything but he's
he's managed to stop PC in its tracks
yeah under the door is what Alice
Castellana says last week on this week
he throws the grenade under the door
that's not possible unless it's in like
I guess a men's bathroom there's a
doggie door there's a very low threshold
you don't throw a grenade under the door
because what happens is it hits the door
and bounces back at you incidentally
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
they're getting to it he's up there with
the Trump the one thing he's able to do
is get up there and talk about the the
 countries when nobody else
would or say that it speak the truth
Americans were typically not Haiti
before Trump was president right finally
allowed in weird suburban white people
that's rash eighty never happened before
now
