what is this borscht Epstein
so Seema Verma who's the what is it what
is her position do you know it's really
mister she had this tweet about the
scariest Halloween costume and then she
got to Iran Sinclairs bottom line with
Boris commentary to like sort of talk
about it yeah now she is an official at
the health and human services right or
what is CMS is the I think that's Centre
for oh I'm sorry
she's Health and Human Services but she
is at the center she is
current administrator of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services
she is the government basically official
of Medicare Medicaid on Halloween she
posted a tweet this is the scariest
Halloween costume goes to and it's a guy
wearing a t-shirt medicare-for-all I
mean just contemplate the hostility that
she has towards her own program stunning
and so she gets a visit to borscht
Epstein on the Sinclair media empire
borscht Epstein I wonder if she is to
Medicare and Medicaid like borscht
Epstein is to broadcasting I will say
one of the few people who I think is
worse at this than May poorest Epstein
and so I hope he never goes away in some
ways Medicare for all has become a
popular slogan for many Democrats on the
campaign trail I spoke to the
administrator of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services Seema
Verma about whether Medicare for all is
a feasible notion here's what she told
me well as the head of the program I
deal with Medicare program day in and
day out and I can tell you that there
are a lot of problems in the Medicare
so medicare-for-all is simply a bad idea
what we need to do is focus on
strengthening the program you try to
expand it that's gonna really threaten
the program for the people that it's
supposed to serve you know we've heard
about the price tag on this some thirty
two trillion dollars it's not something
that our country could afford and I
think it would really threaten the
solvency of the program in other areas
fraud and abuse people talk about how
Medicare has low administrative costs
well that's because we're not doing a
great job on fraud and abuse we only
review half a percent of all the claims
that are out there so you know I think
what we want to do is strengthen the
program make it work better for seniors
not trying to dilute its focus here's
the bottom line
the slogan Medicare for all may be
useful to Democrats looking to fire up
their base but it is an absolutely
unrealistic idea single-payer health
care would cost way too much and would
actually hurt American people throughout
the country there you go
so first off shoot the lie that Medicare
will be somehow diluted if more
healthier people enter the risk pool is
absurd in fact there's every reason to
believe that people will have more
opportunities to see more doctors if
you're in Medicare now versus versus a
program of Medicare for all because
virtually all doctors would be within
the program and prices would come down
is there Medicare fraud of course there
is
there's also insurance fraud heck one of
the biggest Medicare fraud stirs is
running for governor of Florida but it's
true administrative costs are incredibly
small we didn't making it a universal
program sort of eat into that whole
fraud part of it though like I mean I
you would presumably there would give
more opportunity to those people who are
committing fraud against insurance
companies now would would
they'll commit fraud they would just
find it through a different Medicare
it's conceivable that the quality of the
policies you put in place to fight fraud
would get more robust because it
wouldn't be so Byzantine with two
differents systems but the idea that
that fraud with Medicare is a problem
with the Medicare as opposed to the
criminals is just bizarre there's health
insurance fraud in the private industry
Medicare I think the big number that
they throw around was like two hundred
and fifty billion dollars I'm not sure
about that but that's off the top of my
head but even still that's that's not
necessarily a huge number relative to
the fraud in the private health
insurance industry her place seems to be
towards seniors to galvanize them to say
hey if we give this to everyone you're
getting less of this pie and it's going
to compromise your health care yeah
colonise the most consistent voters that
that's what that's what the the
administration has been pushing and it's
it's fascinating to me that they are
this afraid of it
she had a follow-up tweet after that
Halloween one where she said did I get
your attention good Medicare for all
isn't a joke it's a multitrillion-dollar
draining on the American economy and
that will bankrupt future generations
it's government controlled health care
that will strip choice away from
millions it's a bad idea and it is scary
and of course we've already talked about
that thirty two trillion dollar number
actually represents a two trillion
dollar savings and for the American
people that's right that's right yeah
overall but they're they're worried
about it
