[Music]
everyday casual Friday that means Monday
is casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat gommage our day
report with sam Sita
[Laughter]
it is Friday November 23rd 2018 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA folks I cannot tell a lie
we are not here we are still basking and
what do they call that tryptophan the so
hackneyed so tired of hearing about
tryptophan we had turkey yesterday some
of us maybe did not have turkey some of
us head maybe tofurkey something like
that hopefully your Thanksgiving was
pleasurable you made it through dealing
with your relatives if that's what you
chose to deal with I am quite sure that
I will have some stories to tell on
Monday but I may not tell them to you
because they may be inappropriate it may
be inappropriate and that I want to
single out any of my family members all
that said folks we do have a new
interview for you today on the program
an interview I did a couple days ago
with Alex Rosenblatt
author of uber land how algorithms are
rewriting the rules of work it's an
ethnographic look into ruber the
author's she spent a lot of time driving
around with the uber drivers talking to
them and thinking about the implications
of work fascinating stuff we will get
there in just a minute first I should
tell you that today's support for
today's show comes from be frugal if
you're an online shopper you have to try
be frugal be frugal lets you earn cash
back from over 5,000 stores including
Amazon Walmart Target Macy's and more
simply find the online store click on
the be frugal comm link that's B e FR ug
al.com to activate cashback and complete
your purchase or you can download the be
frugal extension for your browser to
automatically apply coupon codes and
activate cashback as you shop they add
the best deals from around the web every
day and you'll earn the highest cashback
rates guaranteed up to 40% accessible
via PayPal direct deposit gift card or
cheque find everything from electronics
clothing and footwear to home goods
beauty toys travel more all of it
you're already shopping online why not
get paid for it even earn cashback on
your holiday shopping visit be frugal
dot-com / majority and get a $10 bonus
when you join for free that's be frugal
dot-com / majority ok we're gonna take a
quick break when we come back
Alex Rosenblatt author of uber land how
algorithms are rewriting the rules of
work and we will be back live on Monday
with the full complement of majority
report
HQ staff as opposed to the non HQ staff
okay quick break be right back we are
back Sam cedar on the majority report on
the phone it's a pleasure to welcome to
the program Alex Rosenblatt she is a
researcher at the data and society
Research Institute she is a technology
ethnographer and of course author of the
book uber land how algorithms are
rewriting the rules of work Alex welcome
to the program a pleasure to be here so
alright let's just start with this what
exactly did you do in the course of
writing essentially this this study of I
guess of uber drivers in their
experience well for since about 2014
I've been doing an ethnography of uber
drivers and that basically means that
I've been learning from strangers so I
have traveled across more than 25 cities
in the United States and in Canada more
than traveled more than 5,000 miles
riding around in cars and interviewed
over a hundred and 25 drivers observed
hundreds more on the road in addition
I've actually spent a lot of time online
drivers have formed networks and groups
on the Internet where they share
information so the group's I follow
which could be Facebook group so they
could include driver dedicated websites
collectively had about 300,000 members
by the end of 2017
so why like what drew you to this what
was the when I mean I think when
ethnographers go into the field as it
were they don't necessarily have any or
maybe they do some pre-existing
assumptions or thesis ease but what whoa
how did you enter into this and why when
I was starting on this project
uber was still the darling of the
business and tech beat and it was a very
prom
missing example of the sharing economy
which was a sort of movement in the
early well just after the Great
Recession and after the Great Recession
people had experienced broad losses they
might have lost their jobs there were
foreclosure crises and in that moment
goober and Airbnb and other technology
companies emerged onto the scene and
said hey we've got a solution we can
offer you know temporary ways to earn
money or we can offer in ubers case
entrepreneurship for the masses by using
technology to scale opportunities for
people to share underutilized assets or
skills and make some money at a time
when people really needed that and so I
was really captivated by the rhetoric of
sharing because it seemed like a promise
that might be masking something at the
same time because when you ask people to
work you call it sharing there's always
something just a bit suspicious about
that but initially I was quite drawn
into one promise that seemed to hold up
quite well which is that there had been
long-standing problems for people to be
able to hail a cab particularly for
people of color and especially for men
of color who might be passed over by a
cab driver who might instead choose to
pick up a nearby white passenger and so
there was a constant issue of curbside
discrimination and uber came along and
said hey we've got a policy of blind
passenger acceptance and so drivers have
limited information about the passenger
before they accept the dispatch and that
seemed to resolve a problem which was
really neat and so we started at the
time myself and my a research partner I
would start started looking into uber as
an example of the promise of the sharing
economy to examine you know its actual
impact and because it seemed to have a
social contribution to society that
would promote equality and it turned out
that that policy that we were so
interested in actually was one of a
larger system of policies that were
either implicit or explicit on inverse
platform that affected how drivers were
managed at work okay and that that last
sentence is is is is pretty loaded and I
want to get there I just want to put a
pin in that for
because we should also there's because
there there seems to be a distinct
there's there's a there seems to be a
significant distinction between
so-called ride-sharing companies which
are really you know or let's just leave
the you know you know except that for
the moment ride-sharing companies and
uber is a distinction right there's a
specific culture associated with uber as
there is you know that may or may not be
indicative of all ride-sharing and
there's also a distinction between uber
and and sort of I guess the the gig
economy but starting at that level like
to what extent did you find in the
course of your research what what were
broad-stroke sharing economy sort of
principles that you found in terms of
the relationship between I guess well I
mean they claimed not employer but what
we're broad strokes or you know gig
economy points did you find well I would
say that uber has been a dominant market
play factor for a ride hailing and I'm
not sure that other right healing
companies with similar health or that
distinct from uber and its own practices
I would say the difference is that uber
has been engulfed in many more scandals
but the employment practices across
ruber and then maybe you crossed lyft
and across you know for example which is
a local one to New York City have a lot
in common even while they carve out some
distinct differences like better
customer service for example towards
drivers but ride-sharing which is more
popular term to describe uber is part of
how it participated in the sharing
economy promise and the sharing economy
was about you know creating access to
new job opportunities new income earning
opportunities but through a type of work
that wasn't necessarily a job it was
through the form of social contribution
or social reciprocity
and it drew on a longer legacy of
cooperative Commerce like circling or
couchsurfing except it's banked on our
assumptions about what that looks like
on the internet and so a good example of
that might be Wikipedia where you have
crowds of strangers who are contributing
edits to form a global encyclopedia of
knowledge and that idea that we're all
just contributors is an assumption that
uber leveraged a sort of style B of
working with offering as a form of
sharing but upon closer inspection
drivers aren't of course driving you
from A to B because they want to share
their car even while they might also
enjoy the effective benefit of talking
to passengers like the social benefits
at the end of the day they're largely
doing it for money I mean you know it's
it's tough coming from New York in terms
of like my perspective of these
ride-sharing and I happen to use Juno
you know just because there's something
about uber that I find not good but the
all a lot of these it's not it's it's
it's fundamentally different isn't in in
some of the big cities relative to other
places because most of the the Juno
drivers they seem to be you know
professionals on some level that that
speak to that that that difference you
know regionally as to you know who does
these that helps to do more with New
York which is a bit of an anomaly across
New Berlin New York has had a robust
taxi industry and a lot of the drivers
who started working for uber and lived
in Juno and others came from an
occupational background of driving they
might previously have experiences taxi
drivers or even a truck drivers and
another major distinction is that the
cost to entry in New York City is higher
than it is in other places because it's
regulated the drivers have to obtain
licenses and permits through the New
York City Taxi and Limousine Commission
they have to undergo some training they
have to
LP license plate I have to get
commercial insurance and in other cities
drivers just need a you know a driver's
license a car that meets the world lift
standards and personal insurance they
have to pass a like background check and
they can be on the road and working in a
couple of days which is quite remarkable
but in New York City the cost entry is
higher because you have all of these
additional requirements and so it's not
quite you know the pool of drivers who
might say ok let me try and do this for
two hours a week or two hours a week the
majority of drivers in New York City are
doing this to earn their livelihood and
so okay so what those for those people
who are not like the drivers in New York
what when when they do this like how
does their where do their expectations
start and and where do they end up or I
should say what what are those
expectations met I'd say there's some
variation for how drivers have their
expectations begin boys are what they
want for a minute I mean there's drivers
like said se who was in Washington DC
and he used to take lift home at the end
of the night at the bar and so he was
familiar with it and thought you know
why don't I try driving these services
as well when I met him he was driving
for lyft and also you know considering
driving for uber in other cases you know
people have seen advertisement like you
could make $90,000 a year you could make
$30 an hour and they thought hey you
know like let me give us a shot for
people who are coming out of an
environment where they felt quite
monitored and surveilled and like a call
center uber and lyft and the like felt
like a more independent opportunity to
potentially earn more money for a driver
like Nathan who was in LA he's a trained
as a social worker and provides
psychotherapy sessions for his clients
and he started driving ride held because
he wanted to have a social connection
with passengers that was lighter than
what he had to absorb from passing firms
masters and patients who had really
serious mental health concerns and
distress like PTSD and so
you get it kind of a wide variety I mean
I remember meeting drivers who just had
leisure time or a spare vehicle sitting
in their driveway and they said hey you
know my son is kind of teasing me for
having this big old SUV in my driveway
I'm going to show him and like go sign
up to drive rupert's are driving people
around do you got quite arrange and then
there'd be people who you know whose
business owner and they needed to find a
source of income really quickly did
those different types of people who go
in do they have like did they have a
fundamentally different experience or or
how they experienced the relationship
with uber was it markedly different or
similar I would say it's quite different
the people who feel I think most
successful on these platforms are either
the optimizers who are really good at
being responsive to the different
gamified forms of work that these
platforms have so when there's
particular incentive that you can get
paid a premium to work at a particular
place at a particular time like they
were very responsive to those naked Oh
II got a pretty decent income or at
least they were excited by the challenge
and there were there's others for whom
if they're not economically dependent on
driving to earn their livelihood they
tend to have a bit of a better
experience because they might be doing
it for supplemental money I could be to
pay discrete bills even though when
those bills are quite important like
you're paying a healthcare bill you're
saving up for your daughter's college
tuition or because you want to start
your own business you still might have
another job and so you're not quite as
reliant on it which means that when uber
unilaterally changes the rate at which
you earn per minute and per mile which
it does and it's often implemented rate
cuts that drivers really chafe at you're
not as affected by those rate cuts if
you're a part-time driver rather than if
you're a full-time driver who relies on
this work more so for those I mean let's
talk about the concept of you know
allowing these people to perceive
themselves or to be entrepreneurs I mean
how does that
is that promise real in the sense that
like the if there is that dynamic of
uber can just change the rate structure
overnight or something like that is
there is there genuine room for
entrepreneurship or are they just
basically just uh you know providing
labor what I found in my research with
drivers over four years is that drivers
do not have entrepreneurial
freedom to make decisions in their own
best interest and that's because they
have both information and power
asymmetries from the platform so for
example uber is in charge of setting the
rates and drivers can negotiate lower
pay but not higher when they have to
accept a dispatch they don't know where
the passenger wants to go or how much
the value of that trip is if they
decline a trip because they're sitting
in a surge pricing zone and there they
specifically went there they could try
and get a premium on our next ride and
uber dispatches them you know an on
surge pricing that says hey you know
we're gonna deactivate you if you keep
up this surge manipulation and
deactivate is just a word that means
suspended or fired and so when I started
to find was that driver is in fact
didn't have the information he needed to
make it for my vision and even when they
did try to you know exert their autonomy
there were situations in which you
Burwood threatened to punish them such
as by firing them if they did that so
how I mean so how are the algorithms
like changing the work dynamic it sounds
like the algorithms are just basically
you know the the person who works for
the boss and the boss doesn't want to be
the bad guy that's a little bit like
that I mean instead of having hundreds
of or thousands of human supervisors who
monitor drivers and you know help them
do a better job you have algorithms that
are basically just rules encoded in
software and when I say you know
algorithms are managing drivers it's
really about ecosystem where there's a
number of algorithms and also you know
automated customer support and like
they're part of an ecosystem in which
the interaction of the relationship
between uber drivers is one that is
connected through automated or technical
technical communications and so you have
like different Bieber's to try and get
drivers to create in particular ways and
to standardize the services they provide
across you know hundreds of cities
without having a human manager looking
over your shoulder on the other hand
having an app collect data on your every
move can be a much more granular form of
workplace surveillance than you might
experience in a comfortable setting with
a human boss
and that's kind of interesting because a
lot of drivers might prefer the feeling
of Independence that comes you know
choosing when to get in the car and
start working and they enjoy and benefit
from the scheduling flexibility they
have on the other hand they have you
know a boss who's going to intervene
when they brake too harshly or
accelerate too quickly it's gonna send
them an in-app notification or an email
or a text message and it'll do the same
when drivers try and log off for example
you might be tired kind of ready to go
home or you have to go pick up your
daughter and another ride request comes
through but maybe it is even a technical
problem maybe when it's supposed to be
on your screen for fifteen seconds it's
only there for like two seconds and then
it counts against what's called your
ride acceptance rate and so there's
increasingly like detailed aspects to
the rules where if drivers have signed
up for example to be paid an incentive
like a guarantee of forty dollars an
hour if you behave in the following
listicle of ways but then they miss the
ride acceptance and that could ding them
for the whole night and make them lose
the entire set that they were working
towards and so they have to keep working
you know like this is not a perfect
technical system but there's also a lot
of ways in which you burr has carved out
forms of shift work for drivers who then
have to match the incentives by
performing particular behaviors so I
mean aside from what sounds like a very
good argument that uber drivers are
misclassified as a way of uber trying to
avoid you know taking the responsibility
that employer has for employees well how
do the how do the drivers themselves
how do they how conscious are they of
the dynamic you just spoke of that in
some respects they're being more
efficiently monitored and corralled and
just like with flexible hours
essentially I think it can take some
time I think there's different sort of
evolutionary stages of the driver
experience at the beginning it might
feel more free you know you can log in
and log out at well but you know you
might be that if you're working in a job
or your working conditions or a
reflection of changes in the market that
might mean that the premium time to work
is when you have to pick up your kids in
school and so you might be trying to
engage in on-demand work because of the
flexible schedule but you might be
corralled into working at particular
times in particular places anyways if
you're dependent on this work to earn
your livelihood I would say that where
drivers sort of meet the algorithm I
faced a Phineas's almost where they when
they have a problem and so while they
were quick to get started working they
rarely have all the information they
need to manage all of the exigencies of
this job so if you've a pastor who
harasses you or smokes in your vehicle
what you do and there's not really a
good form of grievance channels for
drivers and that's when they started to
become more aware that although they're
being monitored you know there's not a
lot of accountability in that system of
surveillance and that's when there's
more chase because we start to run into
issues of fairness like hey I wasn't
paid for 11 trips that was paid for 10
you have to email back and forth with a
remote customer service agency possibly
located in the Philippines to try and
get you know your payment and so you
start to see that despite the fact that
there's an overlay of technology that
creates distance between you branded
drivers and their working relationship
there's also their typical workplace
issues that come up which is like what
are you doing things go wrong how do you
handle harassment how do you handle
discrimination how do you handle
potential wage that how much I mean it
does strike me as like one of those like
classic scenes at the at the restaurant
where the customer can say let me see
your manager and the manager comes over
and the customer gets some satisfaction
from
but there's no opportunity for that
person who's working there to go to
their manager and say it's this this
customer is acting like a jerk there's
just no there's no opportunity there
only goes one way well look let me ask
you this with all the monitoring I mean
you talked about how the you write about
how the the phone you know can measure
how how gracefully they stop at
stoplights and etc etc I mean down to
every action they take when they take
their breaks when they log on to work
and whoa log off to xub or sell that
information like they have data on the
customers but they also seem to have an
enormous wealth of data on their workers
and I would imagine they have sort of
supplementary data to sort of say like
someone who makes this amount of money
you can expect them to work this much or
you know like do they have data on their
workers that they sell to other
enterprises I don't know whether or not
they sell that data but certainly the
collection of it should give a lot of
people pause and not just drivers for
example when right now companies offer a
promotion to drive you to the polling
authority to like to vote you know you
got a Wonder okay now maybe either they
acquire list of people who are gonna
vote and maybe which direction I might
go to like who knows there's lots of
ways in which data collection for one
purpose can be converted into another
application that consumers of technology
might not consider appropriate yeah one
point uber was using it as a way of
basically leveraging the coverage they
got right because they there was the
story of the reporter and they were they
were spying in some reporters right
there's a I mean they were they did
track the arrival of a reporter
different meeting with one of the four
regional managers and of course they've
had to enter into consent decrees with
the Federal Trade Commission Oh
data privacy violations they're
certainly not unique in having
challenges when it comes to data
collection and issues of privacy
consumer privacy and social norms around
data use but they've really stood out
because they've had so many scandals in
a lot of instances uber basically came
in broke local laws right and just sort
of created facts on the ground I also
developed a lot of political
relationships both with like you know
national parties and whatnot to what
extent and we've seen this you know sort
of almost like with Airbnb as well to a
lesser degree but in some instances
you've got like you know small towns
where hotels are saying like hey wait a
second we've got a we've got all these
regulations this is just a way of
skirting it to what extent to the the
drivers do they have a perspective on
that on whether or not drive it oh yeah
I mean to what extent do they have a
consciousness of the way this business
model was settled was basically to break
the laws and to what extent are they
aware that some of these laws were built
to protect people like myself so this
also depends on the evolutionary stages
of drivers across Overland and I'll give
you an example when I was doing
fieldwork in Montreal Quebec back in
early 2016
drivers were risking fines and attacked
by aggressive taxi drivers and fines and
having their cars impounded by the
transportation police to work on the
uber underground because when uber first
arrives to a new city it argues that
it's identified as a technology company
and therefore the rules that regulate
the transportation industry and their
transportation competitors like the taxi
business do not apply and so it still
has to
creet of face and so what it does is it
recruits drivers to work on the end
around and it compensates them for the
risk they take by paying their fines or
replacing their vehicles if their
impounded no until they become
legitimate in the city after they've you
know established a base of services and
to do that
don't leverage their popular support
with consumers and use them almost like
a political constituency you know hexam
are right the messages and say you know
hey this city or this particular
government official or this regulator
wants to shut us down and like take away
these services that benefit everyone so
much No why don't you call over like
help vote in our favor for any pending
legislation that might affect its
business model in ways it doesn't like
and so there's an interesting dynamic
where there can be this moment of
regulatory forbearance
even when a laws exist that could be
used to constrain activities that might
be considered illegal even while they're
quite popular you know there's a moment
of pause because it does provide you
know an efficient service and a lot of
people really enjoy and so you want to
be the regulator who says like I'm
shutting this thing down that you enjoy
so much and so it plays this kind of a
game and drivers are initially enlisted
participate in the cause by working on
the underground I mean they're signed up
to work in cities were hasn't even
officially arrived I've been
interviewing taxi drivers you know in
Cooper years ago who have youtuber app
on their phones for years and that's
because they're ready for when were
finally launches there and that's where
is you know playbook right if it gets to
new city recruits and it tries to launch
before it's legal and that's a strategy
and then by the time there's a sort of
full hearted objection to its services
it's already popular and it says well
here you really gonna shut us down and
that's when they enter into conflicts
with city that try and say okay let's
accommodate you but also we would like
to safeguard our constituents such as by
requiring that your drivers have
fingerprint-based background checks as
the City of Austin did and at that
moment we were and even left in awesome
case might say hey if you
try and pass this legislation and you
succeed
work it applaud account which is
remarkable because you know everyone's
quite familiar with the mostly
apocryphal story of a factory it says
hey if you don't give me a tax break I'm
gonna leave like I'm gonna first in
Mexico or something like that but in the
case I'm gonna leave I'm gonna leave
Washington State and go to South
Carolina
you know if I'm Boeing your site happens
right and they can just set off the app
you know it's remarkable you don't
benefactor you can make everybody
stranded which is exactly what happened
to both drivers you would relied on the
further income and the passengers you
know in Austin when they left in 2016 so
you find that like the sense of
awareness that people have about what it
means for a disruptive Silicon Valley
company to arrive can really evolve over
time and do the drivers though come to
see like hey wait a second this may be a
problem we could use some regulation or
no I mean my understanding is I haven't
been to Austin since that happened but I
understanding in Austin that they
they've come up with all sorts of
different alternatives they did Austin
was very quick to source alternative
other I think uber and lyft are back now
and so it's kind of tricky because even
if a local startup is successful you
know as soon as it were and lyft
returned it's like well we've got this
like global contingent of passengers who
already have this app download entire
phone so they have this quite
significant Marketplace power even if
there are local alternatives and there's
you know when I was in Austin drivers
didn't particularly object to taking you
know fingerprint-based background checks
which they had like many months to do
and they were passed it because they
felt that the cities that the company
had pulled out of town without regard to
how drivers rely on it so their income
they might have bought new cars to start
this work that kind of thing on the
other hand uber made morally persuasive
arguments that fingerprint-based
background checks would basically feed
into a criminal justice system that
disproportionately affects people of
color and African Americans and so their
argument with that you know we shouldn't
have to impose this on our work for
but if you look just slightly beneath
that logic the adults the fact that
super and let's rely on a very high turn
of drivers through a system their
business model relies on people being
able to sign up and get to work you know
in under a week for example and singer
print based background checks are a much
more stringent form they have to go here
like I record for example they can take
four months and so you wouldn't be able
to sign up drivers as readily you know
if you permitted this accommodation that
the city was legislating towards yeah I
probably take a little bit of a
jaundiced view on on their on a new
burrs concern for for social justice but
be that may be more of a reflection of
me than them but all right so lastly let
me ask you this did you ever come across
any attempt of drivers to basically form
some type of co-op version of uber or to
unionize in some fashion because if it
is just the technology at the end of the
day the technologies can be replicated
certainly like I say I use Juno it's
just in New York and it's really just a
question of adoption but if all the
drivers you know had decided that
they're going to use a you know a co-op
type of system that seems to be to be
feasible in some way but was there ever
talk of that or did or our people who
you know who want to drive for a living
tend to be sort of more independent in
some fashion I would say that a lot of
drivers have an idea of independence
that even if they haven't achieved it
super unless fibers you know desire and
I would also reflect that I think a lot
of the discussions about coops I
probably come from more like political
views or academics who are interested in
platform co-operativism and in sort of
bringing out the promise of the sharing
economy I don't think it's a popular
alternative among drivers although
certainly in different cities Oh taxi
companies have developed their own apps
which is not to say that they're a co-op
and also there's in local solutions
across different cities but that doesn't
get at the global and network effects
interesting well the book is uber land
how algorithms are rewriting the rules
of work Alex Rosenblatt thanks so much
for your time today I really appreciate
it it was great acuity fans thank you
