in the meantime we've lost another one
folks Nikki hailey has resigned from the
Trump administration as UN Ambassador
and it is unclear at this point why she
has there is reporting that this is an
indication that Pompey and Bolton have
won the day it may mean she's not
belligerent enough at the UN hard to
believe she disagreed with them in
regards to how many refugees we should
let into this country I I certainly
don't want to make it seem like she's in
a reasonable individual it's just that
she's in a room with some full-on
lunatics and so it makes her look
slightly better although she the ease in
which she lies and the weirdness and
what she expresses she identifies
herself is a little bit strange here she
is speaking to the press in announcing
her resignation sitting next to Donald
Trump it has been an honour of a
lifetime
I know I said I am such a lucky girl to
have been able to leave the state that
raised brothers now I find that if I
would to refer to a 45 some odd year-old
woman who is the ambassador to the
United Nations as a girl she's a lucky
girl
I mean honestly this is just it's just
bizarre
that's what Daddy Trump likes she's
being folksy I guess so come sit on my
lap is it really are you really too much
I guess in the in the wake of what went
on with Kavanagh you don't want to get
too pushy right call yourself her to
yourself as a woman I mean can you
imagine if a 45 year old man was
resigning from the UN and saying
I've always found myself to be such a
lucky boy you know what actually I can
really I've moved the large Suns concept
sim I am NOT large adult sons so it's
basically like the Trump boys they're
their adult men but they don't have any
sense of responsibility so Cavanaugh was
being a bit of a large son I see it's
kind of the same he will go to his his
acceptance speech and to say I am one of
the luckiest boys in the world it's kind
of the same principle by which a
twelve-year-old black kid is a
terrifying criminal who deserves to be
killed on sight while a 60 year old
white man is just you know he's he's
just a boy I just don't blame him for
anything I that may be the case that in
his mind but I just don't think that
they would refer to themselves as a boy
but continue it has been an honour of a
lifetime I you know I said I am such a
lucky girl to have been able to leave
the state that raised me and to serve a
country I loved so very much has really
been a blessing and I want to thank you
for that but a most excited look at the
two years look at what has happened in
two years with the United States on
foreign policy now the United States is
respected countries may not like what we
do but they respect what we do yeah
about that I'm not sure if the
ambassador to the UN was at the UN I
guess it was about a week and a half ago
because if she was she might have seen
this in less than two years my
administration has accomplished more
than almost any administration in the
history of our country America's so true
didn't expect that reaction but that's
okay yes you can see the teeming respect
that they have for our country now oh
and also you may have heard that a an
American resident a Saudi journalist was
just killed in an Istanbul embassy
sodium embassy because they have so much
respect for us and then of course the
Chinese basically kidnapped the head of
Interpol because of the tremendous
respect that in which we are held and
then around the country of course I'm
sure you've seen the polling where if
you measure that as a sign of respect it
is at an all-time low but the bottom
line is the this country is our capacity
to exercise soft power so been so
greatly diminished and that is really
scary because our hard power we still
quite are quite confident about it and
that's where we'll end up going when we
don't get our way yeah the world
respects us the way you respect a
five-year-old who's gotten its hands on
a gun you know just like a really cool
guy that you respect right exactly of
course so Nikki Haley leaving some
people are speculating that perhaps
she's anticipating Lindsey Graham going
to Attorney General and then getting
appointed senator from South Carolina
serving for six years perhaps and then
running for president in 2024 who knows
but I don't think we're gonna be so
lucky for her to move on to a corporate
job we may not be the lucky boys and
girls that she is and we may see her in
in the future in our politics all right
