crisis averted is not really a typical
story during the Trump era crisis walked
headlong into seems to be however
another government shutdown was averted
this week and Donald Trump did not get
funding for the wall he or he got some
funding for the wall but not nearly as
much and we'll talk more about that also
there was a role for labor in this
dispute which I think has been under
played dramatically Democrats were
looking to cap the number of beds that
ice can basically set up to detain
people they did not get that hard cap
they did however supposedly work out
some type of formula which they think
will diminish the number of beds that
ice maintains we shall see but largely
crisis averted
I guess you know time to move on to
another one but what how do you think
this played out Donald Trump seems to
have lost and done so with quite a
whimper well he certainly did I mean
this was this last shutdown I mean
apparently what happened was is that the
Republicans finally reached their limit
shutdowns I mean there have been five I
believe directions Trump took office
four so for two years seven five five
shutdowns most of them were pretty
insignificant this last one of course
was absolutely horrific and was the
longest in history and really did cause
a tremendous amount of suffering and
even impacted the overall economy and
you know they finally seem to have
gotten you know okay we we can't do this
again
and so you know they went through the
process that would normally be the
process of the appropriators coming up
with some kind of an you know an
agreement that's normally how how
government is run in this country and
you know Trump really was left without
any choice but to sign it and when you
look and apparently you know and this is
this is just this was in the cards I
think from the very beginning when you
look at that
when you think back to the first year
when he was offered 25 billion dollars
for the wall in exchange for you know
path to citizenship for des safety and
path to citizenship for the daca
recipients and a number of other sort of
big-ticket items on the Democratic side
which would have been a big immigration
deal he made the deal and then walked
away from it because Stephen Miller and
other hardline immigration people came
back after the deal had been struck with
a bunch of poison pills especially about
legal immigration which is basically you
know that's fundamental to the to this
administration's immigration policy so
they walked away from that deal and then
subsequently they walked away from deal
after deal after deal until it has now
been diminished to the point where he
got 1 billion dollars to fix some sense
a little over 1 billion to fix some
fences on the border that's basically
what he ended up getting out of this so
you know the great art of the deal
negotiator turns out how it should be
perhaps the worst negotiator in American
history which is not surprising to you
and me but it is you know still goes a
little against his brand that's not
stopping him however from declaring
victory and say it all went you know
it's great they're already building the
wall now they just need to finish the
wall and his new approach is just going
to be saying well you know you can
believe me or you can believe your lying
eyes the wall is there it is you know
and you think it's invisible but it's
actually there because that's that's all
he's left with they literally at his el
paso rally they literally had signs that
said finished the wall there was no
longer build the wall it was signs that
said finish the wall as if it was
ongoing or they were building it or they
had half built it and to a certain
extent I mean I and we could talk about
whether we think this is gonna work I I
sort of think it might and frankly I
would there's a whole whole host of
things that I feel like maybe this could
solve in terms of problems how about the
temporary stat protection status for
refugees from places like Haiti in
African countries there where you have
folks who are here because there were
civil wars so there was a natural
disaster how about just Donald Trump you
know a printing up sign saying we sent
them all back just like we can go
full-on into he just pretends that he's
done all these things I would rather
they pretend it about doing the tax cuts
I mean this maybe we've maybe we've come
up on on a possible solution to bring
the country together
well you know I mean it works for me
much better than if he actually
accomplishes these things right so if
this is what we need to do it's an
emperor has no clothes kind of riff
right I mean we just sort of pretend
like he's successful and everybody kind
of knows their head and go okay good
good for you now I don't know how that
plays out electorally because I do have
some concerns that some of this is
working for him even beyond just that
his hard core base because you know one
of the big mystique about Donald Trump
was that he can win against all odds so
if he can persuade you know I don't know
you know I don't want to call him low
information voters but just P know
people who were sitting around going hey
you know the economy is pretty good I'm
floating Trump's a weirdo but hey he
really is getting he's able to win even
when it looks like he can't you know you
got to admire that that guys are real
you know he's got grit and he can get
her done so it is a little concerning
just because I've kind of lost faith
meeting the American people's ability to
sort of separate fact from fiction so
you know I don't know but it certainly
is better than actually doing these
things so you know I'll take what I can
what I can get as far as the border wall
is concerned look you know this it was a
horrible process from the very beginning
that took that brought us to this place
it's ridiculous and you know I'm not
going to blame Trump for that he ran on
that issue he was trying to fulfill a
pro a campaign promise that he made and
it was the Republicans in Congress who
made this happen they are the ones who
are responsible for this 100%
they knew from the beginning that this
was a ridiculous idea that it was never
going to happen and yet they just cannot
summon even the tiniest bit of courage
to face this guy down and tell him
what's what and explain to him Mitch
McConnell could have brought that to a
vote at any time they could have sent it
to the president and let him veto it and
he Mitch McConnell could have
undoubtedly if he if any of these
Republicans had even the slightest guts
they could have overridden the veto and
you know that's all they had to do and
they and they know that the wall was a
ridiculous concept from the beginning so
you know I blame them more than Trump I
mean he you know he's just doing what he
does but the rest of these people they
didn't have to shut down the government
for you know Mitch McConnell seems to
think it was a lesson you know what we
had to teach Trump a lesson yeah well it
was a pretty expensive lesson right and
Donald Trump didn't learn anything let's
be honest
he just had just met more executive time
for him all right we've got to take a
quick break when we come back we got
more to talk about
this and other things going on in the
news it's been another crazy week
I'm Sam cedar this is a ring of fire
radio
