you're calling for three four seven area
code who are you where you calling from
hello um hello three four seven are you
there hello hello three four seven are
you there hello yes
that's yeah we've had your chance when
we say your area code that means you're
on your own you're asked right you're
calling from a seven eight one area code
who are you where you're calling from
hey guys how you doing hey what's your
name where you calling from um actually
I'm from Massachusetts so I get the kind
of local connection here I'm from the
South Shore town called Pembroke oh nice
what's on your mother why yeah you guys
were about seven eight months now and
believe it or not the way I caught on to
you guys was I had heard a friend of
mine who was he got into like Sam Harris
and all this stuff so he's like you were
to listen to this guy he's really on
something on to something and I'm
listening to it I'm like this guy is I
don't know what's going on I could tell
he was bullshitting so I was looking for
somebody who would criticize him so I
went on YouTube I typed his name and you
guys came up with about five or six
different YouTube videos criticizing
himself in making them so I'm like
alright I'm have to check this out good
like actually the first the first real
impression that there were to the Boris
Epstein and my favorite though the one
that is my favorite and in a way I'm
glad he's out of the white house but the
way I'm not because you don't hear
Monty's much juice is Borka I missed or
guilty impression I miss
we all miss actually last week Steve
cook and I were lamenting the the
disappearance I mean Gorkhas gotten so
obscure so quickly that it doesn't even
it's just like you just have to shoehorn
that impression like it there isn't
even a context to do it I worked for him
yes I was a politican commissioned
officer I work for him yes I was a
politically commissioned officer mm-hmm
yes I was in the Quiznos parking lot
masturbating yes that's true I don't
know why there's anything wrong with
that it's something the PC culture that
says you can't be jerking off in your
Thunderbird
I imagine Gorka is pretty upset about
the Syrian withdrawal plans no I would
imagine he is whatever Trump says but
you know what you know what's
interesting to me about Gorka is that
his ideas on Middle East and security
are quite similar to Sam Harris's and
what's funny is like the only difference
but there's actually like three
differences there one is like okay look
sure if this I know cuz people get still
like unbelievably triggered and weird
about any Sam Harris criticism which is
probably something good to sort of self
assess in and of itself if like there
should be no right like if somebody
likes right is like hey I'm a fan of you
know Michael Brooks or whatever and some
reasons no I that guys you know he's an
 and I or I don't agree like you
can debate that person and that's great
but it shouldn't like shake your
emotional and existential foundations
the way it seems to affect people with
sam harris and you know obviously jordan
Peterson which is you know weird and
bizarre and of itself but so I'll do
this though okay like sure generically
of course sam Harris I'm sure is a
smarter guy than Sebastian Gorka okay if
people need that obvious fig leaf there
on the other hand their actual thinking
about this is extremely similar which is
like it's Islamic terrorism you need to
call it what it is and Islam is a thing
then history and sociology are
irrelevant and then number three
actually I'm sure Gorka has much more
like knowledge of South Asia in the
Middle East
just in his own like you know reading of
like WorldNetDaily blog post he probably
like if you gave them like a Jeopardy
quiz on like names of like heads of
state and like lines of succession in
Egypt or something he'd probably score
better than sam Harris but I don't yeah
I didn't want to cut you off knows my
back story I didn't really oh yeah go
ahead man what's your what's your
question buddy basically it just comes
down to I had a I guess you could say
through your guys comedy and just kind
of listening and in the whole Trump era
I've actually had sort of a like a set
of revelation I didn't really have any
strong political feelings but I grew up
at a family that would be definitely
center-right just by like your addition
right I don't know if like some people
it's just like it's in there and even
like when I was in like high school and
stuff and I kind of reflexively back
some center-right positions I didn't
feel right doing it it's just and then
the Trump ear is just open my ears so
eyes and ears so much to just how
cravenly like evil people are and it's
like you get the CD underlying
philosophy these people are monsters
yeah and two more helps both monsters
who they are but it's just I'm just
beside myself you know living I'm only
in my early 30s and it's like what the
hell is gonna happen in this country in
the next you know 20 years you know I'm
scared to death today if I can laugh
along the way you know well we should
laugh and that we have a lot of work to
do man what's your name
Oh Paul thanks Paul
appreciate your call man yep thanks Paul
look at it good stuff right with you
good good Sam Garity Paul and that's all
the way down at the bottom of the sea
right
