I mean there's uh there there there's so
many different cross currents going on
running down the news that it's almost I
mean it honestly like the past we we
took one day off and it feels like the
last time we were on was six months ago
I felt like saying happy new year when I
came back honestly the amount of you
know we had to at least two Democratic
candidates announced over the weekend we
had all sorts of activity on the Muller
investigation we have this continuing
narrative of AOC and the the the
messaging that she's basically doing on
a whole host of issues that seemed
impenetrable well certainly three years
ago
Bernie broke down some of those walls in
terms of a discussion but but really I
mean impenetrable up until like I don't
know six weeks ago I don't know I've
been walking around with a card in my
wallet and longtime listeners will know
this of the of the the tax rates through
the 50s and 60s to tell people as a
party trick just to freak people out and
I have never heard anyone on television
explicitly say what the tax rates were
in the 50s and 60s
like you know explicitly and now it
seems to be repeating constantly
basically because of ALC and it's not
gonna take long before it becomes you
know just sort of like a another fact
that is known like we have Medicare so
it's incredible and what's amazing too
is to watch what the right try and react
to this stuff because it's not just that
they debt they have a classic crappy
retort
this it's that they are it's making them
fumble and bumble so here is here is
Tucker Carlson who is you know as we've
talked about over the past couple of
weeks a a I guess a an enlightened
critic of market capitalism and or is is
is is trying to play one on television
and he invites on an FBI guy to talk
about the mauler investigation but he
can't help himself to just take a pause
before we get there and it's fascinating
to see what follows both the FBI the
former FBI and his the former what it
was he the the former he was high placed
this is not just an agent right yeah
okay he's tight he was a former director
assistant director that's not you know
this is this is not like I was yeah the
third guy in the Duluth office for six
months and so he has him on to that
because you know Tucker's trying to sort
of like thread this needle with his
market capitalism critique but also
trying to sidestep I guess like they
sort of the burgeoning movement on the
left that is founded on a capitalist
market critique and both he and the FBI
guy step in it big-time
in the meantime Terry Church II was
Deputy Assistant Director of the kind of
terrorism division of the FBI and he
joins us tonight Tara we originally
asked you to come on tonight to talk
about border security but before we do I
want to ask you your response to this
back and forth between BuzzFeed in the
special counsel's office what's your
take
sure Tucker well I'm the skeptic because
of being in law enforcement but I think
it's kind of pretty simple when you take
the election and you take the house and
you now convert all the committees that
you have to investigating various
aspects before one second
just I'm not sure exactly he says he's a
skeptic he's a skeptical of I'm not sure
exactly what here but law enforcement
guys usually when they were except
achill would just tend to believe like
lawn for like the existence of an
investigation was almost enough I was
waiting for a critique of college help
right Ivan and then you take the house
and you now convert all the committees
that you have to investigating various
aspects of the president United States
then your lifeblood has to be to react
to stories so you're going to see more
stories planted so that all these
committees can have a lot of work to do
and I think this is just more of the
same and I think we can expect more of
this because quite honestly the
electorate in some places is putting
more and more progressives and
self-described socialist in positions
and ironically years ago when I first
got into the FBI one of the missions of
the FBI in its counterintelligence
efforts was to try and keep these people
out of government why because we would
end up with massive dysfunction and
massive disinformation and massive
misinformation posited and now that's
not supposedly what the mission of the
FBI is I'm not I hope I'm not breaking
any news here that that is that was that
was when they ran amok and they got out
of their Lane we were told but the idea
that the former Deputy Assistant
Director of the FBI is now publicly
admitting that one of their agendas was
to keep progressive you'll see some
Social Democrats out of office I mean
this guy I don't know how old he was
when he you know how many years ago
we're talking about but this isn't like
1952 right like this is he's talking
about the 70s or the 80s or the 90s
where he the FBI is supposed to be
keeping progressives and socialists out
now first off to say that the reason why
you would do that is because there's too
much incompetence while you are
defending the Trump administration that
is actually ironic the idea that the FBI
tried to keep people out of that that's
just
coincidence or it's a failure of their
abilities to do so so here's this guy
both claiming that somehow AOC has
control over all of the the Democrats in
the party to who are forcing these
investigations and it's called oversight
which apparently there needed to be more
of the FBI during that time and he's
also saying that they bring about
incompetence in government which is a
hoot but here is where the civil
libertarian Tucker Carlson this is where
he really pounces one of the missions of
the FBI in its counterintelligence
efforts was to try and keep these people
out of government why because we would
end up with massive dysfunction and
massive disinformation and massive
misinformation and it seems to me that's
where we're at today I'm glad I don't
live in DC I don't know how you start to
separate this and make make head or
tails from it but it's a mess I mean
look if you believe in socialism if
you've got some program you want to
impose in the country tell us what it is
explain us how you how do you think it
works make the case for it but these
people are so stupid and so emotional so
overwrought that they think that the key
to run in the country is an endless
series of gotcha stories criminalizing
political disagreement I mean it's it's
it's the least straightforward way to
run a government I would I would say
okay so I guess it turns out that his
civil libertarian radar was not
triggered there but the it's quite clear
that the so-called socialists in the our
government to the extent that there are
any are explicitly laying out an agenda
of what should be done in fact that's
almost all that they get criticism for
on the other parts of your channel
Tucker and the idea that in some fashion
holding oversight hearings on a
president who's whose entire campaign
apparatus is rife with already with
convictions and guilty pleas seems you
know at best but the the you know
spurious so both these guys messed up
just in talking about the as soon as
they start to to bring it to this notion
of of actual politics I mean and and I
think in one instance one guy has to
reveal that the FBI was incredibly
corrupt in his mid lamenting those days
and and Tucker has to create a straw man
that somehow this is about SJW burger
and snowflakes exactly yeah remember the
other day when he sounded like Elizabeth
Warren with his critique of free-market
capitalism there were moments in that
speech where he sounded like Elizabeth
Warren and then there were other moments
where he sounded like just like every
other it makes you wonder what his real
differences are with these folks he
needed to but I'm Wiggly after there was
an actual like even by Fox standards
you're not supposed to go on and show
the script like that so he needed to
just pivot I I'm amazed though that
there isn't been more talked about the
fact that the former assistant director
of the FBI has publicly stated that it
was their job as part of
counterintelligence is it one of those
things I mean that's just I know those
things that you had gone from like this
is super like how dare you the FBI's so
blah blah blah and now everybody's all
like yeah I saw the janitor of a movie
we all know this this is old news I
think it's partly that because also
partly like they don't want to they
don't want to criticize the FBI at this
point well that's the that's the danger
a residual hashtag woke intelligence
apparatus reminder came at a good time
well I don't know that anybody heard it
but it would be nice like they killed
Fred Hampton like it's insane that
people aren't talking about that more
