this is pretty funny
you all remember talk turning points USA
well they have moved across the Atlantic
but apparently the tipi UK folks don't
have quite the media savvy that they
need to launch they launched last night
yesterday follow it they there was a
there are there is TP UK Manchester is
the name of the group and they launched
but it is unclear there is another group
called turning-point Manchester at
Turning Point
MCR versus T PUK Manchester at TP KTP UK
underscore MC are in other words this is
that situation like I don't know if you
saw it on the original Star Trek where
there was like a clone of Captain Kirk
and he was fighting and he's like going
that's not the real James Kirk and the
other guy goes I am the real James Kirk
that's not the real James Kirk well this
went on simply figure out which one to
shoot you don't know which one to shoot
and so turning point Manchester at
Turning Point
MCR says this is not Manchester TP UK
this is an anti white ant if a scum who
want to destroy our movement report and
block talking about the TP UK underscore
MC our tweet but then the TP UK MC our
handle wrote this is not Manchester TP
UK this is an anti white and of scum who
want to destroy our movement report and
block and then the original group goes
stop it for F sake Jack Twitter please
ban this impersonator and then the other
the other one I think the one with the
underscore is on our side right I don't
know it comes back on sorrows tour lid
TARDIS you can't deep platformer us the
free market has spoken
you're a fake and if I can't trying to
confuse our dedicated and motivated
conservative youth audience owned but
the amazing thing is and then it goes on
the anti feel left is currently hate
mobbing TP accounts trying
unsuccessfully to ruin our a successful
launch they will not succeed
TP UK is here to say and then they
respond to these are all I think these
are all trolls except for that one
so the jokes about the size of people's
faces are not funny and could be
considered a hate crime Charlie Kirk is
a hundred times the activists of any of
you cultural Marxist would be that but
go back to the first one because this is
sort of stunning like because at first I
thought T P UK underscore MCR was the
fake one
however the supposed real one is writing
this is anti white ant if a scum who
want to destroy our movement report and
block also sounds like a parody account
I mean the fact that it's so hard for us
to tell doesn't speak well of the real
one no no does not tough launch for TP u
K or turning-point you can and we aren't
sure which is I'm the real we can think
I think a few people but Vick burger I
think is part of the whole fate
photoshopping Charlie Kirk's had to be
larger than it is by just slightly
really gonna talk to him about his hate
crimes oh my god we should we should
definitely call him out for that that's
not that's so mean that's so mean
