[Music]
all right folks yes you can support the
program that way and let's get right
into it Joe Biden and I think this is
gonna be a problem for Joe Biden
definitely because aside from the fact
that it's gonna be hard for people to
believe that he's actually changed his
mind again the the the one thing that
has been clear about Joe Biden's support
is that he he is supposedly the one guy
who can definitely beat Donald Trump
there should be no weakness there and to
flip on a position that you had no look
I guess I'm glad that Joe Biden has
flipped if I was to believe it it's not
like he's in Congress now or he's gonna
be in a lawmaking position anyways but
look we know that Joe Biden was willing
to trade Social Security for a set of
taxes that we're gonna expire anyways we
know this about Joe Biden the he
basically interceded with Harry Reid's
negotiations by basically undercutting
him in the fiscal cliff negotiations
back and I guess it was in 2011 maybe in
2010 I can track you to be honest with
you I can't remember now I'm too old but
just listen to this ap headline after
two days of intense criticism Democratic
presidential candidate Joe Biden
reversed course Thursday and declared he
no longer supports a long-standing
congressional ban on using federal
health care money to pay for abortions
the Hyde Amendment is almost 30 years
old Joe Biden has held this position for
30 years and it took two days of
criticism for him to
reverse himself play this clip we now
see so many Republican governors denying
health care had millions of the most
tourists and most Americans barbecues
even Medicaid expansion I can't justify
baby women access to care if I believe
health care as right as I do I can no
longer support an amendment that makes
that I mean he attempts to make this
about what's going on in the states
across the country
it's absurd the the problem has existed
the ability for women living in poverty
and having trouble to get abortions
because Medicaid would not finance it
has been a long-standing problem and
didn't you just didn't care well as I
pointed out yesterday in this in
reporting yesterday Wyden voted against
Medicaid covering abortion in the 70s
quite a while ago but I mean he did in
his own voting record precisely what
he's using to get himself out of that
position today yeah it's pretty stunning
and but Joe Biden does that now here's
the other thing I think from a meta
perspective it really is problematic for
him because he's a guy who's been trying
to project this sense of I don't know if
I would call it inevitability but
certainly a sense of like strength and
this shows weakness I think
