so I'm on dare you basically walked us
through your your experience which
frankly it took me some time to to to
digest an incredibly impressive record
of activism and education and practice
and simultaneously dealing with the
issues that I think are probably at the
forefront of at least somewhat in terms
of your campaign we talked about student
debt and you talked about education
reform that you've been involved in
working flow in vetting federal judges
during the Obama administration and so
let me give me a sense of it and we
should remind people you're challenging
the 30 year veteran who's been in the
house and in New York 17th district and
frankly it seems like you know across
the board and I mean this no disrespect
to folks of my age or older
but the your generation what it means to
be a progressive today what it means to
come from a deep-blue district in a deep
blue state is fundamentally different
than what it was thirty years ago for
better for worse that is the case and
there is an expectations if you're not
moving forward then you're going
backwards it seems to me what would be
what would you look for as an incoming
freshman like what give me your sense of
how you see you would fit into a
Congress I mean one of the things that
we've seen with incoming freshmen in the
last 2018 election was there there have
been more it seems to me aggressiveness
and caucusing by freshman than we've
seen in the past we it is it is critical
and certainly possible for freshmen such
as what I hope to being in Congress to
be the lead on so many of these issues
student debt forgiveness for example is
a top priority for me so is the green
new deal we are faced with the
existential crisis known as climate
and the idea that everyone in Congress
certainly every every Democrat has not
had not signed on to support that
legislation by now is unconscionable to
me we have to make radical actions by
over the next 12 to 15 years and it's
not it's going to be too late I mean
we've already seen so much of our energy
infrastructure degraded and and the
things that we're talking about as part
of the green New Deal a guaranteed green
jobs program with with training
trillions of dollars in training for
folks who are going to be as part of a
transition from a carbon economy to a
post-carbon economy so displaced is
these are things that we should be
embracing we should be embracing the
idea that everybody would have a job
that pays a living wage under a green
new deal we should embrace the idea that
we are going to shore up our
infrastructure to expand dramatic
weather conditions and these are things
that I care about because my generation
including myself is in the process of
inheriting a planet that's devastated by
climate change so the green new deal
obviously mass a priority because of the
existential threat to the country I mean
talk to me about your feelings about
Medicare for all where we've heard a lot
of different variations of medicare for
all plan well give me a sense of what
you think is the best-case scenario from
a policy standpoint and give me a sense
of what you think the politics are
behind this you know I've had so many
conversations about this with people in
my district including folks of my
grandmother's generation and people are
concerned people are concerned about
what it means to lose your private
insurance here's here's what I support I
support a system where folks get more
coverage than what they currently get
where the out-of-pocket costs of people
who are part of this Medicare for All
system are not going to increase but
rather will actually decrease
and a system where people will still get
to keep their physicians and to go to
any hospital or medical providing our
medical provider that they choose to go
to and those are those are my
prerequisites for any program that I
would vote for and that is shaping up to
be a Medicare for All system otherwise
known that you know I think we can call
it universal health care but these are
things that people are concerned about
and I think they're going to be
satisfied with the care they receive
under a Medicare for All system and our
challenge as Democrats is cutting
through the noise not adopting
Republican talking points about how the
elimination of private insurance is
going to spell the end of the world
which is simply not true and I think
there's a great disservice I was
watching the debates recently like many
other folks and and I was so
disappointed in some of the comments
that were made by people who should know
better I think that's interesting yeah I
mean I think folks to the extent that
people are worried about losing their
private insurance it's because they want
to make sure that it's just they can go
see their doctor I don't think anybody
is gonna miss it dealing with the
co-pays dealing with the filing stuff
but you know people are afraid of going
from the frying pan into the fire and I
think there needs to be a lot of
education about what what what their
options are give me a sense of what what
else I mean so green New Deal
single-payer health care or at least
that what you call universal health care
where are you on student debt I mean not
asking personally you've hopefully
you've worked that off through a legal
career but what what is your perspective
on on free college debt-free college
where where do you land on that spectrum
I am a huge supporter of the elimination
of the 1.6 trillion dollars in student
debt that young people and folks of an
older generation are still children you
know the average the average debt low
for some and lead in college as a 2016
at least was
$37,000 it was more like $10,000 in the
early 90s and so we my generation was
sold this bill of goods if we just went
to college and worked hard everything
would just work out and that's just not
true that's not truly now we as society
owe it to folks with student debt to to
eliminate that and to allow them to be
participating members of this economy
imagine having $37,000 and then taking a
job that pays you $40,000 and what are
you doing that situation well you have
to ask your parents if you have them to
set crash at their place and then how do
you build a family it's just it's not
good for our economy it's not just for
civil society and and we need to address
it with bold action I think a student
debt forgiveness program has to be
paired with a free tuition at public
colleges and universities and in
addition to an investment in our trade
schools and in HP's HBCUs or
historically black colleges and
universities and lastly we just have
about a minute left here give me your
sense of like what would you do in the
education realm you've worked in
education reform before what do you
think is the primary driver of some of
the problems that we have in the context
of education you know one of the
challenges is that so much of our
education system is left up to the
states and local municipalities as you
know if I'm in Congress I'm going to
fight for more aid to school districts
like the East Ramapo Central School
District which is a school district that
has experienced and the elimination of
509 teaching and other staff positions
since the year 2009 and we are we are a
very challenged district and further
compounding the inequality of a system
where property taxes are basically
funding the the quality you know
dictating the quality of the education
system that you received ninety-seven
percent of the public school students in
East Ramapo are students of color black
or brown students and 80% of them are
eligible for free or reduced lunch so so
we we need resources for the school
district
we have not received both in the form of
foundation AIDS on the state or in the
form of federal aid to replace these
hundreds of staff positions that have
been cut from frankly someone who has
been on the Appropriations Committee for
the longest time
Mandar Jones tell us where can people
get more information about your
candidacy you can go to Monde air for
congress.com
mo n da ir e for congress calm and feel
hungry to make a donation I'm not taking
corporate PAC money unlike my opponent
and yeah I need all the resources I can
get to put together the strongest
possible challenging I've got to say
I've been so encouraged to hear from
folks at the grassroots level on up who
are acknowledging that it is time for a
change that we have not been served well
especially in recent years and and and
you can have great respect for someone
like I do and still come to the
conclusion that it's time for to shake
things up a bit
Mondale Jones thanks for your time today
really appreciate it
