[Music]
honey Donald Trump apparently is not
aware of how he won the last election as
you know Hillary Clinton won the popular
vote by three million votes a little bit
more three million more people voted for
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump
however Trump won Michigan and Wisconsin
by less than thirty thousand votes
combined he won Pennsylvania by about
forty thousand votes thereby giving him
the wind because of the electoral
college here's Donald Trump explaining
to Fox and Friends how the electoral
college actually does not favor
Republicans it favors Democrats despite
this he must be a really great candidate
you know I think I think we're gonna do
great
now look we'll just have a competitive
race it's always it's always tougher for
the Republican because you know I don't
know people people never cover this but
the electoral college is very much
steered to the Democrats it's a big
advantage for the Democrats it's very
much harder for the Republicans to win
and I think we're gonna do very well I
think we're gonna have a great election
because of what we've done and what
we've accomplished and you have detailed
some of those accomplishments during our
32 minutes with you sounds like they got
a go I have a proposal if if the
electoral college disadvantages
Republican so much let's just get rid of
it let's join together in the interest
of fair play vote there was one other
state that just voted for it
was at Oregon or Washington State
somewhere out west and Nevada voted
governor who rejected it but there was
another state that just passed it as
well yeah Trump should use his executive
powers to get rid of the electoral
college
it's a Republicans turn
he doesn't even need to use Lecter I
think he could just come out and say it
and that would probably help
