[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday June 4th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today rachel
louise schneider author of no visible
bruises what we don't know about
domestic violence can kill us also on
the program today House Democrats to
hold bar and Wilbur Ross and contempt
over the census question Clyburn walks
back his impeachment comments a day
later
as a democrat mutiny brews in the house
caucus former Michigan Governor Rick
Snyder had his digital records along
with dozens others seized in the ongoing
Flint water criminal probe meanwhile a
trump appointed federal judge quash as
the Democratic suit to stop the border
wall money real a reallocation
and a trump transition figure tied to
the seashells meeting involving Eric
Prince and an emissary from Russia
charged with child porn oh say shows
again those are old charges on that guy
washed again get charged in the 80s
yeah the eighties and they found some
new stuff oh Jesus hmm weird how that
works out that way diplomacy meanwhile
the frail trade commission ads Facebook
- it's growing antitrust probe as House
lawmakers join the fray Democrats are
gonna hold hearings speaking of the
house it finally passed a 19 billion
dollar disaster aid after Republican
stops it what three or four times last
week Dallas Police Department reports a
second killing of a black transgender
woman in two weeks
meanwhile ice documents shows that the
detainee deaths were preventable and the
IAEA report
Iran still in compliance with the 2015
nuclear deal all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen
we've got a lot to get through to today
this ice document great reporting work
by Ken clip enstein over at TYT good for
them good for them they've been doing a
lot of reporting work doesn't get as
much attention obviously as their main
show but they've been doing some very
good work over there as of late so folks
should check that out Ken and Jonathan
Larson over there as well
should tell you a straight up when I
wish well you know look there's been a
problem
and I've noticed this over the past
several years and I think it's changing
I feel like we're bringing it back but
for a long time this time of year people
would just be like oh you know hey happy
and your daily fast the faster you're
doing during the day no one would say
anything about it would just be like hey
how you doing oh good to see you
happy spring or something like that well
it's coming back
Eid Mubarak ladies and gentlemen I want
two more people are saying it now it's
the end of Ramadan this was a war on
Christmas joke Eid Mubarak
I thought people bark was someone I'm
gonna learn about in illicit history
aunty MBS Eid Mubarak was was actually a
Nancy colonial revolutionary in the
Seychelles yeah
Eid Mubarak it's the end of the Ramadan
fast really fast like 30 days during the
day during the day it's early to sunup
to sundown sound up to sundown a and
then there's a lot of incredibly I was I
was able to many years ago I got to have
some friends but had me over for a break
the fast meal delicious yeah I don't
know that it's that consistent sometimes
like I've talked to people they're like
well you have cookies in the morning and
then you can do whatever you want just
hang out you go out no tradition but
this guy I don't know different people
probably do celebrate different ways so
Eid Mubarak also it is the 30th
anniversary of Tiananmen Square I can't
believe it has been that long it's sort
of terrifying to me in some respects
[Music]
thirty years ago about I don't know a
million people wasn't honored that that
showed up in the was it a million people
I believe it was a million yapple I mean
if you think a population proportion was
right it's hard to sort of like figure
out these numbers because it's not like
the Chinese government was out there
advertising but hundreds of thousands if
not a million people gathered well
protested all around the
the the country but particularly in
Tiananmen Square
they were pro-democracy protesters and
labor as well it's one of the
lesser-known parts that history on the
on June 3rd the night of June 3rd tanks
moved into the square and there was a
famous people I'm sure I've seen the
video of a man who basically ran out in
front of the tanks and stopped the tanks
and only you only stopped the tanks
probably for a turn about three minutes
eventually some other people came by and
I was never it was never clear to me
whether they were his friends or they
were they were some type of like
plainclothes agents of the state who
ushered him away and the tanks rolled on
it is unclear how many people were
killed when the tanks rolled into
Tiananmen Square because of course the
Chinese government was not going to
release that information either Mike
Pompeo made some remarks that were
saying to the effect of China has a
problem with human rights whenever it
serves their interest they they will
abuse human rights I mean the idea that
anyone from the Trump administration
which is you know hosted Duterte and and
bolson ro and others Putin and bus MBS
would have a problem with human rights
Netanyahu is sort of laughable but
nevertheless they they went through the
motions and then the Chinese rebuked
Pompeo etc etc but more importantly
let's listen back now this is I don't
know if we have any contemporaneous
comments from Donald Trump on Tiananmen
Square maybe they'll show up but what we
do have is a
an interview with Donald Trump from what
magazine was this from a Playboy
magazine Playboy magazine in 1990 in
1990 and for those people who think that
Donald Trump has you know in his old age
got became more authoritarian this is 30
years ago when Donald Trump was probably
about what 40-ish 40-something and back
then in 1990 what were your impressions
of the Soviet Union their system is a
disaster I was very unimpressed and then
in talking about Tiananmen Square when
it comes to China because he said the
problem with Gorbachev not a firm enough
hand he says you mean firm hand as in
China and Trump had this to say when the
students poured into Tiananmen Square
the Chinese government almost blew it
then they were vicious they were
horrible but they put it down with
strength that shows you the power of
strength our country is right now
perceived as weak as being spit on by
the rest of the world this was 30 years
ago this seems to be a theme of his for
a long time but both the authoritarian
sort of like longing and the notion that
somehow our country is being spit on
well he says that another part in the
interview he talks about a week
Gorbachev is but he also says you know
generally a lot of these of their
representatives are tougher and smarter
than ours yeah he said that 30 years ago
I want to just say just 30 seconds there
was a slightly Gorbachev like figure in
China and named I'm just gonna forgive
me I'm absolutely gonna mispronounce
this but his name was Joe Zhao Zi yang
and he was the Party premier and he
discouraged the protesters but he had an
open line of dialogue with them and was
resisting a call to ruthlessly crack
down on them and eventually you know he
got sidelined and overruled and went
from being at the top
the pyramids it totally politically
marginalized the last years of his life
as we get for being wheels he was weak
right so it's nice to know that Donald
Trump has been consistent throughout his
career that's always encouraging but
there there it is 30 years Tiananmen
Square
I wonder if actually Trump Willie will
will mention Tiananmen Square and I'm
wondering if he'll mention the end of
Ramadan I'm gonna go the first one all
depends on how the latest phone
conversation which she went and the
second one no a lot of chocolate cake
someone just in the discord of team BS I
have to say I don't know if we will put
this up but somebody found helpfully
found us the cover photo of that issue
of Playboy which will add to the
vulgarity and hilariousness of this if
you want to say sorry this is really bad
but also like okay I can feel the
contrarian takes coming but it is
somewhat refreshing at least to see a
representative of US Empire who's not
pretending that he cares about human
rights yes that is that has always been
yeah he said something to that effect to
and I think in terms of oil I can't
remember what it was but I do remember
tweeting at one time like this is the
most honest thing that any uh yes this
is why all the neo cons hate him then
deed he's not hiding the ball it's funny
the still refreshing says the don't here
is endorsement of the Tiananmen
crackdown it's as Donald Trump interview
in the next story is rocking racism has
the dark side taken over pop music the
reading that has the dark said I'm I'm
concerned about the dark side thanks for
putting that on top I like that I
appreciate that
hey folks one of today's sponsors is
Skillshare and anyone who goes to SK l
dot s h / majority report for or just go
to the podcast description of the
youtube description and click the
clickable link ryan jamie is going to
get two whole months of totally free
access to skill shares entire library of
super quality online
courses and tutorials Skillshare is a
vibrant online learning community that
offers courses on everything from design
to video editing photography business
technology meditation and everything in
between there are Skillshare courses for
everyone you get to have no problem
finding courses that are gonna be useful
for you both in your business and in
your personal life and whether you
sharpen your skills with something you
already love doing or you want to learn
how to do something totally new
Skillshare has you covered they have
courses for entrepreneurs courses on
computer coding web development personal
nutrition learning new languages
Photoshop you name it I'm starting to
get a little bit addicted to this and
they also now have I don't know if this
is all new because I didn't notice these
before but their workshops that like you
can actually sort of you don't actually
have to physically attend but that take
place over a couple of days to learn
stuff but I'm getting a little bit
addicted to this I don't know what lucid
dreaming is but I'm going to I'm gonna
check that out so when you have some
sort of consciousness that you are
dreaming you have an area of the dream
that to me happens all the time and I'm
gonna just check out it's not just
sleeping poorly it means an awareness of
the dream state it's different thing you
can fly around and stuff there's also of
course a Productivity masterclass create
a custom system that works
I need that desperately desperately I
need to get into that and then chess
openings dominate with the slimmin
gambit that's what I'm going to be doing
cuz I'm gonna teach Saul how to play
chess and I want to make sure I'm able
to beat him for a long time it's very
important you'll teach in the game but
not the gambit exactly I've gotta keep
one in my back pocket you can get two
entire months of free access to every
single course offered by Skillshare by
going to sk l dot s h / majority report
for just think of everything you'll have
at your fingertips for two whole months
that's sk l dot s h / majority report
numeral four of course put a link
underneath this on youtube and in the
podcast description also oh you gotta
check this out when your whether you're
trying to get a sweet deal on something
or fine
the best happy hour in town what do you
do what do you do Michael what when I'm
looking for a sweet deal on something or
trying to find the best happy hour in
town I have a couple of trusted friends
that I ask okay or I go on Google sorry
is that with the one you're looking for
well you look at looking online right oh
of course but if you have trusted
friends great that's a form you have any
trusted friends who know about software
for 700 different types of businesses
absolutely not well you do now thank you
because you can read thousands of real
software reviews and find the right
software for your business Michael a
your friend
kaptara dot-com flash majority I'm
personalizing it I have a friend this is
how we develop a relationship with AI I
love it kaptara is leading free online
resource to help you find the best
software solution for your business hi
Michael it's kaptara you seem like
you're really calm did you just go away
honest talk let's retreat I wasn't
talking for a whole week cap terror
there are any new reviews on business
software to help me crush the
competition over 850,000 reviews of
products and real software users more
than 700 specific categories of software
700 specific categories that's that is
astonishing from project management to
email marketing has everything you need
to make an informed decision fast join
the millions of people who use kaptara
each month to find the right tools for
their business folks this is an
aggregation site you go there and it is
if you have a business it is worth going
even if you're not looking for a
software because you probably don't
realize there is not just a software but
there are multiple versions and types of
software that are suited to your
extremely specific business your dog
walker there's software for that home
inspections software for that and not
just one type of software there's
multiple versions and you can go there
and read reviews visit kaptara comm
slash majority for free today to find
the tools to make an informed software
decision for your business kaptara comm
/ majority kaptara
that's Capt e RR a.com
last majority kaptara software selection
simplified alright we're going to take
quick break when we come back we're
going to talk to rachel louise snyder
author of what we don't know about
domestic violence can kill us
no visible bruises
you
we are back Sam cedar at on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program author and
associate professor at American
University rachel louise snyder author
of no visible bruises what we don't know
about domestic violence can kill us
welcome to the program Rachel oh thank
you for having me
let's start with just how sort of
shockingly recent in many respects the
the concept and and I know you have an
issue with the with with referring to it
as domestic violence we'll get to that
but the the idea that a a spouse could
not abuse or I guess I'm not sure
exactly where you know from a legal
perspective what what constitutes this
but that it has it is it's a relatively
recent phenomena not just in human
history but even in in the context of
this country that domestic violence was
a crime right yeah you know I I was
shocked to read that as well so you're
not alone if you're like you know blown
away by that that that fact but yes it
was not until 1984 that there was a
federal law against spousal abuse in
this country which you know is certainly
my lifetime I mean I I found that
shocking as well in very extreme cases
you would sometimes have charges brought
and there were certain states that had
laws much earlier than 1984 but a
federal law was not written in this
country until 1984 and it's I mean so
what was the the I mean I I mean I think
I know but I think it's important to
articulate what the sort of the the the
the theory behind that was that you
can't that a and we should be clear that
when we talk about the domestic abuse
certainly it happens where you know you
know women batter their husbands or
women batter their wives or a husband
batter their husbands or you know but it
but it's generally when we're talking
about this generally I mean I think just
statistically we're talking about men
beating women were generally talking
about men we beating women and yes it
includes all those other constellations
and you know it's it really comes from
the idea that a spouse a wife was one's
property and historically it was it was
seen as part of your responsibility to
keep your property in line and so there
were not any laws written against
spousal abuse except in extreme cases
there were laws that said things like
you know you weren't supposed to leave
marks or you were not supposed to leave
lasting injury that kind of thing so
extreme extreme examples but nothing
until until the 80s Wow I mean that's
that's nuts but I guess that's part of
the problem and but yeah in terms of
benefit that's the benefit of hindsight
right though I mean we have we have
clear-eyed we've clear-eyed hindsight
when we look at that and think wow that
is crazy but I also think and I
apologize for interrupting but I also
think you know the women's movement
began really I mean began at large in
the 70s in this country and I don't I
think it's important to point out that
that social progress does usually
precede policy and so it's certainly
true in this case where women were
advocating to not be beaten by their by
their spouses and finally 15 years into
their into their message the federal
government got them got the got the memo
well and I know and I think this is also
important to note and it's not just in
this instance but just sort of broadly
in in in issues like this that because
there's a federal law it's not like the
the trajectory that allowed for this
concept that women are their husband's
property ended right I mean legally it
may have but in terms of the cultural
forces and the so and and in the in the
the psychological for
is that that that allowed that to exist
that dynamic to exist legally that
trajectory still moves forward and and I
think we can see that at least in the
context of I I was just blown away by
how many women a day in this country
will die from domestic violence and that
that number is going in the wrong
direction will you tell us more yeah
sure that's it it's a really important
question you know I've I've been on the
phone with you for six minutes now and
every minute twenty twenty people are
beaten in this country so that's you
know I'm not I'm no mathematician but
that's 120 people just since we've been
talking and that that's not counting
homicides which is it which is the the
second part of your question there's a
researcher at Northeastern University
who started tracking well he's been
tracking domestic violence homicides for
decades but in 2017 noticed an uptick so
for decades we've said in this country
three women a day are killed by their
abusive partners since 2017 that number
is now four which is a 33% increase I
mean you have things like you know you
talk about the private problem or the
idea of you know it happening behind
closed doors and you could even see just
a week or two ago the congressman from
mrs. I think Mississippi McCloud
McLeod's
you know clocked his wife while he was
drunk and they issued a statement that
didn't at all address his violence but
instead talked about the media getting
some of the facts wrong or the context
wrong and asking for privacy in this
moment and that that underscores the
problem like there there's nothing in
their press release that acknowledges
that he did a violent act I mean imagine
his imagine a stranger coming up and
clocking his wife right you know like we
would never treat that the same way so
it's it's galling when you think about
what people who claim to love us are
able to get away with that astray
would never get away with you no I want
to get back into that that that concept
of how the the that love I guess in this
instance you know it somehow is a
mitigating factor or whatnot but this
idea that or not idea I mean this
potential reality that the number of
deaths has gone up and I wonder if
there's also a commensurate number of of
domestic violent events like beatings in
other words like how is that possible
right like I mean theoretically we
should be moving you know we're getting
more sophisticated I mean you you go one
of the you know one of the aspects of
the book is to to examine programs that
have been started one particular in
Massachusetts that are you know and
we'll get to that about how to address
this but but broadly speaking I mean
theoretically right we should be getting
better at this there should be the the
forces that that that create these
scenarios where women are are trapped in
these situations both from like a
psychological perspective but also from
sort of material issues these
theoretically should be addressed how is
it possible that this is maybe getting
worse yeah I know it's mind-boggling
when you think about it in that way but
another way to think about it and I
maybe I'm maybe I'm overly optimistic
but another way to think about it is
that at every moment where we've had
great social upheaval in this country it
has been met with severe retaliation I
mean anything about the suffrage
movement the union movement the civil
rights movement I mean there was
significant retaliation so my hope and I
guess it is really a hope at this point
is that we're going to look back on this
period and it's going to be it's going
to be a moment of great upheaval that
led to great progress because the fact
is while the numbers are not with us
the numbers are alarming it's also true
that there are people who are are doing
really incredible work around this issue
and so I I do think we're getting better
and better at the same time maybe
paradoxically that we seem to be we seem
to be kind of taking a step back but I
think part I mean I think part of this
is that that the me to movement which
began in 2017 perhaps not coincidentally
coinciding with the rise of domestic
violence homicides I don't know but I
think that that has given people a real
voice people who have never spoken
before III wanna and I don't want you to
speculate I don't I don't want to push
you into the speculation too much
because we have a whole book full of
very well reported the facts here and
and and and dynamics but do you think
that it's a backlash to me too when you
say that when you say it's you know I
mean and I understand this is
speculation but I wonder you know we
have a rise in hate crime during this
era we have you know that demonstrable
religious hate crimes racial hate crimes
there's also it seems to me you know
that misogyny played at least some role
significant role in you know both in
terms of like why people may have voted
against Hillary Clinton I'm not saying
it was determinate but I think it's you
know you we would have to be ridiculous
to think that misogyny and play a role
particularly right when you also had a
candidate who was you know I think by
all accounts demonstrable a misogynist
yeah does does does this like sort of
like feeling that exist in the ether as
it were of our society implicate this
stuff or no I mean yes you're right that
it's speculation but also we don't exist
in the world in as as a series of
isolated you know issues as or as people
who are disconnected from these things
so yeah I think I think they are all
connected but I also think that I mean
one of the one of the things that I
think that the the 2017 elections have
done have given a voice to fringe
elements too and that you know I like to
think of for example I live in
Washington DC like politically
progressive in terms of the people who
live here the actual citizens you know
and my local bookstore politics and
prose had an incident a couple of weeks
ago that you probably heard about it
made national news where the author of
the book white fragility was doing a
reading and 10 10 or so members of the
alt-right came in and disrupted the
reading and you know had a bullhorn and
and it made national news and those 10
people were identified at least half of
them were identified within hours and
everybody was outraged it was terrible
for sure it was terrible but at the same
time I looked at that and I thought wait
a minute these people are from all over
the eastern seaboard and Pennsylvania
and you know Georgia Pennsylvania South
Carolina they had to go to all these
different states just to pull a measly
10 people together in a city of 750,000
like yeah their bullhorn is loud but we
got the numbers you know I really I
really believe that fair enough and and
it's all right so let's move on to a
little bit more about this I mean I you
know I mean I think you know maybe I'm a
little bit cynical but you know I don't
know if five years ago you could have
had those 10 people congregate frankly
and right I imagine for every 10 person
you know every one person who's willing
to go with a bullhorn and travel X
number of miles to go protest the book
reading about white fragility there's
you know I don't know what the algorithm
is and how many are at home you know if
it's a little bit closer they would have
gone but with that said let's talk about
some of the the the the myths that exist
about domestic violence or maybe we
should just start with why is the term
domestic violence problematic well I
think I think it it I think anytime you
add the word domestic on to something it
it softens it right I mean think about
international terrorism versus domestic
terrorism it sounds somehow softer
there's a juxtaposition projects the
position of those two words in
relationship to one another so I think
that's part of the problem
but it's also just an abstraction you
know it was meant to replace wife's
beating or battered woman syndrome which
is terrible but at least in in terms of
imagery those provided something that
felt that you felt in your gut and I
feel like domestic violence doesn't do
that it also doesn't get at the
particular psychology of domestic
violence and part of that has to do with
with the worst elements of it being
psychological not physical so there are
there are people in the book for example
who one woman her husband used to break
CDs and threatened to slit her throat
with them there were no no no visible
bruises to quote my own title no visible
bruises in that scenario and yet she
lived under this threat of such extreme
violence another one used to throw a
blanket over her head and duct tape her
around the neck no bruises there either
so what do you call that and I call that
terrorism I call that a form of intimate
terrorism or intimate partner terrorism
and and you you open the book with a
with a story of a couple that ultimately
led to death right where rocky and
Michelle would this guy would keep a
rattlesnake to tell us about that that
story just to give us a sense of why how
that also manifests this idea yeah so
Rocky and Michelle were a couple in
Billings Montana they met when she was
very young she was 14 he was 24 which is
not uncommon and he is she was pregnant
by 15 she had two kids by the time she
was 17 still graduated high school on
time but he managed to just began to
slowly isolate her and it's this it's
this corrosion that is so this kind of
corrosion of self and agency that is so
pervasive in these relationships and he
would say things to her like oh I know
your family doesn't like me I don't want
to go over there and she would out of
loyalty then you know stay with him or
be with his family on holidays or
whatever and he wouldn't let
work outside the home he wouldn't let
her wear makeup wouldn't let her I've
people over friends over he told her
they were a bad influence on the kids
and eventually you know he it escalated
and escalated until in the months before
he killed her and killed her two kids
and then killed himself he had gone to
the outskirts of Billings and got a
rattlesnake and brought it home and kept
it in the cage and threatened to put it
in bed with her or in the shower with
her if she got out of line
so it's chilling it's chilling and and
and you describe in this you know the
part of this is about is about or a lot
of it and I think we'll get into this in
a little bit more in terms of like it's
it's a question of almost in some ways
narcissism and control versus violence
and anger maybe that's a little bit
stark but but more broadly and I want to
start more broad and then and then I get
an hour down is there a sort of a
demographic in other words like I know
that part of what of this story or major
part of the story is the inability of
women to get away many Ounces from their
their partner and that is a function of
like is there anywhere I can go where my
kids are gonna be safe there anywhere I
can go that I'm gonna be safe I don't
have the resources because as you say
like you know the these these abusers
tend to dominate the women in such a way
that they don't have their own resources
maybe they haven't been able to have a
job maybe they haven't they have some
instances that weren't allowed to learn
to drive or you know to have a license
is there like broadly like it like a
demographic that's involved here like
socio and economic you know there really
is not the people who tend to go to
prison for domestic violence tend to be
minorities but that is true across
prisons in general middle and they tend
to be lower on the socio-economic scale
as well particularly if they're if
they're you know white or whatever but
you know and I think that's partly
because middle or middle and upper-class
white men are able to get away with it
or they they have plea deals that send
them to anger-management classes like or
batterers intervention classes
the only real demographic and this is
this is not widely researched or not
nearly researches enough but in the case
of familicide so when someone kills
their whole family we call that a
familicide those tend to be largely
white men middle or middle upper class
and so you saw that with rocky and
Michelle they were solidly middle class
they were white you saw it with the guy
in Colorado his name is escaping me now
who killed his wife she was pregnant and
cows have killed their two daughters
just recently just last year you know or
Scott Peterson another famous ones got
you know Laci Peterson in California so
these kinds of famila sites do have a
demographic factor to them but there's
you know there isn't necessarily higher
instances of domestic violence in one
community over another is there is it
easier I mean I I mean it seems
intuitively that it would be easier for
women of means to get out of this
situation but but yeah but does that
does that cut against maybe sort of the
psychological aspects of this I mean how
well this yeah I guess I guess I guess
what I'm asking on some level is like
how much of this is structural and
sociological and how much of this is
like a it's like a psychological well I
mean you know that's a cop it's a
complicated question and it's partly why
when we asked that why didn't she just
leave question it's so um it's so
misunderstood as to what we're actually
seeing so let me try and unpack it using
Michelle's story
Michelle was not able to work but she
was able to attend college classes but
because she was so young when she went
to Montana State University to sign up
and she applied for financial aid
you don't you don't qualify because you
don't have tax returns you know you're
too you're too young to be independent
and she said I've been living on my own
I've got two kids you know and she
wasn't married to rocky at the time and
they said we'll marry him and then
you'll be his dependent and then you'll
qualify for financial aid
so she's taking classes to try to get a
nursing degree to leave this man so that
she can raise her kids and be
economically stable and she's forced to
marry him
by the quote/unquote system right it's
just one that's just one example one
life but you the message is given to
victims in other ways too
when Michelle only called the police on
rocky once actually was her mother not
her but they were only called one time
and they came and they arrested rocky
and his parents bailed him out
immediately and she by the time she
found out that he was getting bailed out
he was already out and so as a means of
protection against his escalated
retaliation she went and recanted
everything she said she had made up the
stuff about the snake she had made it
all up and so that the prosecutor never
pressed charges that is such a common
scenario because what happens is abusers
give victims the message that they are
stronger than the system and then that
message is underscored when the system
puts the abusers freedom prioritizes the
abusers freedom over the victims rights
to live safety free it's also
underscored when we say oh we've got a
solution for you and that solution is
shelter you've got to leave your house
you've got to leave your community your
kids have to leave whatever you know
sports teams they're playing and go live
in isolation with other traumatized
people it's really quite a terrible
answer when you think about it in fact
that's one of the myths or a couple of
the myths that you you discuss the idea
that shelters are largely effective that
restraining orders are largely effective
what what like what before we get to you
know sort of what can be effective why
what why else are those ineffective I
mean is that just some of a statistical
standpoint or just because there's no
there there's no support from there that
there's that it's like they're not being
mainstreamed what it what is problematic
and why is about the ineffectiveness of
those solutions I guess yeah that's a
good question I you know I always
thought that the shelter was seemed a
very adequate answer I mean I was like
oh yes we've got this problem solved
we're sending people to shelter you know
the problem with shelter is is
complicated first of all there there's
not always room in fact in a place like
DC where I live there is always a much
higher demand than there is availability
but the other problem is that you're
putting the impetus for change on a
victim which really doesn't happen in
any other other crime like I liken it to
you know getting your home burgled and
having the police come and say my
goodness this is terrible that your home
has been burgled well we're gonna have
to take you out of your home but we're
gonna leave the burglar here to live
here right I mean it's it's ridiculous
you know traditionally shelters have not
allowed you to bring a Pam family pet
they have not allowed boys over the age
of 12 they allow maybe two or three
suitcases you're housed in one room
together with your kids there are rules
to a shelter that may or may not be you
know rules that you generally live by
curfews and things you're not allowed to
have friends over you're not allowed to
work because that would give away the
location of the shelters so they're
abysmal responses but the biggest
problem with them I think is the idea of
them as a symbolic reference in other
words we have what is called what has
historically been called a private issue
right between family members and then we
just take that and we take the victims
and we move them from behind one set of
closed doors to another set of closed
doors
so there's
maybe it's because I'm a literary person
you know creative writing professor but
there's there's a symbolism to that that
feels completely wrongheaded to me in
terms of like maintaining some sense of
shame yeah yeah yeah exactly exactly so
so there's there there seems to me to be
two things to address I mean one is the
support for the victims and a means in
which to a prevent victimization and
then in the event that you don't prevent
victimization you're trying to
essentially get the victim out of that
situation or protect them so what I mean
is there is there anything for that
first part like I mean what aside from
sort of culturally saying to women like
you need to you know that that you you
should have self esteem or that there
are certain parameters or I mean is
there any way to prevent and I want to
get obviously to the perpetrators side
because we don't you know I mean I guess
to a certain extent we do this right
like don't if you know if you if a cop
sees you on the subway and you know your
backpack is open they'll say zip up your
backpack you don't want to get you know
there are some you know there are some
preventative things that you can do but
I mean is there some is there an
equivalent to that or is it just simply
something that like should only be done
from the I guess the supply side of this
crime right well it's probably not Pro
because it implies that there's a demand
of this but I mean there's a but but but
I mean did you see what I'm saying here
is I mean this is I mean this is a you
know a unique thing in that respect I
mean I guess I mean because we would say
like okay lock your door
if you don't want to get you don't want
to get robbed but I don't know how you
prevent if there's anything to prevent
from the beginning like don't get into
an abusive relationship but there's
psychologic
issues that are involved in that as well
yeah I mean there is certainly a cycle
of abuse right I mean - I know you want
to get into the perpetrators later but
it's important to point out that most
perpetrators have abuse and their own
childhoods so this is simply a cycle and
I think in terms of the long term part
of disrupting the cycle is starting
education in middle school because cases
like Michelle are not at all unusual
that they that they meet someone at 14
it's this heady kind of love and they're
there the word corrosion I use that
really deliberately because that is what
it feels like you know any of us if we
stood at the receiving end of a punch
with leave immediately but domestic
violence doesn't happen that way right
it happens with like oh honey you know I
I see the way some men are looking at
you the way the way when you walk down
the street when you're wearing that and
I feel like for your own protection you
shouldn't wear that short skirt or you
shouldn't wear so much makeup right it's
this slow kind of chipping away at one's
own sense of agency and you know I I
have to say we have expectations about I
think but the abuser is you know evil
and the victim is completely innocent
and that is the scenario and the first
thing I want to say is that in in the
lower levels of domestic violence you
find that that women are abusers just
about as often as men there is research
that points to that I'm not talking
about the high risk most dangerous cases
I'm talking about the like slapping the
cellphone away from somebody or whatever
but that you know also the the I've lost
my train of thought now in the in the
gendered the no go ahead go I was
talking about like you know what can be
done it you know you said the
intervention at yes and I would imagine
that intervention should happen both for
potential perpetrators and potential
victims oh yeah I mean you know when
you're when you're 12
you're probably in terms of like a you
know an adult relationship you're
neither right so you're sort of
you're sort of like an open book and I
think I feel like you know gendered
education needs to happen really young
you know I live in DC again it's a
really progressive place about a month
ago my daughter's public school she's in
elementary school had like a girls
celebration day empowerment day it was
called and I was like that's great
that's great but the thing they did was
braid the girl's hair that was there I
was there sense of empowerment and I
thought okay first of all you are
acquiescing to what you believe a girl
is supposed to look like second of all
and this is more important to me they
did not include the boys so none of the
boys even knew it was girls empowerment
day
that's not gender education I mean you
know I just am like what and this is one
of the most progressive cities in the
country so again like that something
like that is not you know causing girls
to be victims and boys to be abusers but
it does get at a sort of misguided idea
of who needs to be taught what how and
when all right well let's talk about the
the the the perpetrator side of this
because one of the myths you also talked
about is the idea that abusers never
change and the you know we have this
sort of dilemma I guess to a certain
extent I mean or not one that I would
imagine and you've you said that people
of color are more subjected to getting
sent to prison and I would and I I don't
know if there is research on this but
just based upon what we know in policing
broadly speaking that generally black
people are sent to prison with a higher
rate for the same offenses and then then
white people are and so I mean what how
do we address this on the perpetrator
side and is that different from how we
would address
just violent crime in other contexts and
if so why should it be that way I mean
you know we started off by talking about
this congressman who you know we got to
keep this riot it's a family thing this
is rioting essentially right right right
yeah I mean I don't know if I can speak
to other crime like in general in terms
of incarceration I feel like that is
that is you know that that is Michelle
Alexander's place but I I will say that
I would separate I would separate out
the the and I'm going to use the phrase
domestic violence because that's what
we're all talking about and that's what
we understand but I would separate it
out from the kind of higher highest risk
most dangerous perpetrators to ones that
get heated in an argument and say things
that they later regret right I'm not I'm
not sort of dealing with that I'm
dealing with that former and that most
dangerous and I think that you know
whether or not somebody who is violent
can be made to be nonviolent like I'm
you know I want to believe that they can
i sat in on batterers intervention
groups from coast to coast and I learned
the shocking fact that men who are
abusers are not identifiable from the
general populace right they're just
average guys who are not rageaholics
they are not people who are out of
control in fact they are very very in
control and they are often very charming
and manipulative and that's how they get
abuser that's sorry that's how they get
their victims to fall in love with them
in the first place is that they're very
charming
I know I after writing this book I have
to say I never believed in love at first
sight I am incredibly skeptical of
someone who two months in is saying I
love you I love you I love you it's made
me a little bit cynical but I think that
as as something that we address as a
society we're really still in the in the
in the infancy of trying to get violent
people to become nonviolent so we didn't
even start batterers intervention
programs or offender intervention until
the late eighties
so it's you know and social science just
does not work that quickly so the
efficacy of these programs is
questionable but I still think that the
individual exercises and some of them
are astounding and potentially
life-altering for people who actually
want to make a change and I met plenty
of guys who knew they were violent and
didn't want to be violent but didn't
have any other skills that didn't know
how else to be in the world and for guys
like that I think they can really work I
think they can be meaningful so okay so
let's step back and just also now talk
briefly about what the the system can do
right I mean to the extent that we can
work with the perpetrators and perhaps
you know help the perpetrators
we've talked a little bit about the
deficiencies in terms of helping the
victims but you you you write about
I guess jacqueline Campbell's xx risk
factors then and we don't need to go
through all of them although there's if
there's a couple that stand out for you
please tell us but the idea is to
integrate the various services that may
come in contact with the victim or the
perpetrator and increase the
communication so that things can be more
effective right that's that's basically
what came out of the this Boston program
right that's right this program I guess
right right so there's a number of
things that we can do and there are huge
because excuse me systemic things that
we can change but also there's a number
of really small tweaks that we can make
like that every jurisdiction can make
one of them is incorporating what what
you just mentioned the Jacqueline
Campbell created the danger assessment
and they anybody can go to the website
and look at these twenty highest risk
indicators at danger assessment org and
some of them are things like threats to
kill strangulation beatings while
pregnant they're all signs
of increased dangerousness jurisdictions
can look at their bail statutes and
figure out if they can hold somebody for
dangerousness longer in the case of
rocky and Michelle one of the things
that the state of Montana did which is
just mind-boggling in terms of like how
it would seem insufficient on the face
of it was that if someone is arrested
for domestic violence now they cannot
see a judge until after lunch so you
know rocky bailed out kind of first
thing in the morning that would no
longer be allowed in the state of
Montana
it seems so unimportant but what it does
is it gives a domestic violence advocate
enough time just a few hours in the
morning to go over and make a safety
plan with the victim to get her into
shelter if they need to get her into
shelter to get locks changed on the
house to get an abuser on GPS monitoring
maybe so there's a lot of little tweaks
like that just literally the first thing
in the morning type of situation yeah
exactly exactly I would also say that
judges need to be educated on the
difference between anger management and
batters intervention they are not at all
synonymous the psychology behind them is
not the same so you know like Ray Rice
at the NFL got sentenced to anger
management and then as charges were
dropped I mean it just they're thrown
out not dropped but you know that that's
just a real misunderstanding of the
psychology of domestic violence so there
are all kinds of things and of course
the other thing and this is
controversial in America but the other
thing is to take guns from abusers if
you are charged with domestic violence
and found guilty you are not supposed to
have access to guns under federal law
but very few jurisdictions actually
implement that you also talk about I
think research that showed that someone
went into a prison and talked to I don't
know if it was a dozen or so men who had
killed their their wives or their
partners and the vast majority of them
said that they didn't have access to a
gun that would that woman would be alive
today yeah yeah 11 of the 14 that was a
book called why do they kill by David
Adams and he asked that question that
they had all they had all he asked you
know 14 of them who had killed their
spouses with guns men and 11 of the 14
said they would not have killed her if
if a gun wouldn't have been if they
wouldn't have owned a gun or a gun
wouldn't have been readily accessible in
that moment sir so if we have all these
sort of like disparate things that could
be done and like is there is this
something that haven't has to happen on
a community by community basis or is
there any role to be played for like a
broad public policy initiative by the
federal government or you know just you
know at large I mean the only thing I
can say that the one thing that I did
notice in the course of the government
shutdown was that domestic violence
centers I guess or you know advocacy
groups or shelters were some of the
first victims as it were of the
government shut down but I don't know if
there was any like broad policies
associated to that other than just sort
of funding for programs yeah well the
simple answer to that question is yes
and yes it needs to happen in individual
jurisdictions but the federal government
can do a lot first of all by instituting
VAWA the Senate still has not
reauthorized the Violence Against Women
Act the 2018 reauthorization is just
being held up in the Senate it passed
the house but not the Senate so that's a
number one yeah well let's get together
and ask Mitch McConnell shall we I don't
know I don't know the answer to that I
mean I have speculation about the fact
that it includes more protections for
LGBTQ victims that it includes more
protections for Native women and for
immigrants some of whom might not be
legal and that is my that is my guess
it's also that there are gun provisions
that the Republicans don't like I mean
they want to the Democrats want to put
stricter gun controls
for those who are convicted of domestic
violence abuse or domestic abuse and the
Republicans are are fighting that so I
mean that's that's my sort of
speculative short answer but that's
certainly something that they can do I
think we also can can do some national
databases like a national database of
stalkers for example you know nearly 80%
of victims are stalked in the year prior
to being killed so that seems to me
something that would be very simple to
implement nationally is a stalking
database because right now as it stands
if you are convicted of stalking in Iowa
and you move to Tennessee no one in
Tennessee knows that or has access to
those records and that's a problem well
it's it's a fascinating book Rachel
Louise Snyder the book is no visible
bruises what we don't know about
domestic violence can kill us thank you
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it it's been a pleasure thank
you
all right folks gonna head into the fun
half of the program disturbing stuff
that I think is sort of gives you a
sense of sort of some other problems
that exist in the context of society it
is going to be interesting to see if
there's what kind of research comes out
of an increase in domestic violence over
the past two years for whatever reason
after it being stable for theoretically
for a number of years it'll be
interesting to see if that bears out
with with you know in retrospect with
more research but certainly consistent
with and we haven't quite scheduled this
interview but another psychiatrist that
I interviewed clinical psychiatrist has
done a lot of studies showing that there
are pre-existing predispositions that
people have and involve
racial prejudice but it is the societal
context which unnecessarily dictates but
certainly raises the the chances that
these type of prejudices are going to be
acted upon and it would be I think you
know worthwhile to do down the road to
circle back on some research whether
we're just living in a particularly
particularly difficult time when it
comes to folks who are marginalized and
who have been traditionally disempowered
in society yeah there's there's also
some interesting data on spikes in
domestic violence after a war which
makes a whole lot of sense because
people come man come home with PTSD and
they don't have the proper treatment for
it 20:17 would not be the year to see
that though i mean if we would have seen
that probably closer to like oh eight as
you started to have first round of
people coming back from from from Iraq
and Afghanistan or 2000 I mean there are
so many causes I mean we live in a
horrific ly violent society we have a
Imperial military that's sort of lying
against the dying of the light we have
police who are just totally
unaccountable we have so many so many
problems so it's right but why is 2015
why is the decade before 2016 different
from the year 2017 is I don't know I'm
speaking more in general terms but I
wouldn't be surprised if Trump Trump's
election created some kind of spike in
the patriarchy yeah all right we're
going to take a break just a reminder
you can support this program by going to
join the majority report calm when you
do you not only make this show possible
but we say thank you by giving you some
extra content join the majority report
calm it is your support if you listen to
the show if you watch the show on a
regular basis by all means we we would
appreciate your support also remind you
that you also will get the show
commercial free if you're so inclined
you'll always have the opportunity to
look at our special deals if we have any
in our show descriptions but that
reminds me that kaptara is the leading
free online resource to help you find
the best software solution for your
business with over eight hundred and
fifty thousand reviews of products from
real software users and more than 700
specific categories of software seven
hundred basically fields of business
that you could be engaged in small
business big business that and then
multiple different softwares that would
help you do that business with thousands
of reviews of all of them visit kaptara
dot-com slash majority for free to make
an informed software decision for your
business today
that's kaptara CA p t-- e RR a.com slash
majority kaptara software selection
simplified today is tuesday
michael is back he's talking so nobody
showed tonight on t mb s there is going
to be a commentary that will focus on
the fallout of the european elections
the rise of liberal parties a strategy
for the left and brexit we'll get into
that then hassan makes his debut
on the show we are going to gorge
ourselves on the dave rubin meltdown but
also explain why that
actually matters it has some stakes and
the kind of broader strategy of dealing
with YouTube and then the great Milton
al-ahmadi who I hope people have heard
before on both T MBS and the majority
report founder of black star news
teacher at John Jay College we're
talking about Thomas Sankara sometimes
called the che of Africa and the history
of African awakenings and a bunch of
other topics so Michael Brooks show live
7:00 p.m. on the YouTube channel get the
whole thing at patreon.com slash TM BS
Jaime this week on the anti Fattah we
have part 2 of history as a weapon
number four that sean has been doing
this awesome series with Matt Chrisman
from Chapo Trap House and they finish
off this extended look into the 1970s by
talking about all all kinds of things
really why car tourism fell apart over
its own internal contradictions where
the politics of personal virtue have
taken us why Reagan was the man of our
and why clintonism was his enduring
achievement and the birth of
neoliberalism and all of the different
factors driving it and yeah I think the
70s are really important to
understanding what's happening today
because I think a lot of Marxist
economists were right on the money when
they said there was a crisis of
capitalist accumulation that started in
the 70s and neoliberalism was kind of
like when you don't want to take out the
trash yet so you like push it down a
little that's what Matt Chris been
compared it to it was like you know
stopgap measure but it was temporary and
that's why it's falling apart now so
check it out patreon.com slash the anti
Fattah and it is a bonus for patrons but
if you cannot afford to spend the money
DM us and we will hook it up Matt yeah
there's a new or weller episode we're
doing such such where the joy is about
George Orwell on his time at a
preparatory school as a kid
it's basically he wrote it toward the
end of his life when he was dying it's
sort of 1984 set in a boarding school
all right that sounds so traumatic quick
break fun half don't forget just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
get the majority report blend see you in
the fun half
you
ak Sam cedar on the majority report the
number six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty is the number
we will take your phone calls we will
take your IMS but first we will start
with this Donald Trump Donald Trump in
England joint press conference with
Theresa May I guess it's the last time
they'll have to spend two at a time with
each other it's hard to know which one
of them is probably happier Donald Trump
just getting just turning more and more
into a weeble it's weird to see him I
don't like the side it's even more
disturbing and he has no idea what he's
talking about
he doesn't it's it's really shocking but
he stumbles on what is a I think a deep
agenda here it is he's asked in a press
conference about the NHS and in the
context of any type of trade deal now of
course in this situation following a
brexit we don't know if it's going to be
a hard brexit or a soft brexit or no
brexit or we really have no idea but
it's gonna happen in october but we have
no idea because it was supposed to
happen in what like in in May but the
bottom line is in the event it is a hard
brexit or a fairly hard brexit just a
heart breaking the other countries
making a deal with England may have a
lot of leverage and there is talk
amongst White House of folks and
probably in the conservative movement
that if we can leverage the destruction
of the national health system that the
British have all that'll be good for
free-market capitalism and so I don't
know if Trump knows what he's talking
about here or not because he doesn't
seem to know what the NHS is he has to
ask Teresa may mr. president
Francis le from The Times do you agree
with your ambassador that the entire
economy needs to be on the table in a
future trade talk a trade deal including
the MHS and Prime Minister EU tempted to
take the prime minister president of the
world and stick around for a bit until a
trade deal is done I think we're going
to have a great trade deal yes I think
we're going to have a great and very
comprehensive trade deal
I can't hear him service be on the table
look I think everything with the trade
deal is on the table when you when
you're dealing and trade everything's on
the table so NHS or anything else or a
lot a lot more than that but everything
will be on the table absolutely okay but
that's the classic it's it's like yes
he's an idiot and it's hilarious
and yeah it's totally on the table I
mean going back to even this is an area
where and it's a useful distinction some
of our arguments because the Blair
government put way more money in the NHS
that was a shift just labour but he
started to introduce private services in
the NHS and Cameron kept up that process
and a lot of people who supported brexit
on the market side they absolutely
seized an opportunity to bring in
companies look at this is how this
dynamic works - is that trumps becomes
the vehicle for people in the British
government or just in British politics
who want to privatize the NHS the Trump
becomes the vehicle for this right and
so that there is cover for British
politicians depending on who it is let's
say Boris Johnson maybe to say we have
no choice we have to just chip away it's
not a big concession but we've opened
the market - you know whatever it is
that no home ever it's actually pretty
smart the way they're doing that and it
shows the extent to which their populist
rhetoric was so hollow all along like if
you talk to working-class people who
voted for brexit they say one of the
reasons they voted for it is because the
NHS was underfunded and they didn't have
enough money to cover native-born
citizens and now we're just seeing that
that's absolutely not the reason why
these regs at earp always use the
example you got punked I always use the
example just to echo when you know fill
in like the day after within literally
24 to 48 hours it was either Nigel
Farage or Boris Johnson or both who had
been running around the country saying
this amount of money goes to EU
half that could go to the NHS right and
they immediately were just like yeah we
said no good yeah it was a hypothetical
aspirational great book by zero books
called how to dismantle the NHS in ten
easy steps which people should start
reading and arming themselves
particularly UK so Donald Trump as you
know is in like we said is in is in
Britain and Jeremy Corbyn perhaps in
response was this in direct response to
this comment by Donald Trump that the
NHS is on the table or just in response
to the idea that peeps a V people
understand that this is one of the
dynamics that's going to be used right
you always blame always need somebody to
blame and and if it's Trump demanding
NHS be cut then that's what some of
these you know Boris Johnson's gonna
have to do in the event that he's the
prime minister but here is Jeremy Corbyn
basically telling Donald Trump kiss-off
we're in the debates about the future of
our relationship between Britain and
Europe and the rest of the world the
basis of that debate should surely be
that we encourage the protection of jobs
and living standards and public services
and reach out to people all across the
world but it should not be it should not
be a debate about how we go forward with
no deal at the same time as offering up
offering up our precious wonderful
National Health Service to private
American companies to come in and take
it over we will not stand for that we
will fight with every last breath of our
body to defend the principle of a health
care system free at the point of need
for everybody as a human right
good for them it's nice to see it coming
from a distance gives you a little more
time to react and lastly speaking of
coming from a distance Donald Trump as
you know flying into into England
everyone's getting into the the protests
here is the work of an 18 year old young
man named Ally Nancarrow he is from he
lives around Stansted Airport in Essex
and apparently the president and going
to be flying in around there he mowed
out a message for Donald Trump in his
family's land he took a picture of the
buddy mode with a drone and it was
become pretty pretty viral here it is
you showing that picture now there he is
there's the young man and it is a
facsimile it says Trump and then it has
a very large penis that is there and
we're sure this isn't more UFO evidence
and crop circles he also he also had a
climate change do we have a picture of
the climate change yeah we also has a
picture climate change so he spent the
weekend carving this message out and he
had to get through his a level business
exam I don't know what that means but I
imagine it's like finals or something
like that and this is what he said he
said all my teachers have been shaking
my hand and congratulating me my phone's
been off as I've had this exam but all
my friends have been showing me the news
articles he also went on to write
climate change is real in the moing that
and a picture of a polar bear and he was
asked if he thinks it will get in the
way of his remaining a-levels which is I
would imagine
other finals oli said no and if it does
I'm not too bothered this was more
important to come only three to four
hours to complete the project didn't
take as long as you think he said it was
all done freehand with no planning I
just went for it I just well then I mean
and I I don't want it in any this is
just future creative possibilities but
if you're gonna do a penis base
installation art to upset Donald Trump
next time I would suggest to go back to
a sheet you know not a trendy topic
anymore but go back to last summer and
read excerpts of the stormy Daniels book
where she has some pretty grotesque
descriptions of trumps particular image
and you could add that to the visual
joke let's go to the phone's what's that
toad from Colin Kurt gone from to10 area
code who's this where he come from good
afternoon Sam Toni drawn from San
Antonio how are you John I'm okay okay
on a may 19 2014 4 taneema crats to win
the Senate and if anything can be passed
there's a Democratic president it is
very important and also because of the
courts that you always talk about but I
also think you're not really telling the
complete story of these races you know
at the first our revolution Texas
Convention and one of the topics that
was discussed was should we endure who
should we endorse for the Senate race in
2018 many people spoke on half of Seema
Hernandez who's a Bernie supporter he's
running again in 2020
she got twenty three point seven percent
of the vote and I personally voted for
given a lot of time to promote a giving
me a lot of time to promote our
revolution and justice Democrats on this
show and you and Michael has been a
significant amount of time promoting
progresses before and after elections
you you know you not only mention debate
oh and that piece but also Hickenlooper
and Steve
look in Colorado in Montana who are
presidential candidates you should be
running for who are running for the
Senate so let's start with Colorado Cory
Gardner is the most vulnerable
Republican senator running it for in
2020 the in polling is he's running
against a generic Democrat and he has
you know every poll has him as a generic
Democrat you know with leads larger than
the margin of error so he's a terrible
you know centrist candidate and so
Democrats who already have 12 Senate
candidates including progresses Andrew
Romanov who won the Democratic primary
for the sixth District in 2014 and
Stephanie Rose Spaulding was endorsed by
the Justice Democrats for a house race
last year another potential candidate so
Jonah goose a 34 year old freshman who
emigrated from Eritrea and is when the
first sponsors of the green New Deal you
know he's not perfect but he you know he
takes fossil fuel money but if you look
at his overall voting record he's still
fairly good Diana DeGette also has a
fair voting record and would be a much
better choice than Hickenlooper so from
a practical point of view you know beta
was tied with Cornyn in the last uh
Quinnipiac poll in February for that
race for the Senate race now MJ Hagar
who is currently running is down by 17
points now she ran into 31st district
and only lost by three points last it
last year and also fresh woman uh
Veronica Escobar's the the latest is
probably most progressive Texas you know
Congress person I hope she ends up
running so you know in Montana so wait
what's that point the point is that you
we have better choices than bat out
you're saying for the Senate in in Texas
well I think what you you know I'm
saying that I mean I understand your
perspective but when I'm when I'm also
saying is you know we need to elect
progressive candidate
and so I mean you know you're always
promoting progressive candidates and
that's great that's one of the greatest
things about the show but I mean we
should also be promoting these
progressive candidates who are running
for the Senate yeah like you know like
this taking in Illinois's we have this
lady wait wait wait but wait wait wait
so you're you're suggesting that we
don't want Beto to run in a primary in
Texas because he's going to knock out
the progressive running against them no
I'm not saying I mean he can run anybody
can run if they want to run that course
I don't have the ability anymore to keep
people from running in primaries that
was taken away from me because of well I
don't when we hit three thousand patrons
on TPMS I can personally ban people from
running across the country I'm pretty
excited about that I just I just get I
just get to wear sleeveless shirts when
that happens so they but but so I'm just
I'm not clear on what what your point is
like I well there's there is a level of
political calculation I mean we've been
talking about radical calculation as far
as Biden as far as impeachment and so
when you talk about the Senate this is
also a level of political calculate in
Colorado I think you have more of an
opportunity but it also depends on to
like I mean I haven't to be honest with
you I haven't done a deep dive into the
primary candidates there and who's gonna
split votes to whom but I think you know
bateau it seems to me has a very good
chance or as good a chance as anybody
let's put it this way to beating John
Cornyn right Cornyn is not as odious as
Ted Cruz it's going to be I think a
tougher race the idea that Beto has been
able to you know raise funds now with
all that said it's also possible and I'm
certainly open to the argument that Beto
has you know sort of tarnished his his
image a little bit right like one of the
things that made Beto exciting I think
the people was like this guy is gonna be
a superstar and there's nothing that's
sort of like
you know undercuts that message then a
sophomore slump a little bit so III
don't know but can I just say just just
because I think it might have been
actually I think it was a video that we
did on a Thursday and I I mean it
doesn't mean I mean it's also just like
a much more simplistic generic point and
it's I know I don't usually necessarily
go in this direction but I'm just making
a broad party point that like if you
have any interest that there's a cascade
of people some of whom I really don't
like some of whom I think are okay who
are talking about running for president
and they're in a position to run for the
Senate and potentially do a lot more
good I mean I I agree with Sam though
that Colorado and Texas seem quite
different and Hernandez is good but I've
heard some other things about Hernandez
that might even implicate Sam that I'm a
little wary of in the south rich Fiasco
she's she's great but she said some
conspiratorial things there are some
reasons why people yeah look you know
you got a you got a look at this is
Canada here's the thing okay
get me a Democrat someone who is gonna
put god help me Chuck Schumer is the
majority leader in the Senate all right
I got it all bets are off I support all
progressives period well I mean the
bottom line is it doesn't matter you can
have a progressive coming from Texas and
Chuck Schumer is gonna be the leader the
it's not gonna be a freshman senator
who's gonna make a difference in terms
of chuck schumer's leadership I can
assure you that right now but the point
is what's the best who's the best
candidate part of the way you figure
that out is during a primary and so yes
I get your point John and but I also you
know I think what Michael said is more
or less operative but but we all have
time to get into that primary soon okay
I promise you all of them yeah okay all
right all right one thing can I can
imagine one thing about but my call from
on Friday right you know it at the end
of the call after Jana Matt said
that that did they said something like
the the polling or not the polling sorry
let me see here
242 16 we're at a low ebb for third
party ISM even historically speaking for
the last 50 years so what you're
referring to like as far as in 50 year
increments right going back to let's say
69 and then going back was a 69 to the
1920 election is that what you're
referring to I mean I was referring to
mainly like Nixon had to compete with
Wallace and then there was Ross Perot in
the 90s also Anderson in 1980 was a much
more significant one and friend Nader
in 2000 more significant well actually
Nader wasn't I mean actually Johnson got
more votes that's what that was in the
call but yeah I mean just going bags and
things back 60 years it's it's four four
points night from the 1920 election to
the 68 election third party votes are 4%
and it's it's essentially about 5
percent going back from 72 to 16
all right well Matt stands corrected I
can assure you we're not all so wrong
about yes huge focus on mats Matt's
guess who's gonna be docked a couple of
Twinkies around here I can assure you
that John I appreciate the call we got
to talk that he's gonna big trouble John
don't don't you worry about it's not I
mean get away with that I said the last
fifty years because I didn't know enough
to see yeah yeah but you said the last
hundred nice John really would have been
wrong you can't get away with that not
around here I like that you you
specifically gave yourself a time frame
that you would make a legitimate point
in and it was like oh but you were wrong
if you expand the time frame I didn't
expand it there you go that's pretty
awesome
well that's in a nice way lie with the
statistics come from an eight for five
area code who's this where you come from
hey Santa Claus how you doing hi Lauren
how are you
I'm all right that was a hell of an
interview that was that was tough to
listen to at times yeah difficult yeah
it was like just checking off boxes for
me but that's not why I called I am
calling to promote the mid-hudson
valleys the Hudson Valley DSA is next
brake-light clinic which is this
Saturday in the city of Newburgh from
11:00 to 3:00 at the municipal parking
lot on Ann Street Newburgh sunny
Newburgh New York ladies and gentlemen
go check it out how's it going how many
are you getting a lot of people who
showing up for those also this is our
third one we've been doing them on the
second Saturday of the month and ticket
C was great Kingston was a little slower
and I have a good feeling about Newburgh
I think we've been doing I'm not
involved with the publicity so much but
it seems like that's going well and it's
you know it's in a good location got a
nice big parking lot I think we're gonna
be all right
all right great well we'll put a link to
it if you want to email us we'll put a
link to it awesome
it's on Facebook and I can send you a
link to the event page and the the
chapter has a website terrific Hudson
Valley DSA thank you had mid-hudson
thank you I want to take a vacation and
see what DSA is like in the mid Hudson I
kind of fantasize sometimes about like
what it'd be like to be in a small not
overexposed chapter of the DSA and do
organizing in that in that way
sounds like someone's gonna move up to
Kingston it's happening town I like it
up there the original original capital
of New York it's pretty beautiful up
there calling from a 978 area code who's
this where you calling from
hi Sam it's Maddy from Massachusetts
hello Maddy what's on your mind
umm I am coming in to add to our sort of
ongoing Nancy Pelosi and Pietschmann
debate yep
and so I'm getting increasingly and
increasingly worried that the Democrats
have been so weak and so inept for so
long that when we inevitably do get to
the point where we're starting
impeachment proceedings they don't know
enough to execute the kind of political
and media strategy that is necessary to
sort of have a successful impeachment
campaign Maddy
let me just say this I think that your
your fear is well-founded I can't
imagine a worse way of going into
impeachment than what Pelosi is doing I
mean some people speculate that she's
been and and I thought she had turned a
little bit maybe maybe but this is not a
there is no indication from the
reporting that I'm seeing that there's
anything other than what we see going on
which is her dragging her feet her
putting the brakes on investigations
across the board fighting against what
is I think starting to be like some type
of like mutiny may be a strong word but
you know some significant dissent within
the Democratic caucus her number one job
in her mind is to protect her her
majority and then I think things go
which I think you know fair enough but I
think that her analysis is just it's
just wrong you have members of the
Judiciary Committee backbenchers
freshmen who are from purple districts
who are also calling for impeachment I
mean they they know about this I mean
it's you know but who knows yeah I am
I'm worried
I would say that my perspective is that
there is so much room for the poll
numbers to move like I don't understand
why she is taking the poll numbers
aesthetic I think that that video that
you guys played of that old lady in the
guy from Michigan's district yeah come
on is a Monstress district yes thank you
um is totally like proof that there's so
much room for them to move people on
this issue and what they should be doing
is going on TV every day have three
talking points make them really simple
you know this is an example of something
he did that's obstruction this is an
example of something else he did that's
obstruction this is example of something
that he did that's corruption and like
three have three really specific
concrete examples and then just never
stop saying them for months and months
and months until people finally start
getting the message that this guy's a
scumbag and they just don't seem to have
the know-how or like they don't I don't
think they have a will she has the will
I don't think she has the will because I
think she's convinced that her way is is
better way of maintaining that majority
and the problem is is that I think the
calculation is all on the side that
you've just mentioned right that you can
get people you can impeachment can be a
winner
etc etc what I think is you know and I
keep saying this over and over again but
what I think is not being assessed is
the cost like the idea never mind that
there isn't there's there's an argument
that there's an upside right that people
can become more willing to impeach maybe
that's the case the big problem is just
like what do you do between now and the
election if you don't impeach like what
did what does she think is gonna happen
because these things only move in one
direction or another they don't just
nothing is gonna be frozen in amber from
this moment until the election the the
trend is gonna move in one
way or another and there's not going to
be any legislative battles apparently
they have no bills to take to the floor
of the house they've they passed them
all an entire agenda so there is no
there doesn't seem to be a plan and it's
it's very very problematic I think that
they are so used to really I mean Pelosi
and Schumer definitely are basing a lot
of their strategy on just the model of
the other side it's just too appalling
to contemplate but I do think that they
should have more up or down votes that
are embarrassing and hard for
Republicans but on the third thing just
to amplify what you were saying and I
wasn't here for the clip of the woman in
Amash is district but it in the sense of
P she said did not know right that there
was anything negative Lamar report about
Donald Trump right and the thing and put
the thing and this is where another word
where it gets you know tricky because of
course I agree we need to be real about
the base the Republican Party and the
attitudes that are driving Trump but
then there is this like we played I
don't know if we played this on air but
this was like from a CNN focus group
like seven months ago and it was former
Trump voters primarily or people who had
voted for Trump and most of that group
happened to be souring on him and one of
the guys in the group was like well I
will vote for him for re-election
because he's a racist and even the host
CNN host is kind of like uh you voted
for him and to you know she didn't say
it that bluntly but like what's making
you think that now he called LeBron
stupid right he's not like that's not
cool
LeBron isn't stupid you know and that
clearly tipped the guy so if you go out
I agree if you have hearings
I'm looking into archival footage of
iran-contra which wasn't even an
impeachment and that leaves a lot of
everlasting images about the Reagan
administration well yes I mean I'm just
go over North got up there browbeat but
I don't think there isn't all the north
figure in though there isn't but but but
my biggest fear is just what do you do
if you don't impeach because Nancy
Pelosi thinks you can play four corners
on this there alcohol in campo run out
the timing but the problem is she
doesn't have the ball and so that's the
problem with that strategy but I
appreciate the call Maddie I share your
concern
call your Congress people
I will I will thank you so much thanks
for calling so we mentioned this wait
what was that the BuzzFeed thing yeah
Bernie is Bernie's making this this is
look Bernie is so honest right now about
a month ago BuzzFeed news union we
shared news about our progress toward
recognition of our union but since then
the company has dragged its feet and
failed to address some of our most
pressing concerns
it's now been 112 days since we went
public the BuzzFeed and Bernie Murray
tweeted this with a comment let's not
forget the middle class was built by
organize later I'm very concerned to see
the buds feed still hasn't recognized
the union formed by its newsroom
employees our workplace democracy Act
will put an end to corporations getting
away with these stalling tactics I mean
this is so much of of unionization is
the process is stymied by administrative
issues and so much of this can be
addressed on some level with just the
National Labor Relations Board but also
legislation that basically just changes
the methodology in which people unionize
and you don't need to come out with the
legislation that says you know unions
are automatic or unions are prohibited
to have to to basically dictate the
destiny of of unionization I mean the
one of the things about the taft-hartley
Act that makes it so difficult to
unionize are these sort of like
artificial roadblocks that are put up
there and things that sort of create a
structural context that weaken the union
movement in this country and they have
been exacerbated over time the the we're
going to have I think I'm not sure when
they come up National Labor Relations
Board appointees but at one point it's
possible I think maybe even in this term
I'm not
Donald Trump is gonna be able to appoint
and have a majority of Republicans on
there again and then forget it
this is gonna be a crap show I want to
talk about this
reporting from Ken clippin stain over at
the TYT investigates they have gotten a
hold of a document this is an internal
document that is these are internal
agency documents that show that at least
three it appears deaths that took place
amongst ice detainees were preventable
this is according to an internal
document one ice official apparently
told TYT the problem is systemic this is
a letter written to this guy
matthew albans who is matthew albans he
was the acting deputy director of ice
let's look at a clip of Albans shall we
this is where he likened these detention
centers to summer camp with regard to
the FRC's I think the best way to
describe them is to be more like a
summer camp these individuals have
access to 24/7 food and water they have
educational opportunities they have
recreational opportunities both
structured as well as unstructured wow
that sounds like camp do they also make
macrame according to this internal
document Isis Health Service Corp is
severely dysfunctional and unfortunately
preventable harm and death to detainees
has occurred this is a letter sent to
Matthew Albin's
the memo bears the subject line urgent
matter was written by a supervisor at
Isis health services Corp looks like
there's a number of attachments I wonder
if those are images it's possible
details over a dozen because a lot of
this is redacted it details over a dozen
cases in which ice allegedly failed to
provide its detainees with proper
medical care including three which
resulted in fatalities one of these
cases involves alleged ice quote
negligence in handling a medical
incident resulting in a detainees death
at Isis Eloy detention center in Arizona
according to the document ice did not
heed warnings from an official about an
apparent case of neuroleptic malignant
syndrome the memo plainly says of
another ice a detainee quote suicide
victim mr. e frame della Rossa could
have been saved the document goes on to
state that ice quote received a total of
12 sudden significant event notification
reports prior to his death
12 depicting suicidal ideation and
psychosis
moreover della Rossa was not being
treated with psycho psycho tropic
medication instead he was remanded to
segregation isolation in other words
which psychiatrists considered to be
torture mr. della Rossa suicide closely
mirrors the previous suicide of mr.
joseph yemen as at Stewart Detention
Center this is referencing the third
fatality that was allegedly preventable
in yet another case rights clippin Stein
the detainee was removed from
respiratory isolation despite having
tuberculosis which as you know is highly
contagious documents note that ice is
having identified a trend of detainees
not treated for
qahal and drug withdrawal the memo goes
on to state many detainees have
encountered preventable harm and death
IH SC leadership is not focused on
preventing horrible reoccurrences this
is an agency that is systemic ly corrupt
and dysfunctional it's time to get rid
of it it's time to get rid of it and for
real
not like rename it slightly reshuffle it
the whole operation of chop military
forest the terrorized immigrant
communities needs to be destroyed root
and branch and the whole process needs
to be deal made demilitarized here's the
Elan Omar
making the same point this afternoon I
guess just our you're just about half an
hour ago Isis and organizations become
increasingly militarized brutal and
unaccountable it must be abolished I
don't know if it's become more so it
probably has according to folks like
Ronald Reagan but certainly we're more
aware of it
so either way Donald Trump could get up
there and say Barack Obama's ice is
horrible I'm disbanding it and I'll be
happy I don't care what why didn't you
deal with this problem when it was less
visible I had to make it visible so it
would be dealt with
sunlights the best disinfectant so Jared
Kushner apparently in his big interview
with Jonathan Swan from Axios for the
Axios HBO show if you've ever wondered
why do we see so little Jared Kushner is
he a man of mystique it's a secret
weapon he's shy
I think it's because everyone around him
the one thing that I feel like all the
Trump people have the ability to do is
not to not be stupid but to know enough
that everyone around them is stupid and
keep them off TV everybody but me and
here is a swan
asking what should be a fairly easy
slam-dunk question even if you are
guilty of having done something wrong
it's so easy in our society to say you
know what I've learned now I think in
the heat of that first campaign I didn't
know how to respond to this now I'm more
mature and I've learned so the answer is
yes I would
here is the question set off at least
some alarm bell when you see an email
saying that the Russian government wants
to help like I said the email that I got
on my iPhone at the time basically said
show but for I didn't scroll down I
never would have thought about that had
referring them in the subject again I
would get about 250 emails a day and so
I literally saw a show before I showed
up at 4:00 but we told you if you I've
happened to get I don't know it's hard
to do hypotheticals but the the reality
is is that we were not given anything
that was salacious it's hard to do
hypotheticals it's hard to read subject
lines of emails that you open up I want
that I want that email program where you
don't have to read any of the actual
email it just takes you right to the
action line well then you just know also
even like what room to go in I know it's
just
there it for that's the way I get my
right that's the way I'd pay my bills
yeah no I don't see Verizon or you know
do you think that's how Jordan Peterson
talked to Orban yes they're at four okay
I just come to hungry I don't know I
didn't really read the subject line it
said hungry humanities professors mean
there let's go to the IMS donald drumpf
someone talk some sense into Jimmy door
fanboy kyle kolinsky only notable voice
on the left scared of impeaching trump
on obstruction of justice someone tell
him that insufficient evidence is not no
evidence clearly doesn't understand that
absence of a crime does not negate
obstruction
he is convinced that it will pad Trump's
popularity and lead to a Trump victory
in 2020 historically there is nothing to
support this cerebral gruel however
somehow he thinks impeaching over a mana
among monuments and Yemen would have a
favorable fate again with no historical
perspective to frame this nonsense it's
not true that Jesus left his best and so
is Mr I still think Megan McCain is the
next great Cardinal short yardage
offensive guard I like the land part I
mean we've talked about this though it's
not that there's no it's that people are
miss reading the lessons of Bill Clinton
but it's not that there's none I mean
there's no there I mean I think you have
to it's a it's a pretty bad bad miss
Reed I mean that's probably the mystery
that we've said Nancy Pelosi is making
me and plenty of people are you know
have that perspective and I also low see
is is afraid of losing in some of those
purple districts and oh right baby
that's the Bill Clinton lesson
personally she's worried about losing
Jimmy Dore also Jersey she's like I'm
really concerned that if we do that then
Jimmy Dore will call me a
sellout and then the whole process will
come tumbling down like a giant stack of
cards I'm not a sellout Jimmy
but also it's not a perfect analogy in a
lot of different ways to Clinton's
impeachment and one of those ways is in
1998 Clinton had been mired in scandal
for many more years than Trump has at
this point in time like publicly so so
people were I don't know that I don't
know about that at all I mean Donald
Trump certainly his whole political
career and if you expand it to his life
but I don't know to do with any of it
like the idea that people will be tired
of the scandals and just it'll have some
kind of bump up effect for Trump yeah
okay I see what you're saying I mean I
think I think at the end of the day it
was that most sane people did not care
about more than your face now well most
sane people did not care about the BJ
that was the big thing it was like a
yeast
seriously going to halt the functioning
of the US government over a well
that's all and and on top of that Bill
Clinton was in fact doing stuff there's
no great sense with 55% of the
population right now the Donald Trump is
doing anything that he would be
inhibited from doing if there was an
impeachment doesn't mean ideological
idea ideology aside there's definitely a
perception of Bill Clinton as an
effective president if you impeach Trump
was going to like distract him from
calling people losers right with a
majority of her life you know it's like
that like it's a total like Bill Clinton
the whole message that actually worked
was he would always say it was just like
I'm gonna get that doing the job the
American people like me to do and there
was I'm sorry this is such a distraction
but I have like a meeting with the V
right means it was story after story
that he had this amazing ability to
compartmentalize that was like I think
pushed up that yeah in fact it I mean we
can't go back and but if you were to go
and look at one of those like graphs of
like a word the the word usage of
compartmentalize during those years it
would have like just gone off the charts
I don't I think it might have been
coined during that time I mean it feels
like it but if kyle is talking about
impeaching I mean odd to me
substantively them thing I would be most
interested in impeaching Trump not
saying we're gonna do it but
substantively supporting a genocide in
Yemen hell yeah and a monuments is
something you could probably get him on
directly not an obstruction about
something that wasn't established so
that also sounds reasonable to me well
obstruction is I mean it was it was in
the Nixon impeachment hearing absolute
was no underlying crime that he was
convicted of well it was a perfect event
I think you well I understand I mean
that's the thing is it's it's just
absurd you rolled out it's just the idea
that obstruction and the obstruction is
not just limited to the Muller
investigation at this point it's also
the investigation into the census
question I mean on and on the EPA is
refusing to hand over documents I mean
there's a whole there's a whole host of
things but obstruction in and of itself
of course you can't lie to in the course
of a convey an investigation because you
don't think the investigation is
 I mean it's absurd that's exactly
what that's exactly exactly what Bill
Clinton was impeached for he was
impeached and it was for lying in a
deposition that did not have any
material basis on the start of the
whitewater investigation whitewater was
a real estate deal that happened 15
years before he was in the White House
and he ultimately was impeached because
in a deposition he lied about an affair
that he had like a year after the
investigation started
Jonathan Armstead if my vote means
anything have Brendan tag today's
interview for the best of Wow this lady
was so smart and so in-depth on such a
depressing topic I'm grabbing this from
my library ASAP Sasha Greyjoy hey Sam
it's my birthday today can I please get
a shofar I listen to the show every day
happy birthday Colin from Nebraska once
we colonized the moon the men and women
being terrorized in their homes can go
there I don't quite get it
Gregory from Oklahoma bed out came to
Oklahoma met with a few of the leaders
within our stats Young Democrats and
College Democrats not a battle supporter
but I thought it was pretty cool Nick
from Manitoba
hey Sam great show today do you laugh at
your children's jokes even if they're
not funny
no no given that you're clearly the
funniest member of the MRR crew what
kind of comedy bar do you set for the
future of the cedar name everybody's
really sensitive about that no it's
debatable no I think it's a legitimate
position just a debatable one of course
every position is debatable that's what
this whole show is about a lot of this
shows melting down conversation and
excuse me yes speaking of which let me
answer the question that's a great
question that's a great question one of
the things I do is when my kid tells me
a joke that is not funny I just stare at
them for a mom
I give it a beat that the complete
silence makes them feel a little bit
squeamish and then I go was that an
attempt at a joke
and so like Saul Saul comes into my bed
in the morning and he says is it time
for me to make jokes and I'm like
usually like give me ten minutes I need
to sleep a little more and they don't
say like why did the rooster cross the
road this is one of his jokes like why
because he wants to be like the chicken
and I was like yeah but why why does he
want to be like the chicken I don't get
what's the motivation yeah yeah he's
just like no he wants to be like the
chicken and I said yeah no I
you said that what's funny about it and
he looks like a puppy dog and this time
it's important what do you understand
that just because it was a misdirect
doesn't mean it's funny you have to
teach the kid how to deal with a joke
that's not gonna land
so actually you know do you remember
five or six years ago I think I tweeted
out maybe this is longer that I tweeted
out that something about like had to
tell my daughter last night that her
joke wasn't funny I tweeted something to
that effect like there was clearly like
daughter told me a joke tonight wasn't
very funny made it clear to her it
wasn't it's the only way that she's
gonna learn and like there was like a
group I'll take that really serious like
people are like you're a bad dad and I'm
like look what am I gonna do I think
you're being a bad dad if you laugh at
your kids jokes and they go out in the
world and they think they're funny and
it turns out they're not you get you're
like a very much like a conservative
like pull your pants up dad when it
comes to humor it's like look it's this
isn't everybody gets a gold star not
everybody gets a laugh don't worry no
kidding we created an entitlement
mentality society where every chicken
crosses the road joke gets a laugh even
though it's not funny
and we're disincentivizing actual
performance it's a very Jordan Peterson
approach to training your kids to be
Steven Carter's - it on a better job
yeah what yes Steven Crowder's dad must
have been the most liberal parent and
the
Oh because they wanted to be like the
chicken that's great Steve sir no juice
yeah I feel like we may have gotten a
taste of that treatment before too so
you can tell Saul that he's in good
company that's right that's right
back from VA the shooter in Virginia
Beach used a suppressor one survivor
described hearing something that sounded
like a nail gun well it does require
getting a lawyer and paperwork to get
one I still know a couple of people who
own suppressors they need to outlaw
these things yes of course almost real
mayor Pete policies let's have a public
option that is so cheap everyone can
afford it but providers have to give you
a really bad care if you use it this
will ensure everyone has health care
will lower cost but not too much so
private insurers can stay in business
Smoot Court if there's an additional
step on that dangerous line an out of
right wing YouTube which is they also
sell people weapons I don't mean to be a
broken record but I mentioned this a few
weeks ago about Ben Shapiro but it's
true for several of those guys steven
crowder sponsored by walter he plugs
them whereas their shirts keeps a
handgun on his desk during his show this
guy Crowder the more and more I dig into
this the more and more disturbed we're
gonna do a little bit more on him going
forward but still waiting on one
possible development which I don't want
to but we're gonna win either way folks
oh yeah there's gonna be so much winning
you're gonna be sick of it I promise you
yeah yeah speaking of sick it'll be
sickening speaking of sickening we have
one more clip from the California
Democratic convention we played that
John Delaney clip is that his name that
is now the third time I probably said
John Delaney's name he's worse dining on
Twitter all day today I bet now I
wondered when John Delaney got up there
and I still wonder about this this
doesn't make any sense to me and you
know Brendan tried to explain it to me
but I don't know why you would go up
there and say the thing why would
you go up and say medicare-for-all is
bad policy and not sort of roll out your
own like idea or just like why even say
medicare-for-all is bad policy why not
just come out and say here's a good
policy like as if there is a big it just
seems to me to be like tin ear ISM like
even if the vast majority of California
Democrats in that room are not
socialists are not socialist
friendly although I think you probably
are not following California Democratic
politics very well if you're not aware
that at least some of the more vocal
people are at the very least would see
that as some type of knock on Bernie
Wylie why go up with that within and fly
that banner if you're trying to appeal
to sort of the more conservative
Democrats are they really like do you
really need to like that's the way you
burnish those credentials it seems very
strange to me the only other reason I
could think is like it's the only way
they get attention it's one of the
things that I've learned only reason
we're ever talking about everybody's
doing the thing where they just redefine
Medicare for all to be what they want it
yeah it's a tension economy and that is
I mean why else would we ever talk about
Hickenlooper Delaney they're terrible
politicians if bad policy they're
unfathomably boring why would we and so
here is Hickenlooper trying to get on
the majority report socialism is not the
answer
I was reelected
I was reelected in a purple state in
2014 one of the worst years for
Democrats in a quarter century I was you
know if we're not careful we're going to
end up helping to reelect the worst
president in American history we should
not try to tackle climate change by
guaranteeing every American a government
job hold on hold on
Wow yeah you know what it's an IV slot
well that's what it is he's gonna get 1%
of the vote but he wants another talking
head job yeah
maybe that's what it is but and and and
maybe he believes that but his it sounds
like he's more suited to run for
something in Colorado now John from San
Antonio don't get mad at me but I mean
it's just I just don't understand this
if you want to come across as the sort
of like positive candidate just to lay
out a positive agenda but the you know
we used to call this hippie punching
back in the day and it's why why you
would do that as a candidate makes no
sense to me like you need the argument
is we need to appeal as to as many
people as possible so I'm going to stand
out there and argue that punch you I'm
gonna start my speech saying that we
need to get as many people as possible
by dissing some of you that just doesn't
make any sense
it just doesn't make any sense
immediately lose parts of the crowd
right exactly like I'm going to prove to
you that I'm going to prove to you yeah
here's here's a looper I just said um I
just it's just striking to me though
because they're they're doing like a bad
version of the famous you know bad thing
that Bill Clinton did to humiliate Jesse
Jackson with sista Soulja but like that
was actually like I'm just not talking
morally here but like it's one thing to
symbolically take
on a powerful individual like Jesse
Jackson that represents something Bill
Clinton didn't just go up there and say
oh yeah by the way the rainbow
coalition rightful suck like he did
alike you know I'd be there that's just
bizarre I don't see the root of even if
you're challenging an audience to say
I'd like your vote you're all a bunch of
idiots I have totally different values
it's even more specific than that it's
like you shouldn't call people idiots
you idiots this is a guy doesn't do
politics well here he is on Chris Hayes
program people together write the
question I always ask is like what what
sort of magic do you have or what what
trick have you figured out that everyone
else hasn't right the Barack Obama I
think everyone agrees is whether they
liked him substandard a lot one of the
most talented politicians in recent
memory had a huge mandate had huge
majorities right and Mitch McConnell
basically did everything he could to
obstruct him like in what universe does
John Hickenlooper not encounter the same
problem well I think that in in part
it's Who I am you know I'm probably the
one person running for president that
never ran for student council and high
school do you really think like your
personality is such that Mitch McConnell
is gonna bring stuff up to a vote
because of who you are no no Mitch
McConnell is the exception and when we
took on the NRA and they wouldn't he
controls one of the two legislative
branches of the United States Congress I
understand that you certainly have to go
talk to him just so that the people that
follow him and respect him wouldn't feel
diminished but in the in the end you've
got to do what you've got to do to get
stuff done and I think you know both as
a small businessperson I spent 17 years
as an entrepreneur and a small business
person you learn different skills of
negotiation and you build relationships
in ways that other people don't look at
look at Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan
they hated each other at first right
they were at each other's throats and
yet in the end over a period of time
they came to know each other and they
got big things done right but Tip
O'Neill and Ronald Reagan and in my
colleague in the our previous wrote a
whole book about this is very good book
I'd recommend you know it's just a
different political era right the
polarization of the two parties hasn't
settled in you still got Southern
Democrats who are sort of traditionally
conservative there's all
sorts of structural things in 30 years
that have changed and I think the
argument the people on the other side of
this sort of debate have right is that
if you go into these structurally
polarized politics thinking with a 1983
model you're gonna get you're gonna get
the four white with you no I'm not using
that model I'm using the model of human
nature and and when I ran for mayor in
2003 I can't again good for Chris Hayes
in just sort of like just very politely
saying like you've got to be kidding me
the only part that wasn't polite wasn't
he really emphasized the like hey you're
1983 couldn't even give him 1990s
concert right all the world but the two
things that I thought were great there
besides the obvious was that one you
know was the well I am white subtext and
then the second one was did you see with
like the tiniest bit of prodding that's
actually not different than what Bernie
Sanders would say it's like sure like
I'm politician of course I'll open like
no one is running even the most
aggressive candidacy saying I'm gonna go
in and just you know offer bills and not
speak to anybody in Congress and not you
know attempt to move through things
through Congress like every single
person is aware of how literally the
logistics of the place works so when he
got pushed it was like yeah well I mean
I literally will have a meeting with
Mitch McConnell he's the Senate Majority
Leader it's like yeah I would imagine
any president will have be in the same
room as Mitch McConnell at some point
buddy it's like if that's your his I
mean rewatch that there was a time
though I mean that that I think there
was a lot more sentiment amongst you
know the mainstream media that like boom
that seems very reasonable you're gonna
go in and sit down and have a
tete-a-tete with him I mean it's it's a
bizarre frame that is really
anachronistic and you know the other
thing Joe Biden said this too right and
I think it was a real missed opportunity
and maybe it's one of those situations
where it's like you know the prisoner
dilemma nobody wants to take this
opportunity but it was a real missed
opportunity for some of the candidates
to not do not essentially say wait a
second Joe you're saying that you're
better than Barack Obama like you're are
you are you what are you saying here
that you could do this better than
Barack Obama blue in other words I mean
if without the Republicans you're gonna
be without Donald Trump you're gonna be
able to go in and deal with the
Republicans in Mitch McConnell so you're
saying that Barack Obama was bad at it
just because that's one of the two
things that I think has to happen for
Joe Biden to drop in the polls one and
maybe you not even need to be separated
cleaved from from Barack Obama but to a
certain extent and he has to be shown as
being vulnerable and they should find
this clip specifically if Harry Reid
going right to the edge of after
praising Obama I think in very authentic
terms because you know Reid's a
conservative Democrat he had some
disagreements so Obama but he said
Obama's the best president I ever worked
with I believe was the quote and then he
said but I really tried hard to convince
him that he could not basically make
deals with these people because of who
they are and the host I think was
Axelrod was kind of like you know you
saying that some of it had something to
do a race and Reid basically was like
you know I'm gonna answer that in such a
way where I can't explicitly I'm not
gonna just say that but yes absolutely
100% and I think if you have you got a
quote from somebody like Harry Reid that
spoke to race Obama's leadership quality
and why that approached failed and you'd
read it to Joe Biden and said what do
you think about this quote Joe that
would be very effective on like all
three grids of his argument bless me
Father for I have sinned the more people
know about Joe Biden the less they're
gonna like him I really believe that
it's a whole other grid it goes left and
right and then there's also just like
partisan or not column from a four seven
eight area code who's this
four seven eight Oh same job from
Georgia thank you for calling in because
I forgot again because nobody reminded
me to plug on the first half of the show
this week's dissident peasant where I
make an appearance to talk about bushier
episodes actually getting rave reviews
know a lot people actor no one college
they had some quibbles with me I don't
really think a response to be is just
about you would affect her for listening
to the south coast Java was it we know
that that's respected Barca we all know
who it was
yeah I didn't mean to erase any liberal
blogs from history but you know I gotta
be honest was saying I'm not doing so
good on that cuz you open think a lot
about my board Dave Rubin
and the kinds of guests and the kinds of
interviews before Dave Rubin you know
conducts
they're just not critical there's no
critical questions no no no challenges
for anyone in the gotta be honest from
saying you know I love you but I brought
you on the show I treat you pretty nice
they ask you know hard questions so I
got just a couple hard questions for you
now questionable one I'm just wondering
about Dave Rubin which of these inspires
your hate boner for him harder would you
say it's is incredible intellectual
acuity or it's just total lack of
principles which one really gets your
your heart your blood content see I I
don't fall people for being dumb it is
but what was the second question what
was the second option the lack of
integrity it either how spectacularly
stupid he is or how spectacular I think
it's the I think it's the second I mean
I don't even care that he has no
political principles I just what the my
problem with with Dave Rubin is that he
mainstream's
really bad people that's what I think is
the my biggest problem with them and he
also is
disingenuously disingenuously represents
himself as something that he's not has
as a way of mainstreaming bad people and
bad ideas there's really bow to you Sam
you guys here to here stupid people aren
t people saying I appreciate y'all
stealing it yeah I know I don't think
West for you I'm just wondering if you
or have you not ever seen any large
burly men over to Maggie soon guys
residents to maybe help him finish any
documentaries that he's behind done
that's something you've ever
contemplated doing or have done
certainly something I want to play doing
certainly something I've contemplated
doing but alright I appreciate you know
Sony well my last question for you Sam
has a feel the hostess show that
simultaneously chills for the corrupt
Democratic establishment and espouses
starry-eyed communists not since on a
regular basis never feel to fail so
barely at both of those things somehow
its tape that surprisingly good
surprising there are folks you hear here
first uh implicit Sam I really
appreciate you letting me ask you tough
questions no no couldn't be easy for you
but in all our sick folks of Sam cable
show incredibly quick you say yes
incredibly enthusiastic Allah it's
pretty damn good episode and I couldn't
thank you check it out folks all right
final call the day we got people have
been on for over an hour multiple people
calling from a 909 area code who's this
were you calling from SM this is Chris
from Riverside California Chris what's
on your mind a couple of things first
off today's actually a big lush day in
Riverside California we're up there for
works for City Council up three
incumbents are not running for
re-election and the one that is I think
is in a bit of a tough race right now
Wow I mean yeah I mean I'm nine one the
warden in Ward 4 i for six I think
but I know this is one person
progessive I know it's running down I'm
salad just right out of striking
distance of being in the war to vote for
but um yeah that's happening along that
I want fair what your guys work take
words on on the UK and in regards to um
possibly Scotland leaving Great Britain
or so Jory
contagious Boris Johnson or Michael gov
becomes Prime Minister's so alright will
answer a fair I mean I think that it is
very possible on the trajectory that
they're on that Scotland's could go for
a know their independence referendum and
it could pass that's super possible I
feel like I have no idea what the hell
is going on there part of what kept
Scotland in was actually labor
politicians like Gordon Brown going and
talking about the NHS and Scotland is
relatively speaking
definitely more socialist oriented and
EU then you know the UK right so it is
definitely enhances that possibility I'm
not sure if they'll I don't know the
process by which the mechanism happens
that allows them to do it
oh my god it's whatever like we haven't
any clue as to what's gonna happen in
the next six months out there what a
disaster that like they didn't go for
Scottish independence and reject brexit
they really got those to extract
referendums backwards alright that's it
for calls today and take some IMS semi G
Sam if you clench the libertarian
nomination if you clinch the libertarian
nomination will you promise if elected
to issue an executive order requiring
all audio books to be read by Sebastian
Gorka if I have that authority a mr.
Stokes casual Friday guest succession
get in touch with Trey Crowder Deep
South guy who does liberal minded comedy
I feel like Gorka has that authoritarian
mind so that like if we took over
he would have to be like salutations
left is best how may I help you mr. Sita
can I park your car for you
dr. chaos MD it's my birthday today and
as a present to myself I'm buying a copy
of democracy and chains and Marx's
capital nice but 30 seems like a great
time to become Marxist and freak out
baby boomers I think they've earned it
in an effort to fill out my reading
lists even more does anyone have an
additional suggestion doesn't have to be
political fair also do you have a list
of authors and their books that come on
the show it is one need to comb through
the blog to find that we do what's the
name of that thing book Goodreads yeah
majority report Goodreads check it out
geordie report Goodreads we're giving a
few book editions yeah give a one book
recommendation read the corporation I'm
just finishing it right now it's this
it's basically the untold story of the
like history of the Cuban numbers racket
and gambling in New York and Miami but
how it relates goes back to the Bay of
Pigs and like CIA terrorists
insurgencies across Latin America it's
very vivid very well written the
corporation epic story of the Cuban
American underworld definitely gonna be
influencing some future illicit
histories on TMDs Jaime so definitely
read Marx don't just read capital read
all of Marx read the Grand ERISA I mean
I'm a hypocrite I haven't read the Koran
dresser yet but if you want to take the
sort of go from the nuts and bolts
understanding of capitalism that Marx
gives you and move look forward to sort
of the kind of visionary society that
you could use those tools to create I
really really like leftist sci-fi
especially the Mars trilogy by Kim
Stanley Robinson and dispossessed by
Ursula Guin and after you read the Mars
trilogy you can listen to our interview
with Kim Stanley Robinson on the
anti-fog I'll just two books by IRA
Katznelson one is when affirmative
action was white which is very good
second one being fear itself the New
Deal and the origin
of our time which sucks about the New
Deal as a sort of response how it was a
response and was sort of shaped by a
rise in worldwide totalitarianism and
authoritarianism and I'm sorry the Quran
I have not released and not recommend
the Quran I can't even remember the last
book that I've read that has we have not
done on the show there was a though
honestly like I can't even remember
their was a fiction book I read that I
enjoyed that was like I feel like you
said you like closer kosher sex by
schmoly bow ties the prisoner of azkaban
that was great yeah you were really taut
I think like the last no wait a second
the Family Handyman book is not that was
not that was not that was that was that
was not non fit that was that was
nonfiction as well
y'all just recommended nonfiction books
I know but I did it's not actually a
real full-on book it's you just family
and the handyman I mean I have it I I
got about 30 pages into that 2041 book
and my whole plan was over vacation that
I was gonna be able to read because I
had this whole plan where I put the kids
into like a camp that did that fell
apart so I didn't read the socialist
manifesto Bosh Garden Sun Cara's new
book is a good excellent book I finished
it over the weekend ah Mehta flight oh
wait are we gonna have a month again
soon Bhaskar he's gonna be on Team Baths
next Tuesday I was not asking that but
no yeah you should have met a flight hey
Michael I read up on Olaf plane he's a
fascinating figure what you're taking
the fact that he saved nuclear power in
Sweden unban me from the chat I did
nothing wrong
I don't know that question sounds like
you might be been able from the chat I
don't think much of it but he is a
fascinating figure dater of bad Jews is
it telling that ten white guys traveled
from all over the eastern seaboard to
protest with a bullhorn a book about
white fragility prove a point
a much alt-right that book the end of
whiteness I think it was cold or
something like that
it was quite for Julie and they
protested it with bullhorn snowflakes
that's not a good pyretic will Christian
hey guys everyone with realizing what a
fraud Dave Rubin is and other members of
the IDW not coming to his defense do you
think he'll try and play the whole
classical liberal idiocy is some sort of
Andy Kaufman s Beck bit no he doesn't
have the sophistication that Martha Rose
they say my hope by the time you have to
vote for the next president you have
merch to sell so I really like to wear
mr t-shirt on the way to the polls
working on it working on it believe me
Alex Jones anyone else care about New
York City banning CBD food and drink
additives any other thoughts on this as
somebody who examines CBD without like
the THC in Los Angeles it's a complete
waste of time anyway so I'm fine with it
helps me fall asleep at night s ray the
full molar report is available as a free
multi-part audiobook podcast read by a
guy timber timber Lane Media in a closet
in this house it's very high quality
audio and compelling no politics or spin
the podcast reader you really need to
read or hear yourself search Timberlane
muller CTM rfn sam elizabeth warren just
put out a new green manufacturing plan
looks pretty solid large additional
funding for project procurement hour and
day and creation of a new federal office
also started democracy and change its
outstanding it's a really good book i
think you got to read that to understand
modern american history and then read
the criticism to understand the labor
libertarian whining turn up beg abaga
speaking of Colorado there's really
great progressive here running for
Center name is Lorena Lorena Garcia
everyone please check her out in
supporter if you can Congressional
baseball fan if you'd like to try drave
Rubens chocolate mint something protein
shake for any purpose drinking or
otherwise you can it's the junior mint
smoothie from the shop next to Starbucks
in Santa Monica in Westmount make sure
to get the whey protein
oh yeah it's 99 999
jf Mikey the subscription page is down
right now appears to be so or error
Oh interesting
aliens for Trump Jesus if I wanted
number show I'd watch Sesame Street
producer Lauren did you notice that one
of the consequences Disney buying Fox
studios including FX channel is FX now
running a show called the weekly which
debuted Sunday night and produced by the
failing right-wing right-leaning paper
the New York Times also a reminder that
BuzzFeed is smartly owned by Comcast
though it's through its NBC a division
the final IM of the day steel river
savior I grew up with abuse and have
been involved with it for most of my
life sister-in-law is a mental health
professional and social worker there
seems to be a profound lack of empathy
in this field with many workers leads to
many people being ignored by the system
or receiving lazy care people get jaded
very quickly gets stuck in jobs for a
pension and tend to push people through
the system as quickly and easily as
possible there are a lot of great social
work but a ton of shitty one's thoughts
Jamie Michael Sam love you guys Scott
from va well that's too big of a topic
too they need to get paid more yeah it's
hard to I think there needs to be we
need to to have less college debt so
more people go in this and so more
people can cycle through it because
people get burned out very very quickly
I know a lot of people involved in that
type of work on one form or another and
it the burnout is real and it's
understandable and so we need to figure
out a way of getting people to cycle
through that we need to know where
maintain their maintain their their
pensions and whatnot see you tomorrow
to get to where I want
no son
[Music]
I was
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
