[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday January 14th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today author
Jack Kelly on the edge of anarchy the
railroad barons the Gilded Age and the
greatest labor uprising in America also
on the program today government shutdown
now the longest ever continues to be
illegal but Bar and wheeler will get
hearings this week for Attorney General
and EPA chief meanwhile LA teachers on
strike looking for permanent funding
for schools in LA meanwhile Trump's VA
looks to massive privatization and John
Bolton's been seeking Iran bombing
options as recently as September
meanwhile Trump adderall tweets threats
to Turkey in the middle of the night and
a federal judge saves free birth control
provided by the ACA coverage for now at
least US of course calling for a new
government in Venezuela no word yet on
hidden weapons of mass destruction and
that crowd source border wall GoFundMe
well its forced to innovate into a new
grift and Jonathan Chait strikes out
again all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen we are all
still in the afterglow of the live show
that we did yesterday at the Brooklyn
Bell house in Brooklyn New York 300 and
about 70 more I don't know somewhere
between 370 400 people came to see us at
the Bell House yesterday it was a great
show Jon Benjamin stopped by helped out
for those of you who are at the show you
know that Jon felt a little bit awkward
about coming out in public I guess it
had been a while and had well he he had
some very I guess last-minute fixes on
his on his hairline that he was working
on and I am set didn't see that oh no oh
my god I didn't see that photo did
anybody take a photo of the audience oh
I forgot to do that that was a major
fail well you see John's on Instagram
yeah there's John
yeah you can check that out on an
Instagram the I got a text from John
later in the evening saying the stuff
will not come out and I have a video we
should actually play this may be of him
over his kitchen sink in trying to wash
out his head so John really went to the
mat on this one it looked like some of
it he just filled it in with a sharpie
yeah God knows I don't know what
happened that can kind of see here
though that this line above it's a bit
softer and that's where the hair product
is and better than the one he's mocking
right hello it's true we played a great
video from the Chris lapacho
and Ronald Reagan and dissing peasant we
we had lots of fun and we should tell
you people have asked if the poster will
be available we still have posters
available we're trying to figure out a
way of selling them online because
apparently there's new technology that
allows you to do that and we're just
trying to figure out the details so that
we will keep you updated but want to
thank everybody who came out unveiled
Ronald Reagan's what I thought was a
banner about what does it get the chuck
out and it turns out I have been
informed by Ronald Reagan that that is
actually a shower curtain available on
the redirected site there better deal on
shower curtains and on banners I I don't
know I think he just got really inspired
by the shower curtains so just a real
big thank you to all of you and who came
out we will be posting that episode soon
not sure quite yet we haven't quite
figured out what how we're gonna do that
but we know technically how to do it
just not in terms of like what when it's
in what context we're gonna release it
but we will shortly
I should tell you you spend one third of
your life in sheets and if you're
looking for a new year's resolution
better sleep is a great place to start
with Brooklyn and you can finally get
5-star Hotel quality sheets easily and
without breaking the bank
because Brooklyn and works directly with
their manufacturers passes the savings
on to you you can mix and match over 20
colors and patterns and explore
Brooklyn's collection of towels robes
sleep masks add a splash of luxury to
your daily routine going into 2019 I've
spoken about Brooklyn and my Brooklyn
sheets III don't hun drudes of times I
have now probably about four or five
sets of sheets cuz I got it four I keep
rolling it in for the kids because you
start at one point you start to feel bad
like why am I in such nice sheets and
the kids don't and I sleep better and
didn't you get some Brooklyn sheets I
did are you loving them they're good
yeah Shaun was skeptical as to whether
they fancy sheets would be better than
sheets that you buy at the dollar store
which is the only kind we'd had up until
now and now we are both in agreement
that they are indeed better and the
other thing is they will last and the
sheets like that it's like after like a
month they start getting into like their
sweet zone that lasts about five or six
years - that's like them I mean the for
me I go for the that crisp cool cotton
feel but and there's other options too
they are the best most comfortable
sheets I've ever slept on it is now time
for your upgrade Brooklyn and Comm is
giving an exclusive offer for just my
listeners get 20 bucks off and free
shipping when you use the promo code
majority at Brooklyn and calm so
confident that their product that all
their sheets comforters and towels come
with a lifetime warranty and the only
way to get 20 bucks off and free
shipping is to use promo code majority
at Brooklyn and Comm that's Brooklyn and
be our ook Li and en dot-com promo code
majority Brooklyn and these really are
the best sheets ever and folks speaking
of kids
the first thing well it wasn't the first
thing it took me a while but I did it
was much better when when Saul came
around
and that is I bought life insurance when
I had a kid hadn't even thought about it
beforehand probably should have thought
about it when I got married my wife and
I probably at the time should have
should have contemplated that but wait
till I got kids but I'm glad I did
at least then you can protect your loved
ones with the peace of mind of life
insurance think you can't afford it
chances are that selectquote can help
you get it for less than a dollar a day
what selectquote does they comparison
shops up to ten highly rated companies
including Prudential banner Life Mutual
of Omaha and others my insurance company
I actually have two sets of insurance
both are included in this I didn't get
it through a select quote but the bottom
line is its price you get quality
insurance companies you can look up
these insurance companies online to see
you know how they're rated but go in
there and you want to get the best price
possible select quote could find a 35
year old man of $500,000 policy for
under 19 bucks a month that's less than
a dollar a day
cup of coffee cost you more than that
select quote breakthrough technology
allows them to quickly match you the
best insurance company to find your best
policy plus quotes are free I am NOT a
financial adviser I don't know how to
advise you
I got term life insurance and I got it
through basically through both kids
going through college so I had my second
kid I added first kid was like I think I
did like 20 30 years second 30 years
second kid I did 20 so that I was
covered but the time to do it is when
you're young too because apparently as
you get older it gets more expensive
I'm not apparently that was my
experience but let's select quote save
you time and money
get your free quote at select quote
dot-com slash majority today that select
quote dot-com it's last majority for
your free quote don't put off protecting
your family for another day and lastly
you know what smart
kicking off 2019 by planning out which
rolls your business needs to fill and
hire for you know what else is smart
starting the new you have strong by
going as zip recruiter dot-com slash
majority to hire the right people unlike
other job sites zip recruiter finds
qualified candidates for you it's
powerful matching technology scans
thousands of resumes to identify people
with the right skills education and
experience then it actively invites them
to apply to your job so you get
qualified candidates fast so I zip
recruiter is rated number one by
employers in the US this rating comes
from hiring sites on trust pilot with
over a thousand reviews folks you know
what I feel about zip recruiter that's
how Brendan is sitting in this office
right now it was clear I remember what I
did it I was like you know what they
advertise with us I should try it and
you know because I had noodle around
before it looked good but if you don't
you're not hiring somebody but I went in
I did the I did it at first and then I
put the pedal to the metal with it and
we ended up with Brendan but there was
we got a tremendous amount of really
qualified people right now my listeners
can try zip recruiter for free at this
exclusive web address zip recruiter
dot-com slash majority if you love this
show show your support and go to zip
recruiter by going to zip recruiter
dot-com slash majority zip zi p r e CR u
iter dot-com slash majority at zip
recruiter dot-com slash majority zip
recruiter it's the smartest way to hire
all right so this happened I guess over
the weekend I'm a little bit confused by
having done the show on Sunday but
Donald Trump there was a a couple of
pieces in the New York Times that broke
over the past couple of days one is that
the FBI had opened an investigation a
counterintelligence investigation that
is different from a criminal
investigation there is no
port that's issued from counter to there
are no charges that are issued
necessarily I mean it is it is one
specifically to sort of protect assets
and The Times piece said nothing was
found but I'm not sure if that is
conclusive but leave it at that at the
very least also what broke this week was
that Donald Trump went to great lengths
according to a Washington Post to
prevent anybody from getting any type of
read about what happened in his meeting
with Putin and literally took the
translators notes private you know it's
private classic classic stuff you do who
are you Jeff Bezos what those notes and
you know like yeah I guess it's
conceivable the Donald Trump is just
such a sophisticated guy that and is
trying to do something that is so
remarkable that he would you know as
opposed to like what he said to tear Tay
or others that he you know was worried
about the deep state you know
particularly that early in his I mean
you know cuz this is a guy who has
probably read quite a bit of the history
of the machinations of the US government
and probably understood from a
bureaucratic standpoint who you want to
prevent stuff to from getting to right I
mean that's not hard to believe too
little reader total reader and
well-versed in all of these these
pitfalls so at the very least he's not
defensive at all he went on Jeannine
pretty rose show and Jeanine Pirro
folks I'm sure most of you know what we
mean in the biz by a softball question
well here's what happened when when
someone pitches you a softball and you
are so defensive that you whip out a
machine gun and try and shoot at it now
good have you ever worked for Russia mr.
president I think it's the most
insulting thing I've ever been asked I
think it's the most insulting article
I've
ever had written and if you read the
article you see that they found
absolutely nothing but the the headline
of that article is called the failing
New York Times for a reason they've
gotten me wrong for three years they've
actually gotten me wrong for many years
before that but you look at what's going
on
you know I fired James Konya I call him
lyin James Comey because he was a
terrible liar and he did a terrible job
as the FBI director look at what
happened with Hillary Clinton and the
emails and the Hillary Clinton
investigation one of the biggest
screw-ups that anybody's ever seen as an
investigation and what happened after I
fired him Andrew McCabe Peter struck his
lover Lisa page pausing for one second
right now remember that Jeanine Pirro is
sitting there going like I I was joking
I said it as a joke did I not
communicate that that's all that she's
saying she like literally they've cut
away this is all b-roll because she's
got this thing going I'm convinced at
this point she's looking they did it and
you know they're all gone most of those
people many many people from the top
ranks of the FBI they've all been fired
or they had a leave and they were all
gone this is right they were talking
about and obviously nothing was found
and I can tell you this if you ask the
folks in Russia
I've been tougher on Russia than anybody
else any other probably any other
president period or certainly the last
three or four presidents modern-day
presidents nobody's been as tough as I
have from any standpoint including the
fact that we're doing oil like we've
never done it we're setting records in
our country with oil and exporting oil
and many other things so which is
obviously for them where they get their
money for the most part but many other
things so I I think it was a great
insult and the New York Times is a
disaster as a paper it's a it's a very
horrible thing they said and they've got
so far that people that were necessary
believers are now big believers because
they said that was a step too far they
really are a disaster of a newspaper
well yeah
and still no actual denial right it's
salted is disgust Ella it's so funny I'm
listening to this crime town pot a
podcast about the calm
kwame kilpatrick mayoral reign and
Detroit and it all looks like totally
nothing compared to this but one of the
things he's he's a lot more articulate
than Trump but he always did that like I
think that question is insulting right
and I think the fact that you would ask
that in front of the people is not only
an insult to them and to me but even you
and your job as a journalist you've
excel on and on and on and it's like
that except you know with a also a guy
who's losing all of his faculties and a
friendly journalist facility he I mean
he couldn't see you know to be fair he
couldn't see her right because he was
just on the phone because she's gone
she's doing the old laughing and he
apparently was just you know this is the
thing is that when you snort adderall I
think what it does is it makes it much
harder to pick up on social cues right
and I think that's probably the problem
I thought how you treated rabbit Durst
was totally unfair you are not gonna be
Attorney General now Jeanine Pirro yeah
so I was gonna make you Attorney General
and headed to space first but now
nothing nothing let's not blame a
perfectly good stimulant for Trump's
shortcomings all right burning adderall
is great but I would not go on are you
sure that's if you're very well I'm not
sure I mean I can imagine it's possible
but I I think if you're in a very
defensive state and I would not go on
national cable TV and try and defend
yourself alone
what does she watch she's very afraid
rate listen God hey Mike that's John sir
I don't care whatever you look like a
Mike mustache mustache make of ears no
way you'd have a mustache like that
mic succeed in the kind of business
we're gonna take a quick break and when
we come back we'll be talking to Jack
Kelly on the edge of anarchy the
railroad barons the Gilded Age and the
greatest labor uprising in America we'll
be right back
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program author journalist
and historian Jack Kelly on his latest
the edge of anarchy the railroad barons
the Gilded Age and the greatest labor
uprising in America Jack welcome to the
program great to be with you Sam and and
I want to get to but you know Eugene
debb's obviously has been enjoying a bit
of a resurgence he's all over the place
now as to paraphrase the president in
some respects largely I think because of
of the moment and he plays a big part in
your book but before we get to two Deb's
give us a sense I mean your your book
starts right around just before a major
[Music]
recession or depression I guess in the
late 1800s
give us a sense of what the of the labor
movement at that time its reconstruction
work a couple of decades out now from
the Civil War maybe a little bit less
what's the labor movement like at that
time well the the it was kind of
fragmented it was uncertain as to what
the really the status of labor was in
the country there were there were had
been unions both small craft unions so
that the Carpenters Union and there had
been larger organizations like then what
was called the Knights of Labor was a
very large very inclusive Union nobody
knew exactly what direction the labor
movement was going to take and nobody
really knew whether it was legal to
strike whether it was illegal to even be
a member of a union and all this was
sort of up in the air Eugene debb's had
started out as as a an official the
Brotherhood of locomotive fireman and
those were the guys have shoveled the
coal into the into the burner to keep a
locomotive going and he saw
over the years and he was involved with
them for a quite a long time and he saw
that these craft unions the unions were
were organized around a particular skill
or ineffective the the railroads were
getting more and more the corporations
were getting larger and larger they were
becoming more and more monopolistic and
they used these small craft unions
against each other and and were able to
manipulate them and Deb saw this need
for a larger conglomeration of the
workers themselves into what was then
called an industrial union that would
include everybody in the industry and
that would give him the clout so that
was really the origin of the of this
conflict that broke out for and as you
mentioned the the the country was in the
middle of the worst depression that I've
ever experienced and the depression that
were of the late 1890s has been eclipsed
by the larger depression in the 1930s
but at the time it was absolutely
horrific bottom dropping out of the
country type of depression and went on
through almost five years all right and
before we get to the two george pullman
in and and and and and the strike and
and how in many ways I guess like our
there were different players in our
society who were sort of developing
their roles in the context of of a labor
capital conflict tell us a little bit
about Jacob Coxey I found that really
fascinating yeah that was a you know
it's really a symptom of that how
desperate people were in that that year
of 1894 before the the Pullman Strike
and Deb's got going Cox II was a
actually business man he had the
government was at the time was have had
absolutely no idea what to do about
depression there was there was it wasn't
him really much nor theories as to how
they should act to alleviate it and
there was no safety net
so Cox II had a very reasonable idea it
was why not hire the unemployed man put
him to work on the roads what we would
call infrastructure investment and you
would end up with half people having
jobs and you would have a productive
asset when you've got finished with
improving the roads which were in
terrible shape at the time the
government didn't want to hear about
that he organized a group of unemployed
men they walked from his home in Ohio
all the way down to Washington DC to
bring this to Congress and that was the
first march on Washington now it's
become sort of a national institution as
a form of protest but he was the first
one to actually bring it about and it
made the government so nervous that they
they handed out rifles to office workers
at the Treasury Department because they
thought these guys were would break into
the Treasury and loot the vaults there
and the movement was referred to as
coxey's army but it was in no sense an
army that was they were it was totally
peaceful people this one to be heard and
did anything come of that I mean aside
from the defensive miss I mean we should
also say this is you know we're now I
guess about 20 years out from the
institution of an income tax right at
this point and and I would imagine like
all of these desires to have the federal
government take a bigger role
particularly in the context of like a
depression start to to generate some of
this I guess impetus to raise more funds
or to have more sort of dedicated funds
I guess like well yeah enough nothing
really came of the taxi movement except
that except for that sort of nervousness
that it generated in the country he was
arrested for walking on the grass
there was actually a law saying that it
was illegal to deliver a harangue on
Capitol Hill which was kind of an ironic
law at the time and the the his I would
say his idea was really ahead of its
time it was more Keynesian than then you
know this is before Keynes and the idea
of stimulating the economy when it's
depressed but the Grover Cleveland who
was president then was a devotee of the
gold standard and the hard money stance
was exactly the opposite of what was
needed during a depression but he went
on to exacerbate it they did pass a
income tax but it was overturned by the
Supreme Court I think in 1895 the the
Supreme Court in that era was very
conservative a very backward looking and
they ruled that sort of on a
technicality the income tax was not
constitutional it was another I think it
was in 1913 before they actually passed
a constitutional amendment that allowed
the first income tax and I should I just
put I should you Bush put in parentheses
for our libertarian friends who believe
that the income tax is is still illegal
because I think there were two states
that supposedly did not have quorum for
that men but that's that's for another
day let's let's talk about george
pullman and set pullman up for us
because on some level i mean he's sort
of like a an early prototype of maybe or
maybe this is too far of an analogy but
there's something jeff bezos ish about
him and particularly when we're getting
this sort of like amazon campus in
queens now but tell us what george
pullman about him yeah that's an
interesting parallel because the one
thing I would certainly say is they were
both business
geniuses and a Pullman had a great sense
of what people wanted he went into the
railroad business is exactly the right
time in 1860s and developed sleeping
cars and the the the first
transcontinental rail line opened in
1869 you could suddenly go from East
Coast to West Coast in a week but even
traveling it in a week for a week and a
coach car was uncomfortable so he came
up with these cars that can be converted
into beds that were extremely luxurious
they had all the geegaws that the
Victorians loved and they were
fabulously successful and he he didn't
sell them to the railroads but he he
retained ownership and operated them on
the railroads all the money the people
paid for the upgrade to a Pullman car
went into George Pullman's pockets and
he became fabulously wealthy to build
the cars he'd constructed what was at
the time was one of the biggest
factories in America about 15 miles
south of Chicago and his idea was to get
out of the center of the city which like
many cities during the industrial era
Chicago had been clogged with tenements
and squalor and he thought that it would
be better to build the factory outside
the city and to accompany it he built a
company town which was seen as a model
town this was the way cities should be
built in the future it was had neat
little brick cottages for the workers
parks playgrounds schools libraries and
was right beside the factory and that
that was sort of the origin of the of
the dispute that came later 20 years
later when he about 15 years later when
he his workers went on strike against
him I mean and then so the talk about
the development of the strike is I want
to at one point bring in the question of
race here which which is important it
seems to me throughout this story
on some level it runs parallel and then
there's a moment where it could
intersect I guess or or does it I mean
it's it's it's the I should say the
story of race is seems to me to be
intertwined throughout and but yeah the
plight of of black workers at that time
could have been intertwined as well but
didn't and that may have been sort of
like the fatal flaw to this strike on
some level but tell us the the strike
develops because people living in
Pullman's company town it's a fairly
small like I guess complaint or would
have been fairly small for Pullman to
rectify but he was very it seems rigid
about well you know on principle he
doesn't want to in any way give a
concession to the workers yes that's
exactly correct one of his neighbors
said he was the most frigid pompous
autocrat I had ever seen and his
personality did have a big effect on the
whole thing he responded quite
reasonably to the slowdown by lowering
you know dropping the wages of his
workers but instead of also lowering the
rents which in general rents were going
down because it was a depression he kept
the rents at the same level so guys
would work for for two weeks and were
paid every two weeks and they would get
a check for $3 and that was to bide you
over for another two weeks and feed your
family this brought up a lot of the
complaints that they already had about
the the was a model town which was not
really such a model it was filled with
company spies it was there was no town
government that was all run by the
company there were these petty rules
that they would make up and post around
the head of the obey and the workers
were generally discontent and they when
they were being squeezed between the
rents and the and the lower wages
they decided to go on strike the other
angle that you're referring to and I
think it is important I think it's just
a illustration in a way that whenever
you go back into American history I was
tripping over the race question george
pullman partly as a republican and a
follower of lincoln he had hired freed
slaves almost all freed slaves to work
on his sleeper cars as servants and that
was if in a way it was a benign act it
was trying to help them out it was one
of the few jobs that they could get on
the railroads or anywhere else but he he
had his personality was such they had to
make money at everything so one of the
ways he made money off of them was he
didn't pay him they work exclusively for
tips at first and then after a while
they got they would get like ten dollars
a month and they had no opportunity to
rise they had only that one role as what
was called porters they're worth of the
pullman porters when the pullman factory
workers went on strike they appealed to
the the American railway Union which was
this big inclusive Union that Eugene
debb's had started just about a year
earlier that Union happened to be having
their convention in Chicago at exactly
the same time that the strike broke out
and one of the questions that the
convention was should we allow black
workers into the Union and Eugene debb's
pleaded with them the delegates from all
the locals please you know you have to
this is the Union had been founded on
the idea of solidarity including
everyone in one big Union you can't you
can't draw the race line
unfortunately they voted by very small
margin they voted to exclude blacks from
the Union and the as the as the strike
unfolded and the Union tried to help the
Pullman workers by boycotting Pullman
cars on the lines it would have been
much more effective if they could have
had the Pullman porters on their side
because they were absolutely necessary
for operating the Pullman cars but
instead the black workers continued to
work they weren't allowed in the Union
and the the strike ultimately came to
naught all right let's talk about the
the role of the US government the
federal government and and we should on
some level you know also I guess the
courts and in this sort of the state and
local the the Attorney General at that
time was a guy named Richard Olney and
he was I want to say he was a a railroad
attorney but he was was was he still
actively an attorney vacant railroads
he was still he was he was still an
attorney for the railroads he was a
director of several railroads and it was
almost like being Attorney General was
like a side-lying for him and so his
sympathies was you know he was supposed
to be the chief officer of justice in
the country and instead he worked hand
in hand with the railroads who wanted
that they were very eager to break the
strike and break the Union because they
saw this this dust really you know as a
pretty good threat to them and so he
worked hand in hand with them all
through the strike and appointed another
railroad lawyer as as as the u.s. a
special US attorney in Illinois to
handle the day-to-day fight against the
strike so it was that was a major part
of the the reason that
workers lost because they did stick
together they didn't shut down the
railroads they they put enormous
pressure on both the railroads and
Pullman but once the government got
involved they they were up against more
than they could handle well let me give
us a sense of what that pushback look
like I mean it you know aside from
injunctions I mean I guess it's you know
this is one of those classic cases where
the court does issue an injunction but
then you know then the question is in
what army and it turns out the basically
the US Army yeah the the injunction
really made this strike illegal and not
only just illegal in general terms but
individual acts of if you didn't go to
work you were essentially breaking the
law you could be jailed without trial
because you were in contempt of court if
you talk to somebody about the strike
you could be jailed for being in
contempt of court so that was a pretty
powerful weapon against a strike and
only also convinced to Grover Cleveland
the president then to send in the US
Army that was a very sketchy
there was a very sketchy legal basis to
that because the army was not supposed
to be involved in any kind of law
enforcement as it is not also not today
but the army came in with artillery
cavalry primarily in Chicago but also in
other cities out west and and were
involved in putting down the strike and
so to the extent that there was a I mean
so the strike is put down essentially
the workers go back without any type of
relief and particularly in the context
of those rents I guess yeah and they
also had to sign a what was called a
Yellow Dog contract which was in a
contract that said they would never ever
again join a union so it was added on
top of this all right well then tell us
you know what happens afterwards because
this is one of those examples
like a of I don't want to say a good
loss but the value that can come out of
a loss in a political fight yeah I think
it's a it's an interesting look into
sort of the complexity of history there
was no real black and white that there
were in a way the the outcome of the
strike was paradoxical because Eugene
debb's lost a strike and went to jail
lost his court fight against the
injunction and had to go to jail for six
months and yet when he came out of jail
he that he was welcomed back to Chicago
by a hundred thousand supporters and he
was lionized george pullman won the
strike but he was widely reviled for his
intransigence and even a lot of his
friends said you know if he'd been a
little more flexible he could have saved
the country all the turmoil and I didn't
go into much to the turmoil that
resulted in a strike but it was so
widespread closing down railroads in
which so many towns and cities were
dependent you know the price of food
went through the roof there was several
dozen people got shot dead all that
could have been saved if he'd just been
a little more flexible and a little more
human and is dealing with his employees
but he didn't see it that way
and the the strike also gave an impetus
to the progressive movement which was
coming along and came along a few years
later around the turn of the century and
that were both railroad workers and
workers in general received the benefit
of legislation dealing with whether they
had the legal right to unionize whether
the hours of work the conditions of work
child labor minimum wage things like
that began to be to come into play a lot
because of the shock that this strike
had on the country and wealthier people
in particular that they it was it was a
type of insurrection that they
were you know had nightmares about and
so that one of the results of the strike
was the Progressive Era a biggest
striker I can go into in a minute is
it's a fact on Eugene debb's because he
he changed his tune to a great extent
because of his experience in the strike
well yeah let's talk about that how that
how that what lessons he learned from
this well he you know he saw that if the
government was going to come in on the
side of capital then it didn't do any
good to just to organize labor that you
needed to change the government and so
he he was one of those unusual
characters who became more and more
radical as you got older for most people
it's sort of the opposite of erratic
linear use and it sort of wise up as you
get older but Deb's transformed this
American railway Union into what became
the Socialist Party of America and
started on a career as a politician and
ran for president United States
five times as a socialist and and built
up at least the the the beginnings of a
socialist movement during that era and
never of course gained a lot of traction
in America but he was the great prophet
of socialism what was it that I mean
IIIi just want to explore that dynamic
where he has this because he clearly
sees that a government that that weighs
in on lay on the side of capital and
this one was extremely corrupt but we
can see it in the context of things like
even like taft-hartley puts its thumbs
on the scale for for management and
capital in terms of legislation but he
sees what there is he is there does he
think that there is no
[Music]
just expand a little bit more on that
and that that that realization he has
about what he needs from government well
you know I think he took the principles
they applied to labor organizing which
was this idea of solidarity that if
workers could express solidarity with
each other and all joined together and
not fight amongst themselves he took
that idea and applied it in an even
larger context of the country as a whole
that if the working-class could could
all pull together and form a party and
and and actively fight against the the
powers in the government that it could
bring about fundamental change and there
was a lot of very hopeful you tope maybe
utopian you could say ideas that society
could be transformed and this this was
the beginning of it and the reasons why
it failed I'd say on the one hand though
socialism failed so the ideas that
socialists were putting up at that time
such as government-sponsored old-age
pension or or health care or
unemployment insurance did work their
way into the political mainstream but
socialism as a as a Creed never really
got the traction that the Debs had hoped
it would and he certainly worked as hard
as he could to bring it about and people
loved to hear him speak but they just
didn't want to vote for him
I mean there's an obvious you know we
hear a lot of people talk about this era
as being the the new Gilded Age and
we're you know I don't know if you know
the sort of the the wake of the
financial crisis in 2008 and the the the
Great Recession is analogous but I mean
what do you see what what tell me what
you see in terms of analogies
and in contrast from that here in this
one well I think that what you're saying
is very true that this you know this
idea of were in the new Gilded Age the
the lack of regulation of capitalism
that was true in the Gilded Age that was
really the main problem is there was
just no the government didn't want to
get involved in anything they didn't
really know exactly what to do today
were in the opposite where we had were
moving towards increasing regulation of
capitalism and now we're sliding
backwards that the under this
administration under the Congress a lot
of regulations so just everyday
regulations of business to keep them a
little bit in line are being dismantled
and the thing about capitalism that they
realized back in wood in the 1890s and
turn-of-the-century was they had to be
regulated capitalism just doesn't work
the corporate corporate form doesn't
work if it's not regulated by government
and so I think it's a it's a ominous
trend away from regulation the
government I the this parallel of
Richard all names of lawyer for the
railroads of director of railroads and
was serving as Attorney General
today we have Andrew wheeler as a lawyer
for coal companies a director or a
lobbyist for coal companies a climate
change denier for coal companies and
he's now just this past week as
appointed as a permanent a head of the
environment section agent confirmation
hearing uh stars maybe tomorrow or
Thursday yes sir
or Wednesday rather gonna be interesting
I hope yeah I it'll be interesting see I
would also say a bar for that matter at
least in terms of of you know the sort
of the most prominent investigation
that's going on in the attorney
general's office is coming in as a as
someone who thinks that that should not
happen
they said the the there are some
parallels I guess in that respect and I
guess we'll see what comes out of this I
mean on some level
these events are are I guess lagging
indicators or forward indicators I mean
if if we can see this you know coming
out of something like the financial
crisis and now the diminishment of of
union rights in the context of the the
Janis case and whatnot the other thing
that strikes me is the courts that
basically the same Supreme Court that
created these injunctions on these labor
strikes was also a court that was almost
at the exact same time in that same year
I think in 1895 anyways they were
rolling back voting rights that that had
been passed during Reconstruction and
essentially allowing I think it was
Mississippi to start to institute some
form of poll tax in literary literacy
tests and and you can mention Plessy
versus Ferguson which which made Jim
Crow the law of the land was working its
way up to that at the very same time as
the strike was working its way through
the courts and would be decided by that
same Supreme Court well I mean what do
you make of that the the the is that I
mean is that just a coincidence these
type of reactionaries you know or is it
because I can understand it to the
extent that like oh okay we see this
Union
is is actually creating solidarity into
you know cross race solidarity or is our
the is the impetus the same or is it
like a twofer insofar as we can diminish
the power of of working people and black
people simultaneously I mean what but
why is it these two things seem to be
paired out well you know see am i I'm
not a big fan of conspiracy theories or
or even of just general theories that
explain things as I look at history and
as I've tried to express in the book
there are so many coincidences and
things that happen by happenstance and
effects of people's personalities they
have nothing to do with some bigger
scheme that they have in the back of
their mind to impose on society but just
like george pullman he happened to be a
very cold man if you've been a little
smarter he'd but you know could have
overcome his personal homs and avoided
the conflict a lot of those things just
come together in ways are very
unpredictable and and that's the big
story of history to me and i so I'm not
really the person to explain any of the
bigger meanings of of how these things
come to be because I think a lot of it
is happenstance that being said you know
I the the trend for example one thing
that I see today that's hopeful is that
the rhetoric of Bernie Sanders and of
the younger socialists Ocasio Cortez and
Russia italia their rhetoric goes back
to Eugene Debs
and has a lot of the optimism and
urgency of Debs
more so than Karl Marx and I think that
it's possible it's you know hopeful that
it can
subtraction now that you know Bernie
Sanders campaign in 2016 was quite
remarkable when you look at the whole
history of socialism an avowed socialist
could could have the support that he had
so in that sense I'm cautiously hopeful
I'd say Jack Kelly the book is the edge
of anarchy the railroad barons the
Gilded Age and the greatest labor
uprising in America thanks so much for
your time today really interesting
chapter of American history well thank
you Sam it's great to talk to you
alright folks we're going to take a
quick break oh I should say I mean maybe
this uh you know belongs to join this
with but on the program yesterday the
live show we were talking about the the
fact that we are in now the longest
shutdown and people's checks are now
being delayed right you get paid every
two weeks and there are contractors who
will never get paid well not necessarily
not necessarily get back pay ostensibly
Congress will provide back pay for
people that does not diminish the
anxiety and the stress that's caused and
obviously things like maybe interest
people need to take out loans to cover
stuff and whatnot
I had cited a coming out of that 93 the
the the second longest government
shutdown in 93 a statistic about twenty
five five thousand government workers
had still not received all of their back
pay from that time I got a correction
that and I thought that I had said it
was a function of unpaid overtime and
whatnot but this came out of a lawsuit
that under the
Federal Labor Standards Act and some
state labor standard acts if an employer
fails to pay wages due an employee or
class of those who successfully sue can
recover the unpaid wages double damages
so and attorney fees those payments have
not been paid to those 25,000 workers
from that 1993 case I'm not convinced
that there wasn't some overtime that
still do but according to this audience
member who was at the show Shannon that
that was not the case but I stand
corrected the bind as she writes that I
understand workers are in is that they
are prohibited by law from striking this
came up yesterday in the conversation
because I think they're considered
essential workers if they strike they
can be fired if they keep working for no
pay they can be reasonably confident of
a retro pay and possibly double damages
years in the future after a class-action
lawsuit is complete and she does not
appreciate that dynamic I'm not going to
but she says that is crap as opposed to
no it's not too bad she says I mean I
think this is sarcastic I'm not deeply
disappointed the free swag wasn't
awarded for the farthest traveling fan
Chicago we had people who came from from
across the country I got to beautifully
MIT hats that say cedar to Sam cedar
2020 that milah and Sol are arguing over
the second one they look really good
they were a fret of thanks we're very
well made very sweet and we all had
magnets that we were given out to people
who were traveled that was but we didn't
get all of them out but perhaps future
shows we're looking looking into it I
mean
contemplating it maybe we'll do like a
barn storm on the west coast and maybe a
barn storm on the East Coast that type
of thing but we shall see but just a
reminder this program exists because of
its members members make this show
possible day-in day-out
and as a way of saying thank you we give
you extra content every day so you can
join the majority report by going to
join the majority report calm and for
just a couple bucks a week baby works
out to fifty cents a show I think it was
fifty we actually try to do the math
fifties I think it was fifty cents a
show which is about less than twenty
cents an hour of content that's pretty
good like you're just like feeding like
dimes into an old jukebox that's right
in the grd report exactly throw it on
that like your barley where this he just
hear like actually over plates said how
people should be would you put on
friends the majority report
oh so that guy the debates libertarian
and again thank you to everybody who
came to the show yesterday was a lot of
fun and today is Monday at tomorrow's
Tuesday were two weeks out now from the
live Michael Brooks show is that right
yes very very excited about it because
it was like yesterday was so great and
the people were so great it it yeah
it just reminded me of how exciting it
is that we're gonna be doing this we
still some tickets left so come grab
your tickets the show is it's gonna be a
little bit different than a Tucker
Carlson viewing party little slave
playing a lot of text so no but we're
doing some pre-recorded sketches
Trevor Beaulieu is there my Christine
Bosch Carson car Ilona man coughs key of
course Matt said it was like the the
Coachella
of progressive talk so there you go or
Glastonbury we decided tomorrow night
ana kasparian and team
patreon.com slash TPMS or uh you know
stream on the YouTube channel we have a
video up on tulsi gabbard that's
offended a lot of people no there you go
we gotta figure that out man I I don't I
don't exist can I go on this tangent for
one second I don't even hold with like
she's the worst person in the world
right like I'm not I'm not I'm not even
coming from that place I'm just coming
from if you're on the left there's a lot
of really obvious places of serious
criticism I'm concerned about her and I
I don't understand the cult response to
her I would say get it politics are dumb
not the best person to be a left
representing presidential or vice
president not even remotely and that's
not even to me again that's like
descriptive that's not even really the
meat of the criticism that's just like
reality based on record
Mike Serna into her though
that's good that's it that's a
anti-war coalition we'll talk a little
bit about that tomorrow with Jack pacy
biak is - these are two of my favorite
guys what is C via how does he say his
name so Bri so bi I know but I'll go
with the CB a crumble Jack yeah exactly
bumble Jack Jamie you guys you're like
on a recording spree yeah yeah after the
live show last night we headed back to
the studio and laid down some hot tracks
for the anti Fattah and now I am very
tired
but I am excited about the things we are
releasing today we put out a patrons
only bonus called real Pauly hours in
which we for now I'll leave it to our
patrons to guess which spicy takes we
have on polyamory is it boo schwa
decadence that serves only to aggrandize
our tech bro overlords yes or is it a
totally normal and fine life choice that
haters should stf
you about find out on our patrons only
bonus also defer to Stalin right Jamie
no Colin I mean I mean I don't know you
have to listen to find out what my
opinion might be on polyamory and the :
tie stuff yes oh well speaking of Stalin
we also recorded an episode last night
about the amazing Netflix show called
Trotsky have you guys heard of it no
it's amazing you come for the
revisionism stay for the anti-semitism
it's really good it's quite the piece of
work so we have like that tidying up
show too right
isn't that the one where the where the
Japanese author helps you tidy up it's
at the same time a the my agent why
would that be like trust I don't know
it's the only other way is she
anti-semitic I know I like I don't speak
Joey what she could be I don't trust
anyone who tells you to only have 30
books like no I do that's that's the
 right there but uh yeah this
Trotsky show it's a real piece of work
and we talked about it with our friend
who is actually from the Soviet Union
and lived his early years there so
that's pretty fun and also I wasn't even
going to plug this but it's very on
topic for the interview that we did
today Sean tonight is recording a new
edition of history as a weapon with a
very special guest I won't spoil who it
is yet but he has reputation for getting
very angry and they're gonna break down
using the immortal science of historical
materialism
why socialism never caught on in the US
and why we never got a real Labor Party
is it Mike Francesca I'm not saying
you got Matt Matt remember Mike
Francesca I don't know I don't know I'm
literary hangover coming out this week
we're doing out the house of Seven
Gables topics covered is whether
witchcraft is maybe it was maybe a good
thing the witch trials I should say
whether the witch trials were actually
good very topical
oh is this a certain take that a certain
deceased author had but yes it's
relevant to the house of Seven Gables
so we'll talk about Jim Crow the jumping
Jim Crow dance have you ever heard about
the actual cultural history of Jim Crow
no Jim Crow alright well we'll get into
it
but if you can believe it a white guy
mimicked a cultural expression by black
people and when in blackface and he was
jumping Jim Crow is the type of dance
and like a white guy made it I
definitely believe that yeah so I mean
it's hard to believe I know but we'll go
into that a little bit a lot of
different things will cover so they'll
look hard for that this weekend
literary hangover all right folks see
you in the fun half Jamie and I may have
a disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
bought I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you idiots we're
just going to get rid of you alright but
dude dude dude dude dude dude you want
to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur I'm
happy now yes this is a perfect moment
no all right gonna take a quick break I
want to take a moment to talk to some of
the libertarians out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber silastic I'm feeling
more chill already hood Donald Trump can
kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy
you guys ready to I do see people
Shitler with such No
death to America it's a free speech
issue if you don't like me thank you for
calling into the majority report them
will be with you shortly
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report some reason somehow the
Republicans now seem to be somewhat
embarrassed by how racist Steve King is
and I don't know where they've been for
the past
yeah half a dozen years I mean off the
top of my head I can think of racist
things that Steve King has said and he's
not even my congressman and I'm not in
his party like Mexicans would the with
the calves of melons and he said stick
he said Rice's stuff on on Chris Chris
Hayes's show I can't remember what it
was but I remember it was incredibly uh
offensive can we say that I mean the one
he retweeted were tweeted himself we
can't save our civilization with other
people's babies he revealed his eyes
yeah I mean I he said stuff he went to
the kid oh right yeah he's done visited
Holocaust camps and how does this isn't
about race is about Western civilization
multiple times a long time ago he he
went to the to what I can't remember
what camp was wasn't in Dachau
was it on the dime or went to go speak
to a Holocaust denial group because he
wanted to get both
because you don't want just the
perspective of there was genocide you
want also I just want to hear from
victims all the time through the Steve
King my grandmother did part of the
problem that they they have with him is
that he said the quiet part loudly as
they say now of course Donald Trump's
been doing this for quite some time and
I think Steve King has too but he
explicitly said I don't see what is so
offensive about the words white
supremacy which is almost just a little
bit too on the nose
so you see old Steve McCarthy here
that's it Trump calls gets its Kevin
McCarthy and Steve Scalise bill hard to
like Trump sometimes right just so good
but here he goes he's gonna do something
about this and just you wait and see
according to his appearance on Face the
Nation I want to ask you about Iowa
Republican Congressman Steve King you
called some of his language reckless
when he in an interview of the New York
Times said the term white nationalist
and white supremacist he didn't know
when they became offensive some
Republicans have come out very strongly
here
well Jeb Bush said it's not enough to
condemn him that Party leaders actually
have to do something either support a
primary opponent to challenge him others
have said he should be at least censured
should there be action against
congressman first and foremost I came
out at the very moment that language has
no place in America that is not the
America I know and it's most definitely
not the party of Lincoln I have a
scheduled meeting with him on Monday and
I will tell you this I've watched on the
other side that they do not take action
when their members say something like
this action will be taken I'm having a
serious conversation with Congressman
Steve King on his future and role in
this Republican Party what is that as a
leader there is a number of things
you'll see that has taken place but I
will not stand back as a leader of this
party
believing in this nation that all are
created equal that that stands are
continues to stand and have any role
with us don't piss down my
can tell me it's rainin he of course you
know who he was talking about right I
have a guess but what's yours first oh
it's definitely Rasheed Italy oh um it
is because she said mofo we're gonna
impeach that mofo now just she's also
Palestinian well just to give you a
sense of how much time Cable News spent
on Steve King saying like what's so
wrong with white supremacy right like
now let's no let's be honest if I was to
say to my 13 year old daughter or my
six-year-old son the words white the
word supremacy the words wrong the roids
watts I would have no problem you know
like saying those words just floating
around right on a piece of paper no big
deal and I but I would probably not say
to them
mofo I would just I would not just
because like they'll have time to swear
later but I would just rather rather not
but the idea behind the words and I
think my 13 year old can understand this
dynamic in fact I know my 13 year old
says anyways but the idea
behind it trying to defend white
supremacy versus using an expletive to
call somebody out adults and I think
even kids as young as 13 can understand
the distinction as to why the idea of
defending white supremacy is more
offensive than simply tossing around a
cuss word add a white supremacist add a
white supremacist for that matter but
here your point is as though we need to
be more civil got it my point is that
here to cut to this cable news spent
three times as much time it seems on on
talking about to leave then they did
with more 14 minutes
CNN spent 40 let's call it 15 minutes on
Steve King and an hour plus on to leap
if you add up all the time spent on
Steve King it still wouldn't amount to
the amount of time MSNBC spent on
Rashidah to leave right on CNN is
garbage Fox News Fox News 42 seconds on
Steve King 52 minutes until 8 seconds I
would like to see how they covered that
we shouldn't find that an MSNBC 14
minutes on Steve King 30 almost 38
minutes on Rashidah to leave so up
people good not hitting right Arab
what's wrong with Arab supremacy hi
Arabs helped Greek civilization
I think this more than anything else is
is there's a healthy dose of white
supremacy but I also think it's a woman
the I mean I'd be curious to see if we
put up the report that the Dick Cheney
told Patrick Leahy to go himself on
the floor of the Senate I wonder how
much coverage that guy back in the day
you know Muslims don't always get the
fairest coverage either in the news but
I think it's I think all of that is true
and I think it's also what we were
outlining about how the press is so like
desperately Craven to get back into
false equivalency games so it's like oh
my god Democrats are in the house and
she said something that was rude
thank God we don't know and oh I mean
Steve King that's old news we already
that's another weird thing about the
press I feel like they do these cycles
where at first it's like is it really
responsible to call Steve King a racist
and then it becomes somehow it's like
he's become so flagrant that it's
actually like common knowledge and then
they're like well why is that even
noteworthy
haven't we always known that he's a
massive bigot
they're not gonna learn until they are
literally being rounded up by Trump's
shock troops and sent to the Gulag and
even then they'll they'll care a lot
that they're polite to their Gulag errs
that's very important Christine
[Laughter]
thank you Steve
so great let's go back to Donald Trump
with the Jeanine Pirro because it's
pretty funny so here is Donald Trump
responding specifically to the report
that he told the translator don't share
these notes with anybody that
translators still alive gotta cover
spies Yeah right kind of watch out I
don't trust your translation skills
here's Donald Trump again getting
probably too defensive with Jeanine
Pirro President Putin under wraps why
not release the the conversation that
you had with President Putin in Helsinki
along with some other stuff that might
involve
the FISA Bruce or and the whole lot of
them
well Janine I would I don't care I mean
I had a conversation like every
president does you sit with the
president of various countries I do it
with all countries we had a great
conversation we were talking about
Israel and securing Israel and lots of
other things and it was a great
conversation I'm not keeping anything
under wraps I couldn't care less
I mean it's so ridiculous these people
make it up Washington Post that's
basically the lobbyist for Amazon you
know he uses that Bezos who's got bigger
problems than anybody right now but
Bezos uses that as lobbyist oh I gotta
give credit where credit's due that was
a solid bird no no it was it's he's
getting him like he loves to dig on the
on the divorce it's like with O'Reilly
and his key exact that was exactly but
it is sort of fascinating I mean if he
doesn't care like he's not he's
pretending like like nothing weird
happened he's just he's like I want
whatever I mean so I told the translator
don't translate it
don't don't don't give it to anybody
translator has trumped arrangements
syndrome I mean the interesting thing is
he's not going with the defense that
everyone else who's defending him is
going with
right which is he's trying to forge a a
new relationship in an era where there
is you know red scares and McCarthyism
and that's why he did it
he's just just pretending like nothing
ever happened it's just Jeff Bezos his
wife was responsible for it let's go
this is lobbyists okay as far as I'm
concerned and the Washington Post is
almost as bad they're probably as bad as
the New York Times think of it I have a
one-on-one meeting with Putin like I do
with every other leader
I have many one-on-one nobody ever says
anything about it but with Putin they
say Oh what did they talk about we
talked about very positive things
because look we are beating everybody
our economy is the strongest in the
world right now Janeane nobody even
close China's down 38% Russia is not
doing well its economy most countries
are not doing well we're doing
phenomenally even though we're paying
interest rates because we're normalizing
you know Obama had zero interest anybody
can do that and our economy is now
better than ever we're almost at our
high with the stock market again so it's
really can you imagine where they say
that I met with Putin I met with every
leader end up just about individually I
make with Modi I meet with in Japan I
meet with Abbey I meet with all of them
but nobody says anything but I mean with
Susan they make a big deal I anybody
could have listened to that meeting that
meeting is open for grabs
you know the whole Russia thing it's a
hoax it's a terrible hoax you know it
probably better than you Greg Jared so
Dan bonds you know people that will get
it's a total hoax everybody knows it and
it's really a shame because it takes
time and it takes effort everybody knows
there was no collusion whatsoever they
have found no collusion and they won't
find collusion look at she's getting
impatient she's just like wait are you
Dan bungee no he got fired from from CR
TV series Leonar a TVs and props the jet
podgy no bomb bomb just went up there in
this big time well bongos is one of the
few people followed by sean hannity on
twitter like he fellows like three
people i don't know what he's in with a
big boys mm-hmm
honey fill them alright let's go to the
phones to come from an 8 for 7 area code
who's this where you calling from hi Sam
it's Josh from Chicago Josh from Chicago
is it was nice to see you yesterday at
the show even though you're from Chicago
no I can't yeah I know I came from
Chicago to the live show and you know it
came up just for the day and Jamie and
Michael can definitely you know they can
confirm that as well yeah I see you
around my neighborhood yeah yeah this is
stolen Chicago Valor Josh there were
actual people who flew from Chicago for
a day Wow I came from Chicago okay I
know I know that's why you didn't know
it Josh what is what is the real reason
you called oh I want to talk about
Elizabeth Warren's
foreign policy column that she put out
yesterday in foreign affairs please do I
have I have not to be honestly I have
not read it yet but but but what yeah
what do you think um I think it's
interesting to me it read like someone
who crammed before a big essay and wrote
an essay at the last second so I think
she tries to copy some of I was not
coffee I think there's some similarities
to Bernie's foreign policy she tried to
talk a big game about being inter anti
interventionist and she mentions that
she doesn't mention anything about
Israel and Palestine and she also
doesn't for someone who is as walkest
hawkish as she is she doesn't get into
specifics about things like Brazil and
things like Yemen she sort of casually
offhandedly mentioned them
and she also sticks you she also tries
to talk about things like globalization
and almost make it she tried to take her
domestic policy and insert it into her
foreign policy in a weird way
I'm not it doesn't feel as thought
through with someone like a Bernie
Sanders and it makes me think that she
doesn't have a makes me think that
Bernie's Lane is still very much open
because it does feel like a pale
imitation of what Bernie has been
working through over the last few years
and if you listen to his speeches on
foreign policy you can see how like
clear and specific his worldview is and
it also makes me think she doesn't have
the advisors around her that are as good
as what Bernie has I think Matt Guf was
the guy's name yeah I miss his foreign
policy advisor I read his letters around
her aren't that's good
I read all but we should just say I mean
dust didn't join the camp joined
Bernie's team until after the campaign
and no after the campaign but like in
2017 he joined right I mean that was one
of the big knocks on Bernie but with
that said I think Bernie was running a
message campaign and that was
specifically focused on wealth
inequality and getting money out of
politics at that time anyways and I
don't think that's what Elizabeth
Warren's agenda is I think Elizabeth
Warren's agenda is to is to run I mean
to become president and and so yeah it's
a it's it's problematic I mean I got a
look at it but I mean I I did read it
last night after Josh told me to read it
at the live show no well went home
thanks for telling me Josh and I read
that well he actually literally what he
did was I was walking into the building
like my literally over seven seconds and
he goes I never hey Mike did you read
and then after I it and then what
security was removing him he said this
is me it's Josh from Chicago let me back
it but uh no I had a very similar
reaction to it and I I think that you
know we can stipulate all of the
shortcomings that Bernie had in 2016 but
the truth of the matter is is I think it
does seem to me that some willingness to
speak somewhat honestly and moderately
israel-palestine is a departure point
and I understand the structural
conditions like there's a lot of
historical and legacy reasons why people
have a double standard for Israel some
of which are understandable but they're
still basically unacceptable and I think
like I was going back and reading what
she said in 2014 during the last Israeli
onslaught in Gaza that was one where Joe
Scarborough was publicly criticizing
Israel for bombing UN hospitals she you
know just pure AIPAC pablum and I think
that yeah she doesn't have anything to
say about Latin America she doesn't
really you know she also has basically
her piece is this sort of like we should
reset basically the kind of like pre
neoliberal US order with things like the
Marshall Plan and a globalization that
kind of works for everybody and that
would be nicer than what we have I don't
really know frankly if it is gonna be
even economically possible what she's
talking about and I'm not seeing her
willingness to speak more candidly on
the real conscience or some use any
Democratic nominee and put Bernie aside
for a moment but is it gonna be well I
mean Tulsi Gabbard is gonna be the only
one who's gonna have anything that
diverges in any way I don't necessarily
think that it it's I mean on some things
it may coincide with good positions and
others I think it can be rather
disturbing gabber gotta go but I think
everybody else on the Democratic side
may be short of Murphy and I don't know
that he's gonna run as much as like sort
of put him out there his self out there
as a vice president are gonna have
fairly cookie cutter boilerplate so
sherrod Brown has some history on Latin
America and on certain types of labor
issues which I do think so didn't John
Kerry for all that it was worth well I
guess in the 80s he did I'm talking
sherrod Browns whole career I mean I
think nice what did jock yo John Kerry
was was still heavily involved in the
whole in the wake of the iran-contra and
and he was still very much
right I mean so I know that he he
opposed the Contras and I know that but
I also I'm saying like I think that you
know sherrod Brown has specifically I
don't know John Kerry ever did
fact-finding missions on Nicaraguan
sweatshops I do think it's a little bit
of a different kind of a political
profile but look I mean if the point
there's a lot to criticize about Warren
if the point still remains that she's
the closest one to push in the right
direction though doubt about absolutely
but I mean but if we're still
theoretically comparing her against
Sanders it's well short yeah and foreign
policy is one area over which the
president has a lot of controls so this
is a perfectly valid and rational thing
to base your decision on supporting
Sanders versus Warren appreciate the
call Josh good to see the other night
yep let's go to the phone's come from a
two one zero
area code who's this where you calling
from yes it is hi this is Cody San
Antonio how's it going guys hi Cody
what's on your mind hey I guess just
with everything going on we've probably
covered a lot of the factual ''tis and
stuff my kind of question for you guys
today is what is everything that we can
point to you basically to show that
there is not a crisis like because I was
arguing with my dad over this I might
have mentioned that before but kind of
way around I'm seeing a lot of
Republican talking points and we did
manage to agree when I verbalized at the
time was like you know the least amount
of immigration ever I think you know
coming across what I meant to say and we
agreed on that what I meant to say
really was you know net outflow of
immigrants in this country currently and
then you know there's a map
there's obviously hardly any immigrants
really committing crimes compared to
Americans I would say I've known a few
Venezuelans myself who I mean they're
here legally
on asylum but the whole thing is you
know they're they're kind of definitely
afraid of really up anything in
life and you know want to keep around in
this country so kind of my kind of my
longer point it's been aggravating me
with Cody Cody if you're as if you're
asking how do you prove to your dad that
there's not a crisis at the border I
mean it's I don't know I mean it's sort
of up to him to make the argument that
there is a crisis I mean how can you
prove to your dad that there's not a
crisis in in anywhere else but I gotta
let you go cuz I don't know what's going
on with your phone but but but that's
the thing it's if you're it's impossible
it's impossible to call on Bluetooth
it's a it's it's impossible to to prove
negative on some level I mean you can
simply say that like all of by any
measure in terms of a crisis to the
extent that there's anything that has
changed in terms of the numbers numbers
of of children house it's all a function
of what the US government has done the
number of dollars spent that's just a
simply a policy choice by the US
government there's no there's been no
uptick in the number of people arriving
at the border I was gonna ask what
specifically his dad is concerned about
the crisis immigrants the college what
what part what about it honey
cuz if we use country dirty yeah I mean
it's it's probably a lost cause in terms
of reasoning with someone who watches
that much Fox News and believes that
thinks they say but but if his concern
is coming from like a working-class
place of like oh they're gonna be used
to break the unions or whatever I would
just give him some labor history yes I
would be willing to bet everything I own
that his concern that if he's using the
words the crisis at the border it is not
a function of it weakening labor
weakening unions now I may be wrong but
I just don't know where he would get you
buddy got it from Tucker Carlson right
mmm never knows that specific
that's part of the hustle never I don't
I don't hear Tucker saying that like
takin her germs there that's as close as
it gets I mean I've had somebody say
like there's literally like a 17 year
old girl from Minnesota that was
defending Erik whatever the guy Erik not
Erik print some guy running for Congress
and she's if it'll be really funny the
17 year olds like we dairy Prince and
well sold your fortune is actually I
think but she was literally concerned
that like I was making it so Mexicans
can come steal her jobs in Minnesota and
it's just like Jesus Christ right some
labor history the spot at the Dairy
Queen come on professor Matt well
there's I so you don't even need history
or one to I mean the most of the
research shows that actually more jobs
are created at the end of the day in
terms of or I should say when you
restrict immigration particularly of of
people who would who are crossing the
border you're actually diminishing job
opportunities now not necessarily for
the best of reasons but in terms of the
low-cost labor that then allows women to
enter the workforce that is what some of
the social science research shows it's
also been true at different points in
history that immigrant labor and
actually any marginalized population can
and has been used to break strikes and
weaken the power labor but the answer to
that is not to criminalize migration
it's to have solidarity with your fellow
workers and bring them in like you were
just talking about in the interview you
know well right I mean the idea that
there that that that sometimes
immigrants are used as at strike
breakers because they're willing to work
for for lower wages I think is probably
on the list of things that undercut
labor not that high on the list I would
say it would be my guess
I mean maybe in localized instances but
broadly speaking you can deal with that
by making them citizens and giving them
the same rights as everyone else so that
they can't be so easily exploited yeah
yeah big business does not want open
borders that is a lie that Tucker
Carlson and people like him like to tell
you know they want immigrants to come
here but they want their status to be
constantly in questions so that they can
exploit them or some type of guest
worker thing where they can have like a
it's like a substandard sort of a second
tier of worker rights essentially the
birth plan I thought I saw a plan in the
past couple years someone's like we
could all have help well the part of the
comprehensive immigration was I think
like some type of like guest worker yeah
he said that was unclear what the rights
were associated with it and that was up
for negotiating cuz it ran the board
right from like low-end workers that you
could really viciously exploit to also
helping Silicon Valley out apparently
Silicon Valley used a lot of
undocumented labor in more you know
menial ways I think you added more
sophisticated I wonder sometimes to if
like it's unhelpful like these big
categories like the economy or even like
immigration there's so many different
things going on like in different facets
of the economy that it might be better
to disaggregate it a little bit call him
from a 2:08
area code who's this where he come from
Spencer from Boise what I am calling
about I don't know if you guys do this
or not but I recently was watching
YouTube and got exposed to the new round
of Trump digital ads they're going out
about the signed or the list of
supporters that he has ordered brought
to his desk for him to peruse and the
notion is that like if your name's not
on there he's going to know about it and
he's going to feel let down
- and telling folks right now and going
over the list of people who are members
of the show and if I don't see your name
that I'm gonna be very good we do a
stimulant but only to my supporters
what's it say yes you NASA quad to
Trump's there's a genetic watch of
Trump's digital arm like it's confident
because it's getting out on YouTube it's
produced like it but it's just coming
here is who are the people that are
doing these ads I mean they've got the
greatest gig like school among his
campaign people at this point that are
creating this content it's amazing I
there's that there I mean it there's a
whole raft of people used to manage of
scores the dead unique went to and now
he does media
well you wonder like if you like dad
I've got some ideas like what if there's
a list that you have that like you know
if who's been naughty who's been nice
and we can tell people that and they'll
believe well look how many mailers do
they put out how many emails they send
out a day like what to write like I mean
the there's probably no idea that comes
across the desk where they're not like
mezcla try it let's a be test this I
mean that's basically what's going on
also I do want to tell you do a West
Coast Swing for the live tour Seattle
via great like a lot of people can get
there pretty cheap that would be a ton
of fun to see you guys why ya know if I
went to the West Coast it would be
probably Seattle Portland San Francisco
LA it seems to me I'm there
stay tuned appreciate the call okay
during a hurricane Irma dance Covino the
social media guy for Trump had a good
moment where he posted a video of
purportedly of Miami International
Airport flooding and Miami International
Airport had to say this video is not
from my
International Airport and he said thank
you it was among hundreds of videos pics
I'm receiving Rima from public trying to
notify all I shared have deleted be safe
so that's the present social media guy
come from a three four seven area code
who's this where he call him from my
name is Ben calling from Rockaway Bend
from Far Rockaway what's on your mind
Ben uh first of all just some disclosure
I'm an Orthodox Jew so over the past
couple years I've been more and more
moving less politically so and you guys
have been a big part of that so thank
you wanted to hear so I as I'm sure you
would know most Orthodox Jews penciling
very heavily conservative yeah and I'm
pretty much surrounded by Trump
supporters in my entire life thank God
my wife is not one but I caught in daily
life I'm trying to kind of figure out
the best way to handle it because since
I am in their in their eyes a leftist
liberal cuck do they actually handle
that do they actually they never I
didn't call the one by an Orthodox
on what I know at Orthodox person
everyone's Orthodox yeah life goals that
be called on fire pretty good Jew that
sounds amazing
I'm sorry that you actually live but I
have a friend who wants he's very
conservative libertarian the whole nine
yards he wants to do a podcast with me
where it's liberal versus the
conservative and I'm not sure yeah so
you both Orthodox now wait a second so
you live in an Orthodox community are
you like do you live are you like are
you Hasidic or I mean how how well no
okay
so yeah modern but like I'm still
Orthodox and Dobbin you know all that
okay
all right so I don't know if I have a
responsibility to kind of try and point
people in that direction to because I'm
lucky to have found it but at the same
time should I should I not I kind of
just something is the libertarian is the
libertarianism a podcast the libertarian
you're talking about is also Orthodox is
all right yeah everyone how much like
like I mean you're at one point it's
conceivable to me that you're gonna run
up against like you know some some a lot
of tension I mean you know I mean this
is like um you know it's like like I
don't know if they like a serialized the
chosen on some level right like you know
gear you know what I'm talking about
right the Robie been you know high
impose the book and okay I mean look I I
think you're gonna you're gonna end up I
mean you could do it and and I think at
the very least you could do this and you
could do it as a podcast and at the very
least you could you know I'm playing a
character I'm playing I'm playing this
guy I'm doing it on the show like and
that might give you the opportunity to
sort of you know espouse your views get
them out there and do it in a way that
gives you a little bit of arm's length
and maybe protection in the context of
your community I mean because I don't I
I think like most of the people who are
listening don't really have a strong
sense of on some level you know you
don't have a lot of social options in
the context of your of your world
without having to go out of an entire
you know you'd have to make a much
bigger decision to get to find yourself
surrounded by people who or even you
know partially by people who don't
subscribe to these views and but at the
same time you don't want to go around
you know feeling like you're you know
you're some type of you know deep and
deep cover or something and so maybe
doing a podcast gives you the
opportunity to make it like you know to
play it off like it's a bit of a
performance you know and I'm pretending
to be a exactly you know you could
argue it's in some type of like
midrashic tradition you know I'm playing
the divine clown who thinks Palestinians
a human a lot of people I know they're
like so what's your thoughts on is a
thousand like look over there I'm gonna
go for here right I have a vote on this
is that Sam is third Mike on this show
can't you make up a couple of like
different like fake quotes from rabbi
Akiba Jaffna that look like not
everybody's gonna know everything he
said right well I'm gonna get yeah
there's plenty of support that you can
find in Jewish scripture for having a
more liberal or progressive worldview
and you know most Jews in America
especially are closer on the political
spectrum that to Bernie Sanders and to
Joe Lieberman and people are moving on
Israel especially young people so just
know that this is you know you you might
feel alone where you are right now but
this is this is a common ideology I
would venture to say and you know if you
live in New York if you have the time
and the inclination you can make liberal
and progressive friends as well because
I imagine it gets pretty lonely for you
if you can't share that with anyone
Orthodox Jews are very annoying I mean I
think we all can be yeah yeah it's the
Orthodox community specifically I have a
lot of liberal leftist friends even I
would say more than liberal and I have
one Orthodox friend who's I would say
centrist
I'm working on getting him more towards
the left I've got him convinced I
medicare-for-all for example yeah so
that I'm working on him a lot but yeah I
really appreciate you all taking the
time to well you start the podcast
please please send a link and Sam and I
will be all the special guests as fake
rabbis what AG alexandria Cortez's say
God is myth I appreciate the call that
translates roughly as a guy named New
Deal yes
Thank You IRA I talked I remember a
friend of Mines dad was ultra-orthodox
and we had dinner with him and he had
all this tension with his dad and I
walked in and I said should I put a
yarmulke on to respect your dad and he's
all like no like you're not part of the
tradition I'm not gonna have him blah
blah blah I was like all right Jesus
Christ and then the guy walks in the
first thing he does he goes he goes my
home no yarmulke and I'm like yeah
thanks it down and it was just like he's
like so you do politics did you know
that they're trying to steal this really
you know they both like the Obama and
his wife was really in Teddy Murphy so
we got into greener pastures it's hard
when people you love have just terrible
inhumane politics I also think it's even
worse if you find yourself like being a
a member of a community that is so rigid
in so many ways and so many decisions
are wrote and you know you can't you
cannot it's hard to integrate that
identity with that community I mean I
the only thing I well I don't think it's
quite analogous but I interviewed at the
the DNC in 2004 as I almost got kicked
out by my Secret Service I was looking
for a gay Republican at the time and
this was a time where and the Republican
Party was
full-on demonization leveraging
homophobia and I found one guy and he
was in his like late sixties he must
have been and he I was like how can you
still be a Republican like they're
literally campaigning on making you a
second-class citizen and I you know he
almost are crying and it was like the
interview maybe online I don't know if
that interview is but it's part of this
this DVD I don't know but he he was like
you know if I leave who's gonna change
it from the inside and I'm like nobody's
gonna change it from the inside it's
gonna come from the outside and I think
it to a certain extent it was just like
he had grown up with a certain identity
and I imagine at one point he came out
and that was as far as he could go in
terms of like throwing off his identity
I mean it was to the point where I was
walking around one end of Madison Square
Garden and somebody waves me over I've
got a sign it said I want to talk to a
gay Republican someone's like I think
there's one in the California delegation
and like literally points to there are
like 10 like like I don't know 12,000
people in there a pointing like I think
over there
and other he was they something 42 Mike
Pence right you know and and I think it
was you know I think it was one of those
things where it's like I'm gonna throw
off this part of my identity where I'm
gonna chant but I but I get a maintained
with white knuckles this part of my
identity or I'm gonna be a loss so it's
very difficult I think winning it was
very sad like that
Breitbart writer right exactly exactly
you step out of a certain situation and
so who knows but that's where most
people's politics come from right like
the community in which you were raised
your family like it's it's not it's
special to be able to go against that
oh absolutely once you grow up and you
realize and it's it's so hard like I
have a friend whose parents whose whole
family is Trump supporters and she
loves them and she thinks they're good
people so she'll never stop trying to
talk them out of it or humanize these
issues because she she wants them to be
better than that and she knows that they
can be I mean the the difference in this
situation is that it's not just his
family I mean it's the vast majority you
know when you're that your social
network is is is built around a lot that
identity that would be tough I really
wanted next please call in again because
I really like if Sam could ask you how
you sort of how your politics shifted
how you found this stuff will be
interesting
meanwhile the Fox News is really
concerned that the Democratic Party is
going to make itself not a an active
participant in our government you know
and our in our body politic by becoming
to left and here is what's her name
again
Ashley Ainsley Ainsley Ainsley every
airhead
anslee airhead she's talking who is this
guy that she's talking to we can't
figure out who he is
just just old tall socks short and price
waterhouse he looks good he looks like
Polly guy looks like price actually what
was the health secretary they had to
resign no it's not but he doesn't
resemble all right well here she is
she's concerned about this whole thing
about how she doesn't understand
marginal tax rates some Democrats saying
they're even open to illegals getting a
chance to vote sure sure
look this is so much support though
because when you hear they're gonna
attack 70 percent of your paycheck if
Alexandria Koziol Cortes gets her way
how do they have so much support that's
a lot of money for people to give back
to the government I think a lot of it is
ignorance I thought I frankly think
American young people today are not
being educated properly in schools they
don't know the history of our country
they don't know the history of other
countries they don't understand
economics well if our students got the
proper history a lesson they would know
that
70% is a middling top tax rate in terms
of the past hundred years in this
country and if they got the proper
economics training they'd know that
marginal tax rate means that it only
kicks in after a certain level of money
has already been pocketed and she knows
that by the way
I know super I don't know about that I
actually would bet very much that she
does not know that well it's a bunch of
Fox News they're like Ainsley we can't
give you this raise because you'll go
into the next tax I really firmly
believe that there was a a conversation
that went something like this
Ainsley you know right that it's
marginal tax rate means that it's you
make up a to a certain point and then
they start taxing at seventy percent
right she's like yeah whatever it
doesn't matter
it's still bad and I think so she knows
but she just doesn't it's irrelevant
that's the way I think that conversation
I want to give her a little more credit
for being evil rather than dumb but who
knows usually when you ask that question
the answer is generally both oh that was
Michael Goodwin of course good guy good
guy good really really it's all the
problem with the winner o New York Post
op-ed well there you go
[Music]
when you're Fox and you want to find out
if something is legal the best place to
go is to go to the guy who said the
torture was legal and frankly this is
why and he still at Stanford is he still
a Stanford this is why it's so
reprehensible that Stanford law would
hire this guy because it gives
credibility to him and therefore his
legal opinions that the American
government can torture
I was at the think-tank at the Hoover
Institute instead but nevertheless this
is the problem with universities
associating themselves with this and
here is Dana Perino also equally
implicated in that torture regime she
was a spokesperson for the Bush
administration during that time it's
like it's like a reunion of sorts here's
the daily briefing with Dana Perino an
attorney general some of our best legal
minds that we have on the show and I'm
curious how you see this believe
national emergency do you think the
president has the legal authority to do
it for this issue Dana I think the
question that many people find about is
the policy but I think on the legality
President Trump is on solid ground you
think about as we've talked about on the
show before the whole purpose of having
a president the reason the founders
created it was that some branch of
government could respond quickly
decisively swiftly to emergencies and
crises so no court has ever overturned a
presidential finding of a national
emergency and presidents have long done
it since Thomas Jefferson to Abraham was
it now you say the problem here first
off of course the guy thinks that the
president has the right to to build a
wall he thinks the president has a right
to torture people but you see the little
problem here in what he's saying the
idea that the president has the right to
respond to national emergencies if it is
completely as he's checked he's he's
suggesting here beyond question not just
the right to respond to national
emergency but the right to deem anything
a national emergency then there is
nothing that president can't do this is
uh and and I should say that U is a a
professor at at Berkeley school law not
Stanford sorry but I was Cheney's view
the presidency right well I mean III
mean arguably is this a theory of a
unitary executive but the idea that you
can't even question
like there's two parts of this right
there is the president has total right
to respond to a national emergency and
then the other is what's the definition
of a total emergency or national
emergency and if you have no definition
for national emergency except for the
president deeming that one is then there
is no definition of a national emergency
the word means nothing the word national
and the word emergency has no meaning in
this context because if no one can
adjudicate that question there's no
there is no there is no limiting
principle as they say he knows it when
he sees it okay exactly is he just gonna
trust is you the kind of guy who would
be consistent through Democratic
administrations on these questions or is
he like a party hack I mean I don't
remember him coming out and defending
Barack Obama but I wouldn't be shocked
if he did because you know you backfill
this stuff I'm disappointed in the
people of Berkeley they should be
protesting him every day it's disgusting
that any University no it's Berkeley
it's Berkeley law yeah it's the Hoover
Institute it's it's disgusting that the
guy is not frankly or at least did did
you know disbarred and in jail but he
wrote anymore let's hear more to
emergencies and crises so no court has
ever overturned a presidential finding
of a national emergency and presidents
have long done it since Thomas Jefferson
to Abraham Lincoln and FDR positon just
because no court has ever found
overturned a finding of a national
emergency that could be a function that
the president was not a lunatic and not
making it up at any given time he did
criticize President Obama in 2013 he
wrote a column for The Wall Street
Journal on the real problem with Obama's
drone program and I'll just quote from
it briefly
despite the hue and cry Obama hasn't
issued American issued Americans
double-oh-seven s a license to kill kill
the real story revealed by the memos the
Obama administration's drone
paulus and drone memo is that the Obama
administration is trying to dilute the
normal practice of war with law
enforcement methods its approach
reflects a mindset of the Ministry of an
administration populated with officials
who spent the Bush years - crying
military methods then implied and now
we're trying to impose weaker law
enforcement approach to combating
terrorism Wow
so he did criticize a lawless civilian
killing non-transparent Obama drone
program by saying the few measures they
put in place to try to somewhat not
learn it they thought it was kind of
funny yes this was the story of Obama
right and I think we had Charlie Savage
on this program right a couple years ago
talking about this is that Obama's whole
project was to codify and bring many of
these things under some type of legal
rubric and Wu was upset about that
because that creates some checks and
balances that he doesn't think should
this mindset is reflected in the leak
just Partin white paper could have
simply relied on precedent and stated
that under US laws the US military units
can kill any enemy soldiers at any time
with snipers artillery drones and
missiles and missiles as well as that
closer quarters it's fair for him to go
after Obama like that considering how
hard Obama went after him and his
cronies for their war crimes right turn
the page gone from a 509 area code who's
this where he come from 5:09
Wow quickly I quickly forget hey oh it's
them
it's Reagan it's Ronald Reagan one of
the founders of the gotta jump movement
yep I'm on minute 50 for the phone call
right now well I Got News for You
there's there's about five other people
who are on minute 54 - hmm yeah all
right tell him about the I think I guess
I should tell them about the hash tag
got a jump movement then well that's
what I just said
listen people like people on hold you
don't have to put up with this there are
lots of alternatives and upload your
video now and send us money hey I wanted
to say you unveiled what you called a
banner at the live show it's a shower
curtain yeah I'm sorry about that and I
did not realize that was a shower
curtain but we will we look at we will
put that in the description when we
ultimately released the video we will
definitely we will definitely put a link
to where you can get your own shower
curtain at ELQ we regret the error
that's okay well I know you're a
practical man and you there's nothing
you could do with the banner so I
thought what something that Sam could
use and it's a shower curtain you're a
bachelor you probably don't even have a
shower curtain I I do have a shower
curtain but and I will definitely
contemplate switching that one out it
might be
I'll contemplate it I'm not gonna
promise but I will content okay I didn't
go to the show because I'm expecting not
me but my wife is my wife Michael baby
baby number two and so I wanted to call
and have a little parenting corner and
get some advice
let's let's hear it what can I think
actually the the appropriate drop is the
price of price is right drop yeah so
let's hear I mean what how my life going
to be ruined by in the coming wait a
week you remember how your life is
perfect okay
do you remember how your life was
shattered when your first child was born
and all the pieces fell to the floor and
then you just like slowly tried to put
them back together to create some
semblance of what your life was like I
mean it's sort of like like you take
something that is like a like an ice
sculpture and you smash it with a hammer
and then you try and piece it back
together you can pile the ice up and but
it's not gonna be the same sculpture
well I got good news for you mm-hmm your
life is already destroyed and so you're
not gonna go through the same sort of
like feeling of loss that your life is
destroyed it's just gonna be just
slightly more stressful right that's
great now here now how old your first
child is what now like a four for three
or four she was two-and-a-half going on
three okay
all right so three so she's gonna be
unable to help you with the baby and
she's just gonna have to many percent
right yeah so that's gonna be great I
would say you got about six years things
will open up ease up for you in about
six years okay right on cellphone you
guys are not selling the rest of us on
this I have seen I have had
conversations much rather sell you on
Brooklyn and then I would I feel much
more confident about that every time you
talk about your kids in Brooklyn and I
always think of like this is some type
of weird like Brooklyn version of the
James Dobson story like who has two
bitty sheets that's right I decide what
but
I've literally bent you've been in the
office and looked at like Matt and I and
said really sincerely like don't I
didn't say that I said but I you know
look if you have one you might as well
have two that's that's the only thing I
can tell you and and you were smart to
group him at least somewhat together
because you know I've been through now
almost 12 years of a child under the age
of six and Saul is turning Saul is
turning six very shortly and that's a
big difference like in fact and I salt
forgive me if you ever are aware of this
in the future
recently Saul has come you know we're at
home and he comes into the room he goes
I wiped myself and it happens when the
kid turned six then in this case Saul
was very advanced he's five and
three-quarters actually five and seven
eighths I think and that's a big
difference and also when he says like
I'm thirsty okay go get yourself a drink
buddy and this is great you find
yourself like within a can extra hour to
a day so all that ice wiping takes some
time I guess I mean it does cuz you
gotta like stand out in front of the
bathroom and you got to be on call and
yeah believe me it's well it's it's kids
are at time suck but they're they're
wonderful aren't they I really love my
daughter very much right it's great
course but you made the mistake of
practically getting to the point of
having your sculpture reconstructed I
mean we're like right there
exactly and then you had number two
though your mistake - still I mean it's
an all over the floor still right
exactly that was smart
now do you do you know the the gender of
of the child who's about to be born
it's also going to be a girl oh well
that's gonna be great because they're
gonna fight like cats and dogs yeah and
and so you're gonna have that to go for
but here's the upside you don't have to
buy the second one any new clothes
Oh trust me I'm the other no I'm the
other upside on that safe all of my love
stuff for Saul and like all his toys
yeah a little toys but I mean clothes
maybe well I would definitely do clothes
so so I don't know if Saul's ever worn
any new clothes except for those that he
got from his grandparents everything
else has been hand-me-downs from friends
because the kids they wear them for like
15 minutes and they grow out of them and
hey on the other upside on the a swiping
tip maybe someday he'll return the favor
that's true that's why people have kids
right yep gross you got that much hey as
you're sort of like changing topics now
I just sort of personal 2020 Dick Morris
right I wanted to let you know you got
to keep your friends out of the
news louis c.k Janine was trending on
Twitter the other day
uh-huh and it's like just you know tell
them to go away it's a chill okay you
know for a few years
well I understand I came in photos with
them right now but no I understand and
I'm sure they would you need of course I
think you need to pick a lane either
between totally denouncing all of them
or just you know
luli hey man you know it was the 90s and
everyone was doing it everybody who
hasn't masturbated into an office plan
let's be honest you just go all in but
you got to pick one of the other no
really well okay
without maybe all the consent that he
needed to have in that moment the
straight to camera I give a
full-throated defense of Louie and I'll
run it by the focus group later all
right be great yeah I probably won't do
that right now but I do appreciate the
in the advice I know that you have some
some toe sucking to do right now is my
2020 Dick Morris so I will let you go
you never know who's on the other line
with you tell them to put that hog away
I don't know what that means either
let's go to the IMS I love Sarah Palin
hey Sam next time yarn Hayes's show can
you explain the difference between a
2,000 mile wall and a 700 miles of
fencing included in the secure Fence Act
the right has been floating this new
talking point all week unopposed I'm not
a I'm not a hundred percent sure I know
what you're referring to send us a link
about that I have a compromise plan to
end the shutdown instead of building the
wall can Democrats just agree to give
trump organization two hundred million
in direct payment and three he built
three monuments to put on the border one
for Columbus one for Nathan Bedford
Forrest and the last one for someone who
did war crimes during the Mexican
American War because that's what it's
really about disco Stu can we all agree
now that the basic premise of the steel
dossier is true that Donald Trump is
with it whether wittingly or unwittingly
beholdin to Russia
it's the biggest political story of our
generation and bigger than Watergate
time to start treating it that way and
question the people who spent years
downplaying @ps when is the live show
podcasts gonna drop for members not not
sure about that last part we will let
you know soon Brock from Virginia live
show was great yesterday I'd love to
hear some of y'all's creative rebranding
the word taxes for your 2020 libertarian
debates recurring a social investment
weekly societal subscription fee those
are all good we will we will test those
of course with focus groups secret
identity politics Tulsi gabbard's policy
platform seems to be tailor-made for
stem nerds and people who are into ideas
she combines the Islamic terrorism stuff
and military pedigree with a few
policies that are outside the mainstream
just enough to get that coveted Joe
Rogan crowd she's never gonna have a
substantial critique of capitalism and
she's hot I imagine men who think they
know about public policy because they
can code or fix an air-conditioner
would love her as a person with a
conservative Christian family it's
easier to think that you're treated to
you're related to mediocre people and to
think they're good people who just don't
think Palestine should exist
Winnipeg Craig I missed the live show
any chance you'll do one next weekend
thanks for the I am Gabe from a formerly
from Chicago is there any chance Trump
calls John Bolton Mike because he thinks
he's American singer-songwriter Michael
bull anything is possible
hey I'm our crew a year ago I came out
to my Trump loving parents as
transgender and got kicked out of the
house was a rough year but even at my
lowest lows the Mr Crew always cheered
me up and helped motivate me to keep
fighting for economic and social justice
I just wanted to thank you all for what
you do every week I look forward to
seeing what you all do on 2019 left his
best Thank You Alyssa really appreciate
that and hearts go out to you I'm sorry
your parents are can't deal but maybe
over time but I mean you know better
than us I think in that regard but but
thanks for listening we appreciate it
Adam Koch head I had so much fun
yesterday your Brooklyn show really
appreciate everything you guys do also
Sam you're much more handsome in real
life my girlfriend is tired of hearing
me gush about you and he'll probably go
up okay that a joke I I think
something was everything Moe brain Stan
bongos lemonade recipe must be a hit at
the way jayjay cool how do Republicans
think Trump's patronizing disses and
just smile is it really worth it trade
every bit of your dignity and
self-respect for cash thanks States the
job yes that's their job
MJ god I hope Bernie runs because we
have done enough opposition research
against Warren for Harris to coast to a
nomination jonathan Armstead Sam here's
something to bring up in your next
libertarian debate the government
shutdown is wreaking havoc on updating
GPS data GPS data is cultivated from a
public-private partnership and oaa for
instance bundles this all together to
update GPS data with the
shut down many workers who can't work on
this data are at home making maps
out-of-date
private companies can't make up for it
because they as a rule don't share this
info with one another so even if the
roads were built by companies wine for
people to get stuff another company
would prevent you from finding out how
to get there the Atlantic did a good
article on this it's interesting I'll
check that out yeah but didn't you be
competition a bit to be an even better G
then you'll have maybe another mad quest
and different in whichever you just have
different Maps and see which one gets
you there just map Claire MapQuest in
ways and blah blah blah and if you end
up going down the wrong road in dying in
some type of like frozen situation you
know next time don't use that map just
don't do it in Iraqis just stay away
from the Red Mountain scene your family
can read a yelp review and do it uh so
use that senator pie senator pug of
course it rained the heaviest it has
have in a while in LA today for the
start of the teachers strike still as a
member of the film industry Union I
joined the teacher this morning on the
picket line for solidarity good for you
yeah despite the downpour that was a
good showing by the teachers they are
committed and the amount of enthusiastic
honking cars drove by was encouraging
here is some footage of those teachers
striking in LA and the interesting thing
is is that because of some moves by the
district officials in the LA School
District based upon improved funding for
schools by Gavin Newsom they've been
able to provide a permanent full-time
nurse for every elementary school that's
their offer which is sort of shocking
that there's not that's not there
already at elementary schools they're
also valuable on-the-job experience by
nursing each other indeed right this is
like it's a think of it as like a work
learn environment every secondary school
would get good a lot which is also sort
of shocking that you don't have a
librarian list of things like the gym
teacher do it after he teaches health
class and
I mean those are the two big sweeteners
not to mention a slight raise but here's
the problem all of this increased
staffing only guaranteed for guests how
many years one year and so deal well
that's why they're striking and here's
some of those teachers marching right
now so there they are and obviously I
mean a big part of this is wanting a
better teaching environment which is
basically they want better services for
their students this is so important and
I just liked it because we talked about
that sort of that way like Occupy Wall
Street black lives matter and Bernie
Sanders campaign as sort of these three
galvanizing forces I think behind what
opened the left and the sort of modern
iteration and I would definitely add and
you were super on top of this the
Chicago Teachers strike as being right
up there I mean it was obviously it's a
city it wasn't a national movement in
the same way as those other three things
but God not a national attention yeah
because it reset and it also you know
that also was a really brave before it
was just so commonplace to you know even
just acknowledge that there's different
politics inside the Democratic Party and
critique the Obamas when they need to be
critiqued but all well of course the
ROMs new Rahm was obviously always
easier to critique than Obama because
he's so unlikable but an Arne Duncan who
was an Oklahoma some point man and came
from Chicago and was a you know the
architexterry of education
both in the Obama government but also in
in in Chicago so the courage of that
movement set and and you know and now we
see all of these teachers strikes in the
red states and now going over la like
they were both at the front lines of
being D legitimizing the state and the
sort of like conservative backlash I
think if we look at the history of it
and now they're leading the way in the
you know reaffirmation of what we
actually need to do yeah well according
to Jonathan Chait they are lazy and
defeated live Oh Jonathan Chait is
obviously I would do you think
johnniemorrow that one more time to talk
about this Jonathan shape I wish you
could see off on that shade on that one
because it's also like how many periods
you think he could last as a public
school teacher like I'm not talking days
like literally periods
it is so his piece is so it almost like
like my first thought was honestly and
we'll talk I'll talk more about this
tomorrow but my first thought was like
this is a false flag you know my first
thought was all flag thing this is they
somehow the warrant people got to him
and like please write this please write
this cuz we need ya this is you know
she's been not having the greatest
rollout and if you could write a pretty
ironic we need to eat we need to capture
three quarters of the Democratic Party
please write this yeah her one problem
is she's too beholden to teachers union
yeah that's that's definitely the issue
with Elizabeth Warren her support of
public education my I thought was like
like like a right well I don't want to I
thought when I first saw it was this is
so effing wrong
my thought was his wife is the Charter
School of Minister well yes that cats
been out of the bag for a while paid to
have bad opinions so of course he has
this bad opinion disingenuous and it's
based upon research that is while
legitimate is so narrow in its its focus
the the perspective on this is just
shock it
it is shocking to me and then to
basically build the story around the
medical device look this is a preview
okay it's a preview there's a preview
you're gonna do 20 minutes tomorrow deep
breath deep breath deep breath
Jonathan shade will be running I I
tweeted out today that and of course I
it was a fictional tweet on some level
because no one in the office well
although I guess it's fair there's a
fair assessment on my part i eated out
let me just see if I can find that what
the tweet was it was um
seems like Jonathan Chait is becoming my
Yong Yong show producers Mickey cows and
that was just my that was my way of
signaling my bet the best response to it
was I'd like I like that sam cedars not
afraid to show how old he is or
something today but most people didn't
get any of it but that that went up on
this is so effing wrong well they're
literally it was a tweet that I was like
you know sending out to like a half a
dozen people catch that H we ghost
exactly see do you see it is true that I
feel like shade is painting himself into
a corner of complete and total
irrelevance hey man a share is the share
is the share but I that's the thing is
that I don't think I think that this in
the long run gets him a lot less shares
that's my point
hate clicks get trust me I used to be a
high-volume blogger things that make
people angry get way more shares that
these people agree I don't doubt that
either but the thing is like Mickey cows
can't even do that anyway I think I
think I just like okay dude you're an
idiot
well that's the thing is I think that
like anger donkey on him whatever it's
still a share but you're missing my
point
at one
point you get yourself so out of the
game that it's not even fun to dunk on
you and no one cares and I holter zone I
exactly right like it happens like with
all the contrarians is that at one point
like people are just like oh that the
interesting thing about you being a
contrarian that's no longer interesting
anymore you're right out you're boring
you're boring it's boring like think
he's there yet judging from Twitter I
get in there I think he's getting there
I really do
what's this one I think this is just the
interaction I saw on Twitter uh about a
week ago
so basically Joel D Anderson where he's
at now still opposed for you know he's
it looks like ESPN now so he wrote
original tweet we can go to basically
people this is Joel Anderson people love
practice humility especially from black
athletes which is why you saw so many
people share in that clip of MJ
yesterday also people are suckers and
love plantation politics of sports so
they prefer athletes who operate within
the system and not outside of it
Jade goes into his replies do you think
athlete do you think an appreciation for
humility from athletes is inherently
racist for what it's worth I love the
Bron James and it always despised ain't
now the problem Joel had with him is
because apparently this is the second
time chase ever replied to him and both
times has been sort of Concerned
trolling about racist questions so Joel
Anderson says you always seem to holler
when you get hit my dude yeah I I just
think that that shade is I mean is far
less relevant than he was when he was
doing this schtick 10 years ago and I
think like I I don't like people just
broadly don't comment on him anymore on
Twitter you see it but chaydez yeah I
just I don't think it's happening for
him much longer
I really don't I hope you're right but
it has been fun in the meantime in the
sticks
day 23 we have a shutdown a rural red
state with large amounts of farmers in
the fifth largest population of federal
workers per capita this is getting
ridiculous and we have a senator and
congressman who are millionaires you
just don't get what this what this is
doing we also have seven tribal nations
with IHS shut down in the middle of
winter we're a big hospital can be hours
away
also Trump's big horn comments didn't
play well with the Native community red
states are starting to fade fast
everyone here it lives paycheck to
paycheck he's just making more Native
American jokes about Elizabeth a teacher
BB did you know that Oklahoma had the
greatest percent of support for Deb's
Heartland socialism was a real thing
indeed let's bring it back folks
neo progress neo progress Appa Goss
totally agree with Michael that the
economy is too broad and Vega term to be
meaningful whose economy snowflake
people are saying the DNC is supporting
Castro Gabbard 2020 Colin from Nebraska
where would the Midwest tour go lol
Chicago Minnesota yeah
Milwaukee maybe come to Portland Oregon
the I mean we have data as to where our
listeners are to a certain extent and
largely a lot of it follows where
frankly we had big audiences from air
America and and I think that's probably
more of a coincidence I think you know
in Portland My Morning Show would replay
at 7:00 p.m. at night and was the third
largest listened to station at that time
and the other two were music so a
Portland I would definitely hit without
Wisconsin there must be a lot in
Wisconsin Madison we used to have a
pretty strong we go to I mean if we were
gonna go you know in the Midwest like
Madison Twin Cities and Chicago and can
we go to Omaha I want to say hi to Brett
rev left radio I like him and his 10
Maoist friends who also live in Omaha I
have a feeling Omaha would be tough to
sell out unless it was a very small
venue Scott from California Elan musk
laid off 10% of SpaceX workers via email
over the weekend to appease potential of
investors disgusting Colleen I just want
to thank the hands from Philly if I
recall correctly for talking with me I'm
socially awkward and don't bring all
that much new to the table when it comes
to conversation thank you again PS on an
unrelated note the daily beast is
reporting the end of the era of pajama
boys back and in the White House punch
dawg woo is sociopathic and if
everything is a natural emergency then
exactly then nothing is fair on Calot
I'm disappointed in the people of
Berkeley too I go to school there it's a
neoliberal neocon hell Arthur is
Stanford though I believe Hoover is down
all right I only got time for one more
call and there's literally a half a
dozen people have been on since the you
know for over 80 minutes or so well dude
this one last the color of the day you
come from a seven eight seven area code
who's this where you come from
hello hello yes Daniel I'm calling from
Puerto Rico Daniel from Puerto Rico
what's on your mind
um thank you for picking me I was
crossing my fingers first time calling
I'm very thankful for what the show does
I'm listening from Puerto Rico I don't
know if you have many pretty can viewers
I don't know if they ever sound off not
not too many if I recall correctly at
least in terms of folks who have called
in tell us what what's going on there
well right now a really important thing
that's happening
uh on Wednesday you're gonna have to
forgive me
I'm kind of going through that
adrenaline rush of talking on the phone
to someone on Wednesday the the court
over here is going to be signing a law
that is being heavily promoted heavily
tied to the Hamilton wave of tourism
there's there's a lot of conflict on the
side people who are genuinely leftist
can see very dirty neo-colonial
happenings through Hamilton through a
lot of the pro tourism industry that has
been uh feels like it's an overdrive
right now oh just explain to people why
you mean by Hamilton Hamilton Hamilton
the Broadway musical Lehman red meat on
that he's very much a sort of a poster
boy for the liberal fighting against
Trump yeah but his his dealings in
Puerto Rico have left a lot of the
people who would maybe have solidarity
with him very sour he was one of the
main proponents main lobbyist for the
promesa bill that's PR om ESA if you're
aware of any pretty good news it's what
what establish the fiscal Control Board
right over here that's so wide and
that's so like well it's supposedly
hosing it's supposedly imposing
you know financial responsibility yeah I
mean sure he's weird and there's there's
a lot of information about his father
being a top of Democratic counsellor aid
so there's this conflict in the fact
that in the United States he would be a
Democrat and very uh liberal but he's
very much in the corporate side the
Democratic Party and very much in the
pockets of the people who are most
interested in cashing in the the most
amount of money of the debt as possible
at the expense of the Puerto Rican
people which is what is happening on
Wednesday on Wednesday the 16th the
Supreme in Spanish it's pretty one-eyed
supremo
I guess our version of the Supreme Court
is going to be signing into law a sort
of a forty year a 40-year law that is
going to be hitting the few working
pretty Ricans we have left the hardest
it's going from a 7% a retainment of
their money to 10% and it starts off at
$500 instead of the previous thousand
five hundred dollars so they're
literally going in to ten percent of our
paychecks now so it's it's an yes so the
idea is that there's a there's a there's
a tax hike on on basically low-income
folks in Puerto Rico freelancers small
business owners coffee shop owners the
the few people that could even in
comparison like in comparison to you
United States a average income per
household we're already in the poverty
line so those people who would already
count as in poverty in the United States
I feel like they they kind of changed
the rules a little bit so that poverty
doesn't count that way over here because
we would all fall in that line right
sounded like messing with the statistics
but yes the few contributing Puerto
Ricans that we have less because that's
the other problem there's simply no jobs
left a lot of the quarter you can see
espera has been our University graduated
professionals looking for any kind of
opportunity there simply these austerity
measures are closing down all the stores
closing down businesses left and right
and a lot of people are leaving a lot of
people are leaving I know of very many
people who I who I love and admire but
they've had to leave in search of a
better life right in meantime people
come swooping in who have cash and
they're basically just looking to ya a
term midterm future where the island
just becomes a resort identification
going on yeah there is a blowout sale of
of a lot of our land going on in
legislature there's a lot of natural
reserves that are just being sold pies
bitter are actually not even high as
bitter there's been some who've gone to
the lowest bidder because the person who
eventually ended up buying it would be a
part of the committee who made the
legislation who knew that grounds would
be up for sale right they get them at
pennies for the dollar so so basically
when when Puerto Rico comes into the
spotlight it's usually just a
mean rod of anti-trump liberalism yeah
and a lot of a lot of the very nasty
things that are happening for example
right now the there's a democratic
Latino committee meetings going on on
the islands where they are planning sort
of the Latino agenda of the Democratic
Party
where they're pushing what's his name
Julian Castro yeah as a 2020 candidate
and lin-manuel miranda is actually um
giving talks he's doing doing lobbying
directly directly to these these
government these senators Wow Wow and
I'm sure it makes me so mad I'm sorry
like I'm sure lin-manuel Miranda would
be the first person to turn around and
do performative woke nests as an
acceptor left when his own people that
he claims to care about are keeping our
homes
he sucks almost as much as his play can
I just say oh no Mickey Const another
good reason to support it for public
advocate and we've talked about it on
multiple shows is she's very strong on
these issues and she's also some forward
supporting corruption in the DNC
actually the intercept on the Internet
are coming out of the intercept but
anyways I would why would I would no no
Mickey Const I think is he was talking
about Naomi Klein Oh Naomi Klein
certainly her reporting is great on it
but specifically there's some things
that she might be able to do in the
public advocate's position I think as an
example she's the only candidate for
public having we should not go into that
Nelson Danielson who is quite good on
this stuff too is written it's more of a
first-person perspective but I really
like the reporting and illustrations
that Molly crabapple did when she went
there recently as well on our show well
Daniel listen I appreciate the call and
you know well III ran into to Nelson I
don't know a couple of weeks ago and
talked about having it back on soon
anyways and so maybe we need to do that
but let me just ask before you how did
you come across the show did you see it
on YouTube or something
yeah the algorithms finally I clicked on
enough decent people where your video
started to pop up like it can all slip
at any moment I can click on a Joe Rogan
link and all of a sudden I'll have
various suggestions coming up again
slide yeah I guess I was persistent
enough and started finding your content
thank you thank you for all that you're
doing all right Daniel hang in there
appreciate the call all right so Matt
it's really horrible to see what's going
on there all right that's it
four four calls I'm sorry folks I know
we've had people on for a long time but
check out the gada jump movement and
understand what's going on I'm gonna do
ten more of these ions and then we're
going to get going J tingle he just
called him
woo did I you disingenuous pro-war
George are jerks are gonna make hay by
calling attention to the 2006 secure
fencing act that some Democratic
representatives voting for but it
applied only to federal land on the
border in case you're wondering who who
you called was you right immortal a
technique has got to resume bullying
lin-manuel Miranda as quickly as
possibly
I'll look into that I've been saying for
a while Hamilton was a sigh up I shared
your theory on the sit down Mike Racine
actually yeah I mean you never know if
culture is a reflection of the dominant
ideology or if it's like actively being
engineer
to reinforce it and with Hamilton it
really seems like the second when the
culture makers parents are in the State
Department do you start to ask whoa
Stoller was on top of that was had a
problem with the Hamilton stuff very
early on Sam's tinder profile hey girl
did you know that you could spend one
third of your life in your sheet swipe
left if you want to get that up to 1/2
bates freshmen hope one more strong
progressive comes into the race the
media going relentlessly slander warren
and sanders sherrod sherrod brown maybe
yeah Brown I think he's gonna enter the
race lazy taco USA today is reporting
Rand Paul is traveling to Canada for
hernia surgery is that true yeah it is
I'm bribing the dangers of Canadian
medicine because my neighbor kicked my
ass
Yakima honking son King I hope you when
you open your online merch store it will
include the majority report shower
curtain as well as the literary hangover
toilet seat and Fenton hates Brendon
tour jacket Wow
that's the Fenton muley uh um call a
shout-out Keenan 375 for bench pero just
tweeted his hourly reminder that he
doesn't care about AOC these people are
ridiculous we need more content mocking
them yeah you definitely didn't think
about her while Christ you're baiting 10
times in a row last night you definitely
look up DZ's nice with the bed she's not
gonna Fe you to eat Kanye West I never
really learned how to wipe producer
Lauren don't forget the Chicago Teachers
Union went on strike against Obama yes
we would that came up also check this
out
Jew 5 Jewish things to know about likely
us a candidate Kamala Harris hmm why are
they I don't know we'll read tomorrow
tea MBS is my jam will the show make a
stop in old North State during the tour
and what will Sandy Hook families do now
that a court has given them access to
internal documents at Infowars should be
interesting how he'll Satan come to
Portland Maine
big smile Anthony scaramouche is gonna
be on the next season a big brother
disgust I heard that watch Oh water for
the first time Denver Dave come to
Denver please I love Sam cedar how about
a trip to the southeast that can't be
the only fan in Charlotte North Carolina
rom-com e1 shades done he just doesn't
know it yet you don't come back from a
both of that magnitude he's been out of
on his feet for months and the final I
am over the second one
Nick DC Toronto has a world famous
private hernia clinic still it's
supported by the Canadian medical system
and the final I M of the day what's up
with Janine defending louis c.k last
week is this just a dumb dumb gen-x
thing I don't got time to go into it now
but see you tomorrow
to get to where I want
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
the teacher takes
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
