[Music]
we will not have a show on July 4th
maybe we'll just have will just release
audio tanks rolling down the streets
you'll recall that Donald Trump has
wanted to have tanks I think at his
inauguration and then subsequent July
4th celebrations because he became
enamored with the idea of large military
shows of strength and missiles and
whatnot that he saw the North Koreans do
and maybe I think for Bastille Day and
he wants all sorts of toys and people
saluting at me the other thing to keep
in mind with the celebration on July 4th
is that they are now using it to as a
mechanism to drive fundraising for the
Republicans now many of you are probably
too young to remember Lincoln's bedroom
but Lincoln's bedroom became popularized
to buy the right
I think it was in the 90s now because
Bill Clinton some of Bill Clinton's top
donors spent a night in the Lincoln
Bedroom at the White House how does it
feel and they were allowed to come in in
this instance
basically tickets are being sold for the
sake of Republican donors directly
there's no sort of you're a big campaign
contributor come to the White House and
visit me it's come to this celebration
for money and only for money that will
go into Republican hands literally
leveraging a an event creating an event
with tax dollars incidentally well we'll
talk more about this after we hear
Donald Trump
make an announcement I guess about
what's going to happen the fourth we're
gonna have a great fourth of July and
Washington DC it'll be like no other
it'll be special and I hope a lot of
people come and it's going to be about
this country and it's a salute to
America and I'm gonna be here I'm going
to say a few words and we're gonna have
planes overhead the best fighter jets in
the world and other planes too and we're
gonna have some tanks stationed outside
gotta be pretty careful with the tanks
because the roads have a tendency not to
like to carry heavy tanks so we have to
put them in certain areas but we have
the brand-new Sherman tanks so we have
the brand-new April tanks and we have
some incredible equipment military
equipment on display brand-new and we're
very proud of it you know we're making a
lot of new tanks right now we're
building a lot of new tanks and Lima
Ohio a Greek tank factory that people
wanted to close down until I got elected
and I stopped it from being closed down
and now it's a very productive facility
and they greatest tank in the world now
the idea of us getting into a massive
land war that's going to require a whole
new fleets of tanks is pretty hard to
imagine but at least we've got a lot of
them and now we can show them off at
parades and just in case you were
wondering about this July 4th
celebration it's gonna be a lot about
America one of the things you can trust
to other July 4th celebration right
apologizing for America first of all I'm
sorry all right now go make your hotdogs
you've white Devils parks department is
getting charged for transporting the
tanks by the military you know the parks
department that's already hurting for
funding it's just it's it's grotesque
and slightly reminiscent of this attack
oh boy oh boy oh boy oh boy
[Music]
[Applause]
gonca each other there you go Hong Kong
it goes to truck
Anthony Adric still almost as Trump is
Trump but I mean and this is uh welcome
to the new America and I just don't I
know there's going to be a ton of people
are gonna be out there so like to see
those tanks I don't know why we don't
have missiles - why are you sharing
ideas I mean why not I mean look if you
I stop right oval North Korean and
People's Liberation Army parades they
have missiles Trump should be in
fatigues standing out of out of a limo I
that would be amazing to watch I would
also make you also keep his balance
flatbed it some charred bodies just to
show like the handiwork of the tanks
speaking of which but I guess that's we
don't get that too the second term of
Trump meanwhile to fly some bodies back
in of any places and they'll across the
world that we're killing people
