let's talk a little bit about the the
boys they oppose war this is
sort of a fascinating breakdown and then
we're gonna head into the fun half this
is important I think in terms of knowing
the the wall the research done took
polling data from the Public Religion
Research Institute's annual American
value survey and the the research
through cross-referenced support for the
wall wall supporters expressed vastly
more hostile views than wall opponents
about the impact of not only
undocumented but also legal immigration
that's fairly obvious right I mean if
you're a supporter of the wall you got a
problem with on document undocumented
immigration and frankly all the data
suggests there's not a huge quotient of
people out there who are ok with
undocumented immigrants but have an
issue with documented immigrants so
obviously if you have a problem with
undocumented immigrants the the chances
are it's from your pool that has a
problem with immigrants period and
there's quite a bit of correlation there
I know a lot of people like to suggest
that somehow this is only about
undocumented immigration although for
some reason the Trump administration
won't extend TPS protections to people
which is legal document at legal
immigration but putting that aside for a
moment what this poll does show is that
there's also correlation oddly enough
between the wall and some perspectives
on folks is perspective on their fellow
Americans this is going to be very very
surprising to people
how's my sarcasm voice it's pretty good
three forts of wall supporters said the
recent police killings of African
Americans were isolated incidents rather
than part of a broader pattern of how
police treat blacks in this country the
opposite of wall opponents saw a broader
pattern three-fourths of wall supporters
rejected the idea that 75% of wall
supporters rejected the idea that
generations of slavery and
discrimination have created conditions
that make it difficult for blacks to
work their way out of the lower-class
nearly two-thirds of wall opponents
agreed with that statement
see a difference here folks just odd
this correlation wonder what that would
be almost two-thirds of wall supporters
said discrimination against whites is
now as big a problem as discrimination
against minorities it's up there first
oh my god big that is really super
amazing super big 3/4 of wall opponents
rejected that view and in a nod to my
theory that racists and misogynists do
not see their racism and misogyny as
distinct but rather just like hey what
they're not like me nearly two-thirds of
wall opponents say the feminist movement
accurately reflects the views of most
women nearly two-thirds and wall
supporters say it doesn't one-in-three
wall supporters say the movement of the
me2 movement has led to the unfair
treatment of men only one in 11 wall
opponents agree 25% of wall opponents
believe discrimination against men is
now a bigger problem as discrimination
against women so that's one out of four
wall opponents think that men are just
criminate equally as women but 54% of
wall supporters say men do face as much
discrimination as women that's pretty
stunning like how do you go through your
life and experience that how do 54% I
don't over half of any cohort go through
life thinking that that men are as
discriminated as women like in what
context like there's women's night at
the bowling alley
three nights a week so we only get to
like what like honestly like where it's
crazy I mean but it's not crazy the
Donald Trump has known exactly what he's
doing and he appeals to racist probably
because he's racists I'm defenseless
against that kind of female insanity
yeah there you go that's part of the
problem there you go
