some reason somehow the Republicans now
seem to be somewhat embarrassed by how
racist Steve King is and I don't know
where they've been for the past
yeah half a dozen years I mean off the
top of my head I can think of racist
things that Steve King has said and he's
not even my congressman and I'm not in
his party like Mexicans would the with
the calves of melons and he said stick
he said racist stuff on on Chris Chris
Hayes's show I can't remember what it
was but I remember it was incredibly uh
offensive can we say that I mean the one
he retweeted or tweeted himself we can't
save our civilization with other
people's babies here to wielders eyes
yeah I mean I he said stuff he went to
the king oh right yeah he's done visited
Holocaust Danson this isn't about race
is about Western civilization multiple
crimes
a long time ago he he went to the to
what I can't remember what camp was was
in in Dachau was it on the dime or went
to go speak to a Holocaust denial group
because he wanted to get both sides
because you don't want just the
perspective of there was genocide you
wanna I just want to hear from victims
all the time Steve King my grandmother
did I think part of the problem that
they they have with him is that he said
the quiet part loudly as they say now of
course Donald Trump's been doing this
for quite some time and I think Steve
King has too but he explicitly said I
don't see what is so offensive about the
words white supremacy which is almost
just a little bit too on the nose
so you see
old Steve McCarthy here that's it
Trump calls gets its Kevin McCarthy and
Steve Scalise still hard to like Trump
sometimes right just so good but here he
goes he's he's gonna do something about
this and just you wait and see
according to his appearance on Face the
Nation I want to ask you about Iowa
Republican Congressman Steve King you
called some of his language reckless
when he in an interview The New York
Times said the term white nationalist
and white supremacists he didn't know
when they became offensive some
Republicans have come out very strongly
here
well Jeb Bush said it's not enough to
condemn him that party leaders actually
have to do something either support a
primary opponent to challenge him others
have said he should be at least censured
should there be action against
congressman first and foremost I came
out at the very moment that language has
no place in America that is not the
America I know and it's most definitely
not the party of Lincoln City by chatlin
I have a scheduled meeting with him on
Monday and I will tell you this I've
watched on the other side that they do
not take action when their members say
Samantha's action will be taken I'm
having a serious conversation with
Congressman Steve King on his future and
role in this Republican Party what is
that as a leader there is a number of
things you'll see that has taken place
but I will not stand back as a leader of
this party
believing in this nation that all are
created equal that that stands are
continues to stand and have any role
with us don't piss down my back and tell
me it's raining
he of course you know who he was talking
about right I have a guess but what's
yours first
oh it's definitely Rashid Italy oh um it
is because she said mofo we're gonna
impeach that mofo now just she's also
Palestinian well just to give you a
sense of how much time cable news spent
on Steve King saying like what's so
wrong with white supremacy right like
now let's no let's be honest if I was to
say to my 13 year old daughter or my
six-year-old son the words white the
word supremacy the words wrong
swats I would have no problem you know
like saying those words just floating
around right on a piece of paper no big
deal
and I but I would probably not say to
them mofo
I would just I would not just because
like they'll have time to swear later
but I would just rather rather not but
the idea behind the words and I think my
13 year old can understand this dynamic
in fact I know my 13 year old says
 anyways but the idea behind
it trying to defend white supremacy
versus using an expletive to call
somebody out adults and I think even
kids as young as 13 can understand the
distinction as to why the idea of
defending white supremacy is more
offensive than simply tossing around a
cuss word add a white supremacist add a
white supremacist for that matter but
here your point is as though we need to
be more civil got it my point is that
here to cut to this cable news spent
three times as much time it seems on on
talking about to leave then they did
with more all 14 minutes CNN spent 40
let's call it 15 minutes on Steve King
and an hour plus on to leap if you add
up all the time spent on Steve King it
still wouldn't amount to the amount of
time MSNBC spent on Rashidah to leave
write on CNN is garbage Fox News Fox
News 42 seconds on Steve King 52 minutes
until 8 seconds I would like to see how
they covered that we shouldn't find that
and MSNBC 14 minutes on Steve King 30
almost 38 minutes on Rashidah to leave
so
up people good hitting right Arab what's
wrong with Arab supremacy hi Arabs
helped Greek civilization I think this
more than anything else is is there's a
healthy dose of white supremacy but I
also think it's a woman the I mean I'd
be curious to see if we put up the
report that a Dick Cheney told Patrick
Leahy to go himself on the floor of
the Senate I wonder how much coverage
that guy back at the day you know
Muslims don't always get the fairest
coverage either in the news but I think
it's I think all of that is true and I
think it's also what we were outlining
about how the press is so like
desperately Craven to get back into
false equivalency games so it's like oh
my god Democrats are in the house and
she said something that was rude
thank God we don't know and oh I mean
Steve King that's old news we already
know it's another weird thing about the
press I feel like they do these cycles
where it first it's like okay is it
really responsible to call Steve King a
racist and then it becomes somehow it's
like he's become so flagrant that it's
actually like common knowledge and then
they're like well why is that even
noteworthy haven't we always known that
he's a massive bigot
they're not gonna learn until they are
literally being rounded up by Trump's
shock troops and sent to the Gulag even
then they'll they'll care a lot that
they're polite to their GU loggers
that's very important
[Laughter]
