[Music]
let's uh let's go into this with with we
were talking about you know and Warren's
got is Warren is you know how to bump I
mean she's going through a little bit of
a surge right now and it's been
interesting because to a large extent
the the Biden people in particular seem
to be very very nervous about her I
don't I don't I don't get the sense that
the Bernese people are as nervous about
her at this point I think the idea is
that like they want I think the election
to be between you know two people to the
left of Joe Biden frankly but Biden
definitely seems worried about he his
people announced today that they're
going to be talking about her corporate
payments and which now you've worked in
a bunch of campaigns you've run for
office do you communicate a couple of
days beforehand in to your opponent like
what you're going to be attacking them
on they probably wish so right but I
mean what is the what is that what is
Biden doing there is he trying to like
just is it just a way to sort of get
that idea out there my only thought is
maybe they were preventing an attack
there was something coming out from
Warren's team and it was like a little
bit of a threat that oh honey you're not
I'm honey right speaking of course of
course actually probably think that's
exactly how he thinks I mean II said kid
to common right um you know that that be
careful we have stuff to I mean
everybody has stuff on each other and
they don't always use it and and
oftentimes they wait until the perfect
moment and you know there's also false
information they can put out there but I
don't know if the corporate base I mean
the attack that they said that they're
gonna use is that you know we're gonna
expose it used to work for corporations
or something like that like that your
corporate employees which I don't know
if that's a substantial I mean would you
attack somebody it depends on what they
did of course like if they represented
core
Asians for for fraud if I was Joe Biden
I wouldn't use that attack because
that's part of probably the allure that
I project him of some of my voters
anyways I have a feeling it's you know
there it's probably it may be part of
like a sort of a broader narrative to
say that she's disingenuous in some
fashion but here's Jim Cramer on CNBC
and then we'll get a chance to pick up
more on this here's Jim Cramer on CNBC
they're already starting on CNBC to talk
about the doom and gloom if the
Democrats win in particular Elizabeth
Warren and they're talking about Wells
Fargo just a reminder folks
Wells Fargo you know in addition to all
the stuff involved in the companies that
they bought that were involved in the
sort of the massive fraud that existed
in foreclosures and and the run-up to
the 2008 financial crisis
Wells Fargo since that time has had
literally thousands of their own
employees place people I don't even know
how to express this you go in you get a
bank account they take your info and
without you knowing it sell you other
products that the bank is selling and
you get billed for it and if you if
you're lucky you notice if you're not
lucky you don't and Wells Fargo was just
like we had if we just maybe we were a
little bit over-ambitious with our
workers guilty but we didn't tell them
to do this well would think that you
would have controls in there that like
hey you need maybe a signature or
something but here is a Jim Cramer
talking about how scared they are if
Elizabeth Warren gets it but how is it
possible that this company cannot find a
CEO I mean are they worried about
Elizabeth Warren attacking that she sure
he would be of course they are and of
course that person is why wouldn't they
be
if she becomes president what do you
think is gonna happen to the banks posit
let me just be clear on what happened
here Jim Cramer is making a joke yeah
right
he's making a joke about like why can't
Wells Fargo find a CEO now I would guess
it's probably because somebody's going
like uh I don't want to go in there
because every other day it seems like
they find massive amounts of criminality
in the company and I don't want to be
overseeing that type of stuff or be held
liable for juggling brought into courts
and and so Cramer does not respond when
this guy goes yeah that is why they're
afraid of good she becomes the president
what do you thinks gonna happen to the
banks well it's not a did we be a
suboptimal situation tonight right I
think you think Elizabeth Warren know
pushes banks into a woman they're
already down twenty percent from the
heart but yeah I just think think you're
there were these Curie's in the 30s
where they want rich people in front of
Congress II just kind of trash it it's
about twenty years later we had the
least discrepancy in incomes in the
fifties and sixties right
I don't know it's good happen look I've
gotta tell you when you get off the desk
II talk to executives there are more
fearful of her winning I mean I've never
heard anybody say she's trying to be
stopped
she's gotta be something I don't know
and she's very uh she keeps going up in
the polls all right she's raised a ton
of money it's gonna win I believe she's
a very compelling figure on the stump by
the way I hear it too and it's another
reason why companies are being implored
to do things now if you want to get
something done you really think M&A or
anything think about doing it soon
because come early to mid 2020
if elizabeth warren's rolling along
everybody's gonna be like that's it so
you're here to chill oh yeah I mean oh
he's having well I mean the you know if
I'm Elizabeth Warren I cut that into an
ad for me his friend Jim Kramer that was
Kramer friends with drunk he like is
always praising him and tweed very
strange with Trump if they're on TV
they're friends with Trump
this is NBC NBC has a long relationship
with Trump in some way or form and I
just I I find it I'm not trying to be
conspiratorial but there's like a lot of
Warren praising on NBC and I watched
unfortunately all weekend I watched NBC
and barely heard Bernie's name you know
wouldn't they really be scared of Bernie
one would think that they would be
scared of Bernie but Bernie has always
been ignored in this way I mean I've
told this story many times but I got a
call in the run-up of 2016 election in
the the spring of 2015 from a reporter
from Politico who was doing a piece on
Martin O'Malley
and he says to me it's you know like he
calls and he says look you know I'm
doing this piece on Martin O'Malley
martin O'Malley wants to know how we can
get progressives how we can you know
compete with Elizabeth Warren for
progressives like Elizabeth Warren's not
running for election Bernie Sanders is
he's gonna worry about Bernie Sanders
and the guy just laughed well but the
point is I think you know at CNBC they
have the same attitude like it's
completely and probably NBC broadly
speaking it is unfathomable to them is
it or is it a direction I mean the way
these networks we've both worked for
networks and do there is actual
editorial direction given that's passed
down like we're gonna cover this story
we're not covering this story we're
gonna talk about these people
there's the graphics I mean I think some
of it is a little bit of like an inner
you know establishment and Beltway
mentality but then I think some of it is
actually very intentional I I don't I I
would be surprised if they were
directives that were specifically we're
gonna not cover Bernie Sanders what not
I think it's just honestly the vast
majority of those people they're just
they
in one way that's why they're there that
if they thought a different way they
just wouldn't get through the hiring
process just because it's like I don't
want that freak in here and so I just
think it's just uneven like they just
don't take him seriously even now after
you look at the entire campaign sort of
organized around his issue sets they
still don't take him seriously and I
think that's probably not a bad place
for Bernie to be in at this point in the
race right I mean because the difference
between 2020 and 2016 at this juncture
is that Bernie takes his chances more
seriously and he did not in 20 you know
when we were at 2015 I guess it would
have been is the equivalent and in
September 2015
I don't think Bernie Sanders thought
like I'm in this way race to win I think
he's like I'm in this race to make it
clear about income inequality and money
that has corrupted our political process
and I don't think he had a real agenda
to win until five months later four
months later and that was a little bit
too late I think that's the big
difference right now is that that maybe
he's being overlooked by the national
media that's fine because they're
building something on the ground I would
think oh yeah and my hope is that
there's a feedback effect there because
people want to pick a winner people
don't want to be wasting their time so
hopefully the more Bernie thinks he can
win the more other people will and the
more people will volunteer and do the
whole not meet us think to make sure
there's actually a grassroots movement
behind him
