[Music]
here is Fox News Fox and Friends
parently did not get the word that
Donald Trump felt like he had gone into
the deep end without knowing how to swim
and had told the generals like I didn't
I didn't think it would turn into a war
I just wanted to I just wanted the
mullahs to think I was cool and before
that happened apparently Fox and Friends
thought the war we were still down with
the war and here is Fox and Friends sean
Parnell explaining why we need to get
into a massive war with Iran with a lot
a lot of people dying but this
truthfully should be should not be a
surprise to anybody I feel like we've
been at war with Iran for 40 years like
I don't like to fight but if I walk into
a bar
and a drunk guy starts throwing punches
at me I'm gonna fight whether I like it
or not and the fact of the matter is is
that Iran has been killing Americans for
40 years now and we've really done
nothing who was that hit hit that is
Sharn parnell ve o of where's the
shopper now CEO of branding freedom yep
now to be fair to Sean he is a retired
Army he was a captain he was with the
10th Mountain Division so he probably
saw a significant amount of fighting at
the very least I would imagine in
Afghanistan but he doesn't seem I
wouldn't make him a general let's put it
that way the whole if there's a drunk
guy in a bar and he's gonna throw a
fight it's impression that Afghanistan's
a giant bar it would be in Iraq right I
mean the the war itself I guess would be
fought at least in parts in Iraq and the
idea is that Iran is not just some
big drunk guy and it's not just him
who's gonna be taking the punches
there's gonna be a lot of other
civilians who are going to be killed
hundreds of thousands probably if we're
lucky to avoid greater casualties but
that's basically what it is this
mentality of like let's just like
happens in a bar when people are drunk
that's all that war really is it's just
like that but more a little bit well I
also like and I I mean this people have
been pointing this out about Iran for a
while so this is not you know a new
point but it bears repeating like and
Tom cotton did this the other day right
when he's sitting there with Margaret
Hoover looks gonna be two strikes you
know like doing his like what a first
one the yeah first one last one I'm
getting too old for this you know like
that yeah I am the danger well okay so
if Iran is the equivalent of first
strike last strike and a fight in a bar
fight then that might contradict the
like greatest threat to humanity and the
future of America's existence right
right you're gonna have to pay you're
gonna have to decide whether like core
geostrategic threat even though they
don't even have the most powerful
military in the Middle East or something
they like just go and thrash them a
little bit and I mean of course what's
incredible is like the answers obviously
somewhere in between of like they're
obviously not a threat to us but they
are way more sophisticated and capable
than Iraq and look at how horrific and
disastrous Iraq was on every level I
would also add that if you're going to
use the analogy of a drunk guy in a bar
fight it's the United States that looks
a lot more drunk getting into fights oh
yeah yeah I mean you have basically
these rogue elements that are creating
the circumstance for the fight they're
the ones you know who are going up and
saying look here buddy what's with those
shoes you know
what are you doing here this is not your
bar that's happen you think you're gonna
go to that bar where people share stuff
excuse me
besides you say something did you
looking at me watch take picture last
longer and then of course you know
Donald Trump has to tell the generals
like Ike I'm afraid of Bolton's mustache
can you please tell him no no they said
that if we talked like that then they
would apologize and kiss me and then
give me money but that isn't happening
and now I'm scared can you help me
please it's I don't know III can't tell
if I feel like oh okay
there is like actually a system here
that is deeply damaged or there's
actually a system that is at least
somewhat rational and working like you
know like where you can have a lunatic
element in the administration but
there's enough non lunatics to push back
I can't tell well they're all lunatics
in different ways right yes but I'm
talking like in ways that aren't gonna
end up killing hundreds of thousands of
people yeah well Trump's lunacy is he
likes to talk on Twitter but to the
degree that he has an ideology where any
of us is concerned he's an isolationist
I think because war is annoying and he'd
have to like talk about stuff that's not
himself a lot and like you know what I'm
saying well I don't know the repetition
I would have to talk about it every day
I'm also board of what's that know
generally I was my guy through whatever
haven't cited him but guards there I
mean look he founded the country that
was great those are the old I'd I don't
think it's accurate to say that the
Trump is an isolationist and in any
shape or form I think it's just that he
people came to him and said it's gonna
hurt your reelection chances to get into
a war that you haven't sold the American
public on and I think he's like oh okay
I think he's just a guy who literally I
don't think he cares one way or another
I think it's just a question of like
what does he think is gonna help him at
any given point and I don't think he has
I don't even think that he is I don't
think he thinks about stuff enough to
consider himself an isolationist I don't
think that he even in the pragmatic he's
not having this when jeb bush's around
yeah i you know a lot of people think
that McCarthy McCarthy should have
gotten credit but my question is why did
you chopped down the cherry tree to
begin with maybe more people should be
asking that question
