[Music]
the game from Iowa Gabe from Iowa what's
on your mind uh so I was just we've been
talking you guys have been talking a lot
lately about the sort of predictability
of violence coming from the right given
their rhetoric on things like the
invasion and immigration were broadly
right
and I'm wondering uh-huh about what
what's your take on women vanspronsen
who was the guy who you know sort of
firebombing and I guess that's um God
that the ice facility in Washington
because it seems to me that Wang's in
not not just rhetoric but reality we
have a terrorist organization ice
targeting violently targeting people and
people driving trucks through protests
and whatnot we need to start thinking
about or like just what's your take on
that sort of direct action obviously not
endorsing violence or whatever but like
yeah we do wrong and I mean I think it's
wrong I mean I I'm gonna tell you this
at like I don't think in any situation
where where people can get hurt is is
legit at this point I don't know if
there's ever a point where it is I mean
I imagine you know I it's hard for me to
imagine in our society at this time
there ever being something that it's
legit in terms of like of doing anything
like that type of violent act I think
there comes a time where like you know
graffiti or you know targeted vandalism
down the road I think there are
instances where that may be you know
legit I don't know if we're there yet
frankly I don't think we were I think
there needs to be mass protest and I
think look good it's more we know what
like when we get there well I don't know
I bet I but but I
there'd have to be a lot of other things
exhausted before then so instead of like
this guy expending effort on getting
guns and you know building fire bombs
far better to go out and organize people
and get people because I mean look at
the value frankly between what those
people locking arms and sitting in front
of that gate did in exposing that driver
for being the type of person who would
do what they do to immigrants versus
what that guy who you know armored up
and you know we buffed up and went and
tried to attack it I mean look at the
relative value of those in terms of the
the argument far more valuable than I'm
doing the peaceful protests it just is
yeah yeah I think yeah I guess it's just
sort of the relative value I think has
yet to be seen of that other than
exposing this one guy but I think
obviously individually someone doing
something like that is obviously
worthless and it's horrible PR but you
know I would be lying if I didn't have
some sort of sympathy and also you know
like when people are talking about
storming area 51 there were all these
memes going around on the left main page
is about we should just do this except
for ice facilities I would be lying if I
didn't think like maybe not the worst
idea I've ever heard in my life I don't
know I I think once you do that then
you're basically opening the door to to
you know things like people fire bombing
Planned Parenthood clinics well in all
these massive state repression I I just
think like I don't I want to just
disaggregate I on the on the level of
what you might sympathize with and the
moral feeling I'm with you a hundred
percent but if you look even
historically at situations where there
were actual historical conditions that
kind of fit more of like armed struggle
politics those tactics still
basically faded away right like I'm
talking South Africa Northern Ireland
which are much more little actual
examples of this and I think like a lot
of people yeah I'm sorry if you did that
there would be a massive repression of
state apparatus that would just be
completely overwhelming and I mean if
anything frankly there's already
legislation one of the books in states
that are criminalizing nonviolent
protests and nonviolent interference and
things like that I mean that was the
thing that happened during Standing Rock
they tried to basically make it legal to
do what that guy did namely run
protestors over right so I guess that
committees are sounds like the minute
the masked a repression is currently
unfolding right not when they only take
on I be react immediately yeah it would
take on a totally different scale yeah
when you open that when you open that
door people that want to be given a
reason and there's still enough space
right now in as degraded as it is but
there's still a certain degree of
openness in the institutions in civic
space if you did that that would be shut
and that is why I think people like it's
tangential but I'm not at all supportive
of that new FBI briefing on conspiracy
theories I think that even things like
that are very disturbing creep on
overall civil liberties but if you gave
them that opportunity they would run
they're already running a truck through
it they would just cut it out completely
I'll have to appreciate the call yeah
sure
