[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Elise
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday March 27th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Elizabeth Rosenthal journalist former
doctor author of an American sickness
how health care became big business and
how you can take it back also on the
program speaking of which the White
House assault or I should say the new
White House assault on the ACA shows a
decidedly unand appendant Attorney
General and in the Senate green New Deal
blocked meanwhile the house
probing Donald Trump will be getting the
his Deutsche Bank records a Saudi air
strike in Yemen it's a hospital kill
seven at least four children dead
federal judge strikes down the North
Carolina post twenty week abortion ban
that it's been in effect for decades
and joe biden's anita hill problem just
keeps getting bigger
la ride share drivers strike for a day
an attorney general bar claims a white
house edited muller report to be
released in weeks mickey d's ways the
white flag on the minimum wage hike and
Betsy DeVos still horrible
and lastly Oh No Wow Wisconsin judge
blogs part of the GOP lame-duck law
Mozambique suffers a cholera outbreak
break all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen I'm sorry
I'm having trouble reading today because
I was woken up again by my son my
wonderful son who was going through a
stage I think right now what's that I
did not do the pre-roll I will do that
right now majority report is supported
by pitchfork economics with Nick Hanauer
Pete a weekly podcast that explores why
rising income inequality will lead to
pitchforks and what we can do about it
every week Hanauer is joined by some of
the world's most original economic
thinkers in a convention busting
exploration of who gets what and why in
the american economy if you want to
learn how to make the economy work for
all americans subscribe to pitchfork
economics pitchfork economics comm or
wherever you get your podcasts so I was
saying that my son is going through a
phase so that means I can't sleep as
much which means then I have trouble
reading things and remembering just even
the basic names of people so good to see
all you what's up guys
hey you hey see you guys here great
that's really great very happy we need
to get you to a sleep clinic know much
possible no kid like legitimately this
is becoming a problem for all of us I
got the Empire I felt the same thing
wasn't that know it would this morning
it was us all pitas bed at five in the
morning and I just get woken up with a
scream like dad and then I go in and
just you know swear it myself think like
why what what was I thinking
building him a loft bed that was dumb
that was super dumb and then I'm looking
around for you know I gotta clean the
sheets and poles and then you know and
then I'm then I'm awake and I just sit
there the only upshot is I got the lunch
done before they woke up that was the
only upside anyways folks you don't need
to hear that any more than you've
already heard a lot happening obviously
we are still in the wake of the
submission of the Mulla report to the
attorney general's office and unclear
what we're going to see and when we're
going to see it if that's the case
certainly there have been deadlines that
have been put down by members of the
House and the Senate but Mitch McConnell
has blocked it in the Senate so we shall
see what happens next
at one point I would imagine we may
maybe somebody will leak it maybe
somebody will get a view at it to get a
sense of what and maybe if there's no
whoa there's no answers in it in terms
of what Muller's intentions were as to
who would resolve questions like
obstruction and whatnot but we will
obviously talk about that when and if
that happens in the meantime the Trump
White House decided to end their
celebratory celebration early by by
joining in a case that has been that
the US government was fighting fifth
circuit was the fifth circuit court had
ruled that or was looking is looking I
should say at a case involving the
Affordable Care Act suggesting that
pre-existing conditions should not exist
because of the Trump administration
ending the mandate or the tax
implications if you do not sign up for
the ACA and basically saying that you
cannot split off one portion of the law
from another the US government has now
joined that case and thinks the entire
fordable Care Act should be essentially
enjoined itself we will talk about this
more with our guest
amongst other things but it's a pretty
stunning reversal not to mention that
the reporting is that the White House
overruled the Attorney General on this
now if you're familiar with the US
government generally the Justice
Department is a little bit more
independent than this but apparently not
in this instance
because the problem of course you can
see the problem here right is that when
a law is passed if the US government
doesn't stand aside that law from term
to term unless there is some type of
major problem legally with it
it is it is problematic for the
operations of our government however
from a political standpoint I don't
think that the Democrats could be
happier unless Donald Trump literally
walked around the front lawn of the
White House naked it never becomes any
less of a disturbing image the the one
thing that this is
telling is that for all the talk over
the years that like Donald Trump is
trying to distract us like there's some
type of plan behind his ravings as a
madman's two dimensional chess right
this is actually like less than two
dimensional chess it really is like you
know this is him saying like I'm going
to show you consistently I'm gonna
distract you even from the things that I
think are good its checkers with being
unclear what the rules are so this is
turning attention obviously to
healthcare at the very moment that I
think Democrats would want to all of the
research now coming out of the 2018
midterm elections was that the Democrats
probably picked up an extra dozen or two
seats in the house because of healthcare
Democrats ran obviously on a whole
myriad of issues but the the primary
issue in the 2018 election was health
care and this was done at a time when it
appeared that the Republicans assault on
the Affordable Care Act was over so
health care is still remains a primary
issue and the real question is is how
our Democrats in what Democrats are
going to propose what proposals here's
Bernie Sanders on on Chris Hayes program
last night and it's interesting only in
so far is that Bernie Sanders sticks
with the message and is not going to
Emme he is running on Medicare for all
and a very specific proposal but
Medicare for all that would involve
expanding not only who is eligible under
Medicare today to everyone but also
expanding essentially what Medicare does
if you're on Medicare now you
Hey premiums they're low relative to
other insurance you have co-pays in
certain instances it doesn't cover
everything you got to get supplementary
insurance under his Medicare proposal
Medicare for all proposal all that goes
away and your coverage is expanded it is
cheaper and it's available to everyone
and so here is um Chris Hayes asking
about what about other incremental
measures would you support those in the
near term okay so you talked about where
we should go so I want to talk about
that now that the Democrats introduced
legislation in the House today that is
focused on some reforms and
modifications to Obamacare particularly
people who are in the exchanges who have
very high premiums do you support the
legislation the house produced today no
I support the Medicare for All
single-payer program look so you don't
support that incremental reform no the
incremental reform that I support is
phasing in Medicare for all first year
we would lower the eligibility age for
Medicare from 65 to 55 and cover all of
the children and by the way expand
Medicare coverage for elderly people to
include dental care why glasses and
hearing aids
that's the incremental four year program
that I wrote in there I support sure
about this so if that House bill were to
come over to the Senate you would vote
against it right now look right now it's
right now we are working on what I have
fought for my entire life health care is
a right it has to be publicly funded it
has to be comprehensive the current
system Chris is dysfunctional it is
enormously wasteful we spend hundreds of
billions of dollars every single year on
administrative costs outrageous
compensation packages for the CEOs of
the insurance and drug companies
ultimately we have got to do it every
other major country does and that is
guarantee health care to all do
through public funding save huge amounts
of money and administrative costs
so that's medicare for all ok so there's
lots of people running on Medicare for
all but there's been some interest
positive for one second I just want to
point something out here so the fix to
the Affordable Care Act who knows
whether it would pass in the Senate my
guess is it absolutely would not but
let's just assume for a moment that
there was actually some viability to
this I mean the Democrats are doing the
right thing by introducing this because
they want to get Republicans on the
record for specifically voting against
at least in the house fixing the
Affordable Care Act because Republicans
cannot vote for anything that helps the
Affordable Care Act at this point
because they all voted against or voted
to replace and repeal it literally 60
times so this is a smart politics in
terms of getting in the house because
it's never gonna actually be a vote in
the Senate and this is probably why
Bernie says I it's it's irrelevant to me
I'm not I wouldn't vote for it because
I'm not going to give any cover to
Republicans in any way and because I'm
gonna vote for something else but
understand people have to be very clear
on this the Affordable Care Act covers
20 million people half of those people
are roughly are from expansion of
Medicaid the other half are people who
are not eligible for employer
employer-based health care and those
people go into exchanges in states
across the country that's 10 million
people it's a fraction of of the people
who get health insurance in this country
the affordable care act did not do such
a great job in terms of containing costs
and the Republicans have done a very
good job of of getting rid of those cost
controls to the extent that there were
any the best thing the affordable care
act was the ppi part that did was the
ppi part and that was the patient
protections that was things like
pre-existing conditions things like you
can't have rescission you can't have
you can't you don't have lifetime or
yearly caps if you get super ill and it
costs $750,000 they can't get rid of
your insurance because you went over
your $500,000 lifetime cap or whatever
it is you can be on your parents program
till you're 26
there are certain essential services
that that make health insurance actually
define as health insurance right you
can't just sell something that says like
well we're gonna pretend like you're
covered and that's health insurance
right you use a coupon for contact
solution right you can't sell a car that
doesn't have an engine and say it's a
car yes it looks like a car smells like
a new car when you get in but it doesn't
have an engine it's not really a car so
film the rain maker actually does a
great job of illustrating fake
door-to-door fake insurance plans right
I mean so that's I mean that's basically
what what it did so when he says he's
gonna vote against this he's basically
saying look the clown time is over the
ACA was certainly was a step in the
right direction but in the final
analysis it did not provide affordable
care that did not happen and it is
highly vulnerable to attack as we are
witnessing right now just in terms of
like executive actions all do it through
public funding save huge amounts of
money and administrative costs so that's
medicare for all ok so there's lots of
people running on Medicare for all but
there's been some interesting sort of
debate about what it means and there's
sort of two different ways that people
are talking about it now one is what
your you've talked about a four year
phase-in you lower it and you get
Medicare for all the other is the idea
it's sort of a Medicare buy-in right so
you don't say everybody's in the
Medicare system you just say everyone
has the option to you can obviously buy
in a Medicare rate that's called
Medicare for America there's a bill with
that name of the house that is polling
very well right now
51 to 30% whereas the the sort of more
traditional medical for all the you
support is is even what do you what do
you think about that as an alternative
why not sort of slide towards the system
in an optional way because ultimately we
have to
recognize that the current system is
incredibly dysfunctional and wasteful
its goal is to make profits for the
insurance companies and the drug
companies you are not going to be able
in the long run to have cost-effective
universal health care unless you change
the system unless you get rid of the
insurance companies unless you stand up
to the greed of the drug companies and
lower prescription drug costs that's the
only way that you could provide quality
care all people I look at healthcare
Chris the same way as I look at public
education right same way a look at
police protection fire protection older
people get it regardless of the income
it is publicly funded that is the most
cost effective way to provide care to
all so now we're going to talk to our
guests in a minute and I think she will
tell us that there are other options
besides a a single-payer system and that
that function around the world the the
irony is is that the buy-in may be the
least efficient that you could have
because you do not get the the cost
savings by having universality within
that insurance pool and you still retain
all of the problematic aspects of
private insurance so I mean it's one
thing to have I in my opinion and we'll
talk to our guests about it cuz she's
done a lot of work on this but it's one
thing to have supplementary private
insurance but if you do not have a
system that is designed to basically
take care of the vast majority of people
like more or less like our public
schools do then you will not get the
efficiencies that you need and you will
not have a durable system because it
will not function the way it's supposed
to but we will talk to our guests about
that in a moment
can we appreciate that poll for a second
too because that's not a poll of
Democrats that's a poll of everybody
right so the amount of support for a
single-payer system even among
Republicans is very encouraging yeah
it's I mean I would want to see the Quai
they they they phrase those questions
because you know I had
heard of the American for Medicare that
was in the is in the phrasing I just I
remember doing a couple of being
involved in focus groups in my brief
like brands whatever sort of time and
like they're profoundly easy to
manipulate it's all I'll say I just
remember being involved in focus groups
when I was living in Boston waiting
tables and trying to earn fifty bucks
Angelo did you go just as with a jury hi
you should have been thrown out if I
only lie about everything well so if
anything the real numbers are even
higher than that well we don't know but
the bottom line is that they're
definitely up the more people hear about
it and understand the proposal they the
more people appreciate it because you
know 10 years ago I don't think these
numbers would have been anywhere near
there but folks not only is selling
single-payer health insurance
challenging hiring is challenging but
there's only one place you can go where
hiring is simple fast and smart a place
where growing businesses connect to
qualified candidates that place it's
actually online zip recruiter dot-com /
majority zip recruiter sends your job to
over 100 of the web's leading job boards
but they don't stop there with their
powerful matching technology or what I
call it the their powerful get Brendan
technology because that's where we got
Brendan from zip recruiter scans
thousands of resumes to find people with
the right experience and invite them to
apply to your job as applications come
in zip recruiter analyzes each one and
spots lights the top candidates so you
never miss a great match when Brendan
came in they tell you this like we got
Brendan through zip recruiter they were
advertising on the show and I was like I
got to hire somebody I should try the
service out when Brendan came in one of
the first things he said and you know I
don't know how you came through zip
recruiter I don't know how they they got
you or whatnot first thing he says like
ya know I know you do
last job I was on I had to block your
videos cuz I was looking for the raw
footage of the of the clips and your
videos kept coming up I was like oh my
god siren how did you think you found
the raw footage yet all of a sudden Paul
as he well but that's the thing like how
much what better fit could I have had it
was like literally like oh you're the
guy who used to work here yesterday and
now you're coming in for a job today I
actually that happened to me with
Bartley's burgers up in Cambridge Mass I
I went I left for like three weeks and
then they made me apply for the job
again I was there for four months before
that they were trying to be dicks zip
recruiter is so effective that 80% of
employers who post on zip recruit or get
a quality candidate through the site
within the first day right now my
listeners can try zip recruiter for free
at this exclusive web address zip
recruiter dot-com slash majority that
zip recruiter dot-com slash majority zip
recruiter zi p r e CR u ITER dot-com /
majority zip recruiter the smartest way
to hire all right we got to take a quick
break when we come back we talking to
Elizabeth Rosenthal about an American
sickness
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome the editor-in-chief of kaiser
Health News a New York Times op-ed
contributor and author of an American
sickness how health care became big
business and how you can take it back
Elizabeth Rosenthal welcome to the
program thanks for having me so let's
start with just as luck would have it
the Trump administration makes what I
would consider a very dubious a
political decision and perhaps an even
greater even more dubious legal decision
in weighing in against the US government
I guess in this Fifth Circuit case
regarding the Affordable Care Act just I
mean characterize what the the argument
is here in that Fifth Circuit and and
what the implications would be if the
plaintiffs prevail
well I argue meant is that because the
penalty for not having insurance was
taken away by Congress then the whole
ACA is therefore invalid that that was a
crucial kind of leg of the program and
once you've taken that away the rest of
it has to go away too and I'm not going
to think about the politics of that so
much as the disaster and the chaos it
creates in health care which is my
bailiwick okay and so fair enough and we
should just say from a legal standpoint
the idea that it would be severable is
you know the argument would be well
Congress had the opportunity to repeal
the whole a CA they didn't they just
decided to repeal that part of it so we
know where Congress stands on this we
don't have to assume that they would
perceive the whole law to be inseparable
as it were absolutely and and the
administration is of course using its
notion of very expanded executive powers
to basically go against what Congress
has done so
okay with that said um I mean let's just
I mean explain to us what the
implications would be I mean I guess on
day one right if this case was to
prevail 20 million people would lose
their health insurance at least right
and then the rest of us would be
implicated by the patient protections
part of the ACA yeah I mean this will
affect everyone and it's you know the
ACA I think everyone who's who's kind of
candid about it will say sure it has
some flaws which is why we're hearing
some of the Dems talk about Medicare for
all now but it did really really
important things that you know the the
Trump administration has been trying to
kind of kneecap it in various ways but
for example it predicted people with
pre-existing conditions to be able to
get insurance before the ACA you could
be excluded from insurance if in the
past for example you'd use an asthma
inhaler or you could find out they would
consider pregnancy in some plans a
pre-existing condition so that that was
really important another thing is that
it it was behind the Medicaid expansion
through which tens of millions of people
got insurance which was really important
another thing it did was standardized
plans to basically make it legal junk
insurance plans where you could think oh
yeah I have insurance and then suddenly
you go to the hospital and you go you
realize oh it's not for emergency room
care or oh it doesn't cover pregnancy so
the ACA protected patients I mean it's
full name we always think about it as
the Affordable Care Act but it was the
Affordable Care and Patient Protection
Act it protected all of us in really
important ways and those protections
from business abuses or what I think of
as the business abuses that are common
in our health care system would
basically dissipate instantaneously yeah
I mean that that raises a good point
it's when I try to make a lot the PPACA
is the official you know sort of acronym
of the patient protection and everything
you just listed was the the patient
protection part of the bill yet we call
it the ACA
and in many respects I think that's why
it was so hard for it and I know this is
not your purview the politics of it but
I think that was so hard for people to
say I appreciate the bill because the pp
the pp part of it is it's really a huge
leap forward for health insurance and
certainly but let's talk about the the
cost because your book is basically
breaks down
why are a health care system is so
expensive it is three trillion dollars a
year that it costs essentially Americans
either out of their pockets or their
employers pockets or out of the
government's pockets we as an American
society spend three trillion a year
which is which Dwarfs just about
everywhere well not just about
everywhere else right I mean per capita
so it's the same as the economy of
France it's crazy and so let's talk
about like what where where do you start
what in terms of maybe I guess if it's
possible to do it but the dis in
descending order of of where the the the
inefficiency exists that creates this
this this out size cost well in many
ways it's the fact that we've given over
health care to a market and it's a
highly dysfunctional market so the
conclusion of the book and what I
realized which I didn't quite add quite
gelled before writing it was that what
happened in the u.s. is we've allowed
business considerations to drive our
health care and health is on the back
burner so you know what what are our
values in health care how do we judge
health care institutions pharmaceutical
companies device makers return on
investment efficiency profit well what
are the values of health care they're
like caring cheering talking to people
those of those who kind of dissipated
they're on the back burner and so when
we say you know hey we want to get to a
place health reform is about patient
centered evidence-based care
I mean you know gee what what other kind
of health care that there be and I think
the answer is in the u.s. its business
driven its profit driven and that's a
big problem and I'm not saying you have
to you know everyone should be Mother
Teresa or we should do away with all
profit in health care but I think it's
so out of control now and we see this
when we look at the prices in our
country compared to the prices in every
other country and what all of the
members of the healthcare industry
have been able to get away with in terms
of what they charge I just did a story
looking at insulin pricing you know two
hundred and seventy-five dollars a vial
for Humalog in our country
about fifty dollars in Germany even less
in France and England now why is that
same medicine because we trust in the
market and the market in this case just
hasn't delivered well alright so there's
a diner
let's talk about that because you talk
in your book about a dynamic where you
know where competition's supposed to
kick in as it were and it oddly enough
competition kicks in and all it does is
it just sort of like somehow Rises the
price of everything yeah there's a
phenomena that's pretty unique to
healthcare called sticky pricing which
is a nice term where basically what
happens is there'll be a few competitors
in the field and instead of them kind of
competing with each other and driving
prices down one will try to raise the
price of a drug or a hospital service
you know a thousand bucks or something
like that and the other two will look at
each other and go oh wow it worked
they're getting away with it
and so everyone raises their prices so
that's why we've seen you know even
though there are three insulin makers
the insulin prices go up in lockstep
basically by a factor of about three
hundred percent over the last ten years
and we see the same phenomena all over
healthcare where what is the norm in
healthcare we insurers pay often
according to usual and customary prices
in an area well guess what if all the
hospitals are charging a lot then that
becomes usual and customary
so there's no need for anyone to compete
so again it's it's a dysfunctional
market and partly because we've let it
get that way and in part because you
know it's hard you don't shop for
healthcare the way you shop for a loaf
of bread you don't you know someone
tells you where to go the price isn't
transparent even if it were you really
don't want to be just choosing the lower
priced product without being able to
judge is that the best surgery for me or
not so I mean I want to get just stay
and be a little sticky on this usual and
customary thing because this this this
does not exist that that like means of
pricing does not exist
it seems to me in anywhere else and that
seems like that's like that's like a
hard-and-fast floor right maybe so
there's no there's no ceiling on any of
these prices but there's like basically
an artificial floor that pushes these
things up yeah and and why did why do we
think usual and customary is right I
mean that's the problem is rational
because what you find and what I found
in the book is well usually say usual
and customary by Geo Civ so you can find
you know a high priced area in Manhattan
where usual and customary for
gallbladder surgery would be thirty
thousand dollars and yet over you know
you go into Queens and it's suddenly
five thousand dollars so you know usual
and customary basically just means how
much are the residents in that area
willing to pay and what can you get away
with not like what's irrational we rise
for that procedure where did that term
come from like I mean it's it just
sounds like I mean it sounds like it
sounds to me like a you know a
reasonable person standard that a court
would use to determine like negligence
or something like this but it but it
sounds like it was just simply developed
I mean you might know developed by the
the medical industry to just sort of say
like yeah the obvious price and that's
just a
function of like you know how much does
it cost how much you got I mean that's
basically what is right well the problem
is I like to say you know the how we got
to this crazy healthcare system is a
tale of you know the road to hell is
paved in good intentions so the way we
got usual and customary is for a while
there were there were no rules right and
and for a while in the 70s 80s Medicare
was just paying you know whatever a
doctor would charge they would pay and
then it things got really out of control
and at some point they said we're gonna
pay usual and customary because that was
lower than whatever right but then of
course if everyone's charging a lot and
everyone realized well if we all charge
a lot then we all get to charge a lot
and so that's what's evolved and that's
partly why you see these huge price
disparities where you know an MRI in one
city can cost five times what it would
cost in another and an MRI and and you
know might cost three times as much on
one Street in New York than it would ten
blocks away so the other dynamic which I
find fascinating and this is this is a
relatively I think recent phenomena
because insurance companies are now and
maybe this happened maybe this was the
case state to state but at least from a
federal standpoint insurers are limited
in terms of profits to I think it's 20
percent essentially or I should say that
their premiums eighty percent of
premiums need to go towards providing
care for people so there is an incentive
for insurance companies to do the
absolute opposite of what we would
anticipate for them to do which is to
negotiate prices down but they actually
benefit by prices going up right you
know the piece a piece of a twenty
percent of a big pie is is better than
twenty percent of a small pie and again
that's kind of the road to hell paved in
good intentions what happened before was
a lot of insurers we're only spending
you know May
the 60% of premiums on care and everyone
said oh that's bad right of course so
you should spend 80 to 85% it's what the
law says but no one thought oh well so
they're going to respond to that by just
paying out a lot more claims to keep
their income stable and I think that's
the problem we assume that health care
will operate in a way that thinks about
the care and about the health but these
are businesses and and they don't you
know what they're doing is trying to
preserve their income and most will
respond in a way that you didn't
anticipate because they're not really
thinking about well you want us to spend
our premiums on helping people they're
thinking about well we've got
shareholders and we just you know we
can't have that big drop in income it's
I mean to me that sounds like a kickback
right it's like look I get a 20% Vig on
this so if you want to charge me double
the price great right I mean I don't
think that's the way they presented but
I mean that's what it is
right I mean it's like I'm not gonna
haggle with you over the price of this
because I'm actually just getting paid
Commission more or less by the
transaction I mean it's like I'm most
like the the media buyers for political
campaigns where they're like it's too
bad these ads are so expensive but I get
15 percent of the cost of the ad you
know so it's that type of thing yeah I
don't like to use the term kickback
because that has a rather narrow
definition but I think what I do like to
say is you know basically everyone's
feeding at the trough and what's in the
trough is is my and your health and
we're we're the victims of this right so
it benefits everyone in the industry to
some extent when the prices stay high
because there's a lot more in the trough
to eat now you know I think what what
the the big fallacy that patients need
to remember is we literally say like why
would my insure pay that you know the my
insurers in my corner know they're not
you know their pass-through they take in
premiums and they
out claims and you know if a claim is
particularly egregious they might fight
it on your behalf but not usually
they're too big to care about you and I
you know this was like an aha moment for
me I had a patient who had an
out-of-network claim and the insurer
paid about a hundred and twenty thousand
dollars on it and it was an outrageous
claim and I called the insurance said
why are you paying this and they said
well you know yeah it's an it's an
unjust claim but we'd have to take the
guy to court and you know we'd have to
put investigators in to see what
happened in the operating room it's just
easier to pay so for individual cases
it's usually easier for them to pay and
they give you you know those annoying
notes about like they charged you
fifteen thousand dollars and we
negotiated down on your behalf to twelve
thousand dollars but the actual price
should probably be about a thousand
dollars for a lot of those things so
they're not in your corner they're
businesses
so the other problem we have aside from
a pharmaceutical industry which jacks up
prices completely untethered to the cost
of these things and there's certain
patent protections and whatnot but we
also have the consolidation of hospitals
and sort of like what is becoming I
guess just a series of monopolies in
some respects I mean I think it's fairly
obvious even with competition it seems
like they raise prices without
competition they raise prices there's no
right like what's the option there well
I do think hospitals have gotten off the
hook you know we tend to focus on Obed
pharmaceutical companies bad insurers
the biggest single spend in our health
care system is hospital stays and those
prices have gone up basically untethered
to to anything involving reality so now
everything is billed it's billed by the
MIT you know if you're in the recovery
room it's being built by the minute
usually and which really bothers me
because if you're staying in the
recovery
for three hours it's not often because
you need to be in the recovery room but
because the surgeons are having dinner
but your insurer is paying by the minute
in that case so I think hospitals
deserve a lot more scrutiny in terms of
their pricing and remember most
hospitals in this country are
not-for-profit institutions so they're
not even paying taxes so I think one of
the big tests that I see coming in the
next few years is looking at these
not-for-profit institutions saying do
you look like a big business or do you
look like a charity and if you look like
a big business
he'll pay taxes and we'll use that to
deliver real health care for people but
I think they you're right we've let them
off the hook a little too easily and
hospital consolidations as you say you
know we used to blame consolidation on
rising prices but again when there are
only three hospitals in a town and
they're all getting away with it they
almost don't have to be consolidated to
to all look at each other and go oh
usual and customary hundred thousand
bucks that's fine with all of us okay so
you you lay out in the book I mean so we
have these these uh major problems and I
guess the other problem too is implicit
in what we've already said and what you
make explicit in the book is that
outcomes although they're I guess there
are some fixes in the ACA that that sort
of implicate this a little bit and and
maybe you can describe those but
outcomes are secondary right like we get
paid they make money on procedures they
make money on providing care as opposed
to providing a specific outcome and
we're not talking just about an
individual we're talking about just like
broadly speaking right this is like this
is one of the few at least it seems to
me attempts at control of the system in
some way by saying we're gonna judge
your outcomes versus how much care you
give yeah and you know outcomes research
and health care is really complicated
right because how do you define the
outcomes
so yes there
then attempts to do that I think it's
they're deeply flawed because you know
big hospitals will say well we have
sicker patients or outcomes aren't as
good I think really that's why people
are looking more at what we call bundled
care or capitated care or something like
Medicare for all a single-payer system
where you know you are given as an
institution a bundle of money for doing
something whether it's the entire care
or an appendectomy or hard surgery and
it you have to use that money wisely and
well so I think the outcomes world you
know it's important to focus on it we
deserve as consumers of health care to
know about outcomes but I don't think
it's going to be the solution because I
think you know the truth is that almost
every hospital in the u.s. is going to
do it appendectomy just fine and MRIs
are the same everywhere so but prices
are really different so even before we
get to outcomes research I think we have
to say an MRI is an MRI is an MRI a
vitamin D test is a vitamin D test and
prices shouldn't vary and that's what
every other country is done they said
here are some standards and everyone
needs to follow them okay I want to jump
to that I just want to just in terms of
outcomes like so things like how many
infections you know in hospital
infections do you get I mean I think
most people I don't know if most people
are aware that like being in the
hospital is a really like dangerous
place to be at some level yeah in terms
of you for your health I mean that's the
irony like do those have those proven
effective in any way like for instance
if we were to say okay here's bundled
care right we're gonna give you you've
got a patient who comes in with a burst
appendix so you've got a patient who
comes in with you know some type of
heart troubles we're gonna check on the
on the menu and this is worth ten
dollars this is worth fifty dollars
how do we assess that they're not going
like you know one of the ways that we
can make this fifty dollars into you
know feel like 60 dollars
in terms of like our profit is we just
we're gonna pull back on some of this
stuff okay yeah the worry is always
about skimping right one way to spend
less is to skip on care and I think some
really interesting experiments have been
done on that one is something called
reference pricing where some big
California organization said what does
it cost to do a hip or knee replacement
and they went to some economists at
Berkeley and said we don't want to we
don't want the bottom dwellers we want a
reasonable cost that we're gonna pay and
they arrived at something like forty
three thousand dollars and they said
okay that's what we're gonna pay and new
patients you can fight you know if you
find a hospital that comes in for that
will pay if you go above you're gonna
pay and they did two really interesting
things first of all it it it encouraged
patients to look around at those for
those hospitals that would do it for
forty three thousand dollars but the
really more interesting thing it did for
me is that it encouraged those hospitals
that were charging one hundred and
twenty thousand dollars to say oh yeah
we could do it for forty three thousand
so um you know I think it's partly you
can't you can't do bottom-dwelling right
you don't want to pick the the the
cheapest health care you can find but
you can't do you know I think one
interesting thing is you know what about
a target of healthcare where I say I
don't care about the the amenities the
bells and whistles but I care about just
the fundamentals of good care that
doesn't exist in the US and that's what
health care looks like in most of the
rest of the world like no five-star
hotels no fountains you know maybe not a
private room but just the basics and
that's really what we should be focused
on all right well let's talk about well
you know the different ways of getting
there because you know when when I hear
like oh you're getting you know you as a
patient go out you and I as an insurance
company is gonna tell you you're gonna
get 43 grand go out and find a hospital
that you know you will cost you forty
three grand to do this or you gonna pay
more and that's you know it would be
completely unreasonable if it was for a
heart attack right like I mean obviously
I don't
have the time sharp right but even even
when I do have time to shop around right
like isn't that a cost that's associated
with like I have to go and spend my time
finding like a good place like it's one
thing you know if I want to go buy a TV
you know and even now it's pretty easy
like okay I want to get a good deal on a
TV it's it's worth it for me but for
health care like should I really have to
have that kind of savvy and expend that
type of energy to get the best price for
for my hip replacement well the simple
answer is of course not you know this is
a terrible burden to put on patients who
are sick but in our current system I
don't think it's you know it should be
our end point but in our current system
it's important to do partly because it
will save you money and partly because
it sends signals to the providers that
we're not going to take this anymore now
and the companies that do this and do it
well will say here are all the hospitals
in our state that will do it for this
amount and we'll compile a list to make
it easy and I think companies have been
a bit of sleep at the wheel in helping
their employees so called shop for
health care ultimately I do think we
shouldn't have to shop for health care
personally that I think you know that's
a terrible position to put patients who
were ill and particularly if they have a
more acute illness now you can argue a
knee replacement or a hip replacement
people do have the time to shop around
they often do call a bunch of different
surgeons and hospitals and if you're
your employer says here are all the ones
that will do it for forty three thousand
dollars you can it's not that hard to do
so all right so what kind of what kind
of system should we go to that would be
more efficient because there's obviously
a big problem with cost controls here
and yeah so what are the different
models where you could get cost controls
that would be durable
that would be a effective and be durable
right I think you know the one thing you
can say is we have no way to control
costs and prices in our system and
different countries I'm a journalist
it's a political decision what we choose
but I think if you look around the world
countries either do something like a
single-payer system where you get a big
bargaining power because you have a
single payer who can say that drugs not
worth it that the price you're charging
us for that hospital stays not worth it
so that works and by the way single
payer systems some of them do maintain a
private insurance market for people who
want to pay for more for more amenities
you could also go to what countries like
Switzerland in Germany have done which
is to end Belgium to have price setting
price regulation you either say this is
what this procedure or this implant is
worth and this is what will pay or you
saying here's the ceiling the maximum
and you can compete under it so there
there are other ways to do it
but we do none of the above and of
course we're not even really thinking of
any of the above except in the plans
where people are talking about maybe
allowing Medicare to negotiate drug
prices that would be a start of moving
in that direction but I will note that
all of the kind of fixes we're talking
about in the ACA none of those really
address the pricing issue what they do
is they try and insulate patients from
the cost but that's really hard to do
until you head on face the fact that we
pay you know between two and ten times
as much for the exact same things
medical encounters as people do in the
rest of the world so all right so let me
ask you this I mean because and I and
I'm sensitive to the fact that you don't
want to make a you know you don't want
to you don't have to quit if I if I've
made it if I said this is what I think
we should do well right no that's fine
and I and I and I respect that as a
reporter that makes some sense but in
terms of the types of country
that are able to have a price control
regime versus the type the the nature of
the societies that have a single-payer
right like because you know the it what
culturally speaking one may be easier to
implement than another right in
different cultures right and I mean we
certainly in and going from the type of
system that we have to a regime of price
controls because one of the problems
that we have in this country it seems to
me is that we don't even have an
apparatus to have a federal price
control system do we I mean cuz it's
it's so fragmented well we do a version
of it for electricity for example you
know you could you could regulate health
prices as you would a utility I don't
think we'll go there personally but what
I say in the book is that we will find a
system or we need to find a system that
respects our cultural preferences our
medical system as it exists today and
and are kind of you know whatever is our
kind of funky American bias about
independence and choice and
individualism but you know I don't think
we're that exceptional from the rest of
the world when it comes to healthcare
people want health care they need health
care they need insurance this narrative
of you know we respect individualism and
if someone doesn't want to buy insurance
they shouldn't have to I'm out around
the country speaking about this stuff
all the time and I can tell you people
want health insurance they just can't
afford it in this country you know they
add up the the $800 a month premium and
then the deductibles and the co-payments
and the out-of-network charges and it
adds up to you know 20 25 percent of
their family's disposable income and
they make a choice to say you know I'd
rather be able to send my kid to college
and so I think we need to take that
barrier away and I do think you know
we'll develop a system that that
respects all of our preference
but now you know we like choice but hey
the one we choose is not in our network
and we don't really get to choose anyway
right well I was gonna say like what do
we mean by when we want choice rightly
because like how does how let me ask you
this how would price controls and versus
a single payer would there be a
difference in those two scenarios as to
you know choice being limited well with
price controls you know Germany for
example has hundreds of insurers I would
note there they're all non
not-for-profit really not-for-profit and
so you have your choice there right you
have any choice have been surely you
have your choice of insurers but I'm
saying really nobody cares that you like
choosing insurance as much as they want
to choose what doctor they see right but
but if you're right but but in the
German system for example all the
doctors participate in all the plans so
you can go see what doctor I mean we
have this notion that if you go to a
single-payer or a more regulated system
you won't be able to make those choices
you can of course you can what what is
somewhat different is there is a sense
of particularly in a single-payer system
you may have to wait longer right if
it's a non urgent issue you may have to
wait longer now what I will tell people
when they say that is oh I don't want to
have to wait I'll say like yeah try and
find mental health care in New York City
your weight will be infinite if you want
to go in network we have weights here we
just don't acknowledge them and I think
so there's a lot of fear-mongering that
goes on around you know a price
controlled system both in the medical
community and in the patient community a
lot of even bigger fear-mongering that
goes into what would happen in a
single-payer system there will be
differences there will be certain kinds
of weights but generally in terms of
physician choice which is what we tend
to focus on there's a lot of choice and
and probably more than you have in the
average narrow network plan in the u.s.
now
a single-payer I would assume right like
everybody I mean even if you had you
know you you had doctors working outside
of that system ultimately there would be
more people available to most people
under a single-payer and most more
doctors would be available under
single-payer right to most people right
I think the doctors you would have more
choice there might be certain kinds of
treatment that in a single-payer system
they decided were not had not been
scientifically proven to a point that
they were willing to pay for it right so
there would be places around the edges
where you might get a certain kind of
advanced care quicker in the u.s. now
the caveat to that is it's not
necessarily better care because in the
u.s. you can sell things that sound good
that haven't been brought in as much
right all right so let me ask you this
also you know from a from a purely like
a you know a report Oriole perspective
we're talking about two different
regimes here one is a price control
regime maintaining I guess a bunch of
you know insurance companies although
the example that is what they're all
nonprofit and I don't know that we
actually have real nonprofit or that
many in this country but presumably you
know presumably we could get there and
then the other hand we have a
single-payer which provides the cost
controls because you have a single payer
who is instead of you know I mean
theoretically there's a certain
redundancy between those two plans right
because you would have to set up some
type of governmental agency that makes
the assessment of what each procedure is
worth right it's like to make it uniform
so what of this opted into a
single-payer type of system or opted
into Medicare because that to me seems
well let me ask you this that to me
seems like it would be incredibly
inefficient because you wouldn't get the
benefit of price controls for at least a
large percentage of of the care and to
the extent that you get price controls
in the system that people opt into
a lot of it seems to me you know
hospitals would would would jump out of
that system because they want to be in
the sort of more Wild West system yeah
well I mean first of all no no hospital
can opt out of Medicare because they get
Medicare dollars for doctor training you
you can't survive as a hospital without
Medicare so I think that opt-out is not
it's not going to happen but I would
like to point out you can also have
price controls with private for-profit
insurers to where you just peg price
controls to Medicare rates you say we're
going to pay two hundred percent of
Medicare and and insurers can decide if
they can accept that or not but I think
that that is a third option of maybe the
one will will go to but in terms of the
opt into a public what's called a public
option either opting into Medicare or
opting into Medicaid some states are
experimenting with it's an interesting
procedure because basically what it does
is it allows people who can't find plans
they like on the exchanges or through
their employer to say you know what I'm
gonna pay premiums to Medicare and it
does two things that are interesting
first of all it gives people an option a
public option and second of all it says
to all the kind of half-baked kind of
crappy commercial plans out there you
have to be at least as good as Medicare
or people are going to desert you in
droves and the thing is to have price
controls to have big negotiating power
you don't really have to have a full
single single-payer plan
I mean Medicare is such a huge insurer
as is Medicaid in the states that they
do have negotiating power if they want
to use it so you know for example with
with prescription drugs if Medicare was
allowed to negotiate pricing my bet is
very quickly a whole bunch of insurers
would say okay we'll pay will pay what
Medicare plays pays plus ten percent or
something like that so at least you have
a somewhat rational yardstick by which
we could judge prices which is what we
totally lack now so
would it be perfect no but I think we're
now at the phase of our dysfunctional
health system where we're looking for
perfect we're like hey we're spending 19
percent of our GDP let's just get it
down to 17 percent you know we're not
aiming for 12 percent like France we're
just we're just aiming to turn this this
ship around
Elizabeth Rosenthal the book is an
American sickness how health care became
big business and how you can take it
back we didn't get into sort of like
almost like the the the sort of the nuts
and bolts things that people can do
today when they're faced with these
prices that are but a very sort of a
practical guide as well as sort of the
big picture so we well I'm happy to come
talk about that because I think there's
lots people can do and should do because
we as patients we the patients are not
sending signals to the system if we just
write the checks and say oh you know
what can I do you can do stuff well we
will put a link to that book at majority
dot F M thanks so much for your time
today really appreciate it thank you all
right folks
gonna take a quick break and into the
fun half but first I want to remind you
the majority report is supported by
pitchfork economics with Nick Hanauer
weekly podcast that explores why rising
income inequality will lead to
pitchforks and what we can do about it
every week Hanauer is joined by some of
the world's most original economic
thinkers in a convention busting
exploration of who gets what and why in
the american economy if you want to
learn how to make the economy work for
all Americans subscribe to pitchfork
economics pitchfork economics dot-com or
wherever you get your podcasts also if
you want to support this program become
a member go to join the majority report
calm when you do you not only support
the free show
we give you extra content every day so
check it out join the majority report
calm as always if you cannot afford it
and we will not have
your finances lock you out of the fun
half everyone deserves fun even if you
ain't got a couple of bucks in your
pocket so send us an email
majority reporters at gmail.com wait a
what
seems like an eternity for us to get to
our emails but we will get there and we
will hook you up
join the majority of port comm also just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get 10% off it's great coffee great
company last night was Tuesday night
so the Michael Brooke show happens why
don't you guys go Michael and then Jamie
and then Matt while I run to the boys
room gladly jeez
last night on tea MBS we had Francesca
Florentine II and we talked about a pack
and a conversation with Matt Taibbi
Brown some of the kind of I would say a
broader political and media conversation
around the failings of the Russia story
and why they matter and how we could
kind of reorient to a more systemic
understanding of where we're at now and
a Rachel Maddow called open this weekend
elicit history of red lining and a case
for reparations with Marissa Barrera
Darin patreon.com slash T mb/s Michael
Brooks show on YouTube and iTunes thanks
everybody
all right this week on the anti Fattah I
think I've got some time so I'm just
gonna read the whole description third
time guest neural Shaw this is our first
ever third time guest for those keeping
track we're only halfway through it
jumps in to help us bang through some
recent cancellations a Rachel a meadow
Barbra Streisand the international
socialist organization and Great Britain
as a viable and sane bourgeois
democratic state since we couldn't get
any limeys to come in and talk UK
politics we have to gank splain what the
hell is happening
on the other side of the world and
answer questions not limited to but
including
why is a brexit what's at stake in this
slow-motion train wreck for Corbin and
the left how come is Jordan Peterson
would say the whole thing is crazy as
usual it's the political economy stupid
so check it out
patreon.com slash the anti feta or
anywhere free podcasts are sold although
you can sign up to give us money if you
want literary hangover it's going to be
a week and a half until the Oscar Wilde
episode everyone's waiting for comes out
but you can catch up with the back
catalog we did a King Philip's War if
you don't know what that is you should
some Massachusetts people in here that
don't know there I didn't know it I was
embarrassed that I listened to it and
it's an insane story yeah so check that
out check it out on YouTube go subscribe
to the YouTube page literary hangover I
check that out I had a lot of coffee
this morning in an attempt to to keep
myself awake you don't drink those
horrible energy drinks anymore though
right what do you mean you used to drink
like 24 energy our energy and stuff no I
did not a 5-hour energy no I know I know
I know it wasn't dude I think you still
do that though no I mean I think I
probably had those 5-hour energy drinks
maybe like 10 times over the course of
five or six seven years I have a story
about those yeah I was in the issues of
death and grief class in college and it
was like we're watching this documentary
about people jumping from the San
Francisco Bridge it was very dark but we
were watching it on Hulu for the class
and in the middle of a very dark moment
in that movie Hulu goes to commercial
and that ad is like you know that 4:30
feeling and it's like damn we gotta
worry about these ad placements on some
of this stuff no I know I never I mean
it you know every now and then I'll you
know like if I'm really in big big
trouble back when when I was I was
honestly and I was I know you didn't do
it that much but I was just gonna know
to positive that I haven't seen those in
a while oh no that was a good sign that
even with them pipes and Saul and
everything you're still not you know hit
that's good at the time when you talk
about your kids it makes me want to have
a baby right away and the other half it
makes me want to check to make sure my
IUD is still in place I was going to say
then you're not listening carefully
enough because they probably 95 or like
10 yards off the air and I 8509 time you
talk about your kids I think Jesus that
sounds absolutely horrible in five
percent of the time I think if I had
enough alcohol and could be just sort of
passive enough and there was a lot of
additional care to support it happening
maybe this is swing oh that's uh that's
actually both my children's middle name
what you don't care no what you just
said like passive enough and enough
alcohol that's actually their middle
names all right focus which is which
same we named it both the same middle
name see you in the fun half Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
freeze up their buggy whippin like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's
win-win oh yeah now listen to me two
three four five times eight four seven
nine oh six five oh one four five six
seven eight everybody's taking their
dumb juice dance dance dance
Rand Paul had my first post coital see
I'm hoping to add more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no all right take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber Jets lastic I'm feeling more
chill already hood Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready to I see some people Shitler
with such No
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue thank you for
calling into the majority report them
we'll be with you shortly
we are back ladies and gentlemen it is
the fun half of the program I am going
to make sure that I remember to turn on
my Iams it's been it's been
irresponsible of me the past couple of
days
no I get the brunt of it do you really
yeah
you why don't you tell me how you never
tell me I think like passive aggression
or something yeah you just want to just
want to like stew about it well because
if I if I eat it for dead red-letter we
can get home and like he'll if I tell
you especially if it's something like
then people will know I'm the conduit to
come to when the imsr not and I don't
want to take up that man yes what you
just did I know you got the worst of
both worlds
ladies and gentlemen I certainly
understand the feeling of not wanting
people to touch me or to to get too
close I am I like to you know I know I
come off as a very friendly warm and
open person but I in person actually I
really prefer to just have people not
get too carried away when they meet me
and in that respect I totally understand
what's going on with the Pope as he is
welcoming Pope visitors what do you I
don't know what you call these people
pilgrims or I guess people coming to see
the Pope and they're all trying to kiss
his ring he doesn't want them to and
somebody's not getting the message here
it is
they're trying to cut away there you go
up no sorry
[Music]
don't thank you nope there you go oh
nice to meet you sir just let go all
right dad don't go for the end valve
afraid of get Nicole ah coming right in
watch out
okay good to see your dough nice try Hey
sorry no not you either
wow we're all just gonna keep doing this
and pretend like that is the strangest
thing I think I've ever seen in my
entire life
ah dozen people walking up to the Pope
trying to kiss his ring him pulling his
hand back and I guess the idea is that
he does not want to be seen as some type
of Eminence or otherworldly and he's new
atheist Pope he's new atheist Pope you
really should need to make it less of a
regal royal position there's a lot of
like politics of this but what I think
hasn't he seen the Godfather though I
mean that's good so but I think what I
think though that I think that it's both
that that's his political move but I
think that also if people didn't go for
that move that would also be a faux pas
it's like I think I think you got to
make like you're trying yeah with
somebody and you're like go for your
wallet right yes you got the credit like
that the fake the fake wallet but you
have to pretend are you gonna split the
check even though we know it like what
happened there was a couple of people
who really look like they were just
gonna go for it anyways and they were
like yeah I'm gonna get that ring
exactly yeah they were very they didn't
realize that there was some political
choreography going on
hope chasers let's go to the phones
calling from a 256 area code who's this
where you calling from I'm from Alabama
Jacob from Alabama what's on your mind
Hey
so I watched one of your clips last week
and it was the one about campus free
speech and I had two things that I
wanted to tell you about I'm in the
leadership of the College Democrats that
at my college and I've been trying for
the past like two years I've been trying
to reach out to is dave rubin you know
IDW type folks and i I cannot for the
life of me give them to come to campus
I've tried to get them to come to talk
to Nathan Robinson of current affairs
hmm and Nathan has every time that I
tried to set something up Nathan's like
yeah I just covered my travel expenses
and Dave Rubin wouldn't even you know I
I was able to get in touch with his
agent and he was like yeah he won't even
talk to you unless you've got $10,000
very speaking fee and I'm like do what
you know that's crazy I you know that
the the IDW type folks they're always
trying that their message is that you
know are the left won't debate us but
like that's not true that's just
completely a fiction and and it really
really frustrates me when when you know
folks like folks like that fellow that
called in to your show last week talking
about you know the the right is their
their speech is suppressed on campus and
it's like you know we're trying to talk
to you and you only want a peddle
propaganda and you know not be
challenged well let me say this first
off and good for you for reaching Dave
Reubens agent as you know when you're in
the dark web it is very very difficult
to reach people outside of that area and
so you can't even see your phone right I
mean it's very difficult and good for
you for reaching his agent but let me
say this I am sure that when dave rubin
sees this video that we're going to cut
from this and here's your earnestness
and appreciates because you are looking
to have a civilized conversation
you are the youth of America you are
welcoming him with open arms for
discussion of ideas
I would have to say that you're probably
one of the most polite people to ever
call into this program and kudos the
fresh air but kudos to you young man and
I will say that Dave Rubin I know that
you've had an opportunity to watch this
a video
perhaps you should you should help I'm
sure your agent is just not letting you
know that again what school is it what
university do you mind same age
University Alabama in Huntsville
University of Alabama in Huntsville
Alabama or the spirit of the
Enlightenment lives on thank you Dave
please let your agent know that you are
ok with this I'm sure agents I know how
they can be they're trying to get their
cut but I know that you're not in it for
just the money Dave I know that you
really care about sharing ideas so reach
out to the and Sam yes I another little
bit to that story is that the first time
that I reached out to him it was
immediately after he had been at a talk
at UCS University of Central Florida and
he was whinging about how no progressive
organizations ever invited him to campus
despite the fact that he's a gay married
man who's pro-choice and who's anti
destined will see in pro pot
legalization I mean he spent like five
or ten minutes well like I said like I
left the organization like I say I am
sure this is a case where his agent did
not inform him of this invitation
because I am convinced that if he was to
hear of this invitation and when people
hear your voice and your invitation and
how sincere it is I hope that they
amplify this invitation because
sometimes to reach people in the dark
web it's very difficult not to mention
agents getting in the way so I
appreciate your call
Dave Rubin will reach out to you because
he strongly wants to speak to liberals
like yourself who are not knee-jerk mean
people and so kudos on you keep up the
good work and you sound like you're
going to have a very promising future
thank you for the phone call
listening to Sam speak politely is like
hearing me speak Mandarin it's
incredible but I just want to have
follow-up for Dave's agent not Dave
because obviously Dave is very sincere
if money is an issue you could suggest
maybe that some of these donors that
funnel all sorts of money to campus
right-wing causes maybe they could give
the ten grand to the College Democrats
so that there is this opportunity for a
free exchange of ideas I'm also sure if
Dave started a GoFundMe right you have a
debate with Nathan Rob Robbins that I'm
sure people would contribute yeah or
maybe we could get the Billboard people
on it yeah Dave would probably like to
do it but you know he needs to eat he
needs to stay out of the poorhouse so I
get it he needs but I honestly like
hopefully we'll clip this before I you
know cuz I'm breaking the the joke here
but like that debate between a Nathan
Robinson and a Dave Rubin would be like
I could only go back that like seven or
eight years old
say something mean well that's why I was
hoping we would close this second okay
so okay the segment is closed don't
suppress my free speech please but if
you remember the dream team do you
remember do you remember like at the
Olympics when the Americans sent like
Jordan and patiently sent like a group
of the best people in the history of the
planet playing basketball to play like
you know like I'm from Romania and I'm
good pickup player and they just toyed
with that like you know that I feel like
there has to be a debate for Dave that
is a little bit more like come like
whatever the equivalent of weight
divisions and debate is I think him
verse Nathan Robinson is like Jesus Dave
have a little compassion of the
pro-choice Dave his most recent episode
which I didn't listen to but it's called
the pro-life case against abortion so
god I literally got like that is one
that I don't think any of us have ever
heard before hmm we're really opening
minds here you you know you've never
you've probably heard it I've been
convinced you probably realize that
oppose abortion but what you haven't
heard is the pro-life case against
abortion let's title it that it's grown
novel argument going to the IMS Nick
from Manitoba hey Sam great show today
sir now that you've talked to the
alpha-male Lib destroyer black
white supremacist Jesse Lee Peterson I
was curious if you were surprised at how
accurate a callers Jesse Peterson
impression actually was who called in a
few weeks ago asking you what a man is
and if you support hashtag me too
yes in fact I'm not convinced it wasn't
Jesse person having like it's crazy
Steve cedar I'm going to run for Senate
as your long-lost brother if you don't
run for Senate yeah Chuck Jamie's IUD yo
I got knocked out like that weeks ago at
that Bernie rally
I guess his bit about worker I
solidarity really did hit the back okay
Smoot core it's funny
Smoot court michael why didn't you push
back on any Italia B's
misrepresentations at the bar letter I
mean talk about juicing a story for
self-promotion also Glenn Greenwald is a
liar not a journalist and everyone
should look at what he is saying about
Benghazi what has been in Walt's thing
about Benghazi what was he saying I
don't think he was saying anything about
Benghazi avuncular Trump less boomers
whining about communism please what is
this 1980 Tomcat hey guys first my dear
cat birdy
died overnight I'm sorry about that I'm
not gonna give you a rest empower birdie
well I'm gonna just give you a birdie
you touched the lives of all that saw
I'm including those on the TMB s discord
can I get a shofar or a similar sound of
a drop of celebration there you go I
already anticipated that also good
interview today I'm just thinking that
in the UK will be a similar hellscape to
America if the worst happens with brexit
and the brexit ear waz sell off to
the NHS to trump and we end up having to
pay thousands of pounds for cold
medicine etc do you think it's worth us
British getting the book and educating
ourselves now Cheers
I would hold off hope springs eternal
Horton Horton packs a quart with Beto
the left finally has an answer - where's
our Paul Ryan and sure he may not be as
accomplished and yeah his ideology
pretty opaque but boy does it look like
that guy can do a push-up on a serious
note I'd like to take this time to
address any of you reasonable classical
liberals out there listening to say that
I have a copy of Darwin's On the Origin
of Species signed by Adam Carolla
himself but I'm looking so if anyone is
interested please comment below and
let's Monty haul this thing secret
identity politics high time for a CEO
Pope I'd say shake things up deadbeat
dad ISM wonder if your kids classmates
ever tune in to majority report to find
out things that they can use to make fun
of your kids oh
no should watch it dude particularly as
they get older my lads a valid concern
mylas a smile had a pair about
everything she's probably Milan had a
teachers whose to listen to listen to
the show teachers different that might
be helpful but in general I mean again
as I say she's probably literally
embarrassed that you exist at this point
teachers not gonna be like you wet the
bed not personally I'm just saying all
teenage there I do have a saving grace
and that is Bob's Burgers hello Bob yeah
that's yeah there you go
dole Inc Eric Holder on Melbourne says
bar departs from precedent of reports
going to Congress for further
investigation and decision on guilt bar
has taken on more than his is his job
especially important given his reclusion
refusal
reclusion recusing really yeah recuse
yeah
Melbourne always provides most
meticulous coverage with the real legal
experts in questionable
questionable djt attorneys top US
General says a u.s. American troops
should be ready to die for Israel or
reported on Zero Hedge well hmm no bumps
in the road Matt I love literary
hangover but are you planning on doing
it in a historical chronological order
or can we expect more frequent democracy
and chains and the reactionary mind type
episodes to mix it in do you take
requests there will be a mix I take
suggestions not requests Oh Colin from
Nebraska dave rubin supports $10,000
speech winnipeg Craig now you've gotten
this Muller coverage out of your system
can majority report please get back to
some coverage of the upcoming Manitoba
provincial election we all know that
premier Brian Pallister is planning to
call an early election ignoring the
fixed date election legislation put in
place by the NDP let's say the guy is so
adorable and their insistence that their
country matters but how is that going to
intertwine with the fall 2019 federal
election the listeners are begging for
it Sam let's get some Canadian Prairies
political coverage man they really want
that Canada coverage I mean College
[Music]
Canada that's our Canada story
contagious why that that's the original
Batman episode with uh yeah the way that
I am is something like and today and
Canada today Canadian knows but you need
like I gotta say though like you people
like from like South Africa example
they're like hey we have an election
coming up on May 9th and there's rolling
blackouts and our country might collapse
and the ANC is fueling you know has
these internal divisions you think maybe
you could cover it at some point that
would be great thanks so much no worries
Canadians on a daily basis are just like
well there's a by-election in a
mid-sized Canadian cities hey why did
you vote it was a little of a sarcasm no
no of course
contagious college Democrats
just passive-aggressive college
Democrats should just book Nathan
Robinson advertised that he's debating
Jordan Peterson and then have the debate
and say that Peterson never showed up
put him on the spot
interesting flaw strategies sort of um
they sort of did that at that conference
I went to employs II um was there lets
was not go - oh this was interesting as
you know it was being floated Joe Biden
has not jumped into the race yet I would
anticipate that he is going to come into
the race sometime at the beginning of
next week maybe even perhaps this
weekend depending on on campaign finance
disclosure laws I don't know the
specifics but you are obligated to
report every quarter I think Joe Biden
did not want to have to report this
close to the date I have seen some
suggestion that he's having trouble with
some donors but who knows he it's hard
for me to imagine that he has the small
donor base of a Bernie Sanders or even a
Beto Rourke or even Kamala Harris for
that matter and if he's not getting the
big donors he may have a problem but one
of the things that his campaign did do
which was the exact same thing they did
back in 2016 when they were toying with
the running for election or I should say
2015 was to float the name of a person
who very clearly addressed some of the
biggest critiques that people will have
about Joe Biden as a candidate that big
critique back in 2015 was that Joe Biden
represented the interests of the credit
card industry and against basically
people who were just citizens who may go
into bankruptcy say or Joe Biden also
had some liabilities in terms of being
the one who who insisted on going in and
offering up Social Security cuts
a grand bargain and so he floated the
idea that he would run with Elizabeth
Warren worked so well that time he his
folks were floating the idea that he
would run with stacey abrams because one
of the things that has developed over
the past really four years has been a
higher consciousness of how women should
be treated in the workplace and how
their accusations of sexual assault and
inappropriate sexualized I guess
behavior in the workplace should be
treated and Joe Biden has a big
liability on that front particularly in
the context of the Clarence Thomas
hearings and so it was floated that Joe
Biden would would run pick Stacey Abrams
and run with her as a VP I don't think
that was ever the intent I think it was
to have people think like Oh Biden's
look at who Biden would pick he would
pick Stacey Abrams and that you know sir
just immediately widens your perspective
on Wow Joe it's really leaning into this
now think when you have the the savvy as
we should as professional pontificate
errs about politics and readers about
politics you realize like Stacey Abrams
probably never signed on for this and
they probably never even had a
conversation about it might want to spit
ball this with her and you might want to
spit ball this with her but also before
you go public with it because this is
the way look this happens all the time
people Jam other people in this way and
[Music]
when you when you are aware of that you
realize like huh it's a little bit
offensive because Stacey Abrams can't
come out and say hey excuse me but guess
what she can come out and say excuse me
now they're talking about you being on
the tickle of Joe Biden he hasn't even
declared yet and he would take you as a
the idea is to take you as a vice
president to bolster his numbers in the
in the primary what do you think about
that I think you don't run for a second
place I think my responsibility if I'm
going to enter a primary then I'm going
to enter a primary and if I don't under
the primary my job is to make certain
that the best Democrat becomes the
nominee and whoever wins the primary
that we make certain that person gets
elected in 2020 so you put okay
so for those of you at home who who let
me allow me to translate Joe Biden will
F himself and I don't appreciate him
using me as a mechanism to to burnish
his own lack of bona fides in certain
areas I mean you know because another
way you could respond if you weren't
genuinely a little bit offended that you
were being leveraged in this way would
be Joe I am completely honored to even
be considered to run with a Joe Biden
yeah who wouldn't be honored to be used
as a prop by Joe Biden I mean and so
good for her because she she handled it
in such a way that she's she's a very
smart politician because nobody who has
any sympathies with Joe Biden would walk
away from that thinking anything other
than she's her own person but people who
are a little bit you know more in touch
with this stuff realized she was saying
hey Joe go F yourself right yeah you
know you don't get to trade in on my
brand and the work I've done for your
benefit that's not what this is about I
mean to a certain extent just that just
that Joe Biden did that well he's into
the criticism that people have of Joe
Biden well this is actually right
exactly this is the first I mean he said
actually any number of things like I
don't sympathize for Millennials or
whatever but I I'm someone who's willing
to cut
Lac on gaffes for a variety of reasons
but this is the first thing of this
cycle obviously his whole entire career
but this is the first thing he's done in
this cycle that isn't just like a gaffe
or a missplay it reveals everything that
you just outlined in terms of the
disrespect to her but it also is like
shows why I don't think he's ready for a
modern campaign because may like maybe
there was a time where you could built
like before she even handled it like
this there was already a huge pushback
on the presumptuousness of it and I
don't think he's ready for a kind of
genuine sort of like bottom-up
conversation on these things well I
think part of it is he is living in a
different era clearly where he thinks
that young people perhaps women in
particular perhaps women of color would
appreciate the validation in some
fashion or would need the validation and
that other people wouldn't see that
dynamic and things like changes in our
culture things like me too regardless of
whether you think there were excesses or
whatnot I mean these are important
movements that have pushed our society
forward but it's just so on auntie check
well it son strategic because he's not
aware of the terrain right know if he
knew the terrain he gets I mean as
example I mean and this would be
terrifying this is actually the case but
if he actually met with her I think did
a joint appearance together and they
said we're actually doing this and
voting rights is at the center of my
campaign and no one better to lead on
this and Stacy Abrams that would be both
terrifying from my perspective as a
Sanders supporter and extremely
effective politics but floating it like
this is your rights just have a
different error well it's of a different
error and it's also revealing of one of
his biggest flaws is that he is
completely out of touch with what is
going on in today's society
and and I would say that's not just
indicative I mean both in in regards to
women and people of color but you can
even see it in something as banal is
like forgive me father I've sinned I
supported a Republican over a Democrat
you know there was a well let's listen
to this clip here where he complained
we're where he laments the fact that he
wish he could have done more for Anita
Hill like and he doesn't bring up
he doesn't say specifically like like
maybe made it possible for the three
women who would testify if not directly
corroborating her story corroborating at
least that there was a pattern there
with Clarence Thomas but here she is
she's at weight now where is a humble
Joe now where is this where is he
testing this he's in New York and what
but what is the function that he's at
humble Joe where is he I always had the
Biden courage Awards humble Joe at the
Biden courage Awards huh that's some
courage I love the way that he's I love
the way that he's given back that is
actually Trump competition worthy but
guy a really notable woman Anita Hill
professor showed the courage of a
lifetime talking about her experience
being harassed by Clarence Thomas we
knew a lot less about the extent of
harassment back then over 30 years ago
but she paid a terrible price she was
abused for the hearing
she's taken advantage of her reputation
was attacked I wish I could have done
something I oppose Clarence Thomas
nomination I voted against him didn't he
also go on to say like he condemned a
white man's culture yeah I want to hear
more but I also realized there was a
real and perceived problem the committee
faced there are a bunch of white guys no
I mean II sincerely a bunch of white
guys hearing hearing this testimony this
that you just shared committee so when
Anita Hill when they need help came to
testify she faced a committee that
didn't fully understand what the hell is
all about to this day I regret I
couldn't come up with a way to get her
the kind of hearings she deserved given
the courage he showed by reaching out to
us the hearing she deserved was hearing
where she was respected where the tone
of the questioning was not hostile on a
sullen where the fact that she stepped
forward was recognized as an act of
courage in and of itself because let's
face it back in 1991 it took a lot of
courage to take on a man who was so much
a part of the establishment in the power
structure all right pause it right now
this is really hard our black pal so
let's just a review for a moment Joe
Biden who feels that Anita Hill was a
victim in many respects of a of a white
man's culture where she was not
protected not valued enough has already
launched his campaign by putting a rumor
out there that stacey abrams would be
his running mate without clearly without
even bothering to call her on the phone
and saying is this something you're open
to now he will always deny it was never
me I would never do that but that you
these things are not like you know
there's not people on the sidelines it's
going oh hey I am I'm floating an idea
no this is coming from people around him
they're floating this idea for a
specific reason so Joe Biden in the
course of apologizing for essentially in
some way abusing in the softest sense of
the word the courage that Anita Hill
showed goes and exploits Stacey Abrams
as a way of launching his campaign and
incidentally Anita Hill in Elle magazine
quote it's become sort of a running joke
in the household when someone rings the
doorbell and we're not expecting company
all we say is that Joe Biden coming to
apologize well it's
only been 27 28 years but guess what I
would say to Annie to he'll expect the
call very soon and that was it not yeah
that was 2000 that was 2018 and that
look again let's just keep unraveling
this he made the jump from a ridiculous
miscalculation with stacey abrams to the
best launch would have been you know
what I did last night
I finally had the guts to call I need a
hill right that would have been a very
good speech that again that would be
scary well we all know the best apology
is a Courage Award you named after
yourself so I think he's done his due
diligence you know just like when he
gave Obama a Joe Biden clean and
articulate award this is like a really
generous guy he's got he's got a lot
more problems to deal with that and he
clearly look he clearly understands that
by addressing it but it is it rings a
little hollow it seems to me but others
will decide if that's the case let's go
to this is Betsy DeVos was up in front
of the House Appropriations Committee to
answer for the way her Department of
Education has been functioning frankly
one of the things that DeVos has done as
head of the Department of Education was
to rescind guidance on school discipline
after the Office of Civil Rights found
that students of color are suspended
three times more than white students so
in other words one of the functions of
the Department of Education we saw in
the context of of transgender bathrooms
just reminding schools this is what the
laws we do not discriminate
if you're receiving federal funds we do
not discriminate against people on
certain basis 'yes and when the Office
of Civil Rights within the Justice
Department finds that maybe there's a
racial disparity in housing for instance
it goes to HUD and you know in terms of
public housing if they find and maybe
they find in certain work environments
so they'll go to the Department of Labor
and Department labor will amend
regulations or send out regulations or
institute new regulations well the same
thing in the context of schools the
Office of Civil Rights that is oh this
is the one that's in the US Department
of Education found the students of color
are suspended three times more than
white students and so there were
regulations that were put out to make
sure that this disparity was not a
function or at least mitigate on some
level attempt to mitigate the impact of
racism on these type of decisions I mean
we've seen you know video in the past of
you know cops coming down to handcuffed
like a you know an elementary kids
school and this is a real phenomena of
course that takes place in in our
schools as it does you know reflected
throughout our society and Betsy DeVos
apparently does not think it's that much
of a problem so she rescinded the she
rescinded the the requirements and here
is Barbra Lee asking her about it you
explain that congresswoman no no child
should be treated or disciplined
differently based on his or her race or
color or national origin and if and when
they are our office for civil rights
will act swiftly has acts with acted
swiftly children need to be treated as
individuals now they're not being
treated as individuals that's why we had
this order put in place and you
rescinded that again any student that is
treated or disciplined differently
because of his or her color or race
madam secretary be that that apartment
of civil rights your own Department of
Education Office of Civil Rights
indicated that students of color are
suspended three times more than white
students we put into place some
requirements that would begin to turn
this around you rescinded those
requirements so what message no students
no student should be treated or
discipline differently the madam
secretary they are treated differently
they are treated discipline you know if
we are it's discrimination well then why
in the world would you and the office
send right orders that would correct for
this the letter amounted to quotas
chattering our individuals they're not a
secretary this didn't this didn't
involve quotas this gave direction on
how to correct this horrible problem
that we have throughout the country you
go to any communities of color where you
have schools that are trying to with
minimal resources provide the best
education they can and you will see what
is taking place so this did not amount
to quotas this amounted to providing
those tools and guidance to make sure
that students civil rights are protected
and you're receptive the entity every
community needs to be able to handle
their classrooms and discipline in the
way that works for them and thank God we
have Brown versus Board of Education the
federal public schools who needed the
federal government to provide that
oversight the civil rights protection
now understand what's going on here the
idea she is arguing we we are servicing
this problem by addressing it after the
fact if these kids can prove that this
was racially motivated
in some type of federal investigation
that would take place where everyone at
the school would be obviously claiming
that it had nothing to do with race I
mean this is like the functional
equivalent of saying hey there's a lot
of crime going on in that area well
we're gonna have I mean if people are
victims of crime they should definitely
come down to the police station and
report it well but don't you think we
should have any cops on the beat so that
maybe the folks aren't victims of crime
as much well certainly crime is bad and
we we are open 24 hours to take your
complaints that you have been a victim
of a crime and the point is is that she
is the subtext of what she's saying
there is this is not a function of
racism the reason why there's a
disparity is because the black kids who
are being punished at a rate three times
more than their white counterparts are
just acting badly oh yes she literally
says people are getting you know you
need to be individually treated
appropriately anything other than would
be discrimination so if you have no
enforcement mechanism and you're
eliminating the enforcement mechanisms
right that precisely she's saying there
should be disproportionate treatment she
is exactly she's saying we don't want
any restrictions upon how we should
exercise she's just saying like I don't
believe it's racism
I mean we're this is a dynamic that we
see also with police departments in the
context of the DOJ basically you know
jeff sessions saying to all these police
departments around the country don't
worry guys
you go to town we trust you you got this
despite the fact that maybe there was a
couple misunderstandings in the past
this is the same as the Supreme Court
dominated by five Republican justices
saying despite the fact that the vote
Rights Act has been re ratified by the
Senate a couple years ago we don't need
preclearance anymore because this is we
don't believe that there's any racism
involved in these these voting laws
that's exactly the same dynamic so
there's a pattern here do I mean I hope
people can see this pattern it's I'm not
nothing I'm saying it's particularly
profound but this is a dynamic that is
now permeated every aspect of Republican
culture remember what Justice Roberts
said in the or Road and the decision
gutting the Voting Rights Act ah that uh
that well good way to end discrimination
is to stop practicing right exact same
thing right there right that's that's
absolutely true and I mean no not what
he wrote is true but all of all of the
things you could say are absolutely true
and I think even more specifically
besides just being a total cool who
looks like she wants to unhinge her jaw
and swallow a black child hole every
time I see her she supports charter
schools and charter schools are on the
record
as being much much worse in terms of
these racial disparities and punishment
you'll find that I want to swallow Walsh
as well I mean it's not it's any child
of any underprivileged background that
could even be your wealthy kid who's
handicapped is a denial I just like
pretty much any kid min-hee underneath
40 a year is more useful as broader
sacrifice just swallowing black kids
would be discriminatory do you think
she's looked up what Brown versus the
Board of Education was throwing a whole
lot of word and she calls yes and that's
what she has filed under things that are
unjust things that are racist number one
Brown versus Board of Education well uh
I'm Grisman you're throwing a whole lot
of words at me and I don't know what
they mean but I'm gonna take them as
disrespect now there's a whole lot of
things that the Department of Education
is doing wrong from slashing Pell grants
to trying to provide more funding to
charter schools and make no mistake
about it understand Betsy DeVos is on
the record
as saying that she believes in public
education but doesn't believe in public
schools and what that means is I believe
in collecting money from the public and
giving that money essentially to private
schools not just charters I would I
would bet anything that that's sixty
million dollars that are going towards
charter school funding has a very very
very loose definition of what a charter
school is that are essentially private
schools and for-profit yeah university
schools and heavily parochial because
for her at the end of the day funding
private schools is a way of making sure
that she's funding parochial schools and
by funding parochial schools I mean
Christian schools so if she asked him
fund a Jewish school god forbid a Muslim
school she'll do it if she knows that
she can fund ten or fifteen or twenty
Christian schools for everyone bigger
picture but this is a and I'm quite
convinced this is one of those things
well here is mark Pocan from Wisconsin
talking about one of the cuts that Betsy
DeVos has proposed thing Ms Lee
mentioned about the cuts of special
olympics do you know how many kids are
gonna be affected by that cut
madam second we should say that Betsy
DeVos is proposing cutting almost 18
million dollars for Special Olympics
educational programs are gonna be
affected by that cut Madam Secretary
miss mr. procane let me just say again
we had made we had to make some good
call decisions with this budget and this
is a question of how many kids not about
the budget it's two hundred seventy two
thousand kids that's I'll answer it for
you that's okay no problem it's two
hundred seventy two thousand kids
awesome organization one that is well
supported by the philanthropic sector as
well reclaiming my time if I could Madam
Secretary this is a couple more parts to
this so also we have cuts that go in
special education grants to states from
3 million to 2.2 million a 26 percent
cut and then also in this budget you
have a 7.5 million dollar cut to the
National Technical Institute for the
blind a 13 million dollar cut for
Gallaudet University a 5 million dollar
cut for a federal program for print
books for blind students and you
recently had a federal judge rule
against us on some areas around special
education I have two nephews with autism
what is it that we have a problem with
with children who are in special
education why are we cutting all of
these programs over and over with in
this budget well sir we have continued
to retain the funding levels for eye-dea
and held that level so in the kind I
don't sorry I don't think I brought it
by day I believe I brought up special
olympics special education grants the
states the National Technical Institute
for the blind Gallaudet University
federal program for printing books so if
you could address those that's the
question that really I will address the
broader question or if you could
actually address the question I asked
that's even a better way to answer
questions supporting students with
special needs we have continued to hold
that funding level that funding at a
level amount and in the context of a
budget proposal that is a 10% reduction
all right I'll reclaim my time I'll
reclaim my time you're not going to
answer the question yeah of course she's
not I mean I'm not convinced that some
of this isn't just like we're gonna
throw stuff out there that's just so
egregious that we can kick some of that
back right the I used the example of
back when I used to write scripts
occasionally I'll put an extra scene in
that's really stupid as bait for notes
from executives what they would say like
Duquette do we really need this thing
where he goes out and he bub you know he
does the pirouette and has the cat on
his head I have it's essential for the
script but if you insist that's almost
exactly how I would do it like it well I
was really thinking that no that's dead
that brings out a lot of the character
although wait a second though I think
maybe you have a good point problem is
if the talking dog is it there we won't
know
who you like and then you know I took it
out maybe I took it out and I came back
next weekend I'm like you know what
actually I think it makes it much better
I think yeah that was a great note
thanks guys but it is also possible that
Betsy DeVos is that horrible of a human
being that they see value in in cutting
these programs so that folks are driven
out of the public school system and
basically into probably parochial
schools or special schools that are
private schools that are paid and
for-profit either one is is incredibly
egregious but this is this is who they
are yeah I would say trying to deal with
these things exclusively through
philanthropy has been tried maybe mainly
in the 19th century or they exactly it's
like yes right you're depriving kids of
their right to a cost-free public
education reading that boils down to
right reading Dickens wasn't supposed to
be like a road map exactly Democrats
could learn something now from them know
the sharding negotiations in the middle
this is super heartwarming in
Pennsylvania a representative Stephanie
bore which she's a Republican from
central Pennsylvania's Clinton County
whoa wait you sure you want to say a
party she's from we could have guessed
oh yeah we could have played let's guess
what party she's from you know what they
say about Pennsylvania right it's like
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh and Alabama
in between well she decided to reach out
and on on the day when the the the
Pennsylvania House would be welcoming
their first Muslim lawmaker to the house
she came up to give a a welcoming prayer
I guess opening this session with a
prayer
they're welcoming their their new
colleague and here it is think out what
welcoming this is for someone who is
maybe not Christian or even someone who
is Christian but I'm particularly if
someone who's not Christian the idea
that this is going on in a state house
well here we go
representative Borowitz Thank You
speaker
let's pray Jesus I thank you for this
privilege Lord of letting me pray God
that I Jesus I'm your ambassador here
today standing here representing you the
King of Kings the Lord of lords the
great I am the one who's coming back
again the one who came died and rose
again on the third day and I'm so
privileged to stand here today so thank
you for this honor Jesus God for those
that came before us like George
Washington and Valley Forge in Abraham
Lincoln who sought after you in
Gettysburg Jesus and the founding
fathers an Independence Hall Jesus that
sought after you and fasted and prayed
for this nation to be founded on your
principles in your words and your truth
God forgive us Jesus we've lost it I
just I just I just want to just go back
a little bit and just it's easy you know
to get caught up in the rhythm but she's
saying that this country was founded on
Jesus's principles which I'm quite sure
religious liberty was up there well you
know we get a bad rap but I choose
really this melodramatic will to pray
the phone and father's Christ it's like
the Greeks as much as they like Jesus
but who gave the grease it's one thing I
say Jesus thank you for America and
Jesus everything that we have in America
is a function of us following your word
Jesus but Jesus forgive us for what
we're doing today she wants to say Jesus
that sought after you and fasted and
prayed for this nation to be founded on
your principles in your words and your
truth God forgive us Jesus we've lost
sight of you we've forgotten you God in
our country and we're asking you to
forgive us Jesus
your promise in your word says that if
my people who are called by my name will
humble themselves and pray and seek your
face and turn from their wicked ways
that you'll heal our land Jesus you are
our only hope
god I pray for our leader speaker ters i
leader Cutler
governor wolf president Trump lord thank
you that he stands beside Israel
unequivocally lord thank you that Jesus
that we're blessed because we stand by
Israel and we ask for the Peace of
Jerusalem as your word says God we ask
that we not be overcome by evil and that
we overcome evil with good in this land
once again I claim all these things in
the powerful mighty name of Jesus the
one who at the name of Jesus every knee
will bow and every tongue will confess
our Lord in Jesus name Amen yeah people
were saying like you know why I don't
like the part about how all every knee
shall bow that probably is maybe going a
little too far someone yells out I mean
we start aloud it's can we start praying
and morning prep actually that was kind
of cool every knee shall bow to we can
each choose our own God every wash em
thank you Thank You Hashem security
report and Jesus I pray that you let us
come in a little bit later in Monday's
Jesus I hope that Sam got some sleep but
geez what put up put a marker and what
she said about Israel cuz I got a story
in Haaretz
about how Bibi Netanyahu told an aide I
don't need a pact anymore because I have
the evangelicals
but I guess he likes it because they
still pay his way when he comes to the
states there's no free trip and my son
gets to meet Sepp gorko which is a big
deal for him
hopefully we'll keep him from being the
first school shooter at Israel huh
speaking of which where is he so here is
representative Movida
Johnson Harrell she is the first in the
state as I should say the first state
representative sworn in as
first Muslim woman representative and
here is here is her I mean first of all
that they picked this woman like did the
leader of the chamber not realize that
we're gonna find the was this a surprise
to anybody that's what's really
offensive you can always find some
person who is a religious fanatic who
thinks that their religion Oboro lays
and but you don't pick that person to
give the opening remarks particularly on
a frankly I would say the time for you
to pick them is never but certainly on
this day you're culpable too buddy
but here is Movida johnson Harrell that
prayer in the beginning is meant to be
inclusive and to bring everyone together
we as Republican and Democrat can find
many many things to fight about prayer
should not be one of these every knee
will bow and every tongue will confess
Jesus that you are Lord I thought that
was political but I also thought it was
a political statement when she talked
about everyone will ballet knee and
talking about how if that people are not
Christian that they are condemned your
promise in your word says that if my
people who are called by my name will
humble themselves and pray and seek your
face and turn from their wicked ways it
was directly a political statement and I
think we need to be very very clear that
everybody in this house matters whether
they're Christian Muslim or Jew and that
we cannot use those issues to tear each
other down and not only that it was at
it was made during my swearing-in I
Movida Johnson Haro which was a moment
not only for my district in my city but
for the entire Commonwealth to be the
first key Jabby woman to stand on the
State House floor to be elected to the
house is great for the entire
Commonwealth so to use my
legend against me and the two then storm
off the floor I thought number one was
very very immature and number two very
very disrespectful to say the least yeah
I mean yeah I know the opportunity of my
swearing-in for a theocratic fascist
threat was a little bit unseemly besides
I mean honestly
just oh yeah I saw that I put uh what
about the tax thing are you guys really
translation that Mohammed was it a nice
guys majority part doing apologetics for
Muslims yeah I hear what you're saying
about maybe she shouldn't have done that
prayer and I don't want Christianity
either but I feel like you got a
question why would the assembly woman be
a Muslim there's a thing called the
hadith which I've heard about on several
pod there I look we're not gonna get too
many calls today at all folks so don't
hang on to too long but one of those
calls could be someone who was a
Christian who is calling in and wants to
talk about what that means that we got
to take the knee because we know
historically what that means when you
did not take the knee we have examples
of that during the Spanish Inquisition
in fact when you did not take the knee
and and certainly I you know I don't
want to say that Christianity is the the
mother of all bad ideas but certainly
when you say hello I mean it's just it
kind of makes me realize why they have a
thing like like ECTA in France we're
just like all religion there's a blanket
ban on it in public
municipal life like I don't I didn't I
don't think we need to go that far
people just need to not be psychos about
it but this woman making me think maybe
we do it's I mean it's pretty disturbing
and good if we did who would it be
targeted at good for not that woman just
does in France good why is there bad
policy ideas then I get your scent
and I actually have more sympathy for it
that people might think but it's about
power and what it gets instrumentalized
against and actually right there is a
perfect example of that there is a
Muslim woman who's quite happy to have a
civil polity where people could express
their faith and there's literally a
theocratic fascist trying to terrorize
her out of her job behind limit and how
long you're allowed to go on for when
you're doing that kind of talk yeah and
you know I really do think that probably
you could have given that little
diatribe maybe in your own home Jesus
probably would have heard you if he's so
powerful I got the sense that she was
practicing that in her own home I bet I
bet she was wearing her robe and
everything let's uh here this is a
little bit more cheery so aoc got a
little bit more got a little bit
righteous in a financial house financial
committee hearing she has been going
gangbusters apparently in terms of
questioning like like literally
impacting the entire house and raising
the bar for other Democratic House
members committee members on how she
questions or how people a question and
one point the guy from the real world
what's his name Sean Duffy congressman
from Wisconsin right he was talking
about you know who's gonna pay for he
was talking about a lot of economic
issues frankly that are problematic if
we implement a lot of the green New Deal
mandates and the irony is of course that
everyone was complaining about all of
the economic policies that were embedded
in the green New Deal proposal yet it
becomes clearer when you're addressing
that critique when you're when you're
addressing the critique of the green New
Deal that it's going to displace people
and that coal miners aren't gonna have
jobs the green new deal puts in more
funding
not only for retraining coal minders but
also do you remember this
allowing coal miners who may not be able
to switch jobs at age 45 or 50 to
basically just get funding to live their
lives retire earlier yeah god forbid
that's way more than they're getting now
and that's all these things like a job
guarantee right is built into the green
New Deal to address the things that
what's his name again
Duffy Duffy says now of course he tries
to make it because AOC is from New York
and because she's a woman I suspect who
you know is young tries to sell the
elite thing and here is her response
this is number three but aside from that
when we talk about the concern of the
environment as an elitist concern one
year ago I was waitressing in a taco
shop in downtown Manhattan I just got
health insurance for the first time a
month ago this is not an elitist issue
this is a quality of life issue you want
to tell people that their concern and
their desire for clean air and clean
water is elitist tell that to the kids
in the South Bronx which are suffering
from the highest rates of childhood
asthma in the country tell that to the
families in Flint whose kids have their
blood is ascending and in lead levels
their brains are damaged for the rest of
their lives called them elitist tell
your telling them that those kids are
trying to get on a plane to Davos people
are dying they are dying and the
response across the other side of the
aisle is to introduce an amendment five
minutes before a hearing in a markup
this is serious this should not be a
partisan issue this is about our
constituents in all of our lives Iowa
Nebraska broad swaths swaths of the mid
West are drowning right now underwater
farms towns that will never be recovered
and never come back and we're here and
and people are more concerned about
helping oil companies than helping their
own families I don't think so I don't
think so
this is about our lives this is about
American lives and it should not be
partisan science should not be partisan
this we are facing a national crisis and
if we do not ascend to that crisis if we
do not ascend to the to the levels in
which we were threatened at the Great
Depression when we were threatened in
World War two if we do not ascend to
those levels if we tell the American
public that we are more willing to
invest and bail out big banks than we
are willing to invest in our farmers and
our urban families then I don't know
what we're here doing
[Applause]
well often we'll explain
[Applause]
she's gonna be 35 by 2024 can we get the
can we find that out 2028 right know
she's 28 so 20 28 28 as my awoke bros
producer rob lopez from the bronx oh
that that video was like his mom telling
him no you cannot stay out past your
curfew right I'm not a curfew all right
the human race has a curfew the other
clip I mean she she went on about you
know having but it's it's more or less
the same right I mean I think it covers
a lot of the same territory I mean right
now we have in is it North Dakota or
Montana I mean we had Native Americans a
tribe Nebraska who were completely
isolated for two or three weeks because
of floods in South Dakota whole towns
just destroyed and these things don't
come back and to show how like
unprepared this country is for it not
only are the Native Americans who you
think like are under the environmental
gun in this country we lost a bunch we
asked 10 percent of America's f-22s
because they didn't move him out of a
Nebraska hangar fast enough so like
we're so flat-footed with climate change
right now that even the military is not
prepared enough yeah if you can't muster
the energy to care about humans you
should at least care about the poor F
twenty-twos I mean lot of F twenty-twos
that were hurt by that I I'd be very
curious if that wasn't like this is a
great opportunity for us to get 10 more
you know 10 percent more contrast
contracts yeah well you guys will be
feel more secure knowing that the job
that Sean is trying to get on right now
in construction is building a giant
seawall in New York City yeah that New
York is actually one of the few places
where you can actually do that and have
it have an impact in terms of like the
cost the cost benefit analysis is such
they will build that but in Miami it's
not gonna make a difference because it's
built on basically a sponge and off the
coast of North Carolina it's just not
worth it like there's just not enough
economic activity they're just gonna
have to lose large swaths of different
places up and down the East Coast this
the maps will be able to or will be more
fun to draw in the future exactly you'll
get a whole nother think of the ecology
industry you know you're talking about
alright like it's uh it's a huge it's
bringing back a dying art I play a
little bit of positive thinking for the
market instead of being to man gloom
climate Cox maybe we can actually create
things and build things in a tremendous
way this is not crying of a child this
is a great this is a great video I'm
enjoying this quite a bit I've watched
this now and multiple times and I would
imagine Ronald Reagan could inform us
about this but this video shows what
happens and this happened I just upstate
here in New York I think guys driving
and he has I think it appears two
individuals in the back of his vehicle
they just left the Hudson City Court I'm
there myself I've actually served on a
jury there does that the ice agents just
squatting to see people leave the court
yes it's possible I haven't seen them up
there but and he is apparently quite
aware as to what the ice officers are
allowed to do and is a little bit more
adept I think than they're used to
dealing with in terms of what they have
legal rights to do in terms of search
here is this exchange no it's nice the
Department of Homeland Security order
war it okay no it's not a warrant it's
not a warrant under the Constitution of
the United States
one of a restfully yeah one of the rest
of Aryan alien not signed by a judge
it's not a judicial warrant
I have no obligation to oblige by that
winner so this is this guy is Bryan
McCormack he is a head of the Columbia
County
this is incidentally the district the
19th district up in in in in New York
that Antonio Delgado one signed by
George II the Immigration and
Nationality Act and which will designate
it with that authority are you hearing
this mark our attorneys on his way okay
what's that gonna that's not a warrant
no it's not it's the Department of
Homeland Security order a war it okay no
it's not a warrant it's not a warrant
under the Constitution of the United
States it's a warrant under the
Immigration and Nationality Act of the
United okay that's fine but it's not
under the Constitution you have no
jurisdiction over me as a citizen on the
driver of this vehicle so the the ice
warrant and this is coming from the
immigrant legal Resource Center an ice
warrant directs federal immigration
enforcement agents to arrest the person
named in the warrant and because it is
leaking let it go because it's not
issued by a judge and ice warrant does
not give the immigration enforcement
officer the authority to demand entry
into presumably a house or a car any
type of private space in order to make
an arrest and so a car is that so here
is McCormack saying that
but the ice people apparently tried to
intimidate him into complying he did not
with title 8 section 13 24 of us code
somewhat somewhat I'm studying to be a
department justice accredited
representative so I've been through
trainings and I have copies of the
actually in this box right here I have a
copy of a real warrant and a copy of
that just so people know not to listen
to that the statutes governing
transporting and harboring illegal
aliens of the United States I am okay
and of course I don't think they were in
a position to prove anything so it's a
good little example of what your your
rights are and how folks can protect
immigrants who are living amongst us
let's go to the phones call them from a
509 area code on the special Batphone
BAM it's Ronald Reagan yes I know Ronald
Reagan we had you on the Ronald Reagan
line that we instituted that is actually
subsidized by a David Pakman yeah OPEC
damn good video and also you know in
immigration court ice there's the burden
of establishing alien agent
inadmissibility or removability and
oftentimes they do so by filing a form
when I 213 which is just a summary of
like the ice agents encounter with alien
and most of the time they establish
alien age by just asking so they go up
to the person and they're like hey you
know I'm an intimidating person I look
like a cop are you from here and the
person will just admit that they don't
and they'll say where you from in from
Mexico and now their case is basically
made the people need to just keep their
mouths shut
that's my legal tip of the day but so
people should say something to the
effect of like
live around here where are you from
around here yeah just walk away I mean
you're not really being detained ashtag
walk away walking away exactly
thanks to that tip wrong um I wanted
yeah no problem I want to turn your
listeners onto a kind of a big
conspiracy slash scandal involving your
show actually oh so Michael is doing a
thing where he's eating a like one of
these Jim Baker's survival buckets
because he got to 2,000 patrons right
yeah I know he's storing it here yes
yeah until after the West Coast show get
your tickets I don't want to get sick
before the April 20th DMBS live show
sounds a little scandalous I mean if you
say you're gonna do it when something
happens and there's no weight when it's
convenient for you you're not doing what
you promised but no Wow Wow I mean let's
just go down on it but it is a delicious
yet the pail of dehydrated Mexican food
so you know don't knock it until you try
it first of all but second of all this
is the scandal I saw I was sort of like
in on this and I I bought that bucket
but earlier like a year ago I ordered
another one and according to the good
people at Jim Baker calm like hauled who
tracked the package it was in fact
delivered to your studio and Michael
says he doesn't have it which you know
leads me to assume that you took it home
and ate it for yourself without telling
anyone
are you suggesting that this package
came and we we had another one and that
I would have taken it home to eat
instead of going out and purchasing
lunch when you or when you call the guys
when you call when you call the people
at Jim Baker they say thank you for
calling Jim Baker god bless now you're
telling me they're gonna lie
after having god bless me they're
obviously good people because they said
that they're gonna lie about the package
being delivered look
Ron Reagan heading out the way I eat I
probably could have and not even
realized it like that's just the way I
see food and I just attack it I don't
care I don't care if it's freeze dried
or fresh or whatever but yeah I'm open
to it I would eat that thing I'll eat
that well when I say that I would eat it
if X happened I'm not gonna be like oh X
happened well let me just wait until I'm
a little more comfortable with it I
would just do it because that's what we
clear ah missed let me be clear there
was never a specific time for him
theoretically we could do the bucket
challenge and we reach 10,000 patrons I
mean I was a patron hearing up towards
it I'm terrified you know the library is
like it's a contest to see how long each
of us can last and honestly like we know
Matt's gonna win his stomach is made of
like titanium but I don't want to just
like take one bite and go like this
doesn't agree with me I want it you
think it's gonna be decent I think we
well it's Jim Baker but really I I don't
think Jim Baker's like we need to find
the best tasting let me tell me let me
say this I would not dilly-dally because
to the extent that I wouldn't trust it
that I wouldn't trust it to keep the
whole point is it's okay yeah the whole
point do you know the whole pot is
supposed to wait
are you questioning Jim Baker's here
wait here's the point it's like it's
like health insurance unregulated health
insurance you don't realize it doesn't
work until you need it if they're
waiting for you to test out its quality
after the apocalypse what are you gonna
do about it I just want to point out
real quick because I'm still here
oh that the accusation was that you
stole from us and I want the listeners
to remember how weird you got after I
accused you of that and how sort of
non-committal you were and you danced
around instead of into weird stuff just
recently he's got
lawyer had a typically just recently you
mean just on this call
what are you talking about on this goal
I acted weird about it yeah oh yeah I
said that you stole the food bucket that
was labeled with Michael's name I paid
for by the way was always a second you
so you said I'm sorry I continued even
did you you sent two to Michael I sent
one like a year ago and it disappeared
to Michael and according to the first
one you sent to Michael okay well I got
news for you buddy like you know if you
can't tell him Michael probably went out
and he flipped that thing or something
[Laughter]
something what I'm saying is Michael has
already categorically denied it which is
the obvious thing to do when your news
for you Michael also promised that when
Anna came here after he got to a certain
number of patrons he's gonna go on the
attack and lying prevaricate but I think
we all know what's really going on which
is that this is all part of Sam a new
single lifestyle he fights women over
for a nightcap and a food bucket that's
my line it's like come on it's the
apocalypse I can prove it I've got the
food I know taco festival Ronald Reagan
thank you for the phone call you sir
we're the final call of the day and much
appreciated folks I'm sorry we are out
of time Michael handedly made that whole
set thing the thing I have this
impressive work uh we got we'll do five
more I am and then we got to get out of
here Kentucky Fried comrade hey I'm our
crew there was a blink and you might
miss it story up in potential potential
front-runner Pete Buddha jig is
proposing a peace between the LGBTQ
community in chick-fil-a its campaign is
proposing a two piece solution drawn by
nineteen sixty seven orders in hopes of
final
settling this holy dispute Sam's tinder
profile hey girl swipe right and I'll
let you
yeah explain anything to me you don't
even need to splain huh train boy I
don't want to restart drama but if cliff
schecter had David Frum on again loved
hearing him gasp like cliff on
immigration with no push back our very
own Kentucky Fried comrade live tweeted
his listening experience do you think
this means from will do any podcast that
pays him so potential future mr anti
Fattah TM BS guest oh he is welcome to
come yeah absolutely
anytime hi Sam it took me a little while
to realize that Dave Rubin sounds
exactly alike all of your impression of
him he would be really great voice for a
muppet left his best pajama boy I had to
take so much xanax last night due to
Jame Jaime's anarcho-communism Jack Jack
Minneapolis surprise we didn't hear
Michael laughing when Sam said PP part
Steve Crowder's car you didn't get a
chance to knock Steve out in a debate so
I did you a favor and destroyed him
myself would you what happened he's okay
but he got in a car accident that right
oh geez I had no idea bullfrog michael
voice I'm Michael Brooks on tonight's
show Rachel Rachel Rachel also Facebook
Instagram bans white nationalism from
platform after pressure from civil
rights group JJ cool hey Sam if you win
the leadership of the Libertarian Party
would you pledge to guarantee equal
access jetpacks within your first term
parenting for Sam parents hack for Sam
Reese all double-layer mattress
protectors and sheets mattress protector
sheep mattress that way you can strip
off the soiled set quickly in the night
and try and speed up a return to sleep
you can put on a new top aversion before
bed Rando missed the first after you
guys have the latest case to discussing
Betsy DeVos yes and the final I am of
the day
[Music]
[Applause]
monkey fighter 89 Sam the fake caller
actually called and bragged about
imitating Jesse Lee Peterson on his show
Jesse also admitted he doesn't know who
his guests are and never heard of you
Jesse's Oh doubt it all right folks see
you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know sir
I'm gonna get
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
