[Music]
Paul Ryan okay we actually have to go to
this I'm sorry caller I'll get to you in
a second
give me keep the call down because we
have to do this Paul Ryan says president
Trump will not sign a short-term
continuing resolution signed by the
Senate this means we're heading towards
a shutdown let's play his clip this just
happens now we just had a very long
productive meeting with the president
the president formas that he will not
sign the bill that came over from the
Senate last evening because of his
legitimate concerns for border security
so we're going to do is go back to the
house and work with our members we want
to keep the government open but we also
want to see an agreement that protects
the border we have with very serious
concerns about securing our border from
the president said and will not sign
this bill so we're gonna go back and
work on adding to this so this is all
lies predicated on a crisis that doesn't
exist it's actually predicated on a
crisis that now does exist because it
has been created by the barbarous
policies of Donald Trump in the
Republican Party good little side don't
example there Paul Ryan hundred percent
has his back Paul Ryan is a functional
white nationalist politician everybody
who gave him any grudges coverage should
watch that again and again and review
his record again and again I'm not sure
this means shut down though because I I
still have moved the mind that some type
of you know Trump is of the face-saving
symbolic gesture that he can exaggerate
bloviate and lie about so it's very
possible that you'll see some type of
dumb you know
we're setting aside this amount of money
for this type of wall blah blah blah
let's you know some cash that is
obviously being completely wasted and is
useless and will only add to hysteria
around the situation but can be like a
political thing to kick the can down the
road
so we'll see it's nice of the media's
catching up to him a little bit though
Paul Ryan this is good Bloomberg view
it's um Jonathan Bernstein I think it's
okay
farewell Paul Ryan he was unusually
dishonest a fraud as a wonk and a
terrible match for the job beautiful
people like us were saying this in 2011
but you know better late than never for
real thrilled utterly yes exactly I mean
I would just quibble with I think he's
usually dishonest for a Republican but
he was he was yeah unusually good at
tricking liberals into thinking he was
raised that's what it was but even yeah
he was just a loathsome fraud hack
dishonest corporate bagman liar like the
rest of them oh let's just take this
call then we'll go you're calling from a
3 for 7 area code who are you where you
calling from
oh hi this is a lead from Astoria hey
Ally what's going on what's on your
minds well I wanted you to say something
about the deep platforming thing but
this shutdown thing I'm actually work
for the government
okay federal government it's contractor
and I just realized we're not gonna get
compensated for the shutdown there's
some talk about back pay but as a
contractor you don't necessarily get
that so it's an effect me and millions
of other people yeah for something that
doesn't exist something that doesn't
exist there are millions of people who
even if it only happened even if this
thing and I realize I'm sorry I must
have missed because I didn't I didn't
realize that the veto would immediately
put this into effect I thought that they
actually had AI they must have a bit
they have a bit more time right the
deadlines tomorrow so look if this is
getting email about that for long I'm
sure so if this I just want to I'll get
back to you in a second I just wanna
yeah I want to be clear this I want
clearly quickly the politics evident
want to come back Paul Ryan is which are
both relevant things but yes if this
happens even for a day
even for a couple of days it's gonna
massively harm millions of government
workers and people's whose livelihood
depends on government which is gonna be
bad for each and every one of them
individually and for their families it's
also gonna be bad for our economy which
there's already very strong signals that
the economy is about to slow down maybe
even go into recession and it's also
going to harm all sorts of other people
that rely on what they euphemistically
call non-essential services which
actually are the most essential things
government does like deliver food to
people like key social programs which of
course need to be radically expanded and
increased and universalized so if this
happens it is squarely on Donald Trump
squarely on Paul Ryan it's squarely on
the racism xenophobia conspiracy
theories of everyone who has created a
completely fake crisis it was a crisis
that didn't exist when there was net
positive migration and it does not exist
now that there is literally net neutral
migration and it will never exist
because of people seeking refuge from
crises generated by u.s. foreign policy
and domestic oligarchies it's disgusting
it's immoral and it's gonna hurt people
even if it only happens for a day or two
so I want to be clear about that Holly
go ahead yeah I think I said is right
well okay putting that aside and me not
having a job the deep lat
