[Music]
speaking of ideas
so obviously the the big news this week
or part of it has been the series of
anti-abortion anti choice laws that have
been passed well really over the past
two or three weeks right we've seen one
in Ohio we've seen one in Georgia now in
Alabama Alabama is the most extreme one
I want to just caution people a little
bit about making this exclusively about
the failure to exempt women from this
law and doctors from this law because of
of rape or incest because the real
problem is that the that there is any
prohibition against women having
sovereignty over their own body and at
the very least I guess you could say
about about the that law is that at
least it is not I mean it's consistent I
mean clearly you do not pass a law like
this
unless on some level you perceive a
woman's role primary role to be an
incubator for potential children and so
whether they have been they have
conceived by choice by accident by rape
II it really is irrelevant to these
people and because they perceive women
fundamentally because and I do mean that
word literally because it is a
fundamentalist Christian and religious
in some religions other religions as
well view that their primary reason for
existence is to be able to have God
create babies through them and so you
know I see
people out there critiquing the law and
obviously it is it it from a political
standpoint it has some expediency but
I'm not convinced that you know part of
the idea here is one that we've seen
from Republicans and conservatives four
four four frankly for a couple of
decades that either by design or by you
know just simply by result that certain
things are normalized because of how
extreme the Republicans and the
Conservatives have become in attempting
to push in some instances their
theocratic views of government upon the
rest of us and in some instances there
you know I guess equally market
fundamentalist views on us as well but
we should not normalize the idea of
banning abortion even if there is an
exemption for women who have been raped
and or are the victim of incest or
because their lives are in jeopardy the
fact of the matter is is that it is not
the fetus is not a person and our laws
govern persons God's law may govern life
and God may have chosen to say okay it's
okay that the the the 4-legged life they
can be eaten the plant life they can be
eaten and the people who have who have
committed certain crimes they can be
killed and of course we can kill people
and more we can kill people by
overcharging for medications that could
prevent their death but I'm going to
intervene here I mean we're not
responsible as a civil society to
maintain the perspectives particularly
in this country in most countries it
seems to be the case as well but we're
not responsible to maintain other
people's notion of
what gods lies other people people
themselves can decide if they will abide
by what they perceive as God's law and
whether they perceive that God exists
but we live in a civil society life is
not protected in our society we can just
look around and see that that is a
principle persons are protected and who
we deemed to be a person at various
times has changed in our society right I
mean we know that slaves were not
persons 200 years ago in this country
they were sub person and and this is
what you see with the attempt with
fetuses to turn them into persons but it
is problematic to do so and that is why
it's so difficult for them to pass these
laws and have them work because when you
have a person whose existence depends on
another person so intimately then all of
a sudden you get conflicts that are
unresolvable by civil law so I mean that
is you know I just want to just make a
note of that it's just a bit of a pet
peeve I understand from a you know from
a political perspective it makes it
there is a certain expedience to it but
it I'm afraid that it's setting up an
opportunity on the Supreme Court for the
compromise to be we're going to allow
exemptions for rape and incest as a
federal law but I think you know there
is more and more sense that the
political wing of the conservative
movement is going to push the judicial
wing maybe even faster than they had
themselves anticipated but we shall see
in the meantime as the the
the I guess the extremeness
and really this I think you know people
are starting to realize because we don't
have a huge amount of people certainly
none that who could get pregnant at this
point who lived in an era when abortion
was illegal and I think there are many
gains that we've made in society that
later generations begin to just sort of
take for granted and now I think they're
starting to become a little bit more
focus as we get closer to a time where
without doubt there's going to be a
continued curtailment not just even from
a practical sense but from a legal sense
of the right of women to have
sovereignty over their own body and
we're starting to see the implications
of that or starting to see the you know
to be able to more clearly imagine the
implications of that and it's not just
obviously that abortions are illegal in
certain states some states are passing
laws that says it's illegal to cross
state lines to get an abortion it's not
just that abortions are going to be
illegal exempted with the rape and
incest that's possible that's that's
going to go away but also we're going to
be losing there's also a whole host of
health issues that are involved in this
because you have laws that start to say
like well how do we know it was an
abortion as opposed to a you know a gosh
a miscarriage
right I mean how how if this if it is
illegal for an abortion but a
miscarriage and abortion look very
similar in terms of the end product
you're going to start having to as a
woman register your miscarriages how are
you gonna register miscarriages unless
you register your pregnancies I mean
there's a whole host of things that are
involved in this that are you know are
going to be start coming a little bit
clearer as we get closer to this moment
and maybe won't be totally clear and
till we get to the other side of it
