[Music]
it's into what's going on with
impeachment I'll start with this here is
AOC calling for an impeachment vote on
the record calling out Nancy Pelosi and
look it you know this is regardless of
what your opinion of impeachment is and
I think people know mine when you start
seeing stories like this in Politico
where they interview the 16 House
Democrats and interviews offered
conflicting assessments of the status of
the House Judiciary Committee's
investigation of Trump which is chairman
Jerry Nadler bills as quote an
impeachment investigation here it is we
have been in the midst of an impeachment
investigation says represented Pramila
jeyapaul a member of the Judiciary
Committee quote no we're not in an
impeachment investigation end quote says
representative Jim Hines Connecticut
member of the House Intelligence
Committee third representative Gregory
Meeks said the house is investigating to
determine quote whether or not there
should be an impeachment investigation
like there's no value in this and I said
this yesterday but it bears repeating
the founding fathers contemplated a
Donald Trump that is why they have a a
method to impeach someone like Donald
Trump what they did not contemplate with
someone like Nancy Pelosi who is in the
opposition party who just basically says
but he definitely deserves it
every day we see new law breaking I mean
they should have impeached him just on
the attempt to reappropriation their aid
the there's so many and she knows it
she thinks there's political benefit in
not and I don't here's aoc disagree
with that premise I want to see every
Republican go on the record and
knowingly vote against impeachment of
this president knowing his corruption
having it on the record so that they can
have that stay on their careers for the
rest of their lives because this is
outrageous to protect the amount of
lawlessness and corruption coming out of
this presidency figure to take that
message I you know any message that
works I would like them to take up that
message but personally I think that that
it is beyond time and we have to end
this lawlessness and corruption coming
out of the White House
I mean she's right and you know we saw
this I mean this to me ties into this
North Carolina race obviously this is a
district that Donald Trump won by twelve
votes twelve percent in in 2016
I think Mitt Romney's similar amount
twelve percent in 2016 this is a very
red district the Democrat missed it by
two percentage points it was a thousand
votes last time and a significant number
of those votes we know were fraudulent
but what the Republicans did
MacCready the Democrat was able to bring
out more of his voters just not enough
to overcome the fact that Bishop the
Republican brought out even more rural
voters because Donald Trump shows up
there and they do better
traditionally in special elections you
know erase the last couple of cycles
where there's been a revived Democratic
base on the progressive side organizing
and and even you know Democrats in these
special elections Republicans
traditionally have an edge when they
they get their together and start
to organize so even when the Democratic
Party invests so much money into what I
think is a very 2004 ask candidate right
know a young you know veteran an
entrepreneur was he a lawyer to you know
went to Harvard and Yale and Harvard and
Duke I think very cookie cutter even
with that they still if they put
everything into it and they still
couldn't you know over around the
Republicans who just have a natural edge
well they have a natural edge but here
also I think the thing that is a that is
not that is not natural you have all
these people coming out cuz they're
supporting Donald Trump and the vast
majority of people who are voting are
voting against Donald Trump and if
that's the formula you've got to go out
there and give this candidate an
opportunity now he basically said I
would not vote for Nancy Pelosi etc etc
but this seems to me to be indication
that there isn't necessarily enough
people who are going to be motivated by
your coming up there and saying I am
just slightly more moderate version of
this guy people are not looking for
moderation
they are looking they have their
opinions they're just looking for the
person who can convince them that the
candidate that can convince them that
I'm going to act on your opinions and
you can't compromise with someone like
this and this is what what drives me mad
with the Democrats is you know we were
talking about polarization yes our
country is polarized you have Nazis who
are who have invaded the white house and
John Bolton's and then you have the
Democrats being like well we need to
compromise and have people in the middle
you want to compromise with a Nazi you
want to compromise somebody who when
you're with an oligarchy with with
monopolies that hasn't worked in the
last twenty years and I think in places
like North Carolina know if you've done
work they're gone there at all but
there's a there's a real populism there
even in Charlotte you know larger cities
there's a real populism in cities in in
rural communities and if the Democrats
are continuing with this cookie cutter
approach I just don't think they're
gonna be able to go over the edge we saw
with Asaf yes yes and I see him running
for governor in in Georgia and that's a
little bit scary in that respect I mean
I think like the bottom line too it
seems to me and you know I've I've been
you know following a little bit of this
this woman her name is is it it's Rachel
bit Cofer bite Cofer she is she was a
statistician who predicted the 2018 blow
out very very early in the cycle and
there's some things from that I don't
necessarily subscribe to that she
suggests bow tie one thing I think that
she makes a very good case is that like
partisanship you need to play into the
partisanship because you have one side
that is act that is using partisanship
to its full potential and the other side
that is not and they can't you you you
know it's almost it's not even I'm not
even convinced necessarily that you need
to have a specific ideological set of
plans but whatever they are they have to
be in opposition to Donald Trump and the
Republicans as they stand today and that
and and in clouding that the fact that
you stand on on one side of the divide
and convincing your voters because there
are no sort of like lean Democrat lean
Republican voters they are either I lean
Democrat or I lean Republican and who's
gonna motivate me who's gonna make who's
going to inspire those reasons why I
already lean for those people as opposed
to I could go either way
