[Music]
welcome Tosh oh sorry thank you it's
shaunell laura is the full name shining
um Hana Laura like Shana Lulu Oh like
shiny Lulu of course right Shana Laura
Turner Laura families anyhow that's not
like us um sigh this whole yeah I'm a
huge fan I listened pretty much every
day now for the past mmm like a year and
like three years three years ago I had
no interest no knowledge about politics
at all and now I'm a Bernie volunteer
iPhone bank every week and I try to get
out canvassing once a week if I can and
I just really really appreciate
everything I learned from y'all and I
don't know if Michael is still there but
I came to this show in Chicago
and it was really inspiring on them how
did you find how do you find our show um
so I was a single parent for a long time
and me and my daughter kind of just
started watching the primaries in 2015
and just kind of like his entertainment
honestly and of course like everyone
else we just you know watched super food
and rise rise and rise and then I think
I started getting more I watch on
YouTube and started getting more Pakman
videos showing up listen to him I still
listen to him but um you guys became my
regular after a while it's good so and
yeah yeah so yeah one I mean here's one
example of how people don't really
understand how like you know government
affects them through my 20s being a
single parent had all kind of health
problems mental health problems didn't
have insurance in my thirties I suddenly
side for health insurance and it wasn't
until I started educating myself you
know by listening to you guys and that I
learned that it was because Iowa
expanded Medicaid is why you know in my
30s and luckily because I ended up
having much worse health problems that
you know I really needed insurance for
so wait so I mean this is this is I mean
because the the dynamic you've just
explained I think is a huge failure of
you know I mean it was a huge failure of
the Obama administration is a huge
failure of the the nominal left at large
to sort of like educate people about
that how did you like why why do you
think it was that I mean how does that
happen
that you get Medicaid and you don't
realize at first like oh this is a
function of some of a policy decision
right
I mean um you know I single parent of a
little kid in my early twenties I just I
was not prepared I was just kind of knew
that there was going to be programs out
there and just you know my job on one
side became that single parent when my
daughter was very young was like okay I
got to get as much help as I can you
know I didn't even have time to finish
college before I had my kid and so you
know I'm so busy like trying to make
ends meet and basically you know in
survival mode for about a decade I met
my husband a few years ago but yeah I
mean and then it you know that kind of
shows how it's in a way a luxury it's
like we've gotten to a you know I got
into a much more stable place that you
know time to like pay attention to
something and you know and then it shows
like packing and you guys and kuklinski
I listen to everybody you know that just
make it accessible and I just you know
started really figuring out you know
putting two and two together so yeah can
I just tell it yeah did you have a
question no no go ahead
all right okay so um can I just tell
funny clicks funny story yeah
so I am volunteering I'm I have a lot of
anxiety but I'm trying to get better at
talking to people so I was just feeling
especially bold at the farmers market in
my little town which I live in kind of a
bizarre little found its where the Guru
- the Beatles brought his I was out of
maharishi's town in Iowa I do yeah it
seems like it had the high our County
Jefferson County had the highest Bernie
vote last last time around so that was
good then yeah I'm sorry I said TM is
good then it's helping people vote for
Bernie
yeah there's actually a really strange
groups in the TM movement at the top
that are Trump fans because his daughter
does TM it's some of the really in deep
cult followers or low voice - anyways oh
no sorry sorry good that okay anyway so
I was feeling especially bold our little
farmers market last week and saw the
tulsi table I've seen it you know
several weeks walked up and I just said
hey guys you know who are you gonna vote
for when Tulsi drops out and the woman
she says oh we're in it we want her to
win and then somebody tells me that it's
both these parents that's that question
- oh I don't I don't know why
so she's character in Fairfield at the
farmers market but that's that's why I
asked the question - nice
well I hope well stable yes yes yeah
I'll just say like don't let that play
into you you know your anxiety that will
never ever happen again I promise you
you will never ever run into the parents
of the candidate that you are basically
saying won't happen again should abandon
support especially like Kamala Harris
like her dad clearly not back in her
case it's not gonna happen
and that you have basically met every
possible anxiety you could have
regarding that you have now championed
thank passed it yeah and it's never
gonna get awkward than that
I did also where I try to see a lot of
candidates come through here because the
people in this community really
politically active and I did go see
Tulsi the last time she was here and I
wore my Deez Nuts 2016 shirt just for
fun there you you know I remember Deez
Nuts yes yes yeah sounds uh sounds like
you're you're getting bolder and bolder
appreciate the call okay grace great
meeting you in Chicago I hope we did
thanks yeah
thanks for your support thanks for all
you're doing for Bernie that's good
speaking of deez nutz did you not see
that thing that I sang you about the
impeachment song we could do that
tomorrow
