[Music]
here is a people to judge and he is
coming out he's basically like trying to
I don't know I don't I'm trying to think
like maybe he's thinking like VP of one
of these people like I just don't know
what his what what he thinks he's he's
doing here where he's positioning
himself for maybe it's to run for
governor maybe he's decided like I don't
know but people to judge
he thinks that what we can do is return
to a time that really basically never
was as the youngest candidate in the
field I am obviously a believer in the
power of generational change I also
believe that a candidate at any age
depending who they are can be a great
president what we got to talk about
right now is vision my concern about the
vision from the Sanders Warren approach
is that it can polarize Americans when
we have other ways to deliver bold
solutions without dividing the American
people further my difference with the
vice-president is that I also don't
think promise closet for one second how
would you talk about this idea of
polarization like it's almost as if
people don't understand what the word
means
like we're polarized this country is as
polarized as it could be the idea that
in some fashion the Democrats have the
ability to what in it like I guess the
only thing he's saying is that like look
here's the center-right and here are
here are the Conservatives and they're
way out here and Democrats have been
here and if we get Warren or Sanders
we're gonna be here and that's going to
increase the polarization I get news for
you there's nothing people to judge is
going to do that is going to in any way
diminish the because we have seen for
the past 25 years
then if the Democrats move this way the
Republicans move that way they go
further there the spectrum in America is
pretty is pretty standard
the the the outer margins maybe who
fills them isn't you know but the the
the parameters of what we have in this
country are pretty well set even our
left is not that left and right side
doesn't even fit in the screen well
that's right and so the bottom line is
he is basically just saying we need to
return to the time that got us to where
we are today
so that we can do this again but let's
hear his critique of Joe Biden who is
also making that same pitch though but
apparently he's doing it with maybe his
teeth on his by bleeding hitting the
American people further my difference
with the Vice President is that I also
don't think promising that we're going
back to normal is going to be a message
that'll hit people well certainly where
I come from in the industrial Midwest
there are a lot of people who voted for
this current president not because they
think he's a good guy but because normal
wasn't working for them and they were
ready to more or less vote to burn the
house down
if all we have to offer is hey let's
let's dial it back and go back to what
we were doing if it feels like we're
looking to the Past I think that message
is going to come up short when we get to
election day so he's basically saying
I've got a third secret way al food e
Newman I mean which is just my but I
think that you know yeah but literally
it is a third secret way he's doing the
third way for 2019 and he's just saying
Joe Biden's third way is 1980s third way
yeah I third way is 2019 third way I
think it's also it's really interesting
too because Bernie actually is
attempting on some level to say and I
think this argument even if it can't
reach a lot of people can reach some and
it needs to be made or else we're not
gonna survive right he's saying like
look we need to get back there does need
to be a polarization right between the
99% the 1% between workers and capital
or whatever so he is attempting to at
least make a grounded version of that
argument an argument that has some
semblance of reality if you read Pete's
book
he's doing a lot of and again it's pure
clintonism he's doing
you know I what's the famous line what's
the discriminatory fast-food chain he
has this famous line where he's a fillet
yeah I don't like their politics but I'm
quite partial to the chicken that's his
whole shtick is not acknowledging the
reality of the polarization and thinking
a bunch of like cheap cultural
signifiers or do something not actually
building people together in an actual
coalition to do something in the real
world which is why of course he hasn't
said anything about the UAW walkouts or
anything he's trash we will get to these
UAW walk outs tomorrow but just to give
you a little bit more information as of
I guess it was eleven fifty fifty nine
p.m. last night as opposed to twelve
a.m. this morning a fifty thousand UAW
workers in facilities from Michigan to
Texas are participating
