[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday April 17 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
journalist David day in on the most
powerful staffer in Congress who is not
on your side also on the program today
Jeff Sessions gone but not forgotten
Attorney General Bill Barr seeks to end
bail for officially credible asylum
seekers meanwhile Donald Trump vetoes a
bill to end US involvement in the Yemen
war his second veto first act of
Congress in a long time to end our
involvement in a war meanwhile
Republicans are blocking the tightening
of vaccine laws across the country as we
have various outbreaks of diseases
because of anti-vaxxers Whitehouse seeks
to fuel a constitutional crisis over
congressionals subpoenas and breaking a
two hundred billion dollar revenue per
year insurance company is against
Medicare for all the natural history
muzeum cancels its fascist exhibit by
disinviting balsan ro bowl bowls bowls
on our oval sorrow say sad dave Rubidoux
same-sex partner is much more likely to
be denied loans study finds and israel
Deportes a human rights work Avira their
anti-boycott law all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen it
is Wednesday April 17th we are rushing
headlong into what I anticipate will be
one of the least relaxing vacations I've
had in the history of all the vacations
I've ever had we're just fact tomorrow
will be our final day Oh as you know
Passover starts Sunday Friday night and
I will be traveling with my children to
visit relatives for Passover and then
later in the week I'm going to take them
solo to Florida and holy boy is right I
don't know if you've ever had the
opportunity to try and entertain a
six-year-old and a 13 year old
simultaneously over the course of five
or six days but that is virtually
impossible so cannot wait to get back
and of course the Muller report will
come out probably about an hour after we
start vacation which is usually the way
it is I anticipate a lot more news
happening over the next week and a half
I'm going to do my best to get on
YouTube live over the course of the week
if there are breaking story
I'm gonna do my best and it's going to
involve a certain amount of patience for
my kids and patience frankly from you
because there could be opportunities for
you to see my children as they demand
things from me over the course of that
week but we will get to that also I want
to just do one update on a story that we
had covered in in Vegas I interviewed a
woman who had who was running an
organization was seeking to her last
name escapes me already to extend a
Bridey ferrell and Bridey farrell has
been working on an organization called
new york loves kids which was advocating
for the passage of the child victims Act
in New York State prior to I think it
was signed maybe weeks ago prior two
weeks ago the statute of limitations in
New York State if you were sexually
assaulted as a child was somewhere
around 30 age 30 or so if you were or
known excuse me was 23 for both civil
and criminal punishment so if you turned
23 without bringing case against the
adult that assaulted you when you were a
child you had you had no other
opportunity now that's absurd anyone who
is a victim of of any type of sexual
assault will immediately understand how
difficult it is for people to bring
charges just broadly speaking but never
mind a child and to even become sort of
able to process the whole thing by the
time your age 23 is
I don't say virtually impossible but
extremely difficult and for 10 or 11
years this organization of attempting to
push this legislation but because of the
Republican dominance
I shouldn't say dominance but because
Republicans owned the Senate largely
because of the IDC four years that bill
could not pass which would extend the
length of the statute of limitations and
when the IDC was defeated last year this
bill progressed through the New York
Assembly and Senate and was signed by
Andrew Cuomo it is now the law of New
York State now you have until age I
think it's 30 35 or so to file criminal
charges if you're assaulted from
February of this year on as a child you
have until age 35 or so to file criminal
charges and I think 52 to bring civil
charges there is also a one year
grandfather for people who were sexually
assaulted as a child and the statute of
limitations had run out there's a
one-year period which I believe started
maybe March first where they can file
charges the update is a new victim has
gone public in the Jeffrey Epstein case
filing a sworn affidavit in federal
court in New York Tuesday saying that
she was sexually assaulted and her then
15 year old sister molested by Epstein
and his companion Giselle Lane Maxwell
in 1996 and I suspect
that this move we this is happening
because of that law I'm not 100% sure of
it but I believe so
the assault if it took she reporter
assault in New York police in 1996
documents were released April 1st make
reference to farmer having being
interviewed in 2006-2007 farmer now 49
said the FBI did not take any action
action against Epstein and Maxwell so
the statute of limitations I think I
think in this case are already having an
impact so just to give you an update on
the implications I don't know that we
ever mentioned when we said defeat the
IDC in New York State
whatever it was a year ago that anybody
had contemplated this but that's one of
the it's one of the implications of
defeating the IDC and having Democrats
control all branches of government in
New York State we will see others too
around the the country Republicans are
blocking tightening a vaccination laws
because at the end of the day they're a
little bit more anti-vaxxer than perhaps
on the Left certainly within the
certainly the Republican Party reflects
its most marginal views on the right
more so than the Democrats do that's
just the bottom line
could there be some financial ties there
as well it's conceivable but I don't
know what they would be I mean I don't
know I don't know how that would work
out I mean certainly the drug companies
want there to be more vax vacuums and I
don't think that we're at a point where
the opting out of vaccinations is
costing the drug companies a sufficient
amount they buy the immunizations from
the the US government purchases the
immunizations I would
imagine hospitals they all buy probably
the exact same amount but it doesn't bed
with big wellness right exactly
it doesn't make it doesn't just I don't
think economically it makes that much of
a difference the anti-vaccine movement
at this point in terms of the the bottom
line for the vaccination makers but it
only takes a few anti-vaxxers to begin
to undercut the effectiveness of the of
herd immunity as they call it oh yeah I
looked that up the other day because
apparently there is a measles outbreak
in South Williamsburg
that's why go through there on the
subway on my way to work because of the
I think it's the Hasidic community there
is a significant number of anti-vaxxers
in that community and it's highly
problematic that's why we heard last a
couple weeks ago there was one up in
Rockland County as well abra outbreak
and that was also from an orthodox
community up there and it must have
traveled down there religious reasons
for that or is that autism paranoia I
don't know I don't know I'm not aware of
any religious reasons why that would be
the case I got a very concerned phone
call from my mom about it right well I
mean I'm sure you're vaccinated but I
don't know what the efficacy of a
vaccination is I think it's pretty
pretty close to a hundred percent but
the issue is if you have a compromised
immunity system immune system or if you
are particularly old or particularly
young can be problematic yeah I look
this up actually they say that if you
know you've been exposed to it as an
adult even if you were vaccinated as a
kid you're supposed to get a booster
[Music]
folks the problem that keeps so many
businesses from knowing their numbers is
their hodgepodge of business systems oh
god do I know this we have a legacy
system on our membership and fans fans
is great the legacy system not so great
but migrating people over it's very
difficult
they have one system for accounting
and other for sales another for
inventory and so on it's just a big
inefficient mess that takes up too much
time and too many resources and that
hurts the bottom line introducing
NetSuite by Oracle it's the business
management software that handles every
aspect of your business and an easy to
use cloud platform that gives you the
visibility and control you need to grow
with NetSuite you save time money and
unneeded headaches those are all things
that I would love to save by managing
sales finance accounting orders and now
HR instantly right from your desktop or
phone that's why NetSuite is the world's
number one cloud business system and
right now NetSuite is offering you
valuable insights with a free guide
seven key strategies to grow your
profits , Michael sweet crust Chicago or
the comma Michael part I made up at
NetSuite dot-com slash majority that's
NetSuite dot-com slash majority to
download your free guide seven key
strategies to grow your profits
NetSuite comm slash majority also today
the majority port being supported by in
part at least by a simple habit you've
heard me talk about simple habit it's a
mobile app that provides a massive and
diverse library of five-minute guided
meditations the majority report audience
can try simple habit totally free for an
entire week when you go to simple habit
calm slash majority there's a lot of
evidence that touts the benefits of
meditating both anecdotal and frankly
data it's true I've had just about every
therapist I've been to and even my
doctor's now or my physical doctors
saying you really think you'd think
about even them they're just like Jesus
Christ dude yeah sit down
they have guided meditations for
mindfulness meditation for anxiety for
depression for when you're having
trouble falling asleep meditations when
you're wanting to overcome
procrastination or for when you have
something important going on at work
they have meditations designed for
parents so you could deal with your
children the meditations may dismiss as
typically for when you're waking up or
your lunch break any time of the day as
you know different people meditate for
different reasons simple habit is able
to cater to just about anyone regardless
of what their goals are with meditation
how much past experience they have with
meditation how intimidated they are by
meditating it's the variety of guided
meditations on simple habit is what sets
it apart and that's why simple habit one
the 2018 Google Play award for best
well-being app it's available on iOS
Android and web browser and the majority
port audience could try it for free for
a week by going to simple habit calm
slash majority if you're watching on
YouTube or if you're listening by the
podcast look in the show description I
guess below I don't know how you do that
with audio but below the player and we
have a link there all right let's
apropos of our of our guest who's coming
on in just a moment to talk about a guy
named Wendell Primus who may very well
be one of the largest impediments to
Medicare for all
in the Congress today the Republican
Party is a big part of it now I guess
May I should say the house but here is
Fox News doing triage I am quite
convinced that this segment would not
have happened but for the really from
the Fox News perspective from the
president's perspective from the
perspective of anyone who was against
single-payer health care from the
perspective of people of the people who
are desperate to not have Bernie Sanders
be the Democratic nominee and
potentially the president United States
from all of those people's perspective
the Fox Town Hall was a bit of a
disaster for them now there's a little
bit of controversy about Bernie
and Android yang and I think pooted
Budig edge is going on buddha judge is
going on shortly about ten years ago
there was a concerted effort to make to
to convince Democratic politicians not
to go on Fox because you did not want to
validate their propaganda operation at
some type of news organization but there
was a feeling that if you were to go on
you want to undercut their message and
very few people are capable doing that
guy Bregman who he had on Rutger Bregman
did it very well
of course he ended up getting bumped and
but was able to release this stuff you
want more examples of Donald Trump
having you know issues with what
happened on Fox at first he was sort of
like yeah you know and then he started
to get started to seep in that it was
really problematic for him and he was on
Twitter
raging last night many Trump fans and
signs were outside of the Fox News
Studios last night and now thriving
Thank You President Trump speaking goes
of Bethlehem Pennsylvania for the
interview with crazy Bernie Sanders big
complaints about not being let in stuff
with Bernie supporters what's with Fox
News I believe will be crazy Bernie
Sanders versus the sleepy Joe Biden as
the two finalists to run against the
best economy in the history of our
country and many other great things I
look forward to facing whoever me may
God rest their souls whoa that his name
for Joe Biden now sleepy he's just
saying may god rest her soul
I don't know I'm just throwing stuff out
there just a debate Fox is in triage
they need emotional care for him as well
and and the White House must be aware of
this I mean this is an all-hands-on-deck
moment when you send at this stage right
now because you want to pert you this is
not when they wanted to roll her out
the Trump appointed bureaucrat in charge
of Medicare and Medicaid in the Trump
administration and they're bringing her
out now this is way early for this way
early much earlier than you would have
wanted to and they actually sit her down
with with kilmeade Brian Kilmeade
rather Medicare expert yeah their
Medicare experts the administrator for
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services administrator Seymour Verma
thanks so much for joining us so all
this talk about Medicare for all really
hits your office specifically can that
work well I've been saying that Medicare
for all is the biggest threat to the
American healthcare system what we're
talking about is stripping people of
their private health insurance forcing
them into a government-run program so
this is a bureaucracy that's gonna be
making decisions about everybody's
health care what kind of benefits that
they can have what kind of medications
that they can have access to and if we
look at other socialized countries that
have tried this approach what do we see
their long wait times poor quality
health care and that's why those people
are flying to the United States to get
their health care people say wow I'm a
senior I like that I like Medicare it's
working for me so why not give it to
everybody well look as a head of the
program I can tell you that Medicare is
a sacred promise that we have made to
the American people they have paid their
entire lives
into this program and now we're talking
about putting millions of people into a
program that was designed specifically
for them and what that's going to mean
is that they're gonna have to compete to
get care that's putting them in line for
their care and I don't think that's fair
and they're and the reality is we're
having problems today paying for the
Medicare program and the trustees have
warned about the solvency so just adding
more people the program is just gonna
exacerbate it right this is roughly what
his plan looks like let's pause it for
one second it will exacerbate it if
there is no more funding but no one has
proposed no more funding obviously if
anything it will expand the services for
medic
and it will put it on more solid
financial footing
because of the dedicated resources to
the entire program an exacerbated right
this is roughly what his plan looks like
let's just take a fullscreen to this
transition us to a single-payer system
over four years no premiums deductibles
only minimal co-pays cost estimate 28 to
32 trillion dollars and he claims that
$28,000 is now spent for a family of
four for health care and that 32
children would be over ten years how
does that look
well essentially what this is is he's
saying we're gonna essentially just move
all of these costs to the government but
that just means higher and massive taxes
for the American people well again it is
yes higher taxes and Bernie already led
with that so they're really having a
tough time figuring this out now
Donald Trump is uh was reporting the
other day's spending a ton of money on
Facebook Facebook Ads geared towards old
folks on Facebook and this is gonna be
what they're gonna try and motivate
they're going to say that Medicare for
all is going to ruin your Medicare now
Seema Verma of course was a formerly a
health care consultant to States
teaching them how to get around Medicaid
implicate implementation and how to set
it up in such a way that you could get a
waiver from the from the government so
that you could actually continue to
increase the the profits of private
insurance invisible to the public I
wrote in D the indie star FEMA's work
has included the design of the healthy
Indiana plan a consumer driven insurance
program for low-income Hoosiers it's now
being touted nationally as an
alternative to Obamacare in all via and
her small confirm and consulting firm
has received more than three point five
million dollars in state contracts at
the same time Vemma has worked for one
of the state's largest Medicaid vendors
a division of Silicon Valley diet tech
Hulett Packard that company agreed to
pay Vemma more than 1 million dollars
and has landed more than 500 million
dollar in state contracts ha imagine
that synergy synergy during your tenure
as Indiana's go-to healthcare consultant
I wonder who it was that brought her to
the White House Mike Pence and and and
because you know why because she
understands how you can both make money
and make money as long as you're taking
it from both the that's what is known as
a pile of public-private partnership and
it all ends up in her pocket the problem
of bureaucrats is they can't take a cut
like that that's right but I'm sure
she's gonna I'm sure it's gonna enhance
her consulting business when she's done
with this alright folks we got to take a
quick break when we come back David
Dayton
[Music]
you
you're back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen our next
guest has written for every major
worthwhile publication in the country if
he has not then you know it is not a
worthwhile publication he is also when a
Dave ladies and gentlemen David daen
David welcome back to the bank you and I
are you so wait I know I know I was late
I was late I apologize I was trying to
set up this piece but I should also say
author of chain of title which some
consider one of the best books on the
mortgage crisis that is out there so if
you want to know if you have not read
China chain of title you don't know
about the mortgage crisis ladies and
gentlemen I thank you and I should also
say
this is public knowledge right I mean
yeah that David daen is just weeks away
of officially taking the the title of
what editor in chief executive editor of
The American Prospect available on the
web at Prospect org this is a very
exciting I'm very excited about it long
overdue
I mean not necessarily with with the
American Prospect but it was long
overdue for for you to get a role like
this but so David let's talk about the
piece that you wrote in the intercept
last week about Wendell Primus Wendell
Primus first came to my attention I
think well maybe I had heard his name a
while back but most recently he was
caught on tape basically telling a
roomful of insurers don't worry about
Medicare for all yeah in fact he is he's
this was almost kind of a road show that
he has done not just to insurance
lobbyist but to healthcare researchers I
found a very obscure video of him at a
healthcare conference in Irvine
California where he was making the same
point
essentially downplaying medicare-for-all
saying the house leadership the
Democratic leadership would not support
it that they would go instead to try to
make improvements to the Affordable Care
Act and this is one of sort of many
areas which Primus who is the lead
health policy adviser to Nancy Pelosi is
one of many areas where he has differed
with progressives on these issues and
that was I mean that is why we're
talking about him is because of his
central role in the I mean and we don't
think we're talking about them I think
we're talking about because it spilled
into public view I mean you don't near
normally hear about a staffer in
Congress I mean that that's very unusual
that a a member of Congress would refer
to a staffer at by name and and and and
in a pejorative sense and and saying
that they oppose this staffers ideas I
mean that just doesn't happen but
Wendell Primus who has been around for
quite a long time is you know somebody
told me the term member staffer that
they've been around so long and
accumulated so much power and has has
been given so much power by the speaker
that he's almost this unelected voice
shaping the direction of democratic
policy particularly on health care which
as we all know is a huge issue for many
progressives okay so I mean I've got I
got so many questions to ask you about
this but I want to just set the table
get a sense of who he is and and then
you know sort of what the broader
implications are of this but before we
go specifically to his history
do we like understand the what do you
have a sense of what the relationship is
between Pelosi and Primus like does he
is he reflective of what she wants to do
or is he driving the agenda like how
does
work well we can go by her public
statement so in a town hall meeting in
2013 she said and I'm quoting on health
policy what does Wendell think is what
we say all the time about this issue so
there's no question that Wendell Primus
is empowered by the speaker to speak on
her behalf to make policy on her behalf
on these particular issues around
healthcare and also around deficits
actually is very involved in that issue
as well and so we shouldn't see any
distance between Wendell Primus and and
Nancy Pelosi I think that that actually
it's kind of a failing on the part of
house progressives that they kind of
divorced the two right they say we have
a problem with what Wendell Primus is
saying but not not Pelosi that they are
aligned I mean they are they are
completely in step I'm taking them at
their word that that when Wendell Primus
talks it might as well be Nancy Pelosi
talking on these particular issues do
you think and again we'll get to who
when the Primus is because he's also his
history is also sort of fascinating and
instructive I think about what is sort
of like a a generational divide here but
do you think that do you think that it's
there is a reason why we are talking
about Wendell Primus why other members
like mark Pocan who's quoted in your
piece are talking about Wendell Primus
as opposed to Nancy Pelosi in other
words is it conceivable that this
there's a sort of a good cop bad cop
quality that's going on here is there a
conscious decision to sort of make this
like oh this is like a sort of at arm's
length from me or is it is it opponents
of Pelosi are using this opportunity to
not knock her directly but rather to say
I'm
Hakan Primus so that she just gets the
message or what right I mean I think
it's easier for members to in this case
go after a staffer rather than the
Speaker of the House who you know any
member needs the the support or at least
a working relationship with the Speaker
of the House they want to get their
legislation onto the floor and passed so
it's difficult to overtly criticize the
speaker right but it's easier to
criticize the speaker's staffer for
speaking out of turn or whatever you
want to say I think it's a bit of a
cop-out but you know in context you you
understand it to a degree that that this
is a way to express disappointment or
dissatisfaction with the direction of
the leadership's policies on
particularly around health care without
overtly attacking the speaker but you
know my view is that there's there's
just not a lot of distance right there
between Primus and Pelosi all right so
let's circle back around to to Pelosi
but let's just take this little detour
through a wendell premises history
because it really is fascinating this is
a guy who in 1996 in response to Bill
Clinton's welfare reform bill resigns in
protest like that's correct like just
even saying those words resigns in
protests never mind for something that I
agree with there's something that's
virtually unheard of it seems like in
politics I guess it's a very principled
position that that you do not see every
day as you said at the time Primus was
working in the Department of Health and
Human Services so he was he was on the
Clinton administration staff and and
when President Clinton said he would
sign the welfare reform bill promised
very overtly and and you know in a
public letter said I cannot remain here
I did this analysis I think children
would be
hurt by your welfare reform bill and and
I cannot stay and and I cannot disown
that analysis regarding the impact of
the bill and and and I'm going to
publicly resign now five years later now
wait a second let me just say this to
put a fine point on this this is like
the type of a guy like I will I would
have a poster of this guy in my you know
in my apartment back in the day right I
mean it's like you know now I want to
say two things about it though
first of all five years later Primus
pops up in the New York Times after
there were studies showing that the
impact of welfare reform was was not as
acute at least at that time which was
during a boom I mean you know some
ninety six 2001 is not sort of a stress
test inside
yeah well he's I guess six or seven
years away from like finding out that oh
wait a second maybe I should have
doesn't work right but but in 2001 he
tells New York Times welfare reform is
working better than I thought it were
would and whatever we'd been doing over
the last five years we ought to keep
going so a little bit too credulous
there it doesn't discount his you know
principal resignation but it adds some
context the the second thing is that you
know what was he actually doing here the
the the the fight over well for welfare
reform to someone like Primus who is
indicative of a lot of liberals in his
generation who were beaten down by the
Reagan Revolution and whose goal in
public policy is to just sort of hang on
to whatever scraps of the welfare state
were still left after the ravages of
Reaganism I mean that is his MO and it
was as mo in 1996 when he did this
resignation and it's his MO today he he
is someone who thinks that what you do
as a lefty is defend what we have now
from right-wing assault and never expand
anything because if the America can't do
he believes there are limits and
constraints to progressive policy and
that the best we can do is make sure
food stamps are paid for and make sure
LIHEAP is paid for and and and things
like that rather than transform the
system and and so in and to be clear
this is a different story than god I
can't remember the guy who went around
and twisted arms for Medicare deed and
the Republicans who was the head of that
play not delay but the guy who was head
of the committee and literally was
negotiating with an insurance company at
that time his name escapes me
I want Billy yes he was Billy Tauzin
right exactly
and yes well he was literally ended up
becoming the head of arm a pharma and he
was negotiating for that job while he
was developing Medicare Part D which was
the drug now he would come he was a
member not a that right but but but I'm
sure there are examples of staffers who
do that type of thing to where it's just
completely I'm going to leverage this as
a job in the private sector is this I
mean this isn't that type of story is it
yeah I mean Primus is not a neoliberal
right he's not a clintonites he is not
someone who is is really out to reduce
the welfare state in meaningful ways
right he he is sort of a Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities where he
worked for a time in between the Clinton
administration Pelosi where the
Brookings Institution there's there's a
type of liberal that's just sort of a
beaten-down
role I I say the last of the loser
liberals in the piece who just wants to
hang on to these little scraps of the
welfare state and can't conceive of
government doing anything more ambitious
than that and this is useful sometimes
when you know I mean Primus clashed with
rahm emanuel during the the affordable
care act debates
and we remember that Pelosi was the one
who said after Scott Brown defeated
Martha Coakley in the seat for Kennedy
Senate seat and Democrats suddenly lost
the 60-vote majority in the Senate
you know Pelosi was the one saying we
have to keep going we have to keep going
and Primus was aligned with that right
whereas rahm emanuel was saying we
should cut back and just go for
something you know call it call it the
the ACA but let's just do right so
they're useful I mean what Dean Baker
was a progressive economist I'm sure
you've had on the show yes has what he
said to me for this piece is that you
know they are are they do great work
between the 40-yard lines right
when when something might be cut there
they're there to tell you why it's
important and it's good and useful but
it's never going to get you into the end
zone it's it's never going to change the
game they're they just don't they have a
very narrow mindset on policy debates
and Primus exemplifies that and I think
that's clear in how he's talked about
medicare-for-all I think it's clear in
something that's that's I go into detail
with in the piece which is this question
of drug price legislation that Primus is
spearheading going against a more
aggressive solution put forward by House
Democrats and cummock trying to come up
with something that the Trump
administration can sign which seems a
little cramped it's just their mindset
they're they're beaten down by the
Reagan Revolution there's a there's a
historical context to it they grew up
seeing all of these things go away and
and they built this sort of defensive
Crouch let's just protect what we have
let's not make trouble and and and and
let's move forward and so okay and so we
we have the
this is obviously this is a problem
because this problem now because we have
a new crop a new generation of Democrats
who have much broader policy ambitions
animated by the fact that the last 40
years of this defensive Crouch has not
worked right I mean we we have soaring
income inequality we have 30 million
people uninsured we have many more
underinsured
we have stagnant wages that we've had
for the last 40 years people think the
status quo and just protecting what we
have is not good enough particularly the
new group of Democrats on the left and
now instead of aligning with a wendell
primus to fight clean lights that they
are they're an open competition with the
Windell primus over the future of
liberal policymaking
now I really I I really want to limit
this to this conversation to Pelosi in
in the house but although you know
there's obviously like a apparent a
parallel fight happening you know in the
context of the presidential election
with Bernie and cap and I don't want to
get into that because I need to save
that for tomorrow but but like what what
is going on wait mean what like what is
going on here with that fight because
Pelosi is out there making a real show
right this is not like oh she said
something offhand and people are blowing
it up there's been a consistent drumbeat
from her to attack this new generation
that is you know led by half a dozen
Democratic women frankly who are
freshmen at least in in the in the
public perspective but what is going on
with that like what what what what is
the theory here with wire
they why are they being attacked when it
was a completely different faction that
was literally trying to take her out in
fact it seems to me that that incoming
freshman the the more progressive ones
were the ones who ultimately sort of
like shored up her support what is going
on is this is this for show is this for
the protection of some of these blue
dogs who won in you know you know in in
2018 where you had like a lot of purple
districts turn you know
Democrat one in purple districts like
what's going on right I mean I don't
think it's perfume I think part of it is
protection of the the new Democrat blue
dog purple state freshman members who
represent the margin of the House
Majority but I also think it plays back
into this situation with Wendell Primus
who views house progressives as people
who leadership needs to be protected
from right the this idea that these that
that progressive ideas must be shunned
because the best you can do in public
policymaking is is just protect and
defend the status quo and that it you
know we we hear about this this sort of
concept that Republicans cater to their
base and Democrats ignored their base or
one fears their base and one doesn't
right and that's I think what this is
about right it's it's Pelosi who's comes
from the old guard Primus comes from the
old guard of thinking that fears moving
a you know an inch down the the the
football field on on these various
policies
and it's almost a fear of governing in
some ways or at least meeting the
political moment they're there their
particular beliefs about policy have not
been updated to match the political
moment
I mean Pelosi is still you know
petrified of the deficit she did
behavior last year on the floor of the
house praising Pete Peterson who was was
this millionaire billionaire that's you
know devoted the end of his life to
trying to cut Social Security yes she
gave here's a celebratory address on the
floor of the house for him at Primus is
at the center of those debates by the
way he constantly talks about the
deficit he was deeply involved in
ensuring that there was a provision
in the house rules that says you you
can't put a new program up unless you
offset it somewhere else in the budget
it this this is a mindset this is a
worldview and and progressives of the
modern era of these these new freshmen
represent a threat to that worldview and
there whether it's sincere that a
sincere disagreement over policy or a
fear about the political ramifications
either way the the functionally it's the
same right right
I mean functionally it that's how it
manifests itself in this tension that
you're seeing right now within the house
caucus okay so the I leaves me with two
questions but probably more one is do
they okay so they're they're stuck in a
in a specific mindset right that is that
that the Democrats have been trapped in
I mean you know back when people were
really debating whether you know we
could call ourselves liberal or
progressive
right nobody was identifying as a
Democratic Socialist we're you know
Bernie would the the most media Bernie
would get would be coming on air America
frankly it may be occasionally Democracy
Now the these people are stuck in this
mindset do does it inhibit their ability
to also wage politics in this era in
other words like the the same sort of
fear that they're driven by that makes
them sort of ineffectual in many
respects and and and not up to the
moment and this is something that we
complained about you know you and I
could have had this conversation in 2006
right in 2005 we probably did about how
Democrats were not being strong enough
in the face of of Republicans that they
were afraid of their own shadow that
they had learned the wrong lessons that
they they keep trying the same thing and
it keeps failing you know now of course
we have another you know decade-plus
worth of evidence to this effect but
does there this mindset also inhibit
their ability to win this internal
battle I mean I think it's at odds with
a growing set of the caucus and and
maybe the best way to answer that is
with something concrete and it's around
this con this whole controversy on drug
price so last year lloyd doggett who's a
progressive who is now the chair of the
Subcommittee on health at the House Ways
and Means Committee he put together
legislation allowing for direct
negotiation of drug prices in Medicare
with the pharmaceutical companies which
is banned right now per that 2002
legislation we were talking about
earlier and and what he said is you know
my
bill has direct negotiation and if they
can't come to an agreement the the
government can commit compulsory
licenses of these drugs that and and
give them the manufacturers so that they
can set you know make a generic version
that will compete and and and that's
sort of the whip hand for the government
to say okay if you don't want to
negotiate with us
we'll just take your license and and
we'll pull will put put a generic
version on the market so Primus
apparently agreed with that for a little
while and then when Democrats got the
majority he changed and he went with a
new concept that is involves third-party
arbitration so the drug companies will
put a price up for and this is only for
certain drugs drug companies will put a
price up Medicare will put a price up
and the arbitrator will choose one or
the other that's his new plan and it
undermined this work that Doggett had
been doing for a year getting a hundred
and twenty two co-sponsors in the House
of Representatives on his bill so now
there's this open warfare between some
processes has gone through for a year
with outside groups and people within
the Progressive Caucus and and and among
House Democrats and window prime
minister kind of big-footed in and said
no what we want to do is this
arbitration and I'm gonna work directly
with the Trump administration to try to
find a bill that they would support so I
mean right there you see sort of how
this will how this affects policy and
how this in some ways inhibits policy
because now you have this this huge
fight among within the caucus on
something that both parties have said
they want to do which is lower drug
prices and you know I I have another
follow-up piece to that coming out very
shortly that I
think I want scoot myself on but there
are other implications of this that in
involve stakeholder industries and how
Democrats are aligning
I mean Primus the Primus Pelosi faction
is aligning with stakeholders in this
fight so where does that all I can say
on that well where does what where does
the I mean surely the leadership of the
Democrats in the house must realize that
they won on health care right and that
they're going to need an issue going
into 2020 and are they just aren't
thinking that like it'll be enough to
say we're going to we're gonna
marginally help Obamacare get better I
mean is that going to be the pitch I
mean that is we're one around the edges
like we have you need somebody to nibble
around the edges of Obamacare where your
party this is what they're pushing I
mean they're saying we want I mean the
legislation they rolled out earlier this
year is for marginal improvements to the
ACA on this drug pricing thing they want
a solution that pharmaceutical companies
and lobbyists appeared to be more
comfortable with this arbitration idea
rather than compulsory licensing on
everything on health policy which as you
correctly suggest is what one Democrats
backed the house they have you know
sought the incremental option over the
wider range it's Thomas it's the module
that's what we're gonna offer them the
marginally better deal I am the
marginally better deal and you know it's
maybe maybe 10 years ago that that
actually you know I mean that that's
kind of what the ACA was right so it
kind of made sense because it was the
the center of gravity in the house was
closer through that that that idea but
but it's a new generation and and that
there just aren't you know there are a
lot of House Democrats that just aren't
on board we
does go along to get along approach okay
so let's I mean give me I want a really
clear died vision of how much of this is
a new generation how much of it is
pre-existing members of Congress who are
more to the left but but but a certain
sort of subset of of New Democrats are
just they're dispositional II their ID
maybe they're ideologically similar
maybe to a little bit to the left but
they're dispositional II much more
aggressive and much more convinced you
know much more bold I guess really for
lack of a better term and so how much of
that like give me a sense of how what
the dynamic is there right because you
know a guy like Pocan has been in there
for a while right and and mmin you know
guys like Jim McGovern have been in
there for a while but it's unclear to me
like where a guy like Jim McGovern who
is saying like yeah they don't worry
about the pay-go as much because it's
just you know it's just to provide cover
we can always get a waiver like you know
he's clearly I think his politics are in
the right place but I wonder if his sort
of like disposition for lack of a better
term is in the right place and to the
extent that there's that dynamic between
these these two different groups
is there anybody emerging as a potential
like a legitimate potential leader and
you know I know like people listening
this audience was saying well you know
AOC but I'm talking about somebody who
has enough experience and enough
relationships in there to sort of like
lock in a vote but also is you know
progressive well I mean first of all
pokin mark Pocan has only been in the
house since 2013 so not super long and
and the same dresser / millage aidable
and who I think tat 2016 maybe is when
she got elected and and though
to this year became the co-chairs of the
Progressive Caucus and a lot of this
reflects that change over so prior to
this you know keith Ellison was a
depressive caucus Raul Grijalva had a
leadership position there lynn woolsey
even going further back at a leadership
position and uh I I don't think I'm
speaking too out of turn here by saying
that the old guard of the progressive
caucus wasn't didn't didn't have a
terribly strategic mindset in terms of
trying to advance their interests
Manasseh gressive with leadership they
weren't as aggressive with their own
members I mean you know and even to this
day there are members of the progressive
caucus who are also in the New Democrat
coalition which is kind of crazy but
Pocan and jayapal have taken a somewhat
harder line you saw this last week when
Democrats tried to pass a budget
resolution that would have given more
money to defense spending than domestic
spending and progressives led by pokken
and Jaya Paul said no we want parity
between those two buckets of spending
and we're going to block this bill on
the floor if you bring it up and
ultimately they had to scuttle that vote
because if they would have put parity on
the floor the New Democrats probably
would have blocked a bill on the floor
so the the larger point is that there is
a divide in the party uh there are two
to almost equally robust factions the
New Democrats and the Progressive Caucus
who are at odds on they have sincere
disagreements on on policy and can you
quantify that like how many are we
talking about in terms of like actual
numbers
I think the Progressive Caucus is
something between 90 and 95 members and
the new Democratic caucus is something
between 90 and 95 members well I mean
you're talking about almost the entire
caucus in one of those two coalition's
so and yeah so when we hear when we hear
the d-triple-c
come out a couple weeks ago and say
right if you in any way as a vendor
right if you're someone who is a
campaign consultant or you're somebody
who like I make signs for for
congressional campaigns or I do
fundraising for congressional campaigns
or I do media buys for congressional
campaigns if you are one of those
contractors and you work for someone who
is a challenger in a primary you will
get cut off from being able to get any
general election gigs from the
d-triple-c which is like basically I
don't know I'm trying to think of what
the equivalent is it's like you know if
you Sam if you go on any of the you know
if you go on any podcast we're not gonna
let you go on you know you know go on
radio or something like that you know I
mean to the extent that there's any way
anything about that is to what degree is
that just incumbency protection which is
all the d-triple-c is anyway right
answer what degree is that ideological
like are they going to blackball a
vendor who works with a potential
primary challenger to receipt it to leap
right which which is likely because she
is a palestinian-american
who represents a largely
african-american community and in fact
there was a sort of a split between
votes for several different
african-americans in that primary that
was the race to succeed John Conyers and
that's why to lead came on top she got a
plurality but not a majority of votes
and if
african-american Democrat went against
her they would at least have a fighting
chance of winning that primary so is the
d-triple-c you're going to hold to that
it would would they blackballed someone
who worked with a challenger to
Rasheed's lead Morel Haan Omar RA OC or
is this just about progressive
challenges to incumbent centrist
Democrats so that's the question that
remains sort of to be answered but you
know once again there there's this
survive and leadership is is clearly on
the side of the more centrist faction of
that divide and it's led by Wendell
Primus who has this sort of reputation
as a liberal lion but it comes out of a
very narrow world view of what it means
to be a liberal so that that's the best
way I can describe when you talk to some
on the on the more progressive side do
they is I mean how pointed is this where
are we in the understanding of this
dynamic amongst House members and what
are they talking about as what's the
next step I mean is there because you're
telling me that they're a little this
leadership is a little bit more
strategic so they must have assessed
this problem and their plan is to do XY
and Z over how long well I mean it
starts with the fact that I'm able to
get quotes on the record about a staffer
to Nancy Pelosi I mean that the the
unprecedented nature of that is it
should be should be understood by by by
everybody I mean mark DeSaulnier who's a
member of the progressive talk is
representative out here in California
said on the record you know there are
some people on staffs who start to think
that they have to protect democracy from
elected officials I mean that's a pretty
that's a pretty
start statement that he was he was
making about about the role of of these
member staffers who sort of get too big
for their britches so I think I think
being open about this controversy is is
a first step to say that there's a
debate here there there's a divide here
there there are people who are
frustrating progress and here's who they
are that that you know that's that's a
first step now obviously Pelosi is which
people somewhat I think don't remember
closely his term limited now she cannot
seek another term beyond I believe 2022
as Speaker of the House
so obviously there's going to be a lot
of factional fighting over who will
succeed Nancy Pelosi but you know
certainly that can be an area where this
divided ten can be managed in some way I
know that that there's this thought that
Hakeem Jeffries is being groomed to be
the next Speaker of the House because he
he took the position that Joe Crowley
had before a OSI defeated him uh I that
someone like a jayapala or Pocan has
designs on perhaps becoming speaker and
and using their support within the press
of caucus do that you know we're a
couple elections away from having
ultimately to see what that decision is
going to be but what happens in 2020 on
the I'm a presidential side who is the
leader acknowledged of the party by by
the vote of the people is going to play
a role in that and and you know these
these things will play out but but the
fact that this is so out in the open is
a departure from I think the strategy of
previous years David Dean always
always I learned something from you and
I appreciate it the the piece is Wendell
Primus the most powerful staffer in
Congress represents a general divided
generational divide on the Left we will
link to that at majority dot F M and
we'll also link to the American Prospect
folks go there sign up subscribe to The
American Prospect it's a great deal
that's about to become an even greater
deal because of its new executive editor
so let me just say that let me just make
my little pitch that we have very
exciting plans for the future of the
prospects more issues per year more
writers more content on the website on a
daily basis being part of this really
what did you do to your from the logical
divide in the party me yeah you
something you just walked away from your
phone or something did I know I'm here
can you hear me yeah now we can ok the
pitch again uh so you know I mean we
have a lot of exciting plans at the
prospects more content more more issues
of the magazine more of an impact on the
web more writers and really dispensing
opportunity to be a part of this this
ideological debate on the left and both
a policy and political debates and we
are excited about the future of the
magazine are in a good position to be
part of that debate and yes we we really
covet and and and and require the
support of readers to make sure we can
we can continue to bring you this work
so if you you know are someone who reads
me this is where I'm going to be and we
we need your support and and June 1st is
when it all kick off all right we'll put
a link to to both those things David day
and always a pleasure thanks man thanks
so now we are set up just to gotten one
part of what's going on in the political
scene on the from the center to the left
and we'll get a little more that
tomorrow and that is that that is the
you know one of the big stories no of
course tomorrow
the the Muller report supposedly is
going to be released it's going to be
heavily redacted I don't know if you're
gonna be able to read any of it not
clear who it's being released to know if
it's gonna be released to the general
public it's gonna be sent to Congress
and then but isn't it's gonna be
generally released do we even know I
have no idea
good a fully exonerated the Patriots for
the exaggerated knock that's actually
that's a I if we have a lot of people
who run organizations listen to this
program and if someone does not have not
exonerated com
Ono or letter yet fully exonerated com
oh you should also get on that you know
right exactly
Toto witch-hunt at like we turned out
gov that would be actually great
this is gonna rename the DOJ yeah don't
give far any idea folks just a reminder
you can support this program by going to
join the majority report com join the
majority report calm when you become a
member of the program you support daily
content like this the program we just
had today and as a way of saying thank
you we give you access to all the fun
half and you can carry it around as a
podcast so check it out join the
majority of port comm as always if you
cannot afford it we do not allow
finances to become a bar to entry send
us an email at majority reporters at
gmail.com
we will work something out with you also
Jess coffee co-op check it out 30% off
this month you don't even need to use
the coupon code majority and for members
you can always go and check out the the
podcast listening on itunes to get a
write-up of what the what deals we may
have for you from our advertisers so you
can check it out there Michael last
night was Tuesday presumably though I
have to say it was sort of clean in here
today it's almost like did you guys do
the show it was almost like a typical
Tuesday where we clean everything up
almost we usually take out the garbage
okay
recycling yeah but we recorded ourselves
doing it and made it patron condoms yeah
the cleanup patron foetus got that the
TPMS crew cleans up the mms some people
are into that people are sick that's
awesome all right the great the Don
Richard Wolffe joined us and we talked
about Gramsci hegemony got his thoughts
on ubi
I did a history of the Third Way and the
conspiracy against Bernie but why the
Third Way project is done and of course
a whole bunch of other you know global
and economic content the stuff you
always get from TM BS patreon.com slash
T MBS this Sunday an illicit history of
Deutsche Bank that actually does
indirectly connect the Hitler the Nazi
money trail to loans to Donald Trump
with Corey pine it's pretty fascinating
disturbing stuff patreon.com slash T MBS
Michael Brooks show on YouTube thanks to
our first forty thousand subs on YouTube
and of course there are a few left to
the Saturday bootleg theater in LA our
second live show with Ana Kasparian
big waz and Nando viola yesterday I
think you're trying to say booty judge
the Buddha judge theater Maria tell
Jamie this week on the anti Fattah we
took a little field trip to the biennial
blast that is the historical materialism
conference and we took the opportunity
to interview some very exciting very
famous leftists kind of on the fly at
parties in the hallway
gonzo styles so we've got just a little
sampling here I won't say them all we've
got George - Carrillo Mar on the coup
and Venezuela
we've got jasper burns on communist a
ssin Michelle O'Brien of the trans oral
history project on abolishing the
bourgeois family
Virgil Texas clear some things up about
what his political tendency is and much
much more
I also feel like I should plug this show
that I'm a part of cuz pretty excited
about it
Katie Halper and struggle session are
doing a joint live show at Littlefield
in Brooklyn
Friday May 10th and I'm gonna be a guest
along with Jake Flores and Matt Taibbi
so it should be pretty cool nice where
his little Kiwanis what's right it's
like writer it's it's pretty close to
the bell house okay yeah yeah cool
that's awesome I know that spot Matt
literary hangover if you haven't checked
out the Oscar Wilde episode I mean
pretty much everybody has but if you
haven't check it out everybody's check
on Saturday looking back on the war in
Spain by George Orwell an essay where
you sort of see some of the early
concepts that you might recognize in
1984 like two plus two equals five
Orwell says the one problem with
totalitarian lies is that you can't lie
have lies inner interfere with military
industrial you need to know what reality
is so that's a tension there and also
why Orwell says the workers though they
aren't international in sympathy often
are the best long-term resistance
against fascism that sounds very
interesting a lot of history coming back
all right folks
take quick break see you in the funny
you
you
that's right it's the fun half ladies
and gentlemen the fun half Wow he looks
bad there yeah there's there's a picture
I'll just try to find it where he is
upper body looks like a hot air balloon
there's something that looks really
strange about about him there it's the
bottom half of his face yeah it looks
like his like he had like some type of
operation like his whole neck was his
whole 2nd neck was taken out Hans really
stressing me out is this is this the his
Ilhan I mean to be honest I'm surprised
he's saying anything else but talking
about it Ilan Omar to be honest with you
right because she's got she she is like
the trifecta for him a woman a Muslim
and a person of color nailed it
and she's like would definitely kneel if
there was a she was a football player
there's no doubt about it here he is on
it's also sort of strange that he's on
local news he's out in full campaign
mode here he is trying to turn the
Minnesota red come on Minnesota channel
5 in in Minnesota KSTP
TV interview here it is come on Omar
sent out a release last night saying
that your tweet from a couple of days
ago has led to direct threats on her
life any second thoughts about that
tweet and the way it was produced and
put together no not at all look he's
been very disrespectful to this country
she's been very disrespectful frankly to
Israel
she is somebody that doesn't really
understand I think life real life what
it's all about
it's unfortunate she's got a way about
her that's very very bad I think for our
country I think she's extremely
unpatriotic and extremely disrespectful
to our country one final question
Thursday it sounds like the redacted
multi positive for one second understand
he is responding to her claim that she
is getting death threats
she is a congresswoman the United States
in the wake of his tweet she is getting
death threats and his response is to
blow all the way past that something
weird about her um he season this is
excitement
sort of wobbling down just besides
incitement sort of justified I'd have to
say I could justified this is the I mean
I'm certainly the word I'm gonna use I
don't understand any other word you
could use other than incitement that is
so disgusting on multiple levels down by
the way to somebody who has worked their
way from being a refugee to a
congressperson it doesn't whole life by
a trust-fund baby real estate scam
artist that she doesn't understand life
I mean I I think I I think that the the
there's got to be a more aggressive
stance by folks like Pelosi and Schumer
for this type of stuff I mean it's just
I just don't really hold a door for that
by going to AIPAC that they haven't
properly guarded her Steny Hoyer was on
the continuum Frank has what Trump said
Pelosi there wasn't show playing the
middle and so Schumer absolutely it's
disgusting yep they I mean they really
they really have to get out in front of
this and it's too late because they were
well I should say they did get out in
front of it and they opened the door to
a lot of this and made it very very easy
and you know that's the other part of
the conversation we were having with day
and today is this there are sort of like
some
or generic but now old-school Democratic
issues that are inhibiting their success
but then there's this whole other sort
of subset of like of of where support
for Israel comes in and the just
Islamophobia and exploiting that it's
it's very problematic however remember
the pipe bomb guy from just a couple of
months ago as what right however if you
want to bring in a voice of reason in
this question about Ilan Omar who better
than the former felon who used one of
the apartments set aside for rescue
workers down at the 9/11 site to
maintain an affair with was it was it
who did he have the affair with I can't
remember who he did and Bernie Kerik a
man of a complete lack of of ethics and
morals and credibility do you have
Judith Regan but did he was he the one
who had it would you with Regan I was
confused between who Giuliani had his
affairs with and who Carrick had his
affairs was the opening line of a 2004
in New York Times story during his use
of the apartment mr. Carrick and Judith
Regan engaged in an extramarital affair
there according to someone look that is
called commitment to your job commitment
to your job I don't want to leave the
9/11 site and so I'm going to have my
affairs here guys see if everything's
safe for the workers so thank you
if you don't have an affair in your 9/11
apartment you're basically letting the
terrorists win now to be fair to
character he got out of jail by becoming
a I think he was working with Giuliani
maybe still does
by becoming a consultant to some of the
worst autocratic regimes and oppressive
regimes around the world ostensibly to
protect their national security so who
better than to have on Sean Hannity's
program the other night to talk about
ill on Omar look I lost 23 people that
work for me
we lost 400 first responders and close
to 1,700 people that were in the
building unbelievable and and the way I
showed them my proper respect was to
engage in my affair down at the site
because I wanted like I say I wanted to
be there I wanted them to see all of it
I wanted to see all of it go ahead and
so you hear anti-semitic comments then
they comment really struck by what she
said about all the way they say al Qaeda
ha ha no no we're here here's the issue
Shawn she's infatuated with al Qaeda
with Hamas Hezbollah she was at care at
a fundraiser she was the keynote speaker
at a fundraiser for care which according
to the United Arab Emirates and Arab
nation they are a terrorist organization
they're also the Newlin dieted
co-conspirator in the homeland and a
number of in the what homeland case the
homeland case so Bernie Kerik just sort
of picking up the mantle maybe not quite
as incendiary as the president of course
then when the president says this stuff
it's just a matter of time right before
he repeats these lies you know this is
this has been going on for a decade and
it's gotten worse and if the Democrats
don't stand up to it nobody's going to
so she's out there and you know frankly
she should be getting a medal for what
she's going through I just want to say
really briefly there's a 2014 report and
you in The Washington Post why has the
UAE deemed care a terrorist group which
obviously it's not deemed terrorist
group in the United States
I'll quote briefly it says the UAE s
list seems to be driven by something
closer to home however the very first
name included in is the yo a UAE Muslim
Brotherhood their fierce opponents of
the Muslim Brotherhood and a significant
number of the more surprising inclusions
on the lists have ties to transnational
Islamist group the Muslim American
Society so I mean basically the point to
simplify it is this has everything to do
with a rivalry with Qatar and internal
politics which have definitely faced
criticism from like typical group groups
you'd expect like Amnesty International
so that's that's quite a you know a
citing I mean the UAE is also a partner
in the Saudi mass murder of Yemen right
now ok but where was she
while I was having an affair and 9/11 I
was going to say I could assure you
during those attacks I was not a banging
the publisher of enlightenment by OJ
Simpson no see now you're confused
because that is why that is why Rudy
wanted the command center in Manhattan
as opposed to Brooklyn where they had
suggested it so that he could have his
affair and then I just took the one
across the street on the other side see
we basically had the whole Ground Zero
area surrounded and protected from both
the north and the west so that if
anything happened we were there having
an affair when am I allowed to use the
word infidel they also I just want to
note a lot of people are standing with
Ilhan Omar by sending her money she was
one of the top House Democrats in
fundraising this quarter
she raised over six hundred and thirty
thousand dollars from online donors
that's one thing you can do it is a
great thing to do I have to say
including myself and it was incredibly
satisfying thing to do please do that
she really needs it let's go to the
phones come from a 2:03 area code who's
this where he comes from
2:03 ah this Colleen from Connecticut
hello Colleen what's on your mind well
at 10:45 I went over and talked to the
strikers
shop nearby where I work alright just a
lot of people hold on Colleen hold on
one second I turn remind people people
workers at stop and shop throughout New
England Connecticut Massachusetts and
Rhode Island I think of where their main
stop and shops are striking alright go
ahead
okay and the news isn't good
Oh according to them at that hour and
hopefully things have changed by now but
I doubt they have arm detox our odds and
stopping shop is basically hoping to
have the strikers break oh break the
strikers mentally and have them give out
yeah and what were the spirits of the
the strikers well they were happy I
brought them a snack I also did not
bring them off um but they're happy
someone wants to pour down I'm I can't
really say it was very positive right
well I appreciate your going down there
more people should do that and that's
the kind of support these folks need
here is let's play we're gonna play a
little bit of footage from when
Elizabeth Warren stopped by there I
guess presumably there's in
Massachusetts earlier in the week
appreciate the call Massachusetts and
here in Somerville today they were
joined by senator Elizabeth Warren who
came out to rally them in their efforts
as they try to turn customers away to
other grocery store chains they say
their contract negotiations with
management are stalled my message to
stop and shop is just pay these folks a
fair wage their health care benefits
and give them a shot at a retirement
that's all these workers are looking for
and I think we should all stand in
solidarity with the work senator Warren
shook hands with picketers who went on
strike yesterday afternoon stay out of
the stores until this deal is over until
this fight is over the strike impacts
more than 200 stores across
Massachusetts Rhode Island and
Connecticut this location remains open
but customers had mixed expectations
about whether they'd continue to shop at
the chain if picketers keep posting up
outside parking lot entrances there you
go
don't cross the picket line folks get
you grocery somewhere else
for the time being period this is a
little bit strange we have been on this
beat now for a couple months and of
course I'm talking about the the Jack
siddhis beat now a lot of you who have
been following the Jack satis beat are
probably like Oh Sam I'm sorry you've
misspoken it's not the jaxa to speed
it's the exodus beat it started out as
the jacks at his beat and then I rats do
we have that clip well no there's a
there was an article Haaretz the Israeli
paper reported that Jack siddhis was no
longer that it was Exodus because of
course this is back in what was the data
on this was March 22nd Jackson s we
hardly knew you right-wing Jewish
movement change his name to Exodus and
there's a picture of the spokesperson
Elizabeth pip Co she also she set it up
as far as we know and they realized
after they came out with Jack siddhis
that that was sort of silly that was
like calling something like calling
something Jewish you know calling
Passover Jass over like the Jewish
Passover but Exodus for Jews so exodus
comes from the word Exodus which is one
of the Marley album which is a Bob
Marley album
and that was inspired of course by the
one of the five books of the Torah which
was Exodus about the leaving of Jews
from from Egypt and into the desert into
the land of ultimately Canaan let's not
get too caught up in this I don't want
to start a fight here but and here is
here is that spokesperson again showing
up on Fox & Friends today and now it's
Jack siddhis oh and also the
spokesperson is gone campaign advisor
board member Jeff Balaban is the founder
of Jackson s a movement urging Jewish
people not to vote Democrat joins us
right now from our nation's capital with
an inside look chef good morning -
morning good morning well so why why the
meeting at the White House well first of
all I just want to make a slight
correction jaxa this is not about urging
Jews not to vote Democrat it's actually
urging the major political parties and
these days the Democrats seem to have a
bigger problem to distance themselves
from rising anti-semitism is the
mainstream now wait a second wait a
second can we go back to when Jack
siddhis was Exodus and then Jack siddhis
again and we had the first person who
was a Jewish millennial who launched
Jack siddhis and let's go back to
Jackson is dot-org and here it is about
leaving the Democratic Party and she was
a millennial who launched it and this
ello old guys what's going on here good
here with more on the movement is former
Trump campaign staffer and Jack city
spokesperson Elizabeth pick Oh Elizabeth
good morning good morning let's start
with Jews Millennials - genes what
obviously it's a play on Exodus but we
left Egypt and now we're leaving the
Democratic Party no wait a second
now what is going on here I'm terribly
confused go back too many cooks in this
kitchen go back to the old millennial
guy who looks to be about my age if not
older who is now the millennial who
launched jek siddhis this is now we've
now bookended the Jackson is with the
Exodus in the middle what's going on
with the Trump people good urging Jewish
people not to vote Democrat joins us
right now from our nation's capital with
an inside look chef's good morning to
you morning good morning well so why why
the meeting at the White House well
first of all I just want to make a
slight correction jaxa this is not about
urging Jews not to vote Democrat it's
actually urging the major political
parties and these days the Democrats
seem to have a bigger problem to
distance themselves from rising
anti-semitism is being mainstream there
just oscillate it's just like it's like
they pretend they didn't have the same
interview three and a half weeks ago
with the Millennial because it was a
millennial organization and they've also
pretended that they didn't change from
Jackson as to Exodus to Jack siddhis
again my guess is they had problem with
their search SEO on Exodus but nobody
could find them because they go Exodus
and they find like oh this is Paul
Newman this is the Paul Newman movie
it's like they're doing all their a/b
testing just right in front of us like
it's about leaving the Democrats it's
know about all the public in parts all
the parties don't be anti-semitic at
right all right happens to be that it's
you
but why I was better than ten days ago
why would it be Jack siddhis if it's
just about don't be anti-semitic because
we're Jackson so Democrats are way more
anti-semitic than the Republicans
remember the the stronger together
bomber oh wait that was the bomber
I'm sorry all right let this continue
being mainstreamed unfortunately in our
political process and mostly by people
like Ilan Omar etc that yesterday's
event wasn't really about that but it
was certainly the backdrop to the
feelings of what's happening in this
festival of Passover that's coming up on
Friday night which is the festival of
freedom and
we say in the Haggadah in the book that
we've read for thousands of years we say
that in every generation they rise
meaning our enemies the enemies of the
Jews rise up against us to try and
destroy us and God saves us and that was
on everyone's mind I mean it's the best
of times and the worst of times right
now if you're Jewish in America and
around the world you know what else the
the Hagaddah says it says love and
welcome the stranger there's a big cup
that we put on the table to symbolize
the idea of welcoming the stranger
welcoming the the prophet Elijah and the
whole story the whole story is about
Jews being immigrants in another country
and being treated poorly why this is bad
I'm making it simple for the simple sons
out there remember simple the simple
sons who can't get the name of their
organizations straight who can't get
their story straight about who started
it whether it was this old guy works for
Trump or Millennials who launched it
whether it's Jack siddhis or Exodus or
Jack siddhis whether it's about leaving
the Democratic Party or just leaving the
idea of anti-semitism I guess and why
would anti-semites respond to the idea
of Exodus or even a more Jewish Exodus
than Exodus Jek siddhis none of this
makes sense and yet what is the best
part about it is that no one on Fox
seems to even bat an eye it's just like
whatever you got we'll take it he could
keep coming we're gonna make total asses
of ourselves because we're theoretically
a journalistic outfit and we're just
pretending like none of this is strange
like you know I can understand like if
there was six months apart but it
literally she was on a month earlier
unbelievable they did do a pretty good
job rolling with it though yeah well I
think they're probably I'm completely on
autopilot I mean I can only imagine I I
mean my conjecture is and this is total
speculation that one has to take
all sorts of types of sedatives to to be
a Fox and Friends host or something like
that I don't know exactly maybe you need
to like I don't know lick electrical
outlets or something like that just to
sort of be able to deal with it let's go
to the phones come from an eight four
five area code who's this where he come
from
Oh teacher Lauren what's going on not
much I had two things I wanted to
discuss today if you have the time yes
um so you met my husband he was raised
Orthodox and some of his siblings are
still religious so I've encountered
vaccine skepticism I don't think he's
fully blown anti vaccine with one of my
brothers in law and these guys were all
educated you know in quotes in yeshiva
so secular studies really aren't
emphasized there's a general skepticism
of science as a secular field you know
it's not religious so I feel like I've
read actually in religion there was
there was recently I think of a story in
The Times about graduates of yeshivas
complaining with that they are not being
prepared for any type of the the secular
world in particularly in those areas of
science yeah there's actually an ongoing
lawsuit about the curriculum the secular
curriculum in you Sivas and I'll see if
I can find a link to send you but I feel
like this lack of emphasis and even
scoring for the secular world makes
people in these communities which are
really really insular a lot more
susceptible to vaccine skepticism and
just general nonsense about oh there are
toxins and the vaccines so that might be
why you see you know measles just
rampaging through especially the Satmar
communities in Brooklyn and in Rockland
County Wow interesting
thank you I didn't realize that
your husband had been raised in an
orthodox household again I guess I get
it family carpenter so there's one other
thing that husband might be a bigger
deal than you realize
he's pretty cool I don't know that's
that sounds pretty significant he's cool
I don't know I don't know I mean he is a
mensch
so what's the second thing all right so
the mid-hudson Valley has its own
chapter the DSA it's a new chapter we
just formed in February and this past
weekend we had our very first break like
Clinic and I'd say it was pretty
successful
and our next one yeah our next one is
scheduled for May 11th in the City of
Kingston and we have and I hate this
website but I'd have to promote it we
have a Facebook page we have an event
page for the brake light clinic there on
Twitter so if you live in orange Ulster
or Dutchess County in New York come
check us out
volunteer if you can if you can we're
always fundraising but yeah come see
what we're doing all right
the teacher Lauren thanks so much yeah
like it really just speaks to one of the
divides I think within the Jewish
community because my mom probably would
have signed me up for extra vaccines if
she could live come calling from a to15
area code who doesn't know more we can
do will die Sam hi a few things they
wrote them down for maximum efficiency
right thank you thank you first of all
yes how are you on the Bernie trains
you're on the Bernie train oh hell yeah
I got on the Bernie chain I'm on the
Bernie train Wow
what what what what happened well I love
Elizabeth Warren and she's not going to
make it so you know I mean all the other
ones are corporate bought pharmacy
school I mean they're all bad nothing's
gonna change unless we use it unless we
go with a Bernie how do you know how do
you know that Elizabeth Warren I'm not
being you know how do you know the
Lizabeth Warren is not gonna make it
right now during this in this what's
that
no no I mean I because I've just been
engaged in conversations with this like
where people say the thing about
Democratic voters is they're all like
pundits and they all immediately decide
that somebody can't win now they're
obviously there's a lot of pressure
because Donald Trump people want Donald
Trump defeated but I'm just curious this
time in 2007 Obama is down by 10 12 15
points to Clinton at least Giuliani is
leading the pack in the Republican
primary 2008
what what what makes you think that she
can't make it not gonna get there I just
this is nothing other than a feeling I
just think she's not going to get there
and the only other one I you know want
to know about is Pete I like Pete but I
don't know what's going on with that we
have just worry about him but excuse me
gentrify ER horrible housing right yeah
yeah I'm not I mean I mean I like the
gay aspect where he like you know is you
know with the Mike Pence thing I think
that's adorable but just not feeling it
with anybody but Bernie I think Bernie's
the way to go personally so I tweeted
about it and I'm like people are
freaking out on me like they're going
nuts and people are scared of them you
are like oh we can plan yeah I mean I
think I think there I think there are I
think people are I think you know he
scares a lot of people I think in the
Democratic Party
some people think that he can't win some
people are scared of him because of his
politics I think you know there's a he I
mean the I I think that there is sort of
an irrational sort of like
personalization of him that is I think
it's irrational frankly the the critics
and frankly the it's irrational in terms
of supporters and they get a little bit
to sort of like into his personality and
like oh god they're crazy no they're not
they're crazy it just seems to me like
our people really concerned that he is
you know to set in his ways or something
like we really in that area where you're
you're worried that a candidate because
one of it seems to me as a candidate
right just assessing the candidacy of
Bernie Sanders that I think is effective
for him is that he is so like I don't
wanna say I don't want to say what I
don't want to say one note but he is so
consistently on message because he has
only one message and he's very he's very
explicit about it now some people find
this off-putting and he doesn't have the
flexibility to to introduce new facts
and whatnot but are people really
seriously seeing that as a liability in
this environment like we have a
president who is unable to absorb any
facts and still has very deeply held
opinions that are abhorrent and he has
proven like to me one of the things that
I'm concerned about when I see Warren
and and maybe she has changed in this
respect and I think to a certain extent
she has but I'm afraid that you know
like her opening salvo in this race was
the most problematic is that the
candidates it's one thing to kritis
Donald Trump it's another to respond to
him you cannot let him dictate what you
do and Elizabeth Warren is great with
policy she is great as an executive I
think she would make a great workhorse I
would I think she would make a great
president but she launched her campaign
essentially basically responding to a
demand of Donald Trump's and no one does
well in that situation nobody who is
responding to Donald Trump is going to
be successful in this campaign they must
move ahead with their own agenda some of
which some of the agendas out there I
find to be sort of little pablum ish but
that can be effective sadly in our
society but they they have to move ahead
with their agenda and and that I think
is why you know I mean Sanders in that
respect as a candidate I think is
effective just on a sort of very
superficial level but Mindy good luck to
you okay oh hello how were you hanging
up on me well no I mean yes I won so
what were you gonna say I'm sorry
because I have a really funny story okay
okay tell me this sorry okay so Oh
before I tell you the story I just want
to tell you that Howard Schultz that
Bill Burton he got that line from
Jeffrey Wright's
Dell commercial possibility
okay
you know the thing that that that Howard
Schultz says like the implement of
possibilities
it's from Jeffrey Wright the guy from
westward world does the Dell commercials
it's from a Dell commercial no yes now I
was trying to find that Dale commercial
I was on hold and I couldn't find the
exact one
there's like 25 Dell commercials that he
does we're putting that we're gonna put
the team on we're gonna put the team on
oh man is it supposed to be ironic when
he says it is the Dell commercial no cuz
it's ridiculous
no he just did founded good one Jeffrey
Wright said it world horsies on he's the
guy from he's a robot
you're gonna say dude you're getting
Adele that's uh that's a you have to
listen to me there's like 25 Dell
commercials will find okay okay that's
number two number three I got rid of my
Republican girlfriend oh what's about
okay so wait this is funny so I got this
is a funny story I got rid of my
Republican girlfriend she I hadn't
called her in like three weeks and she
texted me like this whole
 like why haven't I seen you
when I've been doing this and I got a
new bathroom my shore house and we don't
know where to go when we go to the
Riviera and we're not sure if we should
go to Monaco which wine place to go to
and like this whole like for like
paragraph tweet I mean not tweet text
and I didn't respond to her and she said
well I guess you're not responding to me
because you're so busy on Twitter so she
makes pretend she never saw my Twitter
account like that was the thing with us
she makes retention never sees it so
April sex they put out a tweet I said to
her I said I finally got rid of my I
don't I don't know what the tweet was
apologize but it's something like I
finally got rid of my Republican
girlfriend she bragged for the last time
she was like fishin on Omar and I'm
talking about then Benjamin Netanyahu
how much he loves them in all that
she was like own to the whole thing so I
so they finally got rid of it I threw
down the gauntlet I I cut the cord and
that was the end of it so I didn't talk
to her for like three weeks
that was another three quick weeks went
by and yesterday or the other day she
tweeted me she didn't tweet me she
texted me and she said we did I had it
all here now it's gone
she said I saw your tweet oh did you
finally got rid I saw your tweets and
you finally got rid of me can you please
leave the Tory Burch tote I let you
outside the door and I'll come and pick
it up when I'm in your area
Wow she's coming for her tote you jack
sittest her right out of your life I am
ecstatic right now she's been reading my
freaking sweeps the whole entire time
Wow and she let you have that tote that
entire time too but you just had the
across the bridge too far
Mindy I hope listen when we get a when
we get our majority report merchandise
store set up which is going to happen
soon and when we have totes guess what
you're getting to replace that tote that
she wants yeah yeah all right Mindy
we'll talk to you soon but that was good
yeah right let's sell it
let's sell her ex-friends tote from the
money to Bernie Sanders let's do that
Dell thing tomorrow we'll put it so we
can actually do it because that's
actually really great we've talked about
Jack siddhis right we went about as far
as we could with that I think for now so
you know I think having a whatever
whatever audios playing stop it
so having a a one-note if you will story
maintaining a a consistent narrative is
hugely important I think to getting your
message out and sometimes that message
could be you know like in Bernie's case
it has evolved over the past 40 years
from you know two percent of the country
owns you know 80 percent of the wealth
to one percent of the country owns 80%
the wealth that is the nature of what's
been going on 40 years ago we didn't
have a billionaire class in this country
now we do
but you also could be like people to
judge who's whose narrative is a little
bit less specific grassroots
mobilization mobilization moment and
there's a generational change message
that's resonating but now also comes to
the time where people press you on
specifics and you've spoken about how
values should inform philosophy and that
goes down to policy but when you say for
example those be a radical change under
a Buddha jizz presidency what does that
mean because a lot of people I think
have read cotton to your message because
it feels recurring ly moderate in some
respects well first of all tone it
really matters right so even as we're
contemplating serious and sometimes
profound structural reforms we can do it
in a way that doesn't make everyone feel
like our hair is on fire
look this moment should not be
underestimated in terms of its
seriousness I think in many ways we're
still under reacting but we don't have
to react to it in a way that alienates
others in a way that makes it feel like
there's such screaming that you can't
tell what's even going on around that
makes you a clear contrast to the
president so I want to both commend John
Avlon from CNN for asking for specifics
and then also forgetting his question as
soon as it seems to have come out of his
mouth I mean he was so excited by that
path and you gotta give him credit he
answered the question what are the
specifics and it's specifically tone
gave him like nine different things he
could choose to respond to in that
question and he responded to the easiest
one was like why are people reassured by
you weirdly well it's mask off time for
these people well I mean and this is the
the amazing thing is that he's talking
about the concepts of structural reform
he's talking about the concept of there
being a fierce urgency of now if you
will just to borrow a phrase from the
last where that came from
and changee candidate that we had
but I still have yet to hear like the
specifics but it's not just Pete Buddha
judge that talks with a little bit of
pablum in terms of his own candidacy it
seems to be a contagious here is Chuck
Todd holding a roundtable about the buzz
around mayor Pete with a guy named
Joshua Johnson who is where does he
write for NPR pay an NPR guy and Casey
hunt and you know it is amazing
Brendon well let's play this and then we
will discuss it feels like a setup
what you make up the rise of the kitchen
why do you think he's even if even if
it's just for a moment why do you think
he's having this moment but no one's
ever seen anyone like him before
yeah think about what made Donald Trump
such an unavoidable character on
television we were like I've never
there's a horse in a hospital but it's
also the same thing that made Barack
Obama so compelling we'd never seen
anyone like him before and there are a
lot of interesting candidates on the
Democratic side I think Kamala Harris
still has a story to tell she is
formidable
I obviously Bernie Sanders is an
interesting character but paint Buddha
judge kind of represents this amalgam of
personal traits that America has never
seen before so this early in the story I
really like write and they all in one
pan he's an interesting character like
I'm not even looking at policy or
politics or the fundraising piece is
important though although I think Donald
Trump kind of broke some of the rules of
how you spend money but Pete's just like
he's the most interesting right now it's
really interesting you hear Marcos write
them off as just a small-town mayor from
a liberal college
yeah I think if I were running against
people to judge I would probably refer
to him that way yes but and I'm sure
that you will hear people do that if
they yeah he seems to have already risen
beyond doubt I mean office one thing
that Donald Trump showed us is that
campaigns have changed you know we used
to care a lot about what was on the
front page of the Des Moines Register
and the way that the media landscape has
shifted it's it's a sad and I don't take
Iowans care I mean look I will always
read the Des Moines Register whenever
I'm in Iowa for the record however it's
become a national media campaign to a
large degree and if Donald Trump is
reality TV you know maybe putas judges
Game of Thrones and all this other you
know highbrow television the other half
of the country is watching seriously to
to to Josh's point I mean he is clearly
an incredibly talented guy I mean
breathtakingly stupid so first off that
sound that that that sensation you're
feeling is the same sensation you have
when you're drowning that is that that's
what that's what you're experiencing
right now as you hear that type of I
mean Brendon had asked me is like the
media didn't seem to learn anything and
I you can't
the media is never going to learn
anything the media is not in a position
to learn anything they're not interested
in learning what that thing the media is
there to make money and there there are
undoubtedly individuals in every
organization that are going like hey
wait a second shouldn't we pay be paying
more attention to this event like I
don't even know what that guy from NPR
was referring to like it's it's I
suppose there is room on a 24 hour cable
channel to say as an individual this guy
is really interesting
but they didn't even get to that like
all they talked about it was like he was
like Game of Thrones that's what was
cool is that she came on and she was
like hey this has been tremendously
stupid and empty-headed and then Chuck
Todd did the weird like I don't even
think people I will care about they're
basically that anymore and then she came
on and she was just like wait for it I
think wait for it it's Game of Thrones I
thought is there there may be a point
and I don't know I would want to talk to
people who are actually on the ground in
Iowa and I don't I don't know if this is
the case but it may be the case that the
media is no longer paying attention to
those issues I don't know if if the
candidates when they're going into Iowa
are talking about those things I would
be surprised if they didn't not and they
were not I mean I'm saying I care about
that as my point was getting less
attention well I think that's one saying
the media may not be following it as
much but when when candidates go into
these rooms in in Iowa they make I
suspect they're getting those questions
certainly Elizabeth Warren came out with
a very ambitious agricultural
interesting though it's not like look I
get that part but it's even like if
you're going to do that type of coverage
what is it that is what what are the
personal attributes I think what the guy
from NPR was saying is that he's gay and
married to uh has you know has a
same-sex marriage I think and military
and I guess maybe that like is like
perceived by Americans as as being
somehow at odds with each other maybe I
guess to a certain extent because for a
large a long time you were not allowed
to be gay in the military and that may
be compelling on the Democratic side I
also you know what's interesting too and
no one seems to be saying is that yes
he's a small-time small-town mayor
you know Barack Obama had a year or two
of Federal Senate you know but was
barely before he started to run prior to
that he was a state senator so he has
some executive you know experience but
what's interesting is is that we've yet
to head into the
debate when you have so many people who
are talking about electability as to
whether the fact that he's married to a
man whether we like it or not is a
liability in a general election like one
of the you know we are only a decade out
from when the Republican Party I guess
by the time this election will be a
closer to almost 15 years used gay
marriage as a driver of their electorate
and the empty seat on the the Supreme
Court certainly the evangelicals who
came out ostensibly to attack roe v--
wade it wasn't that long ago before
there was you know completely praised
city clerk and you know somewhere in
Kentucky who was refusing to marry
people but it's interesting that that is
what is and and maybe you know maybe the
country that would be great if the
country had had moved past this it's
gonna be fascinating to see if he if he
continues to rise in the polls and can
sort of like continue to where he's at
if what what what happens with that
thing and also I'm interested in hearing
more about his policies like he's
implied that he's wants to get rid of
the electoral college I think that's
that's good because it gives you a
slight sense of like you know what the
issue sets are but I haven't heard a lot
of specifics in terms of policy but the
specifics are he's gonna change the tone
and bring everyone together with tone
well I mean today you know but that
there's a lot of people in the
Democratic Party who want that that's I
mean that that is the reality
I was also skeptical of universal Higher
Ed for reasons of that's not going to
cure inequality sort of thing right but
that's like you can be skeptical of
certain proposals but really what you
should be doing if you want to be the
proposal person
is to offer a proposal like the I can
tell you this Barack Obama won Iowa
there's multiple reasons probably why
did part of it was because he had he had
implied and and maybe promised some
serious reform in terms of agriculture
policy that he never delivered on to
Iowans but the other big thing was I
can't remember how many weeks out it was
maybe was three or four weeks he said he
there was a debate and he referred to
Social Security being in crisis which it
is not but was not in crisis then it is
not in crisis now the fix of it is super
easy it's no more in crisis than any
other budget in the in the line item in
the budget it's just the question of
whether we're gonna fund it but he
brought up Social Security being in
crisis and the idea that he identified a
problem that seniors were very concerned
about they weren't concerned that Social
Security was was in crisis but they're
concerned about Social Security the idea
that he brought up a a problem in Social
Security indicated to people older
people in Iowa that he cares about
something that I care about and they
voted for him on that basis when in fact
he was basically starting down the road
to cut Social Security by cutting the
cost-of-living adjustments so people
have to be very careful now people
listen to this program I suspect they're
going to be a little bit more you know
specific and what their needs are know
so here's one where we're seeing that in
a I guess this was just today in Iowa
he's calling for a tax credit allowance
for child care excited now my
understanding is there is a tax
deduction at this point for child care
and a tax credit
I think is an even like you know it is
actually more one-to-one as opposed to
non you can actually take that off of
your taxes so that's it it is a marginal
improvement of course it does not help
you if you are not paying that much in
taxes as it were because you're not
making much but again it's one of those
sort of like he mentioned like we may
need some radical change that is not the
radical change but well the tone sounds
nice and I want to give credit where
credit is due for that I'm just happy I
can cancel my trip to the drone music
festival now because the new segment we
just watched like the the level of the
the Zen Cohen like level of hollowness
that I just witnessed I don't know how
my soul could leave my body anymore no
matter how many drones I listen to or
how many drugs I take so don't insult
thank you Owens please though everything
else fair point
it's interesting how though how the how
the lane he's he's in we used to be very
heavy on showing how clever and
policy-driven they are and now it's sort
of shifting well the people are trying
to find where they're where they're
entering anyway you know he is offering
that sort of like I have the the on one
hand I have the safety of being a white
male where because there's some people
who convinced that a women cannot win in
this environment and that a person of
color cannot win in this environment I'm
not as clear I'm not as convinced
frankly but then he also offers like the
I think the desire for folks on the left
to have some type of social cultural
progress that as a as a gay man he
provides and I think there's a sense on
the on the left that like broad left
that and because he's military man he's
going to sort of like offset the
potential downsides and it's quite
don't worry he's not one of those gays
yeah he's not trying to like abolish the
bourgeois family or anything
it's funny people harp on his sexuality
because I don't even perceive him as
having a sexuality like I picture like a
spreadsheet of tax credits where his
genitals should be well I mean I I bet
that that is not I mean I think that's
probably not a coincidence
I mean I don't I think that he probably
I would imagine you know growing up
probably was not terribly confident
about being out certainly as a
politician I don't think he was
confident about being out I can't
imagine in the military he was terribly
you know confident about going out it
will be fun though to see him get the
same treatment at the right gave to
Obama like Obama was portrayed is this
like terrifying angry black man
separatist or whatever when he was just
like a very nerdy normal person I feel
like the same things gonna happen to
Pete buddy judge if he stays at the game
you know right oh yeah they're gonna be
they're gonna be talking about her
secretly wearing chaps under his suit or
something yeah yeah he's just gonna go
to San Francisco real and they taped him
for maybe or maybe they'll do something
like this as was spotted in Iowa where a
were three protesters dressed up like
Pete but Adige and Jesus and I guess the
devil and this guy being a Buddha judge
was whipping Jesus on the cross as the
devil is cheering them on play this is
just insane
[Music]
your paygrade is gonna be great we have
a place no idea how yes I have no idea
people like that were so creative see
we're gonna lavalier mic dude it sounds
like it doesn't the guy playing the
devil is so in character the outfit is
totally convincing Jesus is just taking
it yeah I mean I guess new character in
the works what's that like it's time to
end the nuclear family bring the Folsom
stream Pharisees the way when you are
tearing apart the family you do it with
a tone that doesn't freak people out oh
there's a lot we tell people like hey
mommy and daddy not only is it okay from
mommy and mommy to live together as a
family
mommy and daddy can't live together
anymore that's gonna freak a lot of
people out so we need to do it in a
gradual way this is treci McMillan
cotton who we had on this program not
too long ago right was this a vacation
show folks if you haven't heard this
interview with Tracy McMillan cotton you
trusty excuse me trusty McMillan cotton
go back and listen to it I can't
remember the date we'll have it in a
moment but she was talking about
for-profit colleges and why Wall Street
exacerbated this problem I've mentioned
on this program many times in the past
that if you were to go look at like an E
ETF electronically traded or whatever
they F T it's basically a fund of you
can look at a fund for just about every
industry but one for for-profit colleges
you will see a slow drop over the course
of the last Trump excuse me the Obama
administration when they started to
really crack down they basically said
there are certain colleges or certain
accreditors that we will no longer
recognize and because for-profit
colleges make
90% of their revenue at least off of
student loans provided by the government
if the government as the first lender
says we will not lend to students who go
to a university that is accredited by
certain creditors accreditor
accreditation companies because they're
not legit and it caused I think ITT and
one others to basically go bankrupt
because they were not real in terms of
what they were providing their students
you can see like a slow drop in the
value of these for-profit universities
and literally 24 hours after Donald
Trump is elected they shoot up like a
rocket and many of these institutions
are picked up a hundred percent in their
valuation on the stock market
over the past couple of years but here
is trustee McMillan cotton I think she's
testifying to Elizabeth Warren this is
the Senate I'm not sure which committee
this is but listen to you've also
written about what turbocharged the
rapid growth of for profits over the
past couple of decades mm-hmm Wall
Street that Wall Street investors and
shareholders always on the prowl for the
next money maker realized that
for-profit colleges were a gold mine
because in our system of weak
accountability which dr. Liu me was
referring to just a minute ago as long
as they kept enrolling more and more
students especially low-income students
more and more federal aid dollars would
flow straight into their pockets
since for-profit colleges are by
definition the only colleges allowed to
make gobs of money that can be pulled
out of the school and distributed to
owners to shareholders into Wall Street
investors without strong federal
accountability what market incentives do
for profits have to deliver a high
quality education at a low price Oh at a
low price
well there
you did complicate the question senator
Warren so there is a market incentive to
be fair that students can vote with
their feet is what we say that if the
students do not get a good education
that they can just not enroll and that
is supposed to be the market feedback
loop that again takes for granted that
those students have other choices so one
thing that I have learned is that poor
students and women and women of color
have gotten the message you we have done
a wonderful job over the last 25 years
of a public messaging campaign that says
that everyone needs to go to college
that everyone needs some post-secondary
education it has been extremely
successful what has been less successful
is that we have not met the success of
that message with a plethora of
high-quality institutional choices for
all students and so in the gap what
happens is that the market takes
advantage of the fact that our messaging
takes care of a lot of the quality
branding problems for higher education
for for-profit colleges and so that
student voting with their feet option is
not nearly as practical as perhaps we
would like for it to be and so other
than the student voting with their feet
the market doesn't have many incentives
to offer for keeping costs low because
the point is to maximize of course the
difference between the cost of
instruction and the price of tuition and
so there are not many so that I
appreciate this you know I just want to
say mr. chairman I really worry that
we've got this entirely backwards we
tell people especially women low income
people people of color that the only way
to get ahead is a college diploma we
watch the creditors rubber-stamp the
schools that are giving out those
degrees we pour billions of dollars in
federal money into those schools no
matter how poorly they educate their
students and then we let Wall Street get
in on the gravy train by raking in the
cash from these outfits so we ultimately
ask for money back with interest not
from colleges not from the employers but
from the students with no regard to
whether or not they got a return on
their investment and so I mean this is a
it's it's it's largely a scam
and people who are stuck in a position
that they feel they are precluded from
moving forward in their profession
because they lack a degree get sucked
into a lot of these programs and there's
just simply you know these programs do
not offer the data to establish that
it's worth it there are some programs
I've heard that are actually oh you know
that that seemed to me to be okay that
you they defer the cost of of the
tuition too you know and narrow your
responsibility to pay back to the Delta
between what you were earning and what
you ultimately end up earning after you
graduate but those type of programs are
few and far between the real moneymakers
and these are big big companies they are
big corporations making a lot of money
they are publicly traded corporations
are basically geared towards selling the
idea that this will help you without any
data to that to that effect and just
holding people over until they get there
basically their second installment of
their loan it's super messed up and this
was something actually that the the
Obama administration was was doing quite
well on in the second term and they knew
the day after Donald Trump got in
because Donald Trump is a Republican and
the Republican Party if it's if there is
really any genuine heartfelt policy at
the heart of their policy program it is
to take public money and put it in the
hands of put it in the hands of private
entities and that's what this is about
lastly one of the other sort of I guess
prominent features of Republican
politics is to make it harder for people
to vote
particularly people who are black or
brown to vote and in Tennessee they've
come up with a really new innovative way
of inhibiting new voters from voting and
that is to introduce severe penalties
not just civil but criminal penalties if
you go out and you're an organization
that goes out and gets you know
registers people you submit these
registrations to the to the Secretary of
State through you know local election
boards and whatnot and they vet them
they vet these registrations and in this
instance if they find that you that if
you have deficient signatures or dresses
right anywhere from a hundred to five
hundred deficient voter registration
applicants so they're maybe they're
incomplete hey you didn't put your full
address here
or maybe it's incorrect information you
don't live here anymore
there are times I'm sure when you hire
people they go out and they say oh yeah
I got look at all these vote you know
voters I registered and they filled it
in themselves or maybe people come up
and they lie to you or maybe you just
messed up you could be hit with fines
from one hundred and fifty to two
thousand dollars
if you submit more than five hundred
deficient forms a fine of up to ten
thousand and violating a those rules
intentionally and knowingly would
constitute a Class A misdemeanor which
is this most serious misdemeanor and if
you listen we had that trustee McMillan
cotton I think was in the week of
January January 23rd 23rd
around that time we also had a interview
with a professor about misdemeanors mr.
meanors does not mean when it meet you
think it means you can go to jail for up
to almost 12 months and get a fine of
2,500 criminal charges and this
legislation just passed the Tennessee
House Tennessee House Republicans passed
HB 1079 which is six months after the
Tennessee black voter project registered
ninety thousand new voters and so there
was some protests
let's hear some
[Music]
they are tempted
[Music]
[Music]
the party has a lot of pressure to vote
for voter suppression we should always
keep to be clear what that woman was
saying is that when you get these forms
some of these entities will go through
them and find like oh we've left the
address blank here or oh there's no
phone number or oh this is not the right
zip code or this looks suspicious the
Secretary of State told them to hand in
all the forms despite any flaws that
they saw on the forms so that they could
come in and say look at how many forms
are flawed that they submitted so this
was a complete set up in that regard but
this is perfectly consistent with what
we know of the Republican Party from
lawmakers and States to lawmakers on a
federal level to the federal judiciary
in the Supreme Court all right got time
for just a couple AIIMS and I don't
think we're gonna have any more time for
the calls I'm sorry folks apologize for
that I love Sarah Palin Sam can you
please apologize for your comments about
the Jewish people and vaccinations and
the opening of the show saying Jewish
people have diseases is a common
anti-semitic trope - slightly disagree
with Dan's point I'd say the
establishment Democrats suffer from more
of a confluence of having no ideology
and intellectual capture we need less of
these career-oriented corporate
climbing mini Brett Kavanaugh types in
the sense I played the game right so I
deserve this types and lieu of more
activists and consumer advocates I mean
that's the weird thing I don't think
that a guy like Primus maybe he maybe
he's feeling his oats but you know it's
not doesn't look like he's converting
that into after the course of 30 years
into you know corporate cynic you maybe
will after this I don't know but Bernie
needs to do automatic voter registration
so we can all primary these people out
of here when people on the lower rungs
of the economic ladder vote less
obviously the Democratic side of
Congress is going to track more to the
right and I'm a capitalist jazz gars lay
here's something I haven't heard Bernie
or you address getting rid of private
insurance will unemploy at least 1
million people directly plus all the
software developers etc that involved in
the industry plus all the shareholders
who will lose money on the health care
companies that are put out of business
the massive disruption could be
ameliorated by a very long transition
period but that shrinks the savings in
the near term Bernie makes it sound like
the switch could happen tomorrow even if
the dead and said every branch of
government so right now I fear well okay
first off I don't think that we need to
get rid of private insurance I have said
this you know multiple times I also
don't think that your numbers are
accurate because we're going to have an
insurance program the number of people
you will need to administer the program
is going to be you know more or less the
same you will not need the executives
yes that's true
will shareholders lose money yes that's
true we face the same problem with
fossil fuels frankly there is no doubt
that there are going to be losers in
this situation and they are going to be
insurance companies this insurance
company that is making 200 billion
dollars a year in revenue which just
back-of-the-envelope means that they're
you know probably clearing anywhere from
ten to forty billion dollars in profits
per year maybe it's less maybe it's only
six maybe it's a yes they're gonna lose
money there's no doubt about it
there are people who are going to lose
money there's also going to be on the
other side of that a huge boon to
companies that no longer have to they're
going to they're going to get more in
taxes but they're not going to have to
spend their time being a health
insurance company there's going to be a
huge boon to individuals in terms of
like we're just talking about sheer
productivity because they're going to be
freed up just in terms of the hours that
they spend in terms of of administering
their their health insurance there's
going to be boons to folks because
they're going to be able to feel like
they can go out and maybe build that new
company because they're not as concerned
both in terms of their own health care
and cost of health care for other people
I mean there's a lot of benefits here
there I think we're gonna see look
undoubtedly there was people who lost
money when we made lead in gasoline
illegal I mean this is there's no doubt
and you know we can argue about the
transition period and I imagine if
Bernie Sanders would become president he
would not be able to impose this it
would end up being something that would
get negotiated with the House and the
Senate and but I think every candidate
out there even the ones who you know get
out and say I'm gonna bring Republicans
and Democrats together you know they're
all being a little bit hyperbolic and
they're all saying this is an aspiration
and that is their starting point but
also Bernie's plan I'm pretty sure it
does have a provision for transitioning
people who could be hurt by losing their
jobs in the insurance I think that's
also he wants to pair this with a
universal jobs guaranteed don't forget
so
less someone is like really in love with
working for the insurance industry I'm
pretty sure the thing they like about it
is that it's a decent job and there will
be other decent jobs waiting for them a
square majority report these last two
weeks feels like we're moving to another
level of the deconstruction of the
administrative state in the alignment of
all these fascists around the world with
Bibi being reelected it's even more
depressing Mike thanks for covering that
a few weeks ago Sam loved that interview
yesterday glad you covered that bs about
grit and how it's used in the so-called
education reform
I read the article on innovation he
published in the Jacobin recommended
reading for everyone
tiling in the corporate fields
congressional baseball fan there's
likely to be a large hole in the
Democrats 2019 team roster this year
with both Tim Ryan and Eric's wall well
out campaigning any ideas I'm filling
the Tim and Erica a hole play ball first
dirting Sam I'm the guy who rides the
I'm a guy who rides the bus yeah I'm the
type of guy who rides the bus I talked
to the worker types on the bus because I
think I ride the bus you know they don't
like immigrants because they think
there's jobs or their jobs and they
should be there and immigrants shouldn't
how do we appeal these people I ride the
bus with them you know Hank fYI the
Peterson foundation is a major donor to
cap yeah
depressive regressive Jimmy Dore is
leaving TYT and going on tour should we
heckle in his shows also there's videos
there's video on the stop and shop Union
website of them sneaking meat and
unrefrigerated personal cars into the
stores Oh gross local pizza historian
where's Mindy when you need her I'm at
work so I can't just shout f off you
effing idiot she's an effing refugee
well she came on she didn't do that for
you but it came close just go still you
guys are missing the point on Trump's
sanctuary city gambit he's doing the
same thing he did when ice was dropping
large groups of migrants at churches
making a backdrop for crop propaganda
he's banking on images of thousands of
scary brown people in cities well juices
base turn out some straight gurbles
doctor chaos MD when promoting the idea
Medicare for all why don't I hear a
talking point around the fact that
private insurance companies can hike
their rates whenever they feel like it
but under
Medicare for All system those premiums
would essentially be converted to taxes
which would be lower than what most
Americans are paying now and most
importantly an act of Congress would be
required to raise those taxes that's a
good point the the I guess the the the
the static quality of of taxes but yeah
I think Bernie's making that point that
getting to pay less
mirela thanks for the Graham sheet
discussion with the great professor wolf
it was awesome interesting to hear
considering what is happening to the
Italian left
samms tinder profile hey girl swipe
right and I'll show you my two-step plan
for the floor to both dance and the
House attorney Andrew so apparently Amy
Klobuchar is now doing a Fox News Town
Hall after Bernie this should make
Bernie's decision to go look bad as a
starting a precedent or be prepare my
cyanide for what will surely be the
worst hour of television of the 2020
race going be looking forward to it
it actually might be really let me give
it to you it really doesn't matter but
we might get some funny clips out of it
J tingle Carrick Judith ring it on
hallowed ground
you called him a former felon was he
pardoned as well lead still used an
airplane fuel Thank You Jay street-legal
do you remember when Bush wanted
character be the ruler of Iraq but
instead he was arrested in police
headquarter was named because even the
NYPD realized what an F stick he was
Chris from Canada after the Bernie
townhall I want to see how much more
income tax I pay as a Canadian that if I
would if I were American I used Atlanta
Georgia as a random city to live in I
make fifty seven thousand a year the
difference in total income tax paid is
twenty five hundred annually does the
American average American pay more than
2,500 annually for premiums deductibles
and co-pays I mean I'm like yes never
mind I mean the idea is significantly
more than that I think all right two
more Winnipeg Craig Alberta's election
last night was a bit of a Kobayashi Maru
for the left after the Providence to
right-wing parties merged up victory for
the United conservative party was almost
certain they did and the NDP dropped to
opposition status you see P leader Jason
Kennedy's victory speech started with a
claim that Alberta was open for business
included calling out foreign-funded
special interest in
mental groups something American
environment American bio mentalists need
to keep their eyes on terms of civil
aligning the centrist party for alberta
and we're completely obliterated and end
up with zero seats even though the NDP
lost they the second best results
they've ever had in the province by a
mile and now are the clear and only
opposition to the united conservative
party bad result but the dismantling of
the center is going to be a position the
NDP well for the next cycle silver
linings DX fool hi Sam hi folks
Shalom from the Bay Area you may have
noticed my am lately have been
infrequent while I've been caring for my
elderly mom about a major accident last
June has been declined ever since I'm
sorry to hear that
but the pace accelerate the last few
weeks she got more senile and
accident-prone finally went to the
hospital she passed away on April 1st
just two minutes after her brother
arrived from Orange County her remains
arrived in Honolulu last night from last
week's funeral or last votes were Obama
and Clinton before your Pesach break
could you blow a shofar as a final
send-off to the afterlife thanks have a
nice vacation and peaches will do I'm
very sorry for your loss sorry
[Music]
and the final I am of the day see TMR
fan so mr crew please let people know
that the stop and shop workers are
picketing from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. I
brought them donuts and coffee please
tell people to show their support
do something see you tomorrow
[Music]
I was late I just got
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
