election taking place in Canada today
you know Canada has the advantage of
potentially being able to elect
coalition government
I have no doubt that is a NDP leader jug
meet Singh surges in the polls Justin
Trudeau will be you know first Justin
would ignore him then he will ridicule
him then he will put on makeup to look
like him and you have an opportunity to
vote for NDP by the way jug meet Singh
is the only leader certainly not the
Greens the greens which are a horrific
booze huazi mess with incredibly
embarrassing marketing they are the only
party leader who has said that he will
never coalition with the conservative
ascendancy so you are voting against
Andrew Shearer if you vote for NDP and
likely it could be a liberal NDP
coalition here is jug neat Singh jug
meat sing the last rally of the campaign
I believe last campaign video is
campaign released look I mean you know I
have my critiques but he's putting
something on the ballot in Canada that
is unprecedented and reflects this
broader global pattern and it's been
nice to see him take off friends I want
to talk to you about what's at stake in
this election and why it matters so much
people tell me again and again they
can't wait four more years for help and
they're demanding that governments take
action on October 21st no matter what
Canadians choose
I want Canadians to win in your life
think about the times you made a
decision where you chose something out
of fear think about the times when he
took that chance what happened and how
much your life became better I want to
see in this election you can go through
the Conservatives that made their choice
to help out the rich and powerful Justin
Trudeau has made his choice to help out
the Bay polluters and the wealthiest
corporations they've chosen those at the
very top in this election I choose you
[Applause]
he's also faced you know a lot certainly
a lot of racism and and discrimination
because of his you know seek identity
and you know of the kind of expected
stupid sort and disgusting unacceptable
sort that you see you know everywhere
but also very specifically the highbrow
version of people on trying to connect
him with Sikh separatist movements and
Calais Thani politics from the 1980s and
I think it's worth actually noting that
the there's actually us very strong
Wellspring in the Sikh tradition that
overlaps and reinforces the type of
social democratic message that he's
putting forward this is a religion that
really does actually preach and talk
quite a bit about interconnectedness and
community base of solidarity in fact so
III think the way he has carried those
things together in a very seamless way
in a way again that really is not a just
you know a signifier but is really
deeply connected to his politics his
clarity about anti racism and his call
to fundamentally expand the Canadian
health care and safety net and start to
move in the right direction on
indigenous people and First Nations
rights and environmental rights is
extremely laudable and deserves our
support if I was in Canada I would vote
NDP one of
