so Jamal you are another one of the the
challenges that we've had on folks who
are challenging long time in many
instances establishment Democrats
Democrats who perhaps should be a little
bit more reliable ly progressive in
their voting first off tell us you know
I watched your announcement video I
thought it was very impressive you're
running in New York's 16th district this
is Elliott angles district he's been
there for 16 terms I you're a an
educator your math is probably better
than mine but that's 32 years that's a
long long time and so he has quite a
record and frankly why don't you tell us
what you think is sort of problematic
with that record well what what's
problematic is the fact that it is a
long time and he hasn't used that time
to build a movement across the district
right so when you look at certain parts
of the district you see rent burdens as
high as 57% you see poverty reaching
levels of 20% you see homeless
homelessness running rampant in certain
parts of the district and you see an
education crisis and an addiction crisis
so someone who's been in office for that
long you would think that they would be
in every corner of the district working
with as many people as possible to make
sure we solve these problems instead
he's focused on one section of the
district he's beholden to and
accountable to his corporate backers
while ignoring the majority of the
people in the district that's
unacceptable I've lived in this district
for almost 10 years I've worked in this
district for 10 years I meet the people
and I work with the people who have been
most disenfranchised and I know their
plight and I know their struggle and I
come from the same places they come from
in the richest country in the world it's
unacceptable to have fifteen point five
million people living in poverty across
the country and in this district we see
it as being rampant so there's a lot
more work to do and I guess that's I
mean you know
like I don't know how much and maybe you
have a better sense of this I mean how
much can a congressperson who is
obviously the federal position do about
you know the sort of the the narrower
questions within a district I'm curious
about that the other thing that I think
is more obvious to me is that if folks
who represent districts like that are
not laser focused on these problems who
will be across the country correct right
you have to the district should be
representative of the people in the
district and right now congressman angle
does not represent the majority of the
people in the district any elected
official whether it's local state or
federal has to vote and work in
alignment with their priorities right so
someone in Congress if they if they
value peace over war if they value
people over profit if they value schools
and education over bombs and
incarceration that's what they will vote
for that's what they will fight for
that's what they will push for so as a
congressional representative I will use
that position and that bully pulpit to
scream from the mountaintops about a new
vision not just for the district for but
for the country let's build more
Community Schools let's close prisons
let's focus on addiction not as a crime
but as a health crisis that needs to be
treated accordingly let's focus on peace
in the Middle East and a foreign policy
that looks at diplomacy more than we
look at war it's about being rooted in
our humanity and Congressman Engel has
shown he is not rooted in humanity he is
rooted in profit he is rooted in war and
he falls for things that decimate
communities like the crime bill for
example so while I'm working in
education fighting against in stopping
the school of prison typo
for a crime bill that's leading to the
proliferation of private prisons and
more incarceration particularly in in
New York State area and when you say
that he's supportive of these things
that you like you say you mentioned that
he voted for the 1994 crime bill which
you know to be fair a lot of Democrats
some of the most progressive Democrats
did but many of them have at least come
back out and said mistake he voted to
deregulate Wall Street I don't know
where he stands on that today but
certainly the we had a 2008 crisis which
decimated particularly people in your
district
I mean I've looked at I remember looking
at maps after the 2008 financial crisis
and Manhattan itself no foreclosures but
in areas of the Bronx a tremendous
amount of foreclosures folks were hit
really hard up there and then of course
he also voted for the Iraq war I mean
what what I want to challenge you to say
something positive okay it's very
difficult because let me ask you this
the New York 16th how blue of a district
is this in other words is this a
district that sometimes people say well
it's one of those frontline districts
you know yeah you have to have someone
he'll support uh uh you know george
bush's iraq war you'll have to have
someone who will deregulate Wall Street
you have to have someone who's going to
you know be super tough on crime and you
know even though there's a racial
disparities in this type of thing we
have to have someone who supported
george bush's horrible education program
No Child Left Behind which which we'll
talk more about because you're an
educator is this one of those districts
where you have to play it safe or is
this one of those districts like many in
New York State that should be leaders of
progressive ideas and issues around the
country it is not a purple district it
is a deep-blue district and it has been
for decades so the leader within this
district can be incredibly bold and put
in pushing progressive policy and
progressive ideology across the district
and across the country and as you
mentioned he has not done that and to
your point you're right
many Democrats did vote for the 1994
crime bill the problem is they were
wrong and the reason why they were wrong
because too many Democrats particularly
moderate and centrist Democrats have
been beholden to corporations for
decades while ignoring the
people this is why we got to get big
money out of politics this is why we
have to deal with economic inequality in
our country in a very serious way in the
same way that Bernie Sanders is talking
about in Elizabeth Warren I'm talking
about the as progressive candidates this
is a deep-blue district it has been for
decades and he has not led the thing we
hear mostly throughout the district is
we do not see him he is not engaged and
it's time for a change and those three
things are what we're hearing as we've
canvassed throughout the summer and
we're going to continue to hear that and
that's why we're giving the voters a
viable option so that more than 7% of
the electorate can come out during the
primary which is what happened in 2018
which is deplorable Wow all right well
Jamaal Bowman we're gonna take a break
when we come back I want to go through a
couple of the issues that people can
read about you supporting on your
website but I want to go through a
couple of those I want to hear what your
plan is to bring out more people to vote
and what your strategy is to win this
primary and lastly I want to obviously
talk to you about education
you're a principal of a very successful
public school up in Bronx and the Bronx
and I'm fascinated to get your take
particularly based upon where we are
coming out of really two administrations
well this third one is even more dismal
in terms of its perspective on on public
education we got to take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be back in a moment
