[Music]
there has been a concerted effort by
members of the US government in the
Trump administration and I hear much
from John Bolton these days apparently
he's been told to lay low Trump is
getting a little annoyed with his
mustache I think but Mike Mike Pompeo is
out there there is a real attempt by
forces in the State Department at least
to go to war with Iran in some fashion
and we've had another attack on tankers
in the I believe this was in the Strait
of Hormuz the this follows up an attack
that happened April 13th or somewhere
around there for tankers supposedly
attacked only to sustained any type of
damage at the time where the press seems
to have forgotten that part of the story
and that was supposedly Iran here is the
u.s. releasing a video it claims shows
Iran removing an unexploded mine from a
Gulf tanker right after the the attack
there is also Mike Pompeo has blamed
Iran on this attack President Trump went
on Fox and Friends saying you saw the
boat it has Iran written all over it
they didn't want the evidence left
behind they don't know that we have
things that can detect in the dark that
work very well we have that it was them
that did it
apparently they now know that but
American officials released the video on
Thursday said they show
onion brought crew hours after the
attack removing a limpet mine attached
the hull of the damaged Kokua corageous
a tanker operated by the Japanese
company coke Assange yo here is here is
Donald Trump on Fox and Friends here it
is mr. president talk about something in
the news today we've seen those images
of the oil tankers on fire out in the
Gulf and Iran says hey don't blame us
for this we didn't do it we think it was
an accident
I know Mike Pompeo has blamed Iran what
sort of evidence do we have that they've
done it and what are we gonna do about
it
well Iran did do it and you know they
did it because you saw the boat I guess
one of the mines didn't explode and it's
probably got essentially Iran written
all over it and you saw the boat at
night trying to take the mine off and
successfully took the mine off the boat
yeah and that was exposed and that was
the boat that was them and they didn't
want the evidence left behind I guess
they don't know that we have things that
we could detect in the dark that worked
very well so we have that and then oh
you put it on so no it was them that did
it and it looks president President
Obama made a deal that was an outrage
okay resident Obama made a deal the only
problem with this story seems to be that
they that the US government which seems
hell-bent on blaming Iran for this story
of this attack that it was a function of
Mines put on the side of the boat it's a
super weird way of doing this right as
opposed to like sort of I don't know but
I don't know I don't attack boats on a
regular basis here's Marco Rubio
weighing in not just the intelligence
shows shows Iran was behind the Gulf
attacks common sense does too it's a
fact that only the Iranian guard the
Iranian what is what is the are the
Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy has the
ability to place mine like these
well that's and it's surrogates who and
its surrogates who can conduct fast boat
attacks such as this one Marco Rubio
little Marco apparently is extending
common sense perhaps where it doesn't
belong here is the owner of the tanker
Japanese you tacac√° you taka Qatada he
is the president of the kakuka Seng o is
the company that owns the boats
apparently he wasn't clued in that the
idea is to blame Iran and to blame Iran
by attaching mines because this guy who
does arguably have a vested interest
right in not having his boats attacked
came out and said the following I will
read it because he's speaking in
Japanese but it's translated underneath
good wholesome the crew is saying that
it was hit by a flying object they are
saying that something came flying to put
a bomb on the side is something that we
are not thinking well in other words
whatever that video is of it's not of
what happened well and of course I mean
the Shinzo Abe a was in Iran meeting
with the Iranian leadership at the same
time which would be very odd timing I
mean like these Iran do we really want
to stick it to Japan I mean yeah Iran
has no problem with chip I mean has good
relations with Japan and certainly no
problem with Norway and they they have
said that basically diplomatically the
United States has to pay a price for
lying and destroying this deal but in
actuality all of the problems that they
have with Iran have existed like yeah
Iran supports Hezbollah Iran is on
different side of a proxy war in Syria
that's still the case
ever since I mean Iran is still
following the deal even as they've
pulled out of it international monitors
are basically saying like well Iran
technically left to make a point but
they're still upholding it so this is
just ludicrous and you know obviously
incredibly dangerous and you know I mean
we saw the same thing in Venezuela
they're just very bad um you know New
York Times even did a debunk on the
video that they were putting around
suggesting that the you know that the
attack was done by the government and
then the video was clearly demonstrated
it was thrown by an opposition protester
and that was debunked in a matter of
weeks I mean usually these lies like in
Vietnam in Iraq take years maybe people
do learn lessons well I think it's also
a question of maybe the technology is
such the I think that's that there is
just too many other ways in which things
can get debunked and there's it's too
hard for stories to be put out there and
not be responded to and and it would be
interesting to even you know as you know
Madhvi interesting if we had the ability
to go back in time and see what would
have happened in the build-up to the
Iraq war had there been frankly Twitter
and YouTube and in Facebook if stories
from McClatchy that debunked what was
going on in terms of the march to war if
they had been widely disseminated as
opposed to being on you know page 18 of
the times occasionally or something like
that but picked up another life on
social media it would be interesting to
know maybe maybe in some way we have we
don't really have a way of testing it
but in some way that maybe we have the
ability now with social media to stop
major things like this right like even
Yemen to the extent that there has been
a attempt obviously it passed and
Senate in the house it was not
veto-proof to stop our support for the
Yemen conflict but I wonder if that
could have happened 10 years ago no
because even just the fact that people
centered it as we're literally
supporting and I will use the word
genocide now was not getting any press
attention I mean there was the remem
SMBC didn't talk about it for a year
yeah and you know and actually I do want
to note that Twitter actually did censor
a group that was reporting just they
were showing visuals of the atrocities
on Twitter and Twitter so that it was in
violation of their standards so that's a
good thing to note about the failures of
these companies as well but I agree no
way it would have happened in a
different media environment
unfortunately our current government
really doesn't care if a war has popular
legitimacy or not or if the basis has
been widely debunked by the media
Trump cares about my popularity I think
it actually every time there's a setback
for things like this and it filters to
him this is actually an example of where
his specific nutty personality matters
right last time I mean a month ago he
was with the generals apparently was
like what we're getting into a war I
don't want a real war I just want to
make it look like I'm being tough I want
to talk death well look tough tough
tough so no war just tough talk
maybe his nutty personality will save us
in this instance well a strong example
of better him than Pence in this type of
area for sure yeah fair enough
tough I'm gonna be tough
