[Music]
yes it's and yeah I feel good
that's just good even though just in the
chat someone called me a problematic
boomer really yeah but they don't like
my politics in the chat person lame and
the that said you are a problematic
boomer 100% well I'm not disagreeing I'm
just saying make it so I can understand
it without the five-dollar words boomers
those weren't too problematic for me
yeah well you know boomers are
problematic you're problematic I mean it
would not be the first time you've ever
been called problematic uh I've been
quite hey I've been called worse
am i right you with me all right
everybody you know it's because you hate
when that guy heckled me remember years
ago in the in the last factory said your
this is problematic he yelled at me
problematic it's because you keep
calling Chris Cuomo Fredo I'll tell you
that's Chris Cuomo thing oh don't feel
bad I felt bad for all of us oh that one
do we ever play that no it's so good oh
we should we actually never did this
perfect always saves it is so good do we
have that Matt Matt's getting it hey
Fredo good job on the show now we should
just set the scene here now I think I
think something's going up because I
just read something where Don Lemon is
getting sued for getting into a fight
with somebody yeah like in the Hamptons
or somehow I have a feeling waited up
CNN I have a feeling that there could
also be a you know sort of a concerted
effort for people to go and get into
altercations with CNN people that to me
I think it sounds like it sounds like
what happened to me at a majority report
mixer yeah
you step off I'll smack you here is for
public option fellas get your hand up I
Amica he did the best he's not a war
criminal please fellas
be reasonable here is a clip of Chris
Cuomo apparently he's at what function
was he at I thought I do probably a
party now you're just a party it's like
it's in a tent you can see that because
the way that this is shot somebody went
up to him and there might have been I
don't know one or two guys actually
involved in this but they get into it
with a Chris Cuomo and and here it is
Chris Cuomo you know channels his his
his inner tough guy and they use the
f-word they used the f-word
oh yeah all right well let's just try
and talk over that so that we don't
trade oh god father it was a weak
brother
pause it for a second I love Chris Cuomo
well but he's like does he think that
these people don't really know who he is
at they're just calling him randomly
they're calling him Fredo well didn't
the guy the guy did come Fredo probably
right well no the guy did call him Fredo
but Cuomo I was explaining to him like
well who Fredo is like what do you think
that it's like there's a little bit he's
out right like I don't know if you're
calling me frayed up because you think
it's a good nickname but it's not the
right thing I think he thinks the guy
thinks it's a pasta sauce like a pasta
brand maybe that is really funny to
patiently explain one of the most iconic
characters in movie history
well the reference like the guys use
Leto was the dumb brother which I
probably don't mean that if you're
calling me that an insult that way
I think that this club is gonna get
[Music]
[Applause]
there you go I mean why do I have a
feeling that Cuomo has his glasses on
his oh he does have his shirt yeah I
love that hey Fredo nice coverage of the
debates
hey nice readers nice readers are Eddie
kid we're on Twitter hey Fredo you're
bad at hosting hey Fredo
hey let's let's get after its Fredo my
favorite almost like it somebody like
we're good after Portnoy or something
I'm trying to think of like what oh my
god that's a bit right there Sam and
some silly function you're like hey put
night
you you keep philip roth's i will i will
i will guide you down these stairs yeah
point was a sexually neurotic and he
went to therapy and that's a very
insulting comment on the jewish people i
will wreck you you want what you want me
to take it for saqqaq pessimist and
shove you up the and I'll know it
did you call me Tevye excuse me you know
how name's not Tevye yeah so there it is
Chris Cuomo and you know I got it I got
to think that like for for a guy like
that that he sort of probably likes that
occasionally people get a view of him
that way
right because right he feels like he's
on you know he's on the he's on the TV
and he comes off as a soft guy and he
wants to be know but he's not he's not
he threw me down the stairs four times
at a party Jeff for saying hi Chris
Cuomo but didn't you you asked him to
though right please call me down if
there's one more time one more time
please one more time crazy please one
more time just like Oh what are you
gonna call me poet no like a schmuck
five ish painful they call me fiber
sprinkles to my face if you think if you
think that I'm some type of masturbator
say it say it just own it
oh because I'm a Jew I'm a chronic
masturbator cause my mother got a very
insulting stereotype sir do you think
like what this is the part that I don't
understand about that and then we'll
move on do you think move on to Dennis
Miller time that's right what wait a
second but Fredo is not a don't forget
card government
but ceci moreno i'm not afraid of you
but but Fredo is not a doesn't seem to
me to be a like an ethnic slur it's more
of a personal slur right like yeah
people like we call you know like one of
the Bush brothers at various times Fredo
right like didn't we say like oh it
turns out a jab is frayed edge was
frayed oh yeah and you know obviously
they're not Italian it was really more
about the dynamic and the brothers do
you think that he's purposely conflating
you know like a I guess Guido would be
the term with Fredo or no because he
thinks I think he thinks that uh I think
he was first of all I think he was as
the kids say loaded for bear that night
yeah I'm saying you could have said he
was ready to go he was ready to go
it's go time yeah call me a good fella
you can say I'm a good fella what do you
say over there imagine Jeb Bush Jeb Bush
like hey uh uh that's that's a slur
against the Italian people that's like
that's like their n-word
that's not okay yeah can I speak any
anytime that you're in an argument
you're saying that's our version of the
n-word you're already in trouble right
and it brings up making up your own
n-word all right well let's move on
