[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday May 15 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Dennis Lewicki
on the magnificent fight celebrating the
Winnipeg general strike which took place
this day 100 years ago also on the
program today
Alabama passes a total ban on abortion
as a means to test roe v-- wade and the
US State Department evacuates all
non-emergency personnel from our Iraqi
embassy supposedly over fears of an
Iranian attack convenient
meanwhile out of the deep concern we
have for what's going on in the Middle
East
the US has all but shut the door
completely and totally on Syrian war
refugees and federal court
Trump's bid to stop the financial
records subpoena from Congress looks
like it is failing Elizabeth Warren says
no thanks to Fox and Joe Biden says the
Republican fever just needs a little bit
of aspirin and everything will be fine
sixteen million voters were removed from
the voter rolls in the run-up to 2016
Donald Trump jr. will provide limited
testimony to the Senate Intel committee
as per a recently negotiated deal and in
Florida you'll have multiple radio
stations that will be playing a
never-ending loop of Trump speeches over
the next 16 months all that and more on
today's majority report welcome to the
show ladies and gentlemen thank you for
joining us we we threatened to do it we
claimed we would do it and we're going
to be doing it we're actually not just
acknowledging the Winnipeg general
strike from 1919 specifically Oh Canada
yes but we're we're gonna be talking
today to the author of the magnificent
fight on how that strike came about it's
lessons that we can apply today
important to have a sense of these
things when opportunity strikes no pun
in
tended in in the near future maybe maybe
maybe in the distant future who knows
meanwhile the 2020 elections are
happening Joe Biden is up in New
Hampshire and it's interesting in this
office there has been a a slight role
reversal where as I for an extended
period time of course have been on my
blame the voters bailiwick for several
years now there are others in this
office who have been on the other side
of that and now it feels a little bit
like things have reversed I think I've
charted a third way the whole time
between your complete discrediting of
the papal and Jaime's blind faith in
them
what is yours Ben it's that I both
respect and disrespect the electorate
simultaneously in a way that synthesizes
the contradictions the way that's
convenient depending on the argument I'm
making at a particular time I think well
I will say that you have mastered that
that ability ability called synthesis
your to blindly ideologically committed
to your resentments and emotional agita
and Jamie's utopian visions ask me today
is there a poll that's bad for Bernie
the electorate is looking very bad
however I have confidence in them in the
long term potentially that is what I've
been saying
about Joe Biden my my confidence in the
electorate is rather limited however I
do think and and look I'm not even
saying this from an ideological
perspective I mean I feel like I have a
decent understanding of partisan
Democrats and I just think that those
partisan Democrats have a little more
savvy
than they used to and have a little less
patience than they used to a little less
desire for compromise I I don't know
that the west wing could succeed today
in today's environment the TV show but
here is Joe Biden saying something that
I think many of you will find in some
ways incredibly stunning because you are
all aware of what has taken place over
the past three years and you are aware
of what took place in the eight years
during the obama-biden administration
and also are aware of what happened from
2000 to 2008 during the George W Bush
administration and so on and so on this
is such a shocking thing to hear we will
talk about the potential explanations
for this which range from medical
conditions to deep cynicism but here is
Joe Biden at a place apparently that
serves yogurt in New Hampshire by yogurt
ein answering a question suggesting that
all you need to do is get rid of Donald
Trump and then magic happens and
Republicans turn okay here's the night
King I just think there is a way
[Music]
is with Donald show by the White House
not a joke you will see an epiphany
occur among many of my Republican
friends and it's already beginning
issues in the house there we've seen
people that in fact we're not willing to
vote for any democratic initiative even
if they agreed with it because they
didn't want to be the odd person out of
it wasn't going to pass no sense in
getting women to be beaten for something
is not going to happen then put another
way if you can't change we're in trouble
this nation can not function okay so
there's there's two parts to this the
first part is Joe Biden claims that the
Republicans are going to have an
epiphany if Donald Trump gets out of
office if this sounds remarkably similar
to the idea let's say that their fever
will break that makes sense because
that's exactly what Obama said about the
Republican fever breaking he said this
back in 2012 right before the his
re-election he argued my expectation is
if we can break this fever we can invest
in clean energy and energy and
efficiency because it's not a partisan
issue he says that if he expects the
gridlock to end after the election if he
can win the election because then that
after the election now it turns out that
the goal of beating Obama doesn't make
much sense because I'm not running again
we can start getting some cooperation
again now maybe Joe Biden was asleep
during those years or as Paul Waldman
writes and the Washington Post maybe
there's some type of blow to the head
that took place
in fact he writes if biden's thinks it
is he says though this is something all
of us would like to believe is true it
just isn't
and if Biden thinks it is we should
check to see if he recently suffered
some kind of blow to the head and then
he goes on to say it's possible of
course that Biden doesn't actually think
that Republicans will be joining him in
a spirit of openness and compromise he
may know what the reality is but also
believe that it's worthwhile to at least
pretend some other future might be
possible and Walden Waldman goes on to
say the only problem with that is
there's no evidence there's must be
gained from being seen as reasonable and
moderate voters don't reward you for it
it doesn't get you any closer to
achieving your policy goals so what's
the point so either we have someone who
is deluded or just posing in a really
really unhelpful way because I actually
think it's not just what's the point
there's great detriment here because if
Joe Biden is setting up this basically
built-in excuse for the Republicans and
why they are following Donald Trump in
lockstep how do you explain what
happened in Alabama yesterday how do you
explain what Mitch McConnell has been
doing for years how do you explain the
empty seat how do you explain Mitch
McConnell going on and saying the best
part of my career was looking Barack
Obama in the eye and saying you will not
get that empty Supreme Court seat this
is this is really stunning and it is my
contention that the Democratic primary
voters this may have worked ten years
ago but I just don't
find it very very hard to believe that
this is gonna work with people today how
much delusion do you need about the
Republican Party and if he does believe
this like I say if he doesn't believe it
he's just piss-poor at trying to set up
a political context in which in which he
can get anything done right because I
mean if you're just saying Republicans
are fundamentally reasonable they're
just under the throws the hypnosis of
Donald Trump and this is your political
strategy what happens when they say no
to you as president when you have
already basically given them the
imprimatur of being reasonable well then
I guess it's reasonable to deny you any
supreme court picks
I guess it's reasonable to deny you any
you're too to sign off on your hearings
for to staff your administration
I guess it's reasonable to not allow you
to have any federal court picks I mean
this is this is this is what he's doing
is extremely dangerous and that's
assuming he thinks he knows what he's
doing he may also just believe this
stuff he may be so insulated from what's
going on that he believes this stuff
which is even scarier but I will remind
you that when Barack Obama made that
deal that extended the Bush tax cuts
when they capitulated to the Republicans
when the Republican when they did not
need to do any of it I'll remember the
fiscal cliff well there was no fiscal
cliff those Bush tax cuts did not need
to be negotiated because they were had a
sunset provision they were going to go
away on their own and there was one
person in the government who understood
that and it was Harry Reid which is why
he was so angry when Joe Biden
essentially slid back into the Senate
and made a side deal with Mitch
McConnell to say we're gonna give you
some of the you keep the the Bush tax
cuts and we will get what we would get
anyways Joe Biden and you can see it in
the second part of what he says which is
if we can't do this
the country is in real trouble well we
haven't been doing it for years and
years there's a reason why Barack Obama
the best things that he did and the
things that were so easily unwound were
because they were all by executive
action and the reason why they were all
by executive action is because we're
already there we've been there so the
question is how do you respond to it do
you continue to go back to the
Republicans and expect them to be
moderate when they haven't been and they
have been successful in not being so or
do you make them pay a price and he is
basically saying there's no price to be
paid I understand you just were under
the hypnosis of Donald Trump I mean this
is just absurd and it is dangerous and
it is particularly dangerous at a time
now where that judiciary all of that
scheming by Mitch McConnell has paid off
and Joe Biden is just basically saying
you're gonna get a free pass a free
political pass and you're and and what's
gonna happen is if he becomes president
they're gonna take that pass and they're
gonna slam him over the head with it
he's gonna find out it's a club really
stupid and frankly I think Democratic
voters are just gonna be like what
Republican party are you talking about
this is something that makes Joe Biden
look incredibly out of touch delusional
yeah I hope that you're right I mean it
is a nice bedtime story right like Trump
is the night King and as soon as you
kill him his army of ghouls is just
gonna fall on the ground and play dead
exactly we'll see I mean we'll see if
people are dumb enough to buy it I feel
like I have to defend my
so for a second though I did not say
that I do blame the electorate I said if
I were the type of person to play me
electorate and it sounds like you're
learning like yes I would say that if
you vote for Joe Biden in the 2020
primary you deserve president Andrew
Dice Clay in 2024 there you go I like
the use of the word if yes everything is
hypothetical this is not hypothetical
just coffee co-op offers you ten percent
off with the coupon code majority they
are a fair trade now not only do they
they will give a fair rate to their
farms they don't abandon their farms I
had a chance to go out to Wisconsin a
couple months ago I spoke to the folks
there when their farms have problems
they stand by them other Roasters
whatnot they will abandon the farm
because they know they can go to the
next one and get the the coffee that
they need these guys stay with these
farms I mean even if their coffee did
not taste great even if they didn't have
multiple types of roasts and types of
coffee even if they didn't offer a
majority report blend ladies and
gentlemen this would be the place to buy
your coffee but all of what I just said
was true
so just coffee co-op fair trade coffee
tea or chocolate get 10% off your order
it's always free shipping and also don't
forget you can support this program by
becoming a member go to join the
majority of report.com
and we're gonna take a quick break we
come back we will be talking about the
magnificent fight the 1919 Winnipeg
general strike with Dennis Lewicki
you
err back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone
Denis Lewicki who has been involved in
managing and facilitating social justice
and development for almost 45 years
works with community groups government
agencies to address issues of poverty
homelessness and discrimination and
author of magnificent fight the Winnipeg
general strike Denis welcome to the
program good to hear from you so alright
so we are today's the 100 anniversary is
that correct absolutely in May 15th 1919
all the action started all right well I
mean let's just start just briefly and I
want to circle back to this and and and
tease it out more but briefly why why is
it important for us to remember this
strike you know I'm not a historian I'm
a journalist by training and activist by
inclination but I think that what
history gives us is it's it's a it's a
prism through which we can see ourselves
today and the 1919 strike was a struggle
for social justice for human rights so
by looking back at it I think we can see
some of the dynamics in our own society
our own time and how we're relating to
them so I think it's a useful tool of
course it's not a blueprint we don't get
a blueprint from history but it helps us
understand and especially when we're
doing anything that requires collective
thinking you know it helps a group for
example I do a lot of work with young
people high school students and it
doesn't take them long to draw the links
between the past and the present and
then the discussions about the present
and I think that's where history and
especially the strike in our case is a
really dynamic it's a great resource
alright let's talk a little bit about
just so the folks get a sense of
of Winnipeg it is a city now I say
probably about the size of like a
Seattle yeah but a million population
million okay you know so alright and so
uh tell us a little bit about what
Winnipeg was like a hundred years ago
Winnipeg at one point was the third
biggest city in Canada and actually was
called the Chicago of the north because
of the amount of grain that was traded
through the grain exchange so in both
between 1900 and 1920 it was a booming
place I mean the population grew from
40,000 in 1900 almost a hundred and
eighty thousand twenty years later and
it was a real agricultural and
industrial center three railroads
converged here there were 13 banks the
Grain Exchange the industry's
metalworking industries huge yield
production for the for the construction
of big buildings at one time there were
13 what we calls or what people called
ice scrapers at the time and one of them
that was built in 1906 was to consider
the tallest building in the British
Empire so these are just indicators of
an economy that was really really
growing fast and and really involving a
lot of new people so a lot of those
thousands of growth they were immigrants
there were people coming from Britain
the United Kingdom and Eastern Europe to
work in the industries or to work in
agriculture so there was a huge influx
of immigrants that really was changing
not only the economic and labor
relations situation but was really
affecting the the cultural character of
the time so it was really a dynamic time
for most it was an exciting time for
some it was bringing about change that
was a threat so it was
it was it was good in many ways but it
also created stresses and strains on the
society at the time okay and so you
mentioned that it was renowned for
having a skyscraper and the strikes
started at least in part with some of
those construction workers tell us what
what what led up to the strike well
there were two real key groups at the
time that were negotiating for better
wages and working reduced to working
hours I was people working in the
construction trades electricians
carpenters that kind of skilled
tradesman and then on the other side
there were the metal trades workers or
tinsmith Boilermakers these two groups
were negotiating with their employers at
the time and mainly it was around wages
but if you remember at that time it was
eight to ten hour days and six day weeks
it was you know nothing like we have
today so they were always trying to
negotiate better working conditions and
benefits for workers the employers were
very resistant to that and at that time
remember that the unions were not
formally or legally recognized so there
was a very informal relationship between
the unions and the employers so on one
hand for example in the construction
trades the contractors the big
construction companies that were
building those buildings they knew that
they had to pay more they agreed that
workers were not getting paid much there
was a time when during the first world
war when wages were in effect frozen as
part of the National response to the war
effort
so the employers in some cases knew
there had to be improve and sent
increased wages but there were
disagreements over how much and and when
to apply these changes so it was a like
I say a dynamic time lots of
construction lots of
work being done but it was a situation
where the workers we're expecting more
out of their labor at the time all right
and so and so give us a sense of I mean
its entry so the dynamic from almost a
generic sense is a situation where the
workers are aware of just how much those
owning these companies and presumably
the growth of who are benefiting the
capitalists who are benefiting from the
the growth of the city and this is
building
resentment walk us through how you know
who went on strike first how this things
spread but I'm also curious at this
point because in the states at this time
particularly 1919 in many respects and
certainly in 1920 there's a lot of
rather you know famous like a mate Juan
was in the states I think it was maybe
1920 there were there was a lot of
striking that was going around
particularly through the the 19-teens
the or at least of the earlier part so
how much how much were the unions in
Canada what was their relationship with
the unions where I should say you know
the the workers in the States
good I'm glad you brought that out
because prior to the strike there was a
lot of labor action in these states and
in Europe this was a global phenomenon
where unions were organizing you know in
the night in the 1880s and 1890s a lot
of the workers were organizing into
unions both in Canada and the United
States so they were really developing
and testing the their union muscle at
the time and there was resistance
obviously from employers they wanted to
control wages and control workers so it
was a time when there were thousands of
strikes even in Europe bring back to
like 1906 1907 Belgium Spain there were
major major strikes the the Russians you
know before they took power in 1917 they
were using general strikes as a way of
putting pressure on the government at
the time so you know it was a pretty
universal phenomenon in fact I'm glad
you mentioned no Seattle in January of
1919 at a huge strike 65,000 workers
went off for a week and it in many ways
was a template for what happened here in
Winnipeg so this does you to respond to
your question about how it all got
launched here the metal trades and the
construction trades workers were
negotiating in March and April not
getting very far so both of those went
on strike on May 1st and main 2nd of
1919 that really was the catalyst that
there was a strike they were pushing for
wages and reduced hours they went on
strike that then got the Winnipeg trades
and Labor Council which represented
other unions in the city to then call
for a vote on whether or not they would
support those workers on on strike while
the response was overwhelming eleven
thousand eight thousand members voted to
own a general strike only about six
hundred voted not to go on a general
strike so right from the beginning you
could see there was a lot of union
solidarity and and in common interest of
course at the time that then brought out
roughly another 12,000 workers or 18,000
workers and as I said earlier that
population of about a hundred and eighty
thousand so you had 10,000 percent of
the population on strike on May the 15
1919 one hundred years ago today the
other interesting factor a phenomenon
was that within a few days another
12,000 workers who were not unionized
went on strike they were immigrants
large
working in small businesses some of them
uh domestic servants for example and in
the homes of her the city's rich and
they basically walked off their jobs as
well so that surprised everyone but what
it meant was that there was now 30,000
workers on strike in a city of 180,000
and just to add to another dimension so
we're talking numbers the veterans who
were coming back to Canada from the
first world war they saw a lot of them
saw common cause with the strikers mean
they wanted jobs they wanted to be
treated fairly
they had just sacrificed a lot and in
the name of democracy and they already
wanted to enjoy the fruits of that
democracy so about another four or five
thousand veterans got involved so within
a few days after May 15
it was almost 35,000 workers on strike
and they carried through that at a labor
action for six weeks and so yeah I mean
you're talking about almost twenty
percent of the population and I would
imagine much higher figure relative to
the working age population right because
we're you know I mean and and so that
has devastating effects I'm curious
about this dynamic before we get to you
know how this ends
and what happens over those six weeks
but the the idea that you'd have 12,000
non-union workers join the the Union
strikes the idea that you had 4 to 4 to
5,000 veterans who are obviously you
know sort of I would imagine they still
have particularly close bonds
particularly at that time having just
come back from the war so there's a
tremendous amount of solidarity amongst
the veterans there is in this country
now and I imagine there's some maybe
analog in Canada although to be honest
with you I don't know a movement amongst
unions that are trying to turn away from
the managerial unionism that has
dominated the union movement over the
past
I don't know four or five six six
decades and move towards a more of a
social justice unionism which you know
as in broad swath basically means that
you as a union you don't just fight for
your own wages and your own job you
fight for issues you create solidarity
across society by picking up and and
fighting for the issues that are shared
by folks in the working class and shared
by folks across you know some amount of
classes the non capitalist class let's
let's put it that way and so how much of
like well what was what was the
consciousness of how the approach was
taking at that time I mean if the if the
unions were able to mobilize twelve
thousand non-union workers which is you
know more that I mean almost almost the
same amount of unionized workers maybe a
little bit less but in total with the
veterans they were able to mobilize a
you know a significant amount of the
population how what was that a function
just of everyone having a shared
resentment or was there a plan to build
cross you know intra unions solidarity
or was it because they were immigrants
or what was that well there were a
number of things I would say however one
of the key elements that kind of glued
together that class solidarity was a lot
of these immigrants came from situations
in Europe where they had felt oppression
you know they were living under
draconian regimes feudal regimes so they
came to Canada with a couple of
expectations one they were coming to
Canada to build a new country to build a
new nation and it wasn't just their
labor it was their there
mafourdi their courage their resilience
that they knew they were bringing to
Canada secondly a lot of these
organizations were very very independent
rather than these people were very very
independent so they built their
synagogues they built their labor
temples they built their churches they
set up their community organizations
they started benevolent societies you
know they were they were not waiting for
government I mean there was no
expectation that government would
provide these these service and so there
was an ethic right from the beginning of
people helping themselves helping each
other and we can tell many stories of
you know different ethnic groups that
may have been fighting in Europe but
became to Canada and started working
together there was a collaboration
around issues so I think that was a kind
of a seminal part of the changes that
were taking place a lot of the social
services prior to the 1920s were
provided by church groups or by
benevolent groups many of the middle
class and there was a sense of and you
know that it was important to help one's
neighbor to to help the disc destitute I
remember there were a lot of widows
created from the first world war and
they rarely had a good alternative
income so there were these women and
children that needed support and because
we're kind of a smaller country than the
states and our cities were smaller at
the time there you know people knew and
could see the the conditions that people
were living in and there was that s
effort to respond so one of the things
that's maybe a little different between
Canada and the states is that we had a
bit of that social unionism right from
the early 1900s and so we pushed through
and whether directly initiated by the
unions or initiated by the progressive
political parties with the support of
the unions but we've got a lot of you
know socialized medicine and improved
educational services and unemployment
insurance and things like that and that
we've had for you know decades here
a little different but I I'm really glad
you mentioned this in terms of the the
union's responding to economic and
cultural conditions today and especially
a lot of young people want to get
involved in organizing around
environmental issues and social issues
you know confronting races and the
things like that and the unions are
responding they are getting on board and
seeing that there is that sense of both
obligation and benefit when we all work
together around these issues so the
strike ends on six weeks later more or
less at least officially I guess on what
is known as bloody Saturday what what
happened on that day yeah I was you know
it was a constructed spontaneous
conflict the state the local elite had
been planning and clearly trying to
figure ways of confronting the unions
they were ready for a fight you know
they had special police hired ready to
to intervene they had military ready so
that when the veterans planned a silent
march a silent demonstration on June the
21st and it started out very very
peacefully about 8,000 people
congregated in front of City Hall in
downtown Winnipeg but the authorities
were not up for tolerating any of that
they they charged in with horses and
clubs and at one point they pulled out
the revolvers and killed a couple of men
killed two men so it was a brutal
suppression of the of the workers and of
the veterans anyway is that like I say
they were very clear that it had to be a
peaceful violent protest and they were
protesting the arrest of ten men that
had been arrested just a few days
earlier and the raids that took place on
three of the labor temples again the
state had no authority to make these
raids and arrests but they did and the
public was incensed and so there were
demonstrations all across
that the word plant here in Winnipeg on
june 21st was to culminate and really
expressed the the the public's criticism
of the government and what they had done
with these men and with the labor
temples and so what happened in the wake
of Bloody Saturday well you know the
workers I'm sure know not being there
but you know from the records we had
their workers were obviously
disillusioned by that because it seemed
that straight had become very violent
throughout the six weeks the unions were
constantly saying the best thing that
for the workers to do during the strike
to win was to do nothing not confront
not challenged not demonstrate so when
this happened it demoralized everyone
and the sectoral strike committee and
called an into the strike for June any
step now in a way the the interesting
echo or waves that came out of that in
the next two years a number of very
progressive and labor oriented
politicians were elected to office in
the city government the provincial
government and the federal government
and just to give you a snapshot three of
the so-called strike leaders that were
charged with and convicted of seditious
conspiracy they were in jail in 1920
when they ran for the provincial
legislature and they were elected
overwhelmingly elected even though they
were never allowed out of jail so you
know the the aftermath really was a vote
of the people on the straight and they
voted their support for the strike to
describe the strike leaders and in so
following that like what were the I
guess the I guess you know then the
echoes and the ripples of that's right I
mean did we see any type of reforms I'm
curious if there was ever any analogous
legislation and you know I'm jumping
ahead of course taft-hartley happened in
this country the in the 40s late 40s and
that ultimately I think has really
undercut the power of unions and you
know I think people are working on
trying to figure out ways in which to to
rebuild that union power but it the
worst thing about taft-hartley in terms
of power is it really prevented general
strikes and of this health but was there
anything equivalent to that in Canada
and to the extent that there was or
wasn't was there also any other sort of
ripple effects of this strike well a
couple of things first of all right
after the strike in the 1920s it was a
period for the economy where there
wasn't the same kind of growth that
preceded the 1920s so that was the
person and then by 1929 30 then there
was the depression that put our cap on a
lot of economic development that changed
so you know things that had kind of
national dimensions to them that had
nothing to do with the strike where
we're really dominant at the time
however the union's there were it was a
setback for the unions because workers
were disappointed in failure of the
strike and so there was a time when the
unions had to build back their
credibility and and they're there their
strengths but the significant thing one
of the significant things that came out
of the strike was that the living
conditions that the workers had
experienced and were experiencing was
really exposed and in Canada we have
something called Royal Commission that's
when a government is it gets
high-powered credible people to do an
investigation to do an analysis of an
important issue and so in Canada there
was a federal Royal Commission and then
a provincial Royal Commission to look
into what were the underlying causes of
the labor unrest
and the Winnipeg Strait and both of
these clearly pointed out that there was
you know the workers were frustrated
they were unemployed they were facing
poor working conditions wages were low
at the same time there was a wealthy
class that was benefiting from the from
the labor of the workers you know so
these commissions and these are very
very elite government oriented
commissions both of them were run by
judges judges both of them came out and
basically endorsed what the strikers
were fighting for so that didn't lead to
immediate social service development for
example but it did put in place and it
did show the importance of government
and non-governmental agencies working to
provide the kind of supports that
workers needed that you can't just
expect workers to be slaves they do have
their their personal lives and and by
the 1940s and 50s you saw an awareness
that when workers are well clothed well
fed educated it benefits the economy and
benefits industry and business so you
know it took time but the strike and the
Commission's that came out of that so
clearly articulated the living
conditions and the exploitation of
workers that it did register for the
future I wouldn't say there are direct
relation I'd love to say that something
that was done in during the strike and
you know led to certain legislation but
there's very few links okay give me one
example one of the strike leaders i got
named jeaious Woodsworth became quite
famous and he really really pushed the
canadian government through institute a
pension plan for canadians which we now
have and it's a fairly healthy plan and
a lot of Canadians rely on it well you
know he was a strike leader he was in
Parliament in the 1920s and 30s and it
took him a long time and other
progressive politicians but they were
able to get something very significant
that not only been
that'd Unionists but benefited everyone
in the country all all citizens so it
wasn't direct relationships to what
happened after but you can see that
there was a that it were that the strike
was a catalyst in a way that allowed
progressive politicians then move
forward and push for a more progressive
agenda that I think is a huge huge
lesson for folks to take from this story
and I have to say also I'd be remiss if
I didn't say the the idea of those elite
Commission's resolving that the strikers
were right it sounds about the most
Canadian thing I could ever imagine
but Dennis Lewicki the book is
magnificent fight the 1919 Winnipeg
general strike thank you so much for
your time today I really appreciate it
it's been a pleasure great to meet you
all right folks we're going to take a
quick break
head into the fun half of the program
wherein we will have fun ladies and
gentlemen we will have fun in a myriad
of different ways one of those ways will
be to make fun of dave rubin again he
had on my old buddy Mike Serna vit Sean
boy you remember Mike Tsarevich they're
just exchanging ideas
you remember Mike Tsarevich he is the
guy who is a documented date-rape denier
he was also documented a promoter of
pizza gate which ultimately led to a man
going into a pizza parlor in Washington
DC with a weapon looking for hidden
dungeons where there were pedophile and
prostitution rings don't forget he's an
alleged rapist but he played it down to
battery so that's true that is also true
there's there's more of course he also
was famous for stepping on a rake and
getting hit in the face or rather I
should say more specifically trying to
get me fired and not getting me fired or
getting me fired and then and then
having that not work out for him he
accused Barack Obama of all sorts of of
things obviously and he also failed
miserably on his on-air screen-test on
Infowars
which was difficult for him also a
professional what do they call him
pickup artist wasn't he basically was
telling people too how to neg neg women
and basically you know that's the way
you pick up the ladies I guess but so
Dave Rubin had him on for a second time
and I think look Dave Rubin could have
on whoever he wants and he can obviously
not have on whomever he wants but it
seems to me there should be some
accounting for platforming a guy like
that and they talked about some of the
stuff of course the massive amounts of
pedophile rings that that he is
convinced to happened but as far as I
know Dave did not bring up the widely
publicised attempt to get me fired they
did complain however about how hard it
is and how online culture is so
despicable in fact we have that clip
let's let's play that now there was a
here is is this is clip number five
right is that it or is that the best one
I think so oh yeah
okay so let's play a compilation from
the actual filmmaker Vic burger as
opposed to the fake filmmaker that is
Mike Serna and here he is doing
his rendition of the talk between dave
rubin and mike Tsarevich wherein mike
Tsarevich really is upset I will remind
you that Mike Serna claims to have
paid someone to dig through my tweets
they found a tweet from 2009 where I
satirically chastised those people who
were being apologists for Roman Polanski
as a rapist wherein I wrote in response
to a petition that was going around in
Hollywood trying to get Roman Polanski
get him some type of Lifetime
Achievement Award or something to that
effect
wherein I wrote regarding Polanski don't
care about him but if my daughter is
ever raped I hope it's by a much older
man with a great sense of meson sin and
the satire there obviously was that I it
is absurd that you would let someone off
for for the rape of an underage girl
because they're a great filmmaker that
seems absurd well of course Mike
Tsarevich hired someone to dig through
my tweets that's all they could find
they tried to weaponize that with the
use of blots they had Donald Trump jr.
retweeted they had said Gorka retweeted
Mike Tsarevich and his folks pretended
to be outraged citizens members of a
pedophile victims group and emailed all
of our advertisers in an attempt to get
them to to end their association with
this program and
ultimately got me fired from MSNBC and
then ultimately I was rehired that did
not come up in this conversation but
what did come up is how hard being a
public figure is from Mike Serna vich as
told through this vic burger video
burger did he know yes all right I think
we're live we're live we're live Mike's
turn to how you doing man I think
about everyday hi ruined my life by ever
becoming a public figure I could just
write my books and live a good life and
nobody knew who I was before drama ran I
was in a Parisian cafe just writing
having fun with my wife walking around
looking in Orchard on before it burned
down and everything and every day I
think I ruined my life by becoming a
public figure because just the
fundamental and decency of it all is not
something that I was prepared for how to
pay for a hit but the the angry little
weird left people the freaks somewhat
weird Mike and the people who support my
family being harassed they'll do all the
dunking on Twitter that does make you in
a way it makes you sad and the problem
with making people like me sad is
sometimes I hold my daughter and I think
about the people who are trying to hurt
her I remember we went to some party
because my buddy's girlfriend said that
this guy raped her and we go let's go
kill him you all know what Vic burger
did you know we had he to fake videos
about my wife and daughter fact you know
that he's edited multiple videos about
my daughter fact
and refer back sorry my child's trying
to be in this but this isn't really a
kid-friendly yes these are all real so
just ask them what did they mean by that
and you know the emails he sent me the
threats you know that I've gone to
police you've seen the police reports so
this is it some clown he calls me all
right yeah this is my message that he
made fake videos about my wife and
daughter this could be an actual
pedophile ring so I have to just make it
public and publicize it they're all
connected this guy his Twitter handle is
v.i.c
ber ger the fourth please vet call the
cops again they're all connected this
one guy he's at the middle of all Viktor
ger you sue me you know like I just
don't give a all right man well on
that note I hope we cleaned up some of
this the chips will fall where they may
and we'll both keep going I suppose and
my pleasure it's again yeah good talking
to you yes there it is folks
and apparently dave rubin now wants to
hope a host Democratic presidential
candidate Pete put against and boy it
seems to me that would be a huge mistake
for that Democratic primary hopeful to
appear in that same very seat where and
as but if he wants to be seen in the
same light as as someone like Mike Serna
Mitch I mean I'm not you know I have no
bone to pick with Mayor Pete he's not
necessarily my favorite candidate I have
plenty but if that's what he wants to do
then I say more power to you I hope that
that brings you dividends I just have a
feeling it won't bring you the dividends
you think it will if you are a fan of
Mayor Pete's I would suggest to him
probably not a good idea but you know
like I say to each their own and again I
want to remind you Mike
to the question the eternal question of
Mike's tarnish who's laughing now Sam
it's me I'm laughing now haha all right
we're gonna take a quick break
head into the fun half just a reminder
you can become a member of this program
in fact you can still become a member of
the Mike Tsarevich can kiss my ass
tear a membership tear on majority part
had to join the majority report dot-com
just pennies a day you can support this
program you get extra content you get a
commercial free join the majority report
comm today is Wednesday May 15th that
means that yesterday was Tuesday May
14th what happened last night in this
office Michael we had a mini illicit
history of the Iranian Revolution and
how that government works then I'm the
Vinland us and we talked about
everything from the Knicks and the NBA
Draft
which means quite a lot to Emma I did
not know she I knew she was but I didn't
like it's not just the fandom it's like
I think Bosh Carson Cara's the only
other like Knicks dedicated head that
I've I've ever met
like like Waze doesn't care about that
but so we talked about that we talked
about we had a game of Thrones segment
which will I'm pretty sure it will never
happen again on the show and talked
about the many many many many ways that
Joe Biden is very bad for you and not
good and of course a whole bunch of
other stuff you can get the whole thing
at patreon.com slash t MBS and also for
patrons you can get your pre-order
tickets to our Chicago live show in
August and Michael Brooks show on
YouTube and everywhere else Jamie so
this week on the anti fada
we took a turn for the erudite after
talking about but stuff in the Starr
report with Katie Halpert last week and
we spoke with Samuel Stein not the one
from HuffPost the Marxist geographer
author of Capitol City
gentrification and the real estate state
which
out now from verso books and we
basically talked all about the global
housing crisis where it comes from why
the economy is so reliant on real estate
at this point in time how even
well-meaning progressive politicians and
planners are ultimately constrained by
the system and how we might ultimately
unite and slay the housing monster so
check it out check it out folks
check out Khilafah talk on on Matt's
podcast literary hangover quick break
fun half see there all right folks six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna we bring back the G yeah or a
couple you put them in rotation these
you did well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough little break
that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males Oh
what
on the back
on the back
back
Oh
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blocked alpha males
Oh
black
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
happy birthday to me
I have a thought experiment for the
alpha males of black black alpha males
[Music]
somebody needs to pay the price we
around here we are back Sam cedar
majority report fun half ladies and
gentlemen welcome to it we are here I
mentioned at the break as we were
talking about Dave Rubin and let's just
get all the Dave Rubin stuff out of the
way today I mean I try and have
differing opinions on this program and
some people think Dave Rubin is is a bit
of a charlatan other people think that
he's not very bright I welcome all the
opinion not really Dave Rubin some of us
have been well there's no reason to be
ad hominem but we can get to that later
but first let's talk about history I
mentioned earlier in the program that
Dave Rubin had invited mayor Pete Budaj
on his program on the same day he was
hosting the date-rape denialist Mike sir
Novick on his program the smear
merchants and who is um is it third a
 calm assertive attack okay and
here is Dave Rubin talking about that
very same left media outrage that he
would invite or that mayor Pete would go
on the same program now I I tweeted out
I wonder if mayor Pete knows about this
just simply because I'm curious will
impact my assessment of mayor Pete if he
did know about this I think other people
were tweeting at the mayor Pete like I
wouldn't go on there and I can assure
you folks it was not because of the
hard-hitting questions that they
anticipated from Dave Rubin they just I
think they were worried about it hurting
mayor Pete's image that's up to them if
they're supporters I could understand
why they would do that but here is a
Ruben and date-rape denialist mic Serna
 discussing that the usual suspects
will come after me for even doing this
it's like there is probably somebody out
there now that I would like to get on
the show that simply will not come on
the show because I'm doing this right
now I mean even yesterday I contacted
Paul Budda Budda jej yeah his posit it's
Pete Buddha judge calling him Paul maybe
part of the reason why he doesn't come
on but how should commit good hour
person DM to me because I asked them to
come on the show and we're looking into
it but then the blue checker is again
you know calling me all these awful
things and it's like what are you guys
all doing like what what is it that
they're all trying to accomplish by by G
platforming and destroying everybody
well it's turf wars there something
interesting
incidentally I want to remind you that
what did not come up in this
conversation was the again widely
reported you can read about it in the
New York Times in the Washington Post
you could read it on Huffington Post it
was reported everywhere that the guy
sitting across from Dave Rubin when he
complains about deep platforming got me
fired from MSNBC tried to get all of our
advertisers to pull out of this show
this is an independent show we are not
unlike Dave Rubin ever in our history
having taken any money from any large
political or ideological institution can
Dave Rubin say that knew he cannot so if
one is going to be talking about deep
platforming and be sitting across the
sitting across your your table from ad
platformer you would expect he would say
something I unlike Dave Rubin will
always wear H&M underwear not really
I just mine mine is a FTL Fruit of the
Loom but guy well it's perforce there
something interesting happened when
having him post had to
lay off a bunch of people like Oh
everyone's like oh my god hire these
great minds or whatever and I went to
their Twitter cause I'm like no no
you're not you're not interesting you're
not this is another basic hot take white
male patriarchy do everybody's evils
like no they're fungible what they're
doing is they're producing a functional
content which is outrage directed a
specific group of people and then people
like you people like Joe Rogan they're
jealous there's also those people and
they rather than just say and again this
is like a mindset issue rather than
trust am kind of jealous those people it
may be autumn I figure out what they're
doing
maybe I'll out my own game they want to
attack and destroy and largely that's
because left-wing politics today
orthodoxy is largely based on resentment
well I don't in any way resent Dave
Rubin or Joe Rogan if I had really
wanted to make an extraordinary amount
of money I would have stayed in show
business and continued on with my career
there many many years ago I am quite
happy with this show and I in fact i
will explain something to to mike stern
of it who mutated his online pickup
artist brand into a men's rights
advocate brand into a date-rape
denialists brand into a quasi alt-right
brand giving the you know white power
sign at the podium in a in the white
house and maybe back into a documentary
filmmaker brand or whatever he's trying
to brand himself now
my project is has nothing to do with the
success of this show that is a means in
which to do it and surely I want to I
want to make a living and provide for my
family but the project is understand
it's not attacking folks like like you
because of resentment
it's attacking folks like you to make
sure that your influence is minimized I
don't even care how much success you
have I just want to make sure that your
influence is minimized so if you can
make a living as a date-rape denialist
who doesn't have much of an audience but
somehow you get paid I'm perfectly happy
with that same with Dave Rubin if you
can make a living get paid by all these
institutions without having an out to
influence without hoodwinking people
like sam harris into thinking that that
you know guys I mean Robin that Tommy
Robinson's a good guy he seemed
reasonable from everything they heard
yeah I have not heard all of Adolf
Hitler's interviews I heard one and the
plans for the auto bond while he was
making a lot of good noises but I've
been smeared and and so you know I want
to prevent other Sam Harris's out there
as it were from getting hoodwinked and
so that is my agenda
it is not driven by resentment but it
will involve not attacking I think is
not necessarily the word I would say I
would say continue to inform people of
why you should have no credit in their
minds meanwhile it's clearing the decks
of the Dave Rubin material that we have
here we have two more segments here's
Dave Rubin at the University of Delaware
and he was asked a question by a
listener of this program in fact who
spoke to us too the other day I think
it's his he goes by the moniker rave
Dubin and what I found interesting about
this with Dave Rubin is is that about a
year and a two ago back when Dave Rubin
used to identify as a or would use
certain bona fides to establish his
credibility of being on the left so that
his critique could work just like Dennis
Prager liked it to work
he would say of course he would cite his
identity as being a gay man who was
married as proof that he was of the left
which is I guess identity politics I'm
not sure how its defined with him and
then he would also say I'm also against
the death penalty and I am pro-choice
although that seems to be wavering now
he seems to at the very least feel
obligated to say that I'm reluctant
pro-choice because he knows who is
buttering his his bread so to speak his
toast and he used to say that he was a
single payer a supporter now he
simultaneously said he was for smaller
government and when people started
pointing out we here at the majority
report one of those entities that
pointed it out that to be for
single-payer means that you are for a
larger government that is the way that
we define larger government now I'm not
for large government or small government
I'm for a government that provides for
its people some basic necessities one of
those is health care and so he since
stopped calling himself a supporter of
single-payer but what's interesting is
never it appears in the time that he was
a supporter of single-payer nor as a
former supporter of single-payer has he
taken the time to figure out even
remotely speaking what single-payer
means and here is the proof
and workaround that there could be some
subsidies the government could figure
out how to work with in principle am I
allowed to say wait a second I just
wanna be clear here what he is
describing is the marketplace for
insurance as it stood prior to Obamacare
that was the government sort of works
around and allows the private market -
that's called regulation and creating
markets and every state has regulators
and there is some federal regulation
arguably what he's describing is also
Obamacare which creates small exchanges
only for people who don't get insurance
in other ways and the government
subsidizes that for people who make
anywhere from a hundred and thirty three
percent of poverty to 400 percent of
poverty and there was also according
with Obamacare and expansion from a
hundred percent poverty two hundred
thirty three percent poverty of an
expansion of Medicaid in those states
that allowed for it single-payer is none
of those things now he goes on to
continue to show that he doesn't know
what he's talking about in terms of
single-payer just a little bit the
reason I'm struggling to say that now is
because listen to what the Democratic
candidates are saying they're saying not
only is it going to be Medicare for all
but they're literally stopped private
companies from being able to be in the
marketplace okay I want you to really
think about this the government as the
sole provider of health insurance would
be like almost like having one payer for
medical stuff that would be like having
a single payer for medical
like a single-payer can you imagine that
now one payer we should be singular
payer just to correct him all of the
candidates now at this point have said
there'll be some role for private
insurance
it'll be very limited but there'll be
some role for private insurance in the
in the healthcare market it's as if you
have a single payer paying it now I want
to allow for a difference of opinion as
to what Dave Rubin what what the issue
there was well well first some
clarifications and ground rules
can't can one of those opinions be that
he's dim without being silenced no no
you cannot say and I have said this
Michael and I don't want to have to
reprimand you on air because we exchange
ideas here you could say the idea that
he has about single-payer is dim well
look I'm only interested in talking
about policy not people you could be you
could be you could you could float the
idea that there's something the idea
that there's something wrong with him
that he doesn't understand it or you
could say there's something wrong with
the English language that single-payer
is so obtuse right I think that
especially with the brain in recovery
mode from so many high-level ideas like
declining white birth rates whatever
else that how difficult the terminology
of single-payer is is unfair to date
fair enough that's my my ideas that it
might be beyond his capacity that's my
thinking we should we should get Barry
Weiss on the phone to see if this is
what the is this is what we meant by the
intellectual dark web I could think of
another D word that could be in there I
could think of - I don't even care about
those guys does it really just honestly
doesn't matter and of course there was
the requisite ask will you be debating
Sam cedar
let's just play that tag it on at the
end there and of course his refusal
because all we do is talk about how his
ideas are
lacking alright easy questions is there
anyone I know you want to beat Sam cedar
the majority report is there anyone on
the progressives David Pakman or from
counterpoints that you would be willing
to have a discussion with I know he you
had him on the show once I knew you
would when screaming posit no he doesn't
but it's an interesting frame I have a
diversity of thought and if you don't
think I do then maybe the problem is is
that you're too diverse in your thought
and you're outside of the realm of
diverse thought that's talked about blow
your mind man that that blows my mind
you're too diverse to fit within the
content it confines of diversity
glasshouses let's go to the phones comfy
idea Dave I mean just David Pakman I
mean yeah Pakman he's lying about yuning
yellow sling right
I know it's like okay I can accept he's
lying
we haven't been dishonest about him you
haven't been dishonest about him but
sure we you know we take a piss
but David Pakman I mean wow right
Wow what is it about conservatives that
they don't have a sense of humor hmm
you come from a nine eighty five area
code who's this where you come from 95
95 yes it is you oh hi hi sorry I left
the room for a minute okay yeah your
name is Patrick Patrick you're calling
from Hong Kong
I'm from New Orleans and I come from
Virginia okay and what is on your mind
Patrick formerly from New Orleans oh
yeah my question
was plumbing so my parents watch a lot
of MSNBC unfortunately they don't watch
it when you're on oh but I understand
yeah yes the bad part
but my parents are so so for quick
reference I'm a Marxist I've been a
Marxist for past couple of years
considered myself one and people like my
parents and a lot of people I know like
in my family and around me they're with
me
morally but not ideologically and I
think part of that is that there's very
little representation of like an actual
leftist argument in American media right
and I was curious as to what you think
how we can really put those people like
give them more of a spotlight because I
think that if you put that put it more
in like a global context you would get
more people it would you know like they
wouldn't shake it socialist like it
wouldn't freak out if like someone said
like I'm a Marxist I'm Democratic
socialists or Social Democrat and I was
curious as what you thought we could do
to like contact those people more
clearly well I I you know and I think at
this point I'm probably and I will also
say that I do not watch MSNBC that much
but I am probably about as far left on
that network as it gets and I am hello
and I am the sell-out the I just don't
think that people can reasonably expect
and and maybe we you know and reasonably
I'm just using in terms of like you know
I'm not making a value judgment on that
that these cable news outlets which are
owned by major corporations
I mean MSNBC is still owned at least a
minority share I don't know 49% or
something by
ge Comcast owns the majority share but
for a long time GE owned the majority
share and they are the one of the if not
the largest weapons manufacturers in the
country and an Comcast of course is you
know a a BMF and so the idea that
they're going to put any anti
capitalists on their network it's just I
I just don't think that's going to
happen I think really and what your
folks are what about in their 50s 60s
maybe uh they're around like 55 like
they're very they're kind of like I
guess he called Mike Kennedy Democrats
like I still really love Bob Kennedy
people like that yeah Bobby Kennedy well
I think they like crispy look I think
the bottom line is is that my dad loves
Chris Matthews yeah I love it back he's
like yeah he's basically in love with
Rachel Maddow no I don't like real
matter I love Christmas
here's I mean the bottom line is is that
your generation is going to get its news
less and less from cable news and more
and more from sort of the web where
there's going to be a less of a bar to
entry for people and so you know on this
program we interview you know we we have
Marxist anarcho communists and across
the spectrum and we interview Marxist
thinkers and and various you know
capital critiques of capitalism and as
you know time goes on more and more
people are gonna get their news from
shows like this where there's you know
less of a bar to entry we started this
program with no money whatsoever and
just a little bit of like you know radio
Schaech equipment and and so I think
that's gonna change over time but I
don't think there is a I would not hold
your breath let's put it that way I mean
maybe you see someone like you know
Michael Moore will get on MSNBC
occasionally and I think he has a
critique of capital but it's not Michael
Voris that this what Bobby Kennedy was
trying to do and and and so I think you
know the the reality is is that I I just
don't think I think the idea is just try
and move your parents just as a little
bit to the left as possible and get them
to vote in the right way and cory booker
is this like your first he had a job
you're sort of shy about it but excited
it's a historical moment anyways we wish
you the best of luck no I feel you I
trust me I've my family is much the same
way I love him very much
I felt really bad having to explain to
my mom that I was not actually going on
the Rachel Maddow Show because someone
made a funny Photoshop poster for the
Katie helper show that I was going to be
in but um yeah I mean in addition to
waiting for your parents to die you try
to find some teachable moments I think a
lot of people in the older generation
have been insulated from a lot of the
problems caused by neoliberalism and
Obama era politics so for instance I
don't know maybe they've never had to
buy health care on one of the exchanges
before maybe you have maybe tell them I
pay like sorry maybe they're know how
much of your salary per month you pay
and then you still can't afford to go to
the doctor because your copay is like
$100 yeah I mean that's that's the funny
thing about my parents is that they they
actually used to live in Switzerland for
like a very brief amount of time but
like I think they're aware of the
benefits that come with living in a you
know a in a natural like welfare state
but they're I don't know it freaks me
out whenever they talk about this but
like I've had a moment
where I've been able like moving a
little bit but it doesn't stick around
long because I think they watch MSNBC
all the time like I was talking to my
mom a couple months ago about about Lula
da Silva in Brazil and you know like I I
think I said something along the line of
like my family's Catholic and I said you
know like they're basically like
Catholic Social Democrats like
liberation theologians that kind of
stuff
yes and my mom got really quiet for a
moment and she was like I really get
that like I really really get that and
the thing is like I'm not in the house
that much but they're watching MSNBC all
the time and I can't come to the house
all the time turn them on to some
podcast it sounds like they're
intellectually curious people I was at a
wedding in Houston guys all the time I
like every time you come on Chris I'm
sorry I never go in Chris Hayes I say
like you watch his show and they're on
the computer all the time so I don't
know why they're not doing it but
there's this a good person
a here Leon Cedars podcast here's what
you do okay you go into their their
computer in their browser yeah you
change all of the addresses on their on
their favorites on their browser bar you
go in you don't change the the logo
whatnot but you go in you hit info on
their on their favorite their you know
their bookmarks all you got to do is you
hit you know the you know the bookmark
manager and you change it all and send
them directly to YouTube videos of the
majority report that you like so that
there's really virtually nowhere they
can go online almost as long as they and
then they accidentally will fall into it
and that's what you do so good luck with
that Patrick tell me how that goes
all right will do thanks Patrick
appreciate it
it's going to a330 area code who's this
where you come from
hello this is Nicolas Galina from Canton
Ohio and Nicholas what's on your mind
well I have a first
a campaign finance reform question and a
foreign policy question but I wanted to
start off with the campaign finance
reform question so there's but there's
there seems to be an emerging debate
within progressive circles about the
idea of a democracy voucher program
where the Andal has created this this
program before where they gave everybody
the ability to contribute a twenty five
dollar voucher in a local election based
off of an increase in property taxes
that was supposed to be progressive in
nature and so kirsten gillibrand has
proposed a program like this where she
would have a one hundred dollar voucher
only in federal elections and would be
paid for by increases in taxes on
executive compensation and so what do
you think that this could be a good
short-term program that could allow for
us to increase the balance power towards
progressives while shooting for a long
term goal of ending the Citizens United
ruling I mean I think you know matching
matching funds is a more you know more
aggressive version of this and I'm sort
of that's the one I would like I mean it
seems to me if you can get democracy
dollars then you can also get matching
funds it's the same way and it just
doesn't have the same sort of like I
don't know you know maybe using vouchers
disposal is supposed to be the language
that will attract conservatives because
they like vouchers I mean what I think
these programs are good I definitely
think they're good I definitely am in
favor of them and you know I would go
for the one that the the the sort of the
most aggressive one we could get I don't
see I I don't have any problem with it
if that's what you mean I you know I
think matching funds are good but if it
if it's you know if there's some data
that shows that calling them democracy
vouchers is somehow better than then
fine but in principle that's very
similar to just you know matching funds
that's yeah in principle mm-hmm yeah so
I mean sure why not
mm-hmm okay and the next the next
question is what is more of a michael
question so there was a recent elect
there's a recent change in leadership in
in Kazakhstan where Takei of the former
pres president of the Senate I believe
is replacing the former President
Nazarbayev and there's some talk in
local media about how the the new
president could increase could have more
populist policies where it would it
would allow for a change in banking
policies in terms of the bank lending
lending rates and stuff like that
so my question was do you know it do you
think that there could be a significant
change in terms in terms of the
leadership in Kazakh Stan because it is
important from the perspective of how
they're being forced into the Eurasian
rating customs union and that allows for
Russia to have a I don't rate her
influence over their economy I don't
know about I think they're pretty on
board with being part of that Eurasia
project themselves I don't like I'm not
sure that they're more excited
necessarily to be you know aligned the
outside of their own region but as far
as the specifics of that change
I don't know nearly enough about it I'll
research it appreciate the call okay
thanks thank you thanks for the call
Cohen from a six one zero
area code who's this where you come from
Sam Pennsylvania a long time no hear
from oh oh it's that cocky
Mike from PA just days after Sam finally
admitted defeat in the conversation
about the impeachment where he had been
relentlessly wrong for months maybe Mac
will bow down to me as well today or
I'll smack him across the goddamn face I
would love to hear John violent job
great yeah okay what about piden if I
could well I mean yeah let's talk more
about Biden because this is uh this is
pretty stunning I mean and we should
just add before in addition to sort of
like his diluted call for Republicans
who are gonna all have an epiphany after
Donald Trump does a lot losses which I
just I don't even understand the
mechanics of that frankly there's
pulling out now that suggests that Joe
Biden really may have a serious problem
with women in the Democratic Party
particularly those who are who are
sympathetic to the me to movement
because well for I think a litany of
reasons but that's all the Joe Biden
news that I have today
what is your commentary Mike well I
think the one thing is people being
surprised about his comments about the
Republican Party kind of giving space
the Republican Party to recover he's not
stupid he was aware he was vice
president during the Obama
administration he knows that they
blocked him for not just the eight years
like the first as there was a famous
story about when Obama came in as you
recall Mitch McConnell saying I'm gonna
make you a one-term president right and
then immediately the reaction was a
backlash from the Republican Party and
not just the Republican Party elected
officials but also their voters and
basically Obama spent six years as a
lame duck and he accomplished nothing of
note after 2010 other than through
executive actions so he he knows that
he's not delusional so either he's
completely cynical to the point of like
he's willing to lie to everyone cities
or he is suffering from dementia and I
think it's the former rather than the
latter right well you're not a doctor so
you wouldn't be able to tell about that
but yes I think incredibly cynical and
he is playing on and this is what's so
dangerous about running this way is
because you create certain expectations
you give certain credit to the Republic
and this stuff is like he is this is a
case of like basically like I'm gonna
burn down the village to save it except
for in this instance what he's saving is
I'm gonna really is like I'm gonna burn
down the village to be the president of
it well I'm not that's right like here's
the thing look look at the context here
in 2018 he went up to Michigan's Upper
Peninsula there was a I think it's um
six District of Michigan congressman by
the name of Fred Upton was in a tough
re-election race one of the targeted
races of emma-crats and Biden did a paid
fees for $200,000 in front of the
Michigan or you know Chamber of Commerce
or he praised fred Upton too and he
threatened I think ended up winning with
fifty point three percent of the vote in
the election so this is this is the
context of Joe Biden he's not just
saying this you know as a hypothetical
he's going out there and defeating
Democrats with with his and it's kind of
but to be fair I think but to be fair
he's doing that for money so this is
something that is kind of funny for me
because the one thing you hear from
centrist dams is hey everybody is
unrealistic but at least we're real
Democrat we're died in the rule Democrat
except for when it's not convenient
he'll go and do a paid speech and so
I'll forgive them father he's sinned
father he said forgive me Oh I helped
read up to get reelected use me folks we
gotta get rid of the purity politics
over here ooh maybe a doesn't like that
I've kept of seat red Oh boohoo you're
not gonna like my pants with Social
Security either by fever breaking I mean
not that the abortion bills will be
reversed but that we will cut Medicare
and Social Security together in a
collegial matter well my cats will say
nice things about me incidentally Mike
Pence good Dick Cheney good okay Mike if
you feel uncomfortable let me give you a
massage
yeah give me a little rubdown
[Laughter]
but you know the one thing about buying
this is the support is is wide and
that's just a true statement he's the
best thought of candidate bye-bye the
Democratic primary electorate like most
people have a fond memories of Joe Biden
heard them to their to their fond
memories of George W Bush I mean if you
go look at the polls now I think 58% of
Democrats have a positive view of George
W Bush now that's because he's out of
the game yes and I was just gonna say
this is this is this is largely my
theory about why he the these numbers
could fall and that is the more he gets
back into the game and people start to
see not the Joe Biden of the the
sentimental Joe Biden not the vice
president of Barack Obama Joe Biden but
the Joe Biden of Joe Biden I think the I
think I think and like I say I am also
willing to concede that there's so much
of this is aspirational on my part that
his numbers are gonna fall significantly
well think about it let's compare it to
the most like if you look at Hillary
Clinton she was kind of in a similar
position as a as a person that was you
know well thought of by the Democratic
electorate and then she got into the
game and her popularity dropped about 20
points and then it dropped another 20
points over the course of the direct the
rest of the election so you go from plus
30 to minus 20 upon an election day she
was the first she was the she was I
think at one point like right before the
election started she was considered the
most popular woman in the world or
something there was I can't remember
exactly there was some poll that came
out that just to basically had her up
there with with Mother Teresa
yeah she lost that position that
Michelle Obama during the course of the
election but and that's kind of the
situation but you know
on the other hand I don't think we
should take things too lightly because
you know if you turn on MSNBC and
unfortunately I did this morning I broke
my promise not to watch anymore from my
own mental health
you have Joe Scarborough and that crew
like they're just talking up Joe Biden
and the fantasy the fantasy of like the
Republican Party just you know it's it's
just going through a phase right now
yeah but there was no Donald Trump when
they blocked Merrick garland ya know I
would like to see Joe Biden answer to
that well they you know he was running
at that time let me let me you know ease
Semien lists seem a little tense Mike
let me maybe just see if I can rub them
a couple of knots out of your neck I
appreciate the call man
any time you want my friend any time
these people are so so full of hubris
please this is a good signal though the
thing I sent you go ahead I really
thought that maybe when they saw Bernie
doing so well they would realize they
needed to compromise and be like alright
we'll give you Elizabeth Warren or
Kamala Harris or someone who's like
pretty progressive but still within the
realm of establishment Democrat
acceptable nice but no they're gonna go
for the gold and who's the vacation area
the Democratic establishment the
mainstream media I don't III don't think
the Democratic establishment is I mean
it depends on who you think the
Democratic establishment is because I
have well okay but I mean do you think
the Democratic establishment is
interested in Joe Biden as much as they
are maybe in like as they would have
been in a Kamala Harris I mean right now
you know who knows people you know
change their opinions based upon the
polls but I don't think there was any
great hunger amongst the establishment
for Joe Biden do you like when you say
establishment that's exactly my point if
you're talking about you know party
leaders who are apparatchiks in
Pennsylvania in
they may but if you're talking about
yeah but if you're talking about like
former Obama people I wouldn't be
surprised if a lot of the your former
Obama people were like their split well
no there's a lot of people who are
involved with Biden but there's Obama
people with every prominent candidate
except for Sanders right right I mean I
but I think no I mean I think I I don't
you know I think like on the level of if
it's gonna be Biden who's leading in the
polls the Morning Joe cast is more than
happy to know but but I'm just talking
about the phrase that they the day in
terms of the Democratic establishment
pushing Joe Biden on there I think that
there that if if you could actually
figure out who the Democratic
establishment is I think they'd be of
multiple minds I'm sure they would
rather Joe Biden then than Bernie
Sanders but if they had to pick they
would have if Joe Biden came out with
you know 18 points in the polls
I think I think you just go away
immediately I think the fact that he is
resonating is probably drawing some of
those people to him as a solution to
Bernie Sanders that's gonna say like
they really want to stop Bernie Sanders
they care about that more than who is
the person who does it right yeah I
think that's true because I think they
know there's not that much of a
difference maybe between Biden and the
the you know that's why we're gonna see
them uniting behind Joe Biden yeah I
think that's possible although I think
they're still holding out hope but we'll
see I know no I think I think Jack's
right well there's kind of like I think
the priority is mainly to prevent a
changing of the guard yeah you know and
what I mean by that is the people that
are operating the levers behind the
scenes you don't like when we fought of
that keith Ellison Ellison versus you
know whatever his name is a crowd
already fight the DNC chair like why did
you intervene and and call all those PNC
members and say please don't vote for
2000 it's because they don't want to
have a changing of the guard and a
changing of Outlook
because they have we all have the same
information about them how popular
medicare-for-all is or how popular
raising taxes is on the rich why isn't
Joe Biden running on that it's because
he he doesn't believe that they laughter
it ultimately is going to hold him
accountable for not supporting popular
policy right and he's willing to gamble
on that because he's getting a lot of
money in support because he's providing
a bulwark against those policies and we
should all know that I think that's a
key point yeah I mean he's got his one
of his top campaign I think his campaign
pollster is signed up with an ancillary
group to Trump's new NAFTA proposal in a
fight against labour contemporaneously
yeah and and I think that's true and I
also I would say that like you know I
don't know that the it is some people
make the mistake I think sometimes the
thing like particularly in that DNC
fight that it was about ideology it very
much just could be like we want our
buddies to get the jobs and we want we
want our buddies to be in a position of
influence because then we're in a
position of influence and we're just in
a different clique that it's not
necessarily ideological that it's just
it's it's a different before the reasons
they hate Bernie so much I mean when you
looked at people try to make remember
they trying to make hey in 2016 that he
didn't go to like you know he doesn't
have a law degree and he didn't have a
conventional professional path which by
the way I think is a big asset in a
general election but a lot of the
subtext of it was definitely like we've
been toiling away at this and that
consulting firm or think-tank and we're
expecting our rewards if he doesn't come
in we're not gonna get a reward if it
were totally non ideological they would
just change all of their positions to
mirror Bernie's a lot of them have
though that was the first wave that's
what Harris Booker and Gillibrand not
well that's absolutely what they've been
trying to sell the public that's why
they co-signed well sure they're
mouthing it but yes that was the first
wave and now Biden's just betting on the
bucket name recognition you know we're
just gonna do it I I have no way of
competing for small donations and so
I'll just take big corporate donors and
muscle it through right appreciate the
call Mike alright see ya bye alright
let's take one more call
for a moment and then we will go to a
couple more videos coming from a four
seven eight area code who's this where
you come from
Sammy's heaven Georgia how are you today
I'm doing great how are you doing
I'm doing just fine man heaven Georgia
listen your coat he got a glossed over
yesterday man you know poor sargon of
akkad you know his videos have been team
artists been banned Oh Twitter and I
thought it was awful magnanimous of you
to suggest one possibly get back into
the game
a little pay-per-view event and of
course you and your audience know that
you know I run my little show little
podcast
oh yeah I'm sorry I've received an email
from you I will respond soon oh thank
you very much but but in other news of
course I you know I've spent a lot of
time writing in preparing and making a
power sort product for people and you
know people don't want to see that I
think people what people really want to
see is for me to literally fight in an
MMA style cage match sargon of akkad for
money so I'd like to publicly announced
challenge Sargon of Akkad Sargon I'm not
a big guy five and a half feet tall I
will be being publicly trained by Fields
Peterman however and I invite you to
temperatures ring with me and watch me
go spider monkey upon your heart said
well I would pay money to see that
I'm exactly how much money would you put
it paid see there well I wouldn't care
what hey that much maybe like you know
just twenty eight twenty five twenty
twenty seven I don't know what about
that number appeals to me is like
moniker for with that average person
can't afford to give twenty seven
dollars sounds like a good buy
I don't know man throw it out there I
know we've got a lot of problems and
left mediate you know a lot of people
don't think that we're really have a
sire to compete you know with the slip
propping up and right and you know I
think we really should get back to
basics in
gauged a little consensual violence
where I've repeatedly punched Sargon of
God in the face so you know our man and
watch everyone have really good week
live his best Thank You Jeff from joy
that's our kind of a cut can't let's do
a couple more videos here as you know
the in Alabama they have voted now to
outlaw all abortion with no exceptions
but for the if the life of the mother is
jeopardized of course that is a very
difficult thing to fully assess and it's
unclear what what is the threshold it's
not merely what a doctor says and at
least in terms of you know legislatively
speaking here is a clip of the argument
on the amendment that would make an
exception on this full ban on abortion
in Alabama for rape and incest do you
know what it's like to be raped no ma'am
I don't do you know what it's like to
have a relative commit incest on you on
me no ma'am why would you not want a
woman to at least have that exception
for such a horrific act because I
believe that when that unborn child
becomes a person and we need legal
guidance on when that is but that's not
your business that is not your business
you don't have to raise that child you
don't have to carry that child you don't
have to provide for that child
you don't have to do anything for that
child but yet you want to make the
decision for that woman that that's what
she has to do I want to make the
decision for that child there she goes
there's a lot of that you know this mare
is the the the fight in South Carolina
as they are arguing their abortion ban
bill there was a Republican woman Nancy
mace gave a speech about two or three
weeks ago persuading the house to allow
exceptions for rape and incest in their
proposed six-week so-called fetal
heartbeat abortion ban she ended up
getting left a card by a fellow lawmaker
that said it's twisted logic that would
kill the unborn child for the misdeed of
the parents speaking of the rapist
committing the misdeed you know is
absent of course from that sentence
entirely out of that equation is the
victim I mean it is stunning that as far
as Republicans and conservatives go
their biggest cry about any type of
criminal justice reform or whatever it
is is you don't pay attention to the
victim the one time where they feel
incredibly comfortable in not paying
attention to the victim is when it is a
woman who is raped but as grotesque as
it is the the nullification of of women
in the context of a rape or incest
and abortion is that question I mean the
bottom line is it's the women are being
nullified regardless in just passing a
ban on abortion even if there was an
exemption for rape or incest this is
you know we've been talking about this
now for a couple of weeks every new
story every new state that does this and
there's gonna be more Ohio Georgia now
we have Alabama soon South Carolina
there's gonna be by the time we're done
in a couple months there's gonna be
probably about 12 maybe they'll be more
certainly will be more we also get this
the other day in the Supreme Court and a
completely unrelated case a road map by
the five conservatives on how you simply
ignore the concept of starid Isis
maybe I'm mispronouncing that steroid
Isis which is a basically respect for
precedent
so they're basically providing a roadmap
for overturning roe v wade but we don't
know if they're gonna do it that way or
some other more genteel way but this is
what we're looking at and this is the
reality this is the Republican Party
that's going to have the epiphany as Joe
Biden says if Donald Trump loses here is
a clip of on Fox and front an excuse me
Fox News and what's this guy's name
Metaxas he's he's a writer and Eric
Metaxas
is a New York Times bestselling author
and also an expert on what women should
do with their reproductive organs here
he is on Fox News bring Eric in here
because Eric wood that's what we've seen
in a number of states have gone the
other direction they have relaxed any
regulation or different you know
restrictions on abortion so we're seeing
the states tackle this some glory for
the right some yeah that's exactly
what's supposed to happen that's why roe
v wade is an abomination
it is not itself constitutional
the people halibel it is constitutional
the Supreme Court has decided on that he
wants the Supreme Court to overturn that
ruling the idea that the federal
government does not have a right to
protect the privacy and the sovereignty
of the bodies of its citizens is absurd
it's absurd I mean the same guy would
argue that states don't have a right to
outlaw guns because of the Second
Amendment
this guy's not out there are worried
about state rights when it comes to
things like legalizing marijuana no this
guy's just a religious zealot who wants
to impose his religion on the rest of us
via this moral code no for the people of
Alabama to be told by federal
legislators shut up we don't care what
you think we don't care who's in your
legislature we're going to tell you what
your laws are and they said no the
people of Alabama have spoken and the
beauty of this first of all I'm thrilled
this happened but for many reasons
because as an American this needs to go
to the Supreme Court and people in
America need to argue is this a human
life if it turns out that this is a
human life can we all agree that it's
wrong to take that life we have to have
that conversation because it the
question isn't whether it's a human life
the question is whether this is a person
who is protected by our laws or whether
it is a a life that is contingent upon
another life and is part of a woman's
body and not just her body but her
destiny
and that's the question it's not whether
it's human life
another question of whether its life we
don't have these arguments about plants
which are life it's not a question of
whether it's human life at all it is is
a question of whether this is a person
who has individual rights that are
distinct from the rights of the host
that is is feeding them and allowing
their viability after you have that
conversation the abortion activists have
said we don't want to have that
conversation you're on the wrong side of
history shut up shut up shut up Alabama
has forced us to have this conversation
just like many men are forcing women to
have abortions because it's legal and
the women themselves don't want to make
the choice oh let's not kid ourselves
that this is empowering women okay there
is every single opportunity in the world
under our laws for a woman to stop a man
from forcing her to have an abortion but
what we are seeing is now many many men
forcing women or trying to force women
into having children forced pregnancies
that's what we're seeing that's
literally what we're seeing and they are
using the apparatus of the law to do it
whereas to the extent that what this
guy's claiming is true and I don't know
that it is true if there's any men who
are forcing women to have abortions
there is recourse for that well look I
mean it does happen right I have heard
from people whose abusive partners have
coerced them into having an abortion
but the answer to that and if he really
cared about women's agency is to take
steps to give women more power over
their own lives
right so socialized medicine
education childcare thinks of that
nature and I'm pretty sure he doesn't
support those things so this is where
we're at and I don't know I wonder how
Joe Biden explains this away
I'd be very folks very very the
elections over this guy's not gonna be a
fox talking about stripping away woman's
basic autonomy well Donald Trump leaves
he leaves or it becomes a different
person besides I met him once at a
dental restoration hatton I don't
remember the name of it too but in this
joke but he was very nice to me there US
State Department has ordered
non-emergency embassy staff to leave
Iraq why well of course it's because a
travel advisory warned numerous
terrorist and insurgent groups are
active in Iraq regularly attacking both
Iraqi security and forces and civilians
anti-us sectarian militias that may also
threaten us with citizens and Western
companies throughout Iraq it is a an
attempt to make it seem and to build
this narrative that somehow Iran is
attacking America
tried to do it with this story of the
boats unfortunately they forgot to
damage the Saudi boats that were
supposedly attacked by Iran or Iranian
proxies got to you've got to if you're
going to try and start up war you've got
to look back into history and realize
you need to sink these boats you need to
do some damage on it if you're going to
do it
US lawmakers are upset because they are
in the dark and in terms of of what's
going on in Iran I think we're I don't
know we may update that tree to Parsi
that difficult a fire that we're going
to play maybe a Memorial Day I think
it's going to be consistent Michael had
an updated talk with them the other
night but the bottom line is the the
understanding at least from people on
the outside is that
Boulton and Pompeyo and the neo-cons
wanna war with Iran Donald Trump of
course has no sense of whether he wants
a war or not he just wants to have a win
if he can if he can make a new deal with
them I guess that could be exactly the
same as the old deal but he gets too
credit for it he would be happy with
that he thinks that's what
Pompeyo and bolton they're doing they
are telling him we are trying to be
tough and bring them to the negotiation
table when of course Michael and I were
talking about this before it's easy to
say you could do that with North Korea
because they have no to the extent that
they have internal politics it is much
more like Game of Thrones stuff where
they don't worry about the populous but
in Iran they actually have like broad
swaths of of politics that involve a
domestic opinion and whatnot so leaders
are constrained there by that and there
are different competing factions as to
what should happen
we're in regards to the United States
what will be the what will protect them
as much it's not just a dude drinking
Cristal who you know likes to have Trump
there and I'm gonna talk him up although
that didn't work for Trump and so what
we have are is a basically a rudderless
administration with some factions in the
administration paddling in one direction
hoping that they'll get caught into a
current and the current will do the rest
of the work and that is a spiral into
war and that's where we're at
supposedly US lawmakers are in the dark
that's what members of Congress are
saying but Lindsey Graham says I think
all of us are in the dark over here well
Tom cotton seems to be able to see in
the dark here he is on firing line wood
that was this Margaret Hoover is I don't
know could we win a war with Iran
that didn't take you a second here
strikes the first strike in the last
strike what other conditions or the
circumstances that would justify going
to work pause you know that sounds
really glib and it's supposed to project
that he knows what he's talking about
but we just went through two wars that
lasted about 18 years we still have
people there it just depends on how you
want to define a war so it's also
conceivable to not have that last strike
in fact I think we've had that last
strike multiple times in both those
countries those pronouncements but it
sounds really glib say yes we can win
any war we want to I think history has
shown that that's not the case but Tom
cotton is understands that if I say it
confidently enough it'll make it sound
like it actually is a something that
means something this is Ron well if Iran
struck out militarily against the United
States or against our allies in the
region then I would certainly expect a
devastating response against Iran as
somebody who fought in two fronts in the
Middle East both in Iraq and in
Afghanistan do you think it would be a
good idea to go to war with Iran no I
don't advocate military action against
Iran
I'm simply delivering the message that
if Iran were to attack the United States
it would be a grave miscalculation on
their part and there would be a furious
response now we don't want to govern the
run we don't want to rule eighty million
Iranians we want 80 million Iranians to
be able to govern themselves where are
you on regime change what I want is to
have an outlaw regime change its
behavior to rejoin the civilized world
and stop supporting terrorism and trying
to overthrow the governments of so many
of its neighbors ultimately it's up to
their own young people and their leaders
to decide how they're going to govern
their country but with men like those in
charge of Iran I think we're gonna see
what we've seen for the last 40 years
which is a revolutionary theological
movement that's hijacked the powers of a
nation-state I wonder if that means on
any level to you that war is inevitable
or is never inevitable Wars all
the product of human choices yeah like
for instance if you break a deal that is
the first step in achieving what he
wants to achieve and it's a huge first
step
massive first step I mean this is
dangerous because they really are
basically just setting up we're just
gonna keep putting ourselves
close enough threatening enough to the
regime so that if something goes awry
and it can be perceived as an attack on
us well then we would have to have
devastating responses I mean it's really
problematic I would imagine they are
setting up an attack by a proxy as it
were but we will continue to watch this
Tom cotton was a prime you know also you
know somebody who tried to destroy the
initial deal with poison pills and
what's amazing is that all of these
ancillary issues which at some of them
you have to figure out some of them the
United States just has to stop trying to
demand you know other countries submit
to its will on every single thing but
the whole precision of how this deal
worked was that it didn't include all
these ancillary issues and was a success
as a result of it and everybody needs to
be reminded that there is absolutely no
institution on earth including him to
the Trump administration that denies
that Iran wasn't living up to its
obligation that's right what happened
was there was a very specific call to
bipartisan to deal specifically with the
Iran's nuclear program and the Obama
administration pursued that exclusive
agenda not whether Iran was funding
Hamas not whether they were providing
food for you know factions in Yemen not
whether they were supportive of
Hezbollah not whether they were involved
in Iraq none of it it was specifically
the development of nuclear weapons step
one massive step massive step
they took it they were successful they
were there we had it no one contends
that this was broken and as soon as that
deal was signed every single Republican
was like it doesn't include stuff that
we specifically didn't want included in
the first place and now we have a way of
attacking it it really is stunning and
it's super scary folks the war with Iran
is not the only war we are waging how do
I know because I listened to a sub Gorka
clip today here is a sub Gorka man this
guy a tight shot and I love how they do
their ad is that the NAD relief factor
is that a an ad right on the microphone
interests willy n't I'm ready for my
closer super glow them from the Dennis
Prager School of just put that baby
right arm I've he's got a painting of
the twin towers in the background oh
yeah that he's got an old reel-to-reel
which signifies they're doing a radio
show there is a presidential seal
presumably there had one a facsimile
made up or he may you know he he stole
that here he is sub Korca what his old
is new folks I remember doing a prank
phone call to the American Family
Association on there a breakthrough
report on how Lenny the squid Lenny the
shark in gosh what what movie was it
shark tales was actually promoting
trangender a transgenderism I think yes
well guess what folks
Sep go has found his reason to continue
to be a person that's been the left from
Robespierre to Trotsky to mark user to
elinsky to Clinton to a
- today sorry can we go back over it we
start that over again because that's
quite a lineage that's been the left
from Robespierre to Trotsky to mark you
sir - Olinsky to Clinton to Obama -
today civil society doesn't exist
friendship doesn't exist family doesn't
exist only permanent revolution have you
seen what I posted on my Twitter feed
with regards to family Arthur is a
children's cartoon I think it's actually
made with your money
PBS my children used to watch Arthur 15
years ago about a rodent-like creature
that lived and had fun in his cartoon
world the new season of Arthur will have
one of Arthur's teachers at school a
male teacher married to a fellow male
rodent did you have any questions about
there being a culture war ladies and
gentlemen did you have any doubt in your
mind this is a war for our culture and
that's why we exist that's a little
borderline what mmm-hmm I eroded like
figgy averag another roaded like simple
research would have revealed that it was
an aardvark but I'll go with vague
rodent like figure a culture wars on
folks they have Arthur dad did it like
wrote it like figures either neither did
his buddies at the certain secret
society that shower Dave Davis because
of immigration papers if anyone asks
steven crowder how he feels about this
cuz i know he has a past connection to
arthur right all right true on the show
he's gonna have to write his only like
legit UDA association with this
disgusting work of cultural Marxism
well yes indeed boo yes indeed hiss look
I love roads beer as much as the next
permanent revolutionary it doesn't
believe in friendship and spits family
in the face but where are the
 Muslim names Mohammad ever
heard of him trying to replace the the
legal code with Sharia and all I hear
about is goddamn you know Eurocentric
BuzzFeed top 10 reasons let's just do
this Jim Baker thing and then we'll save
some of the other stuff auth is a shot
there's lazy author wants his pound
flesh red rude the red the red he asks
the other Road it like the normal
animals pay the rent
author it author comes on with his
rodent like mail husband it goes the red
they'll rent ladies and gentlemen
there's a culture war going on and it
really is a fight for your dollars here
is Lance Walla now and Jim Baker on the
jim bakker show basically telling you
we're living in prophetic times ladies
and gentlemen what more would you need
to face the oncoming apocalypse well jim
has an idea how many of you been praying
all across America I've been praying
this coin is our point of contact when I
ask the Lord why the coin the Lord said
because when you take the coin it's a
point of contact so your faith is being
released with a million other believers
to pray protection and peace and wisdom
and counsel over the president the
United States and over his family that's
our point of contact every day when you
see it remember God puts something in
your in your hand
that you have a role in that's why we've
got to pray because they think we're
crazy but we're actually the same ones
right that's and so we're praying we're
gonna pray that's the teaching that is
here this coin has a point
24-karat gold-plated coin God has told
them charge $45 for that gold-plated
coin such a great synthesis of
Christianity and American capitalism
like God it's unbelievable it's
unbelievable how smoothly they can
transition into we need this this is
this symbol by binds us together we're
all praying to this it costs 45 bucks
it's gold-plated if you lose it's got a
credit line exactly you want to have an
extra connection to God get three it's
unbelievable when I'm at home one for
your car and one for the office exactly
let's go to the phones come from a 281
area code who's this where he called
from Anthony for College Station what's
on your mind yes a couple weeks ago I
called and asked about net neutrality
and y'all were y'all didn't think it'd
become an issue for the primary yeah do
you think it'll maybe become an issue
for the general my guess is no okay good
seems strange to me it seems like a lot
of the writing is trying to cloak itself
but you know they're really the ones are
free speech and it seems like net
neutrality and how almost all Democrats
are for it and no Republicans were isn't
obvious counter-narratives yeah I mean I
agree but it's just I just think that in
this you know era it just doesn't have
it doesn't have the same Sally that new
socialism
I mean it's conceivable but I just I
think probably not it depends I think
these come look if the companies will
some
thing out dramatically awful like they
did it in Portugal like what they'll do
you know is just sort of like add
another like you know surcharge on you
which is crap but these companies
already totally abused customers anyways
no I know what I understand that I'm
saying it it will have to be I think
it's gonna have to be something that's
felt more viscerally to get to the top
of the agenda I agree it's hugely
important hugely important but okay
we're about to yeah I'm I'm not I'm not
I'm believe me I've you go back you can
see how many shows we dedicated to net
neutrality I think it's hugely important
hugely important okay and this has been
something I've been talking about for
close to a decade I think even the some
of the first videos I put out on this
channel one of them was about net
neutrality but but do you think the
rights narratives that you know they're
really the real you know avatars for
protecting free speech that that doesn't
really hold that much sway either on
their side no I don't think they care I
mean I don't think that they care that
much I think there is a I think there is
a sort of like a centrist you know
techie sensitivity to net neutrality and
I think the people who do care care very
very deeply about it but their power is
more in the context of being able to
push a somewhat amenable administration
on that as opposed to one that's
completely not amenable and their power
is far more in a legislative realm than
in a an electoral realm there was
something like a three million plus
comments sent to the FCC when Tom
wheeler was the the chair and it really
pushed the Obama administration to
maintain their promise and in wheeler as
well and because three million comments
that's that's a big deal in terms of a
legislative or regulatory fight
in the context of an election I mean I'm
sure you can find polling somewhere
what's the most important 5 or 10 issues
for Democrats and Republicans and I
would imagine
net neutrality may not even make the top
ten I mean I'm not saying that it
shouldn't but do you think it's like a
broader issue just kind of like
administrative law and you know the
proper rule for the government
regulating the market isn't isn't going
to be that big a deal either I don't
like the perfect and I agree with you I
just don't know well I think you know
Bernie will I think you'll hear that
from Bernie and Warren I think you'll
hear that from particularly from Bernie
and Warren you will hear that but your
Joe Biden here P Budaj
they're just talking about sort of broad
emotional themes which may be more
effective I don't know but I appreciate
the call Anthony I mean I here I believe
me I feel your pain not to just add one
more of those broad those bromides yes
let's take one more phone call I've got
a lot of people holding people holding
for a long time really a long time
one more call come from a 774 area code
you are the final caller of the day
seven seven four seven seven you got a
bag I just wait what
all right no I'm actually still in bed
yeah okay anyway I just talked about
what is happening in the province of
Xinjiang in China really a minute or so
because um it's really horrible and it's
barely using a part of the international
discussion so what's happening in in
China is this massive
and Road initiative it's a one point
four trillion dollar project to build a
bunch of nail um like infrastructure and
stuff like that uh and land roads and
sea routes and Jinzhong is right in
western China it's right in the middle
of the belt and there is an ethnic group
there called the leaguers who they're
not ethnic ly Chinese they are I think
they're Turkic and they were Muslim and
they speak their own language
and ever since the 90s China has been
cracking down
Julie hard especially as a result of
dispelling that initiative in the past
few years and recently reports came out
that as many as one point five million
people might be in concentration camps
there which would be the largest
internment of people since the Holocaust
so you know for what it's worth
yeah you know we just actually that we
played a clip about this the other day
where the Pentagon I think says that the
numbers three million people and Pompeyo
was saying I think it's more around a
million and it's not concentration camps
it's a reaction camp which I'm not sure
in in what sort of like universe you
live in that actually like people here
that go oh it's just a reaction camp I
see
like so it's sort of just like camp it's
like you're just going to learn how to
do archery maybe and you know play
basketball or arts and crafts I mean
yeah there seems to be a an adamant
attempt by this administration at least
and I'm not saying that would be
different by any other ones that to
completely deny the existence of this
yeah and I think it's in their economic
interest right to deny the existence of
it because that province is like right
kind of it's like a gateway basically
from Central Asia I'm gonna color
earlier called that like Kazakhstan and
they're playing a role in it too in
terms of sort of aiding and abetting
China
and you know I'm sort of I don't know
I'm a big big leftist I sort of be like
God freaking capitals and then but in
this instance that truly does seem that
like global economic so played a huge
role because I did your your phone is
cutting out I have let you go appreciate
the call though all right thanks it was
interesting but he's got I don't know
what was going on with his phone there
my ears perked up when he said
capitalism there you go
maybe you should be getting an iPhone
instead I love Sarah Palin Sam I do
think more of the electorate is more is
informed more of the electorate is
informed than ever before for example
shout out to other wonderful people
Kentucky for booing Matt Bevin last
weekend at the Kentucky Derby on the
Reuben clip I don't think government's
gonna call all healthcare for example
what if I want to get cancer treatment
based on the work of doctor Seb Sebby I
don't know Jonathan Armstead I did some
google research last night on the
favorite films of 2020 dem presidential
candidates some are weird Biden said
chariots of fire that makes sense to me
Booker said rocky mayor Pete said gangs
of new york Julian Castro said Breakfast
Club bet O'Rourke total history hipster
and said Blade Runner
20:49 shut up bade oh no answer for tell
CEO Bernie although I can imagine Red
Dawn and Bulworth respectively here's
something odd Andrew Yang said Shawshank
Redemption quote because it's on TNT
every three hours as if we need more
reason to dislike the guy local pizza
the problem with Jamie's theory that
Bernie's doing well enough that they
have to caved and toss the progressives
a bone is that Biden is sitting on Trump
levels of support and is going to run
away with this
please don't learn the wrong lesson from
2016 primaries that everyone else has
the polls weren't wrong Jeb was the
front-runner with 13 points and exited
at 10 Trump entered at 30 and won Biden
entered at 35 I mean I didn't say that
he's doing well enough for that because
as evidenced by the fact that they
haven't done that
but I also kind of came around to Sam's
position which is that Biden's doing
well with the voters so that's like
always a give-and-take their guitars car
music suggests room for brakes craw
Megami drives ANOVA from Mike Riley on
salesman and races for Jamie thanks guys
Sam's tinder profile hey girl swipe
right to validate the algorithm or swipe
left and it will make a new tinder
profile I'm not sure I get it
dr. chaos MD I was speaking when my
mother was a baby boomer and we started
talking about politics when it came to
which Democratic candidates we would
vote for I told her I don't care who you
vote for as long as it's not Joe Biden
there was a pause and she asked why not
because we really need to be Trump I
told her that there are many candidates
who could be Trump and then went through
as much of Biden's record as I could
remember that moment I think I may have
dissuaded her from Biden but then her
next comments were how about how
interesting she found Pete Budaj I
immediately went into all the things
that make Budaj problematic she rebutted
my point that not having any policy
ideas on record is bad by claiming that
Cory Booker came out with good policy
proposals and was punished for it that
point I pivoted the conversation to
non-political fair I know this
interaction is anecdotal but I have this
massive paranoia that the boomers are
going to collapse our entire society and
be the death of us I hope I'm really
wrong about that guess what I got some
bad news too late
social Jewish warrior looks like mayor
Pete is going on the Rubin report
because both are so interested in ideas
I don't know if that's confirmed can't
wait can't say he wasn't warned JJ cool
good to see em are finally giving
Canadian politics the respect that much
deserved after all we have a Medicare
system for all for 40 plus years
it's the Scotch on our public system was
started in 1947 by Tommy Douglas yes I
know it might be a stretch to have
another Canadian focused interview but
Douglas is fight for health care in
Saskatchewan it's fascinating when
wealthy donor doctors went on strike
Douglas hired doctors from the UK
I feel like ghee Lawson came on the
program once and talked about Tommy
Douglas we've got to get gay back on
here soon
JP Weaver at the first sign of a cold
dissolves sink lozenge in your mouth
every few hours your cold will go away
and less severe try it I in fact I do
we are wall-to-wall with zinc at this
series a lot of zinc on surprise it's
like a mine it is like a zinc mine I do
the those lozenges I do the zinc up your
nose spray I do the spray in the mouth I
do it all
careful yep liberal communist yesterday
libertarian socialist called in he was
asked what lineage his beliefs fall but
didn't fully answer I'd say most the
prominent voice in the libertarian
socialism today is Noam Chomsky of
course they're been plenty anarchist
libertarian socialists throughout
history Chomsky is just the most
important voice today geopolitical
politics Chomsky folks he's good
for the rape and incest exceptions I
think does the rapist need to be
convicted first because as we know those
rapist too often go unpunished and
unconvinced and those are convicted need
to go through court which takes time
possibly longer than the pregnancy
indeed Garth Leigh don't worry about Ben
Shapiro Sam you definitely what Grammy
Hall would call a real Jew producer
Lauren to quote podcaster Randy Rhoads
love the fetus hate the child twenty
nine after do you know if a senator doug
jones supports alabama abortion a band i
don't know
by the way I've read that several
transgender men have given birth mostly
most recently in North Carolina how
would pro lifers handle a trans man who
wants an abortion because he was raped
slashed the fash pro lifers would not
acknowledge the category of being a
trans man dole Inc the point is not
whether it's human but whether the
government should be involved in
decisions regarding women's reproductive
organs indeed three cats watch Top Gun
abortion should be illegal because
landlords already have too many rights
over tenants and are too able to
them hey J tingle the big giveaway in
Alabama came when the legislature denied
protections to embryo stored for IVF
because those cells are not inside women
zinc dosing makes food taste bad four
days after you stop alright three more
of these a square Sam listen to the news
on Mr USA this is also much worse than
we anticipated you got my IMS and women
again vessels of the state the moon did
fall into the lake whatever Mad King did
not get tired of being POTUS and now he
knows better to stay or go to jail Dems
just don't get it with this impeachment
Center power grabs by Republicans the
judiciary almost lost dam more senators
are trying to run for POTUS Biden rising
looking good these neo-cons aided by
POTUS will try something versus I Ron
what gives sorry stream-of-consciousness
MV Scott can't win a war with Iran can't
beat inept countries how are we gonna
beat a country with an actual military
government and the final IM of the day
[Music]
is anyone else getting a strong Stephen
Miller vibe from Tom cotton indeed see
you tomorrow I gotta to get sue
[Music]
No
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
I just see where the choice
