[Music]
here is Megan McCain she attended a pack
because she attended a pack because of
her voting record because she's a huge
Jewish activist Megan McCain knows the
importance of Israel well I don't know
let's hear what Megan McCain have this
to say she's up on the jumbotron the big
screen they got there it's real many of
you know there are people out there
today including in the halls of Congress
who believe that America supports Israel
only because a dark hour for that line
recalling so many pernicious stereotypes
is a profound misunderstanding of how
American and democracy works Americans
don't support Israel because a fact
influential AIPAC is influential because
American supports
[Applause]
my father um my father said now it's
weird it's weird that she she says
Congress because I think when Donald
Trump said you're gonna be mad at me
because I don't want your money and I'm
not gonna do what you say cuz he'd not
give I don't want your money I think he
was running for president did she get
confused I mean this this idea I mean
she's obviously she's going after al on
Omar again there because that gets a lot
of claps at but al on Omar said nothing
in terms of money and AIPAC that Thomas
Friedman didn't make far more explicit
and so you know it is just much easier
for her to make Alana Maher a target
than Thomas Friedman because of course
Thomas Friedman is Jewish and Alana
Maher is Muslim and Thomas Friedman is a
multi million billion I think don't
forget an American footlocker and air
yeah footlocker
air and ur wife is from a longtime
American male
whereas Ilan Omar is only a short time
American because she didn't come here in
the way the Thomas Friedman did when I
said the Chelsea Clinton and Meghan
McCain are the same person they really
like to use as an American when talking
about Ilhan Omar for some reason yeah
where is this where is this ad going on
Washington Post washing who's posting
the same Liberty oh my god just control
the world with their money I mean this
is just unbelievable and Steny Hoyer
made a line something to be effective of
well if you want to question my loyalty
then question my loyalty you know
they're there they're putting a target
on her back yeah AIPAC and it's also I
mean it goes without saying that I'm you
know I'm a bi-national democracy for
everybody guy but if I you know to the
extent at a center-left position still
even exists in Israel and is totally
marginalized
thanks a lot for saying that the only
viable position we're talking about
Israel is a far-right racist gathering
which inevitably will not be bipartisan
I mean if you want to take it in those
narrow terms it's you're totally you
know undermining your projects it's also
Dietrich substituting elected officials
for Americans the American people and
that is democracy
oh yeah it's a cool pivot
