let's let's talk a little bit about this
abortion stuff because I think we're
going to I think this is I just have a
sense that this is gonna come back and
Brendan was telling me that he thinks
I'm just having like PTSD from from the
Bush years but I that should be your
motto biography yeah I've got like it
easy from those years I I
Janeane Garofalo yeah yeah just
afterwards it just it just seems to me
that Trump is desperate to find
something right now
that is going to change the subject that
is also going to be and focusing stuff
on the Supreme Court as a reason to
reelect him all the Ducks seemed lined
up in the row and this is an opportunity
here's a clip of Ralph Northam he's the
governor of Virginia of course talking
about we played the clip the other day
from there was a Virginia lawmaker she
was being questioned on the law that
they are are pushing that it is legal
this day to to provide abortion services
to a woman who is signed off by a doctor
for medical reasons to receive an
abortion as late as 40 weeks could be
literally a day before labor begins
because if it is a threat to the
mother's life and if it is a threat to
the mother's health and it is a function
of the viability of the child and here
is Northam and it was fascinating I
barely saw this but he does this
interview and this was spun by the right
saying that Northam says it's okay to
kill children after they to kill
children who are born and here is here's
that interview and then we'll talk more
about they're no exception
there was a very contentious committee
hearing yesterday when Fairfax County
delegate Kathy Tran made her case for
lifting restrictions on third trimester
abortions as well as other restrictions
now in place and she was pressed by a
Republican delegate about whether her
bill would permit an abortion even as a
woman is essentially dilating ready to
give birth and she answered that it
would permit an abortion at that stage
of labor
do you support her measure and explain
her answer yeah I'm you know I wasn't
there
Julie and I certainly can't speak for
delegate Tran but I will tell you one
first thing I would say this is why
decisions such as this should be made by
providers physicians and the mothers and
fathers that are involved there are you
know when we talk about third trimester
abortions these are done with the
consent of obviously the mother with the
consent of the physicians more than one
physician by the way and it's done in
cases where there may be severe
deformities there may be a fetus that's
non Bible so in this particular example
if a mother is in labor I can tell you
exactly what would happen the infant
would be delivered the infant would be
kept comfortable the infant would be
resuscitated if that's what the mother
and the family desired and then a
discussion would ensue between the
physicians and the mother so so I think
this was really blown out of proportion
but again we want the government not to
be involved in these types of decisions
we want the decision to be made by the
the mothers and their providers and and
this is why Julie that legislators most
of whom are men by the way shouldn't be
telling a woman what she should and
shouldn't be doing with her body and do
you think multiple physicians should
have to weigh in as is currently
required she's trying to lift that
requirement well I think it's always
good to get
second opinion and for at least two
providers to be involved in that
decision because these decisions
shouldn't be taken lightly and so you
know I would certainly support more than
one provider alright let's go back to
know now of course in some instances
there aren't more than one provider
right I mean if you're living in a rural
area there aren't necessarily multiple
doctors on call who are we're working in
obstetricians excuse me and so but the
this is very reminiscent of the Terri
Schiavo thing and because when you're
talking about these children that if a
child is born and the doctors know that
this child has no internal organs or you
know is missing internal organs or has
you know can survive perhaps or three or
four days in this instance that's what
we're talking about here and in these
instances and this is very much like the
Terri Schiavo situation which I don't
know if you guys remember you should
refresh people when Terri Schiavo was a
woman who was in a vegetative state and
her she had you know before entering
into that state she had a conversations
with her husband that he would pull the
plug her parents did not want to and the
the the US Senate was trying to get
involved and into this decision because
there were protesters out there and it
became this big political football and
it was very successful for the
Republicans it was a very successful
well ultimately I think it was
successful in safaris it it was a way of
rallying they lost but they they lost
this battle but it was a way of rallying
the evangelicals now that was 2005 they
lost the battle they lost the midterms
very badly and is well they if you look
at polls from that period the vast
majority Americans said what no the
Senate should not be involved I I assume
I agree but I do think that it it it
hardened their base 2006 was was not
about Terri Schiavo it did it was
it was and I think algae must die
yes abortion abortion I think has a
different resonance than that in that
instance right as an adult you had the
husband there he came out and I I just
can't help but think that it the very
least Trump is gonna try and make this
that type of thing regardless of the you
know direct comparison you know whether
we go with it one way or another I mean
you're a hundred percent right in terms
of abortion is just a way of reaffirming
like you said earlier the one thing that
he has actually been he's absolutely
kept his word on which is I'm gonna fill
the court with the most extreme
retrograde people imaginable and I'm
gonna take you know an axe to everything
obviously you know regulation on the
corporate sector first and foremost but
the whole app angelical agenda as well
and if that is put back into the center
of their minds for his reelect that
bodes better for him I still think he's
in pretty tough shape no matter what it
goes back to that chart that you showed
yesterday right Michael about how most
voters are either socially liberal or
socially conservative but definitely not
economically conservative right and like
people underestimate the degree to which
Trump won on like this vague vague
economic populist and that he injected
into his rhetoric combined with social
conservatism and he could do it again I
don't think he will but I think that's
the best play but I also don't ever take
that the Democrats could always snatch
defeat from the jaws of victory we'll
see I think he's gonna talk about
abortion quite a bit and do you think
he's been personally responsible for
abortions oh yeah I mean if he's ever
had sex I don't think he's a provider
yeah it's like my dad and I got into the
provider business helped a lot of women
okay I'm gonna be an annoying sjw now as
I am most of the time and remind
everyone that it's not only women who
can get pregnant and need abortions i
it's hard for me to remember too but you
gotta try
okay fair enough I don't know Donald
Trump's involvement in in that there but
he's provided abortions in every single
scenario he was actually that was his
life's purpose he was supposed to be an
abortion provider but he wanted to
please his dad um let you know he'll
talk about abortion a lot shorter and
but at this point I just don't think
anything moves the needle anymore you
know
Vinson any well and these these socially
conservative voters these are the
hardcore evangelical types they're
already a hundred percent going to vote
for him like that's it there's there's
not gonna be any dissension in those
ranks no I mean I am still firmly in the
martin O'Malley
can win a camp and and and I think it's
a question though of of how motivated
these voters will be to come out that
it's not a question of convincing
anybody it's a question of turnout it
seems to me they're gonna turn up
because they always turn out they turned
out in the in the midterms and they
turned out big Republicans yep so
they're gonna turn up as one that's what
they do that's you know a lot of them
are just old people with nothing else to
do and it's it's of course you know
that's always what it comes down to at
the end of the day oh it's it's it's the
judges you want the judges I gave you
two judges but probably three by then
right
that's going to be super scary
