[Music]
ben shapiro has the reputation of being
a great intellectual now I'll say that I
am actually dealing with his new book
because I have to write a chapter about
him for my book and one of the themes in
my book is that this is this whole
modern right-wing sort of frame and IDW
is a massive fight against historicity
in general and while you know obviously
sam harris is structurally a historical
and jordan Peterson has his you know
mythology over history kind of thing I
would argue Ben Shapiro does like I
don't even know it's like 1950s Reader's
Digest sort of cartoon I guess it's like
I don't know if like in like a seventh
grader watched like Red Dawn or
something and got like a quotable book
of yacek sign oh I know if he was read
um down stuff if he didn't start as a
teenager and instead was just like a 40
year old national review editor with his
exact same opinions he'd be utterly
unremarkable well and I think a lot of
people think that you know Jonah
Goldberg sort of had a reputation of
being a you know not bright guy but a
guy who you know had pretensions of
intellect but was sort of broadly
understood to be you know a nepotism
case with a very limited capacity so
here is Ben Shapiro he's talking to
Andrew Neil now Andrew Neil is a quite
right-wing figure in a British context I
believe he's the editor of The Spectator
you something Harriman of this bet
chairman spectator spectators
right wing yeah but don't blame him for
The Spectator ready puff pieces about
Golden Dawn for instance um because he's
not in editorial control yeah that's
what he said
oh and Jones went after him for that and
Andrew Neal's like I don't like don't
put that on me I'm the only the chairman
of the whole magazine sure okay but
you know he's so yes a man of the right
but he's able to do I mean this is just
a British interview if they interviewed
any of us they would go like you say you
support socialism however socialism has
killed millions so you want people to
die but ben shapiro rose in his bag he's
triggered he's in his feelings and this
is and he's also just what a whiny
little thing let's check this out it is
intellectual intellectual sneering of
the highest order to suggest that only
the left has has new and decent ideas
some of the ideas that are popular in
your side of politics would seem to take
us back to the dark ages georgia new
abortion laws which you are much in
favor of that a wound who miss carries
could get 30 years a georgian woman who
travels to another state for an abortion
procedure could get 10 years these are
extreme hard policies well okay a couple
of things one i'm not sure i mean
frankly i don't know whether you're
sitting are you an objective journalist
are you an opinion journalist i miss it
ask questions okay so you're you're a
supposedly objective journalist calling
policies with which you disagree
barbaric inside of the political i do
will just remind you that we highlighted
a case a couple days ago of an 11 year
old rape victim who is pregnant and as
that law is currently written could be
forced to carry that baby to term i
don't know what other word you would
reserve barbarism for let alone
imprisoning woman for you know
exercising control over their health I
mean to say the least but you know so
you know but been again he's getting
very triggered and freaked out by this
and this is just so interesting I mean
this is an entire brand that was built
off of going to a college campus and you
know superficially through word tricks
and gamesmanship eviscerating some 18
year old who asked him a question and he
can't even deal
one just sort of basic round of British
questioning which anybody who has any I
mean it's kind of stunning that that veg
Bureau has this little exposure to
British media as it seems to you know
appear but anyways go ahead the abortion
one will continue but this is the
beginning of a prolonged tantrum weary
barbaric and acting only one side of the
political aisle as ideas so I just want
to point out there I know we should at
least be honest in your own bias in
America is now so polarized the one
program you only have the left and
another one you just have the right my
job is to question those who have strong
views and put an alternative to them if
you are an anthem person I would be
cluding pro-abortion questions to you
but you are really my question sir sir
I'm happy to answer your question please
answer this one would you suggest would
you suggest that a late term abortion is
brutal I'm not taking a question I want
to pause it here and bring in our friend
Tim bond toast
yeah his section from this Dave Rubin
Dave Reubens battle of ideas part 3
explains exactly the little move that
Ben Shapiro does called the
motte-and-bailey this is real analyzing
the thing Stephan says is a fallacy
called the motte-and-bailey the phrase
motte-and-bailey
comes from medieval castles which had a
particular structure a gated courtyard
area outside the Bailey where the main
settlements were and then a heavily
fortified stone keep high up on the hill
the Mott where everyone would retreat to
when hostile forces approached the
Bailey is vulnerable open to attack
but the Mott is safe unassailable the
motte-and-bailey fallacy revolves around
trying to defend a controversial
position Bailey by defending a loosely
connected common sense assertion which
is impossible to argue against amat an
example of this would be if I said that
women don't belong in the workplace and
then when us to defend my position I
said you can't deny that there are
biological differences between men and
women you can see how the two concepts
so you see that's exactly what he's
doing
Piven
from this bill does a specific question
of late term abortion now I don't know
how he's defining late term abortion but
we do know that quote unquote late term
abortions in terms of you know like the
babies about to be due are performed
only in instances where the mother's
life is at risk period and we also know
that Donald Trump and others are running
around the country just lying about
killing babies after they're born so I
don't know what kind of spin Shapiro is
trying to do on this but he did a Mont
Bailey and he's also being disingenuous
about what that actually means and I
also would like to say you know in terms
of the sacredness of life
well well we'll get to what bench bureau
said about Trayvon Martin after the rest
of this clip suggests that a late term
abortion is brutal I'm not taking any
more questions sir you just suggested
the pro-life position is inherently
brutal and terrible so I'm asking you as
an objective journalist would you ask
the same questions of a pro-choice
advocate my colleague - brutal and I'm
asking you is that why is it that a bill
banning abortions after a woman has been
pregnant for six weeks is not a return
to the dark ages
what's your answer my answer is
something called science human life
exists at conception it ought to be
protected now back to my question to you
you purport to be an objective
journalist BBC purports to be an
objective down the middle network it
obviously is not it never has been and
you as a journalist are proceeding to
call one side of the political aisle
ignorant barbaric and sending us back to
the dark ages why don't you just say
that you're on the left is so hard for
you why can't you be honest this is it's
a serious question
mr. Shapiro if you only knew how
ridiculous that statement is you
wouldn't have said it so let's move on I
love love cuz it's like Ben Shapiro has
built this whole like ludicrous sad
brand of like you know this sort of like
faux you know this ridiculous posture
sophistication and he's he's having an
exchange with basically what he sort of
indirectly molded his whole this whole
dumb persona off of
I mean I'm sure you know he's studied
the Buckley tapes and everything even
though he has none of that kind of
fluidity but like this is what it all
comes back to it comes back to sort of
like hi Tori sort of like the stain and
he's on the receiving end of it and he
doesn't even know he's talking - he
thinks Andrew Neil is like labour or
something I mean I said this is this is
genuinely mind-blowing that this guy has
a brand is intellectual I just like to
remind everybody I mean I guess you know
and I think this is true clearly for a
lot of these people that when they're
done and obviously is really about
controlling women's lives and autonomy
and bodies but even if we were to
stipulate and we never should but I will
for this specific instance that there's
a concern about babies I don't know when
that concern stops but if you remember
several years ago in 2013 there was an
innocent teenager who was killed by
George Zimmerman named Trayvon Martin
and Ben Shapiro sat in reality Trayvon
Martin was a fully grown man with a
history of violence who got into a fight
with a Hispanic man George Zimmerman
under disputed circumstances then was
shot in the chest while beating
Zimmerman's head into the pavement so he
took of course Zimmerman's and his
lawyers account at face value we do know
that the Merman a very disturbed person
was following and stalking
I believe Trayvon was only 13 years old
and this child ended up murdered and
then as Hassan says Ben Hitler
could have been rehabilitated but
Trayvon Martin had it coming Shapiro so
after this just after embarrassing
himself by throwing that tantrum and
asserting that he was talking to some
type of anti conservative journalist the
interview went on until and we're
cutting some of it the holy thing 8
minutes is pretty funny and revealing
but four thing is actually 1616 not
quite a bit okay this is the last is the
last this is when we finally have our
this is when the this is when the how
dare he asserted you know read one of
Ben's thriller novels to really show
because he had to get to show what it
was sirs are really flying the sirs are
flying as you say in your book you say
that there's a credit keyphrase we are
so angry at each other right now but as
I say aren't you part of that anger
aren't you encouraging that anger for
example you just you described mr.
Obama's State of the Union address in
2012 as fascist mentality in action well
I think that if you are one if you want
to argue with the characterization and
then we can talk about what exactly his
State of the Union address said is it
charged language in politics sure the
problem that I have is not with charge
language in politics which I'm generally
in favor of I like a robust public
debate and very loud and and spirited
public debate I have no problem with
that whatsoever what I'm talking about
is the assumption that people with whom
we disagree politically are inherently
of bad character or in your words want
to bring us back to the dark ages but
again it was your description of the
State of the Union address in 2012 as
fascist the wording of the president
Trump's 2012 address was he so far bad
and wrong that's over there plenty of
things are bad in Rome but it doesn't
make them fascist well I suppose that's
true but if you would like to get if
you'd like to read me one out loud ah
that was logic Andrew Neil just gave him
a little a plus B there you'd like to
read me the column out loud I suppose I
can critique it for you oh well again
with mr. Obama
you said June and you're Jewish yourself
I only mentioned that because food is in
context the Jews who vote for Obama are
by and large Jews and name only journals
you call them my statement was based on
the fact that Jews in the United States
as an ethnic group are largely
irreligious which is true by every
single poll Jews of the most irreligious
group in the United States as an
Orthodox Jew who actually takes Judaism
seriously the point that I'm making is
that most Jews who are ethnically Jewish
are not religiously Jewish in any
context no the point you were making is
that Jews who vote for Obama are Jews
and named only I said I said that yes
that is correct that Jews who voted for
Barack Obama a progenitor of the Iran
deal a person who was cracking down on
religious liberty a person who spent
much of his career as presidents of the
United States attempting to deprive
Israel of the necessities to defend
itself was that
I'm sorry I mean there's just a few
things in this torrent of lies and
 okay
unprecedented funding for Iron Dome as
an example right a hood Barack said that
no other president had done more in
terms of security cooperation than
Barack Obama and those of us who
actually care about Palestinian civil
rights and self-determination were
appalled by the Obama administration's
endless support of Israel no matter what
they did including at two different
times during the transition in oh nine
and then back and then in 2014 such
ferocious bombardments on Gaza that even
in 2014 joe scarborough questioned as an
example when Israel bombed the UN school
so you know again in crackdowns on
religious liberties and all this I mean
he's talking about pharmacies needing to
be able to give woman the day after pill
okay so he's being on using this maudlin
melodramatic disingenuous language but
at some point we need to inject a little
bit of reality also the Iran deal
supported by sane people in Israel like
a hood Olmert and the intelligence and
members are former members of the
intelligence and military apparatus go
ahead the necessities to defend itself
that that people Jews who voted for
President Obama by and large cared about
Judaism far less than they did about
other priorities did you said they
should return their badge in as a Jew
yes I believe that if you are a believer
somebody who takes Judaism seriously
that comes along with ideological
ideological commitment I mean I guess
I'm also I'm just I mean I mean I hope
you're having fun by the way going
through every old tweet that I've ever
sent to try and do gotcha questions but
if you'd like to know discussion about
lots of thing or things I've done in say
I don't know that's twenty twelve so
it's now 2019 if you'd like to discuss
something I've done and say like past
five years why don't we do that
any little because your book is a
criticism of how angry America's and how
America has to do better and I have an
entire list on my website sir-sir my
list have an inter website some of the
things you've said that seemed to me to
help to stoke that anger for example you
said sure is
he's like to build arabs like to bomb
crap and live in open sewage well as I
say in an article entitled here's a list
of all the giant bad dumb things I've
ever said was that was done but yes
that's a dumb tweet and not only a but
it is also important to mention that the
next few tweets clarified that sweet is
specifically referring to the Hamas
leadership which by the way a BBC I've
seen is relatively reticent to condemn
no I'd say it wasn't what you went on to
do and say but it is beautiful the way
because he took some dumb you know and
of course the BBC condemns actions by
helping us the BBC's quite moderate it
just acknowledges international law an
example in Israel Palestine but I just
love that Andrew Neil does not even feel
the need to go down with go chase that
dumb little chestnut just like okay well
it's back to actually what you were
saying you can see the dishonesty in
Shapiro and that tactic there because he
he talks about you know he characterizes
the subsequent tweets as if they're as
if they basically make that tweet not
dumb right and and then moves on to make
an assertion about the BBC that he
thinks Neil is gonna follow up instead
of that but Neil impressively stays on
that stays on the trail chin that the
next few tweets clarified that suite is
specifically referring to the Hamas
leadership which by the way a BBC I've
seen is relatively reticent to condemn
no I'd say it wasn't what you went on to
do and say you are correct about the
slurring are Arabs is not all Arabs that
want to live in open sewage and blow
things up is just Palestinians even want
to say holiday no it's a population is
rotten to the core you went on to say
not have my success is Arab population I
say that by poll numbers they elected
Hamas they elected Hamas they educate
their weight I thought you weren't
saying that so now we're gonna justify
saying that with the usual litany here
yeah it's interested poll numbers to
talk about the Hamas leadership wait I
wait and I thought you were
disaggregating from Hamas from the
regular Palestinians but now because
they voted for Hamas maybe they all are
actually bad
ergo
maybe the tweet isn't a problem what are
we saying here Ben hmm Arab population I
say that by poll numbers they elected
Hamas they elected Hamas they educate
their children's in school that Israel
should be obliterated sir I guess if you
want to say you know honestly son this
is a giant waste of time in the sense
that the entire interview is designed
for you to shout slogans or old things
that I've said at me I don't see how
this works they make you talk about you
talk about undermining the public
discourse it seems to me it's simply
going through and finding lone things
that sound bad out of context and then
hitting them with and then hitting
people with them is a way for you to
make a quick buck on BBC off the fact
that I'm popular and no one has ever
heard of you they're not many bucks in
the middle of the BBC I like American
Broadcasting mr. Shapiro I get the point
right because your words are highly
designed to produce the consensus and
understanding that the book seems to
want to produce that's my point that you
write about you know judeo-christian
culture and so on but so much of what
you said in the past would seem to turn
its back on judeo-christian culture
you're lecturing me on judeo-christian
culture after you call the pro-life
position barbaric I just really request
all he does is a vision I asked you a
question you failed to answer a single
one of mine being a waste of time if you
want to read the book and critique the
book why don't you read and critique the
book if you want to read if you want to
critique me you can think whatever you
want to give a damn what you and I've
never heard of you until I brief myself
of this but that's not the issue it's an
interesting book but my point is your
book claims from time to time your book
is well I do I've done so several times
I'm about to do so again if you would
let me just finish the question turning
on judeo-christian values what are the
values it's turning its back on I you
know I'm not inclined to continue an
interview with a person is badly
motivated as you as an interviewer so I
think we're done here I appreciate your
time all right well we thank you for
your time and for showing that anger is
not part of American and doesn't like it
when context isn't provided certain
tweets and things like that man oh it's
gonna be the era of the pajama boy is
Ovid word and if he's your intellectual
leader you should be embarrass
the cool kids philosophers little kids
philosopher keeping all those cool kids
you know what's so funny is I'm not even
like I'm sure it would be unpleasant but
it's like so tightly if I I get to be
interviewed by Andrew Neil from my book
and he's like telling me like 2013 you
said that Sam Harris you know had less
brains than Zoolander but equally less
charm than Neville Chamberlain what do
you say that I would be like I would be
like you made that quote up but that's
awesome I wish I said that can we extend
this interview to grill V for another 10
minutes sir is this just a highlight
that's a fun thing about being like when
we're really nasty on Twitter it's still
like fascist right exactly it's the bad
people
it's did bad people that's beautiful
watch all of it and tweet follow up
questions to ban respect yeah cordially
Ben's actually hold on let me bring Ben
shapira's Twitter feed because he's been
tweeting about this is he's pretty
triggered yeah so basically he said you
know he was under prepared for going on
to the on to the show no okay I mean I
would say yeah just about in general
under preparing god whoever this other
point he said that he walked out of
Breitbart out of principle and I mean I
guess sure oh yeah it would not be my
guess is that I think that more of my
interpretation would be yeah well here's
what Ben said
AF Neill destroys ben shapiro so that's
what it feels like
winky face broke my own rule and wasn't
properly prepared I've addressed every
single issue he raised before she blow
no that's not true as as neoplasia
that's why he was talking to you I it's
Neil why inch barrows air and then let's
see what else I think he said something
else yeah
yeah I can't find the other one but now
whatever bench Bureau is a bad person
respectfully follow up with him you're
calling from
