[Music]
so in the in the wake of we've now had
multiple shootings in temples synagogues
over the past year if if it if it if it
seems to you like there's more
anti-semitism in the country or at least
more actions that of hate based in
anti-semitism you would be right by any
possible measure statistically speaking
there's a been a huge jump in
anti-semitism since Trump has been
elected and but louie gohmert wants you
to know that Donald Trump is in no way
responsible because his his kid married
a Jew tragic shooting at the synagogue
you hadn't somebody saying well a
blameless violence on the president's
rhetoric you've got the most pro-israel
I mean for heaven's sake he's got a
son-in-law that's Jewish this man has
done more for Israel according to
Netanyahu than any president we've ever
had and yet they want to call him any
sematic again watch what they say and
bigger there's a good chance they're
projecting it's what they're doing and
they're projecting that on the president
look it was the Democrats were the only
people who would not call out and
condemn specifically any systematic
remarks and it was a price for the man
hmm
I love it when Donald Trump said that
Bibi Netanyahu was a basically King of
the Jews right give the Jews your Prime
Minister the Jews he's the Jaffee's your
president the JAF each other the Jews it
is like it's not any dumber than things
Megan McCain says but no Gomer it's just
a bit more of an obvious Gomer no no
also Gohmert also knows that that the
support for Israel in the Republican
Party comes much more so
Christian Zion yeah in East Texas right
yeah to the extent that there's any Jews
they do recognize Christ as the Messiah
they are Jews for Jesus
