[Music]
just touch on this briefly next week
we'll have Marcy wheeler on the program
to talk about this in a greater detail
but what has happened with mana Ford
over the past couple days is a big big
deal here is the two or three minute
wrap-up you'll recall in September
Muller made a big plea deal with Paul
Manafort strip Paul Manta Ford of all
his assets he's broke now totally broke
but 46 million dollars came in paid for
the Muller investigation okay they said
they got him on a couple of charges they
got him off on another charges but it
was all contingent upon him being
truthful and providing good information
so yesterday or the day before Muller
announces guess what Paul Manafort has
been lying to us we now he's been lying
to us we are going to lay out at his
sentencing hearing because we want him
now to go to jail all of the details
about what he lied to us and at that
time it became apparent that Muller
didn't even need mana fort to prove
whatever they needed to prove because
they knew everything that he was giving
them was a lot and then the question
becomes why would you do that why would
Paul Manafort lie to Muller well Manta
fort is not the brightest he has gotten
away with this stuff for decades he
thought he could pull the wool over
Manta Ford's over Muller's eyes he's
banking on a pardon from the Trump
administration and by copping a plea he
doesn't have to pay for lawyers who are
litigating all these cases and if he
knows he's gotten a pardon he knows he's
getting a pardon how does he know he's
getting a pardon there's probably some
with the Trump administration but that
means the flow of information is going
to different ways mana Ford is finding
out he's gonna get a pardon and maybe
mana Ford is sending back information
the other way to Donald Trump telling
him that what's going on with the
investigation what are they asking what
is mana Ford saying in his lies unfair
right so comes out today in The Guardian
that Paul Manafort was visiting Julian
Assange in the embassy since 2013
probably doing all sorts of different
type of work with WikiLeaks in some way
unless he was just a real fan of
WikiLeaks felt it's very strongly about
the work they were doing with Chelsea
Manning right he was looking for hacked
emails he was looking for information or
other things by 2016 he visits right
before in the month of March a lot of
things go down in March right after he
visits Julian Assange the phishing email
leads to the heck of a desta's personal
email Trump names Papadopoulos page
Carter pages advisors Papadopoulos
lunches with miss food or myths flood
and Putin's niece Papadopoulos just went
to jail incidentally man afford named
the unpaid convention manager all within
ten or fifteen days of that meeting
20 days Muller probably knew all this
there is apparently videotape I'm saying
that only because it nobody said that
but they are there's a description of
what manna fort was wearing when he went
into the embassy here's the thing if
it's the case that manna fort was
sending back information to Trump this
is what I'm telling Muller we're really
pulling the wool over this guy's eyes
Donald Trump probably
in took that information and then spewed
it back out when he wrote his written
questions written answers to the
questions that Muller had asked him
which was submitted last week so you
understand the dynamic here this is a
case of a teacher giving a test I'm
gonna give a special test to you Matt
because you're gonna be sick are you
going away so we're gonna give you the
test five days early here's the test
Matt you fill it out you go tell your
buddies what's on the test they fill it
out also for the test they they write in
the answers for the test but it turns
out your teacher pulled a fast one on
you Matt teacher knew that you were not
terribly disturbing how much school is
this I it's I think it's amazing if this
is actually what happened Matt um he
gave you a fake test to see if you would
pass it to your buddy and when that test
came back from your body you realize he
did except for the difference here is
not just that you flunk it's that you've
purged yourself about stuff they already
knew and then the worst cover-up ever we
will be talking we will be talking to
Marcy wheeler about this in about four
or five days hopefully not too much more
will happen but uh this is gonna be this
is where we're headed towards crazy bill
yeah that's what he said that's what I
said that's obviously what our position
is yeah
incidentally Paul Manafort
is going to probably spend the better
part of the rest of his days in prison
unless there of course is a pardon but
it turns out a lot of those things that
Muller will now be recharging manifold
with are also state violations as well
and Manta Ford has no cash to fight
those all right we're gonna take a quick
break when we come
