over the over the weekend I'm not sure
if you're aware the greatest dynasty in
professional sports one which will seal
that greatness by not going to visit
Donald Trump despite the fact that there
may be some personal relationships but
it doesn't matter what's important is
their political actions and their public
actions and despite that couple cell
despite a couple of missteps what's also
important is you have good advisers so
maybe you are not so a savvy about
what's going on in the world and maybe
you buy a wrong hat and put it in your
locker mistakes can be made the
important thing is you listen to your
smarter advisers in this case Tom
Brady's wife she sell basically said
don't do this don't be an idiot
and he said yes dear okay and Mark
kissed my kid on the lips well that's
fine too that's fine too
that's fine I love Tom but yeah it's but
that said like a guy who's not a parent
that's all I can tell you yep meanwhile
loving parent greatest quarterback in
the history of the game maybe one of the
most accomplished athletes in any sport
and any time I'm sorry I know that bums
a lot of people out but it's true
meanwhile the Super Bowl took place this
weekend and here's Donald Trump talking
about how he's really upset about black
people talking about the the kneeling
position you've taken and the
controversy around it do you think that
the players who did Neil had a point are
you sensitive at all to players like
Colin Kaepernick who point out that the
majority of victims of police violence
are black well you know I'm the one that
had passed judicial reform and if you
look at what I did criminal judicial
reform and what I've done President
Obama tried they all tried everybody
wanted to do it and I got it done and I
been you know really a lot of people in
the NFL have been calling and thanking
me for it really they have been calling
and thanking you know that people have
been trying to get that taken care of
and it's now signed into law and effects
tremendous numbers of people and very
good people I think that when you want a
protest I think that's great but I don't
think you do it at the sake of our flag
at the sake of our national anthem
absolutely but you are do I understand
you saying there though that you still
are sensitive though I mean you you
understand the motivation for the
protest though you don't normally a lot
of it is having to do with reform from
what I understand whether it's criminal
justice or whatever it may be and they
have different versions and everybody
seem to have a different version of it
but a lot of it had to do with that and
I took care of that I think that people
have to at all times respect our flag
and at all times respect on that our
national anthem and our country and I
think there are plenty of places and
times you can protest and you can do a
lot but you can't do that
that's that's bad I took care of it so
the bill that passed the criminal
justice reform bill affects maybe
several thousand of the hundred and
eighty or ninety thousand who are in
federal custody in a federal prison that
has nothing to do well maybe it's like a
fourth-order thing to do with what a
Colin Kaepernick was protesting well
Colin Kaepernick was protesting was the
complete disregard for for black lives
particularly in the context of the way
that black people are policed in this
country and to the extent that the Trump
administration did anything on that
front it was to have his Attorney
General at the time Jeff Sessions tell
every police force in the country not
only are we going to pull back on any
oversight that we're providing
problematic police depart
currently we're not going to engage in
that in the future so in other words if
you have discriminatory practices if you
have a problem on your force with overt
or covert racism or de facto racism or
whatever it is if you have a record of
being a particularly violent with black
people don't worry about it we're not
coming from you you go to town you you
do you is what jeff Sessions told told
them so the idea that in any way Donald
Trump addressed this is a farce that's
the first point
maybe he's deluded about that maybe he's
not I don't think he cares one way or
another and then the idea that you just
the standing up during the the singing
of the national anthem at a football
game is the scenic one on that's the one
thing that you can't not do you can do
that you could do a lot apparently
according to Donald Trump but that's the
one thing you can't do particularly if
you're a black guy right I mean cuz we
all know that was his attempt to run in
the midterm elections let's make it
cultural I think they're going to shift
and go back to abortion but we'll see
all right
