[Music]
let's let's play this clip from from
this guy Charles Payne he is he on Fox
or is he on fox business and he's coming
over to the the mothership I know he's
got some stuff on to give some insight
into economics and an economic behavior
by people he is on Fox and Friends
explaining why the minimum wage is so
problematic SEO Cortez facing backlash
in some corners for comparing Airport
croissants prices to the fadh2 the fight
for a higher minimum wage the Democratic
Congress applause and I follow the news
every day I was not aware Alex you have
you been aware of this whole there are
some quarters where people are very
upset about comparing croissant
with a minimum wage I was not I was not
aware this had sparked outrage yes she
wrote a quiz on set LaGuardia are going
for seven dollars a piece yet some
people think getting a whole hour of
person a personal dedicated human labor
for 15 bucks is too expensive so in
other words you've got to work like 1/16
of your day of your pay has to go to buy
a cross up here qua song how many uh how
many croissants do you think those
workers can make in an hour that they're
making $15 well you know it's funny as
the government can just create
croissants and you can just mint an
unlimited number of them according to
what modern modern monetary model
croissant Theory pastry a higher minimum
wage the Democratic congresswoman from
New York tweeting on Monday call science
at LaGuardia are going for seven dollars
a piece yet some people think getting a
whole hour of personal dedicated human
labor for $15 is too expensive well this
morning a New York Post op-ed firing
back arguing your wage is no kind of
measure of human worth Charles pain is
the host of making money with Charles
pain
Fox Business Network and he joins us now
to weigh in on this what doesn't she get
Charles well it was a clumsy attempt
right to just I mean she's grappling all
the time you know the proponents of
these minimum wage or higher minimum
wage need to understand a few things
and there's another following tweak just
so people understand when I set this up
properly when people responded to her
she always gets wrinkled so she tweeted
out again at the GOP always replies to
her and she says I guess the idea is
foreign to them since their policies
treat people as disposable well think
about a standard minimum wage first of
all when you raise the minimum wage the
business has a raise the price of the
products guess who gets hurt the most
their possible house now this we we know
is not true I mean we have plenty of
tests on the margins and those
croissants seem like they're pretty high
right now but even to the extent that
the cost of goods have to go up
nominally right what did they figure out
with McDonald's that it would like add
like literally like two cents to every
hamburger yes there are that many more
people able to afford your coolant or
your hamburgers well well think about a
standard minimum wage first of all when
you raise the minimum wage the business
has a raise the price of the products
guess who gets hurt the most they're
poor households most poorer households
that I know have more than one person
working on minimum wage so I'd rather
have two people making $13 an hour
instead of one making $15 an hour
because that's the realistic
consequences another composite wait he
just he got confused guys do the
PowerPoint yeah he was first trying to
say poor households are hurt because
they can't afford as many quests anse
and then it slid into oh people lose
their jobs and that is as far as we can
tell sort of a complete fabrication
that's been it's like it's a zombie
economic talking point that's big like I
I feel like the actual empirical data
that has not shown it to be for that to
be the case then the productivity of
that second person would have had to
have been like like worth just like
literally like a dollar or something
right yeah right like the the idea that
raising the minimum wage that you could
have two people working for thirteen
dollars or one person for $15 would
suggest that the productivity of those
two people was was almost like
completely the second person almost had
no productivity whatsoever yet they do
like to threaten that though like when
McDonald's will automate a restaurant
they'll blame people who want to raise
the minimum wage and say look what you
made us do as if they weren't going to
do that any well of course of course I
was an hour because that's the realistic
consequences another thing from a
business point of view I'm a business
person right I want to be able to reward
the great workers in this sense you
reward bad workers and you punish good
work unless you give them a raise and
that cuts into your margin what that
gets back to raising prices though right
you want to talk about don't don't don't
tell people that can raise give you a
raise but the thing that's stopping it
is it'll cut into the margin would kill
me like he's like tries to be helpful
really not healthy and incidentally what
he means by cut into the margin is that
will cut into his take-home pay yeah
maybe you'd want to give other people
more money but then you get less person
you punished good work unless you give
them a raise and that cuts into your
margin to raising the prices all right
so the bottom line is if you want to
talk about people being disposable under
standard minimum wage snuffs out the
ambitions of the person at this company
who could Excel why would i Excel if the
person who's not working hard gets the
same paid that I get say ironically if
they were talking about erasing these
sort of standards letting people go in
and Excel or Excel on their own merit
that would actually have more potential
how do you Excel on your own merit I
don't suppose to excel in other one
other this I mean it is just sort of
funny how
these are just zombie talking points
that are just completely disconnected
from reality at this point like it's
it's there's no who is it who's trying
to who's trying to be persuaded by any
of this like who it's I think it's just
really it's like comfort food it is just
comfort food it's just saying like
comforting like just comforting stories
that they tell themselves like this goes
without saying but just because there's
a floor wage doesn't mean that everybody
has to make the same but you know how to
your large yes gotta protect the margins
to protect the margins it is I think it
is basically I think they wake up at Fox
every day and they're like what is going
to be the story that we could include
aoc in and and drive into our narrative
did you see the polling that showed that
your publicans have a higher awareness
of who she is than in Democrats yep yeah
everything about well you know she ticks
every box for them and this is the
O'Reilly thing was brilliant too because
Fox and so much of the conservative
media is just about hating your own kids
right and it is it's just like they it's
just this resentment of the old for the
young it's just driving so much of this
and so of like she is their ideal
political figure totally but really
totally and it's it's fascinating I feel
like you could just picture interrupting
a fluid back show yeah she's like
dancing and Steve Nix is there yes yeah
I feel like not calling her grandparents
if you wanted to let people know about
the sort of the politics just the
politics not so much I think a policy of
the implication but like sort of the the
politics or the of how media plays with
the politics like you could put that
stat in a time capsule yeah and that
would like I think you know some
academic you know a thousand years now
you know like well we went I went back
and it was amazing yeah that the people
who opposed her actually had a higher
awareness yes and what this said about
the media landscape at the time now of
course we no longer have the ability to
play any of this
video because banded because of the
extreme narcissism and the dancing but
yeah then that's so the other it's like
there's a lot of like sort of means when
the when the people were talking about
how her poll numbers they were like oh
she's suddenly she's underwater with
everyone except women and young people
that was like the non-white yeah and not
I know and it was like the women and
young cool and non-whites were like
didn't know as much about her as the
white men did because the white men
we're just hearing about how evil she is
every day on Fox News
