[Music]
this morning what are the problems with
Kemal Harris again and you know they're
not they're not they're not any I think
that ultimately are going to sink her
candidacy but they could and I think
that I probably have a greater issue
with these problems than your average
Democratic voter which I think I would
like to think that's not icky
anecdotally we were taught was talking
to Bri about this and you know she's
been following this very closely in
writing on it and no I mean again we're
just catching rep riptides from social
media so far so who sees but that being
said it is definitely not just the usual
suspects critiquing this that you'd
expect there's a much broader range of
hey wait a second yeah I mean it's it's
just we was trying to think if there was
you know the the comparisons to Obama
are inevitable because so far at least
no one else has opened their campaign
with 20,000 people at the rally now you
could say what well you know what you
will or not it's just it is an
indication of at least a good
organization it is a good indication of
some level of enthusiasm and and whatnot
but I don't remember at the beginning of
Obama's campaign they're being
substantive critiques of of him that
there are with Kamala Harris with that
said Obama did not have the was a little
bit more studious and not taking certain
positions in certain you know in his
roles he wasn't a prosecutor and he
wasn't if there is some death I agree
with you that yeah
of course there's progressive
prosecutors and you don't want to have a
simplistic no prosecutor view but I mean
she was a highly aggressive prosecutor
which Obama right not right and a highly
aggressive part is Bravo I agree yes I
just wanted to add that so we didn't do
this simplistic frame you don't and in
an era where we are still I think in an
era of and in many respects I think the
whole Trump epoch could be considered a
the hopefully the culmination maybe just
a just an era of of lack of
accountability for some elements of
society whereas there is an over
accountability for other elements of
society I hope I'm not being obtuse
there but the the elite the
establishment the moneyed have one set
of rules whereas those who are not have
another set of rules white people in
society have lived with one set of rules
whereas people of color have lived with
another particularly in the context of
law enforcement right I mean that's what
much of the stop and frisk was about and
so here is on The Breakfast Club The
Breakfast Club we did here is that's not
true look I joking me
[Laughter]
[Laughter]
I mean with in college huh hey yeah I do
so if it was legalized all do I know
would you you know do it listen I think
that it gives a lot of people joy and
[Laughter]
now I think it's a great attitude to
have frankly I think we would be in
better shape if all our politicians had
that perspective and move towards
legalization we're basically headed
there the problem is is that she has no
history of promoting that position she
has that set of it she has that
awareness she had it in college
her family was Jamaican certainly you
have Jamaican certainly before now right
she opted not to join other states in
their attempts as the AG of California
to take marijuana off the DEA s list of
most dangerous substances and this was
crucially important during the Obama
years because you had some states that
had legalized it or used it for medical
purposes I mean this people forget that
even when states went ahead and okayed
it from miracle marijuana there was
still aggressive attempts by the federal
government to raid these places I mean
it's like it seems years ago now you can
go to like legal dispensaries for for
just recreational use ruined a lot of
people's ruined a lot of people's lives
and there were people this is when it
was medical marijuana to in people who
were desperately trying to provide
relief for a whole host of people who
were going through an immense amount of
pain when Obama when the Obama
administration raided California's
medical marijuana dispensaries I think
this was in 20 was it 2010 or
2011 maybe it was 2012 Harris barely put
out a statement in 2014 her Republican
opponent in for I think it was if for
the its would have been for was it
Senate 2014 would be Senate her
Republican opponent ran to the left of
her on the issue of of of criminal
justice reform now look I take with you
know this is I think it's a legitimate
critique of like where are you on these
subjects I mean and what's going on it's
one thing to sort of like laugh this
stuff off now but you were in a pivotal
position to to change the policy on this
I also just find it very I'll draw a
thread because I I think you know
there's a clip of her floating around
from several years ago where she kind of
laughs off the marijuana question and I
remember when Obama was president you
know Obama you know he got some
decriminalization questions early on any
kind of was like what's what's the
question big stoner kind of thing and
you know first of all whatever forget
who cares about hypocrisy but I'll make
an exception in this one which is like
you know especially for people are open
about their drug use and laudably so but
the fact that other people who got
caught couldn't get college loans or
spent time in prison for nonviolent
offenses instead of having you know a
career or or a family is pretty sick but
I really don't I guess what I'm saying
those I don't like this flip where it's
like almost the same tone but the
substance is shifted it's literally like
several years ago it's hahaha whatever
pothead and now it's like hahaha of
course I support it and it's like well
what happened in the interim
when there wasn't any substantive shift
i I think what you just said just before
that is more relevant because there has
been a history of her in her role as AG
okay of look these are documented things
there was a significant amount of
support within her office to bring
charges or to investigate I should say
investigate to start a more than a
preliminary investigation because the
preliminary investigation was done on
Steve magician and one West ok she
killed it that is this is reporting that
existed prior to her even anybody
contemplating the idea that she might
run for president there is a pattern
here of pooh-poohing criminal justice
reform and when we talk about criminal
justice reform the even the the most
moderate of edges of that of the reason
why people engage in that advocacy is
that the system is really unfair and
there's no one who's listening to the
sound of my voice who doesn't agree with
that that notion that the system is
really fundamentally unfair we know it
in the context broadly speaking of of
the drug war but we also know it just in
terms of you know across the board that
our criminal justice system incarcerate
far far too many people that is unfair
in terms of who is targeted and who is
policed and how and even if she was not
sensitive to that issue and was across
the board of harsh prosecutor I would
have less of an issue with this but at
its heart what she does not seem to have
any appreciation of her any record of
appreciating is this unfairness which
she was actively engaging
and supporting and that's what I find
problematic is that the subtextual
narrative here is there are some people
who deserved to pay the consequences of
things and there are other people who
are not and that I think is very
problematic because that also can
translate into policy that has nothing
to do with criminal justice reform that
has to do with who government works for
and who government protects and in my
mind to the extent that there is any
sign of that in the context of the work
she's done she its flipped who at least
relative to to what I like her to what I
would want so I mean that that I find is
a little bit problematic we'll see maybe
there will be other instances where you
know she projects something different
but of course I just have to register
that I find all over punitive approaches
of any kind profoundly problematic and I
also think the other thing to add in the
mix was the other piece that came out
from the intercept of her running her
first da race or maybe as a reelection I
think was her first race significantly
to the right of another prosecutor who
had a much more basically rehabilitation
oriented record and her basically doing
ads like ms-13 style ads like here's a
picture of a Latino guides holding a gun
throwing a sign and we're sick of this
as a city and we need to lock people up
this is the policy and the kind of you
know hacky Jamaica jokes but I mean you
know I don't know if that makes up for
it also if you polled Jamaica I these
might be changing but a lot of Jamaicans
supported criminalizing marijuana that's
kind of an off Rasta joke yeah
I get Betty here but it annoyed me I I'm
less concerned why more can horny dad
situation I'm more concerned pledge make
the humor de but I mean if that's the
case she feels comfortable saying that
now how did she feel comfortable before
right with all that stuff
