[Music]
all right let's start first with just I
just want to get a couple of things off
the off the table here as it were in
terms of the courts as you know I tend
to be a little bit little focus on
what's going on with the judiciary
because that is the one branch of our
government that is much more difficult
to fix
with an election at least short term and
the worst part well I guess as of today
of the Trump administration is
ultimately the the Trump
administration's and hand in hand and in
fact more so with Mitch McConnell in the
Senate ability to fundamentally alter
the makeup of the federal judiciary
including the Supreme Court but also the
appeals court and the circuit court and
the implications that this is going to
have for decades decades let's start
first with the Supreme Court over the
past week we've talked we can have two
weeks really more by coincidence
anything else we had on robin marty was
it yeah and to talk about her book a
handbook for a post roh world and i
don't know if i got the title of that
book correctly but it basically explains
what we're going to be looking at within
a couple years and in the week and a
half subsequent to that
we have seen two more states past fetal
a heart bill of fetal heart bills I
guess laws that have not gone into
effect but have fully passed both the
legislature and have been signed by the
governor and these bills essentially say
abortion is banned after approximately
six weeks after a woman becomes pregnant
now most women will who have become
pregnant will tell you that they have
not found out that they're pregnant
until week five or six or seven or after
that because of course it takes it takes
a while unless some maybe I guess if
you're planning and you're checking
vigilantly you could find out before
then but four weeks is the normal
menstrual cycle and sometimes people are
a little bit late the point is you
actually don't have a fetal heartbeat
you have a maybe the functional pulse
essentially because the the organ of the
heart is not fully developed at that
point it's not really a heartbeat but
nevertheless it is a fetus and these
laws that one that passed in Ohio over
the past week and a half one that passed
in Georgia the one in Georgia a woman is
criminally liable if she goes across
state lines to get a legal abortion
there was a story in Alabama where a
Republican lawmaker told her story of
being raped as a way of getting a rape
exception in the Alabama bill and then
she was targeted by a fellow lawmaker
who was handing out basically a fact
sheet saying that unborn
children in his words should not be
punished by the because of the sins of
the father or the parent speaking of the
rapist in that instance and to further
the point as to what we're going to be
looking at unless one of the five
sitting Supreme Court justices gets hit
by a bus and somehow that vacancy will
last until the Harris pregnant Harris
presidency or the better O'Rourke
presidency or whatever it's going to be
Sanders presidency or Warren presidency
or god help us the Biden presidency and
so that's that's the future that we're
looking at and the question has been how
will they attack roe v wade will they
simply chip away at it will they lower
the scrutiny that the court will impose
upon States laws that infringe upon the
right of a woman to choose an abortion
in other words if there is a law trap
law that is passed like the famous one
from Texas which required admitting
privileges by doctors within a certain
distance of a hospital or there are laws
that have been passed that require
abortion clinics to have like 16-foot
ceilings or something to that effect
that are clearly designed to make it
impossible to have access to an abortion
on a practical level or will they simply
overturn it well on Monday yesterday
there was a case in front of the Supreme
Court
it was involving a Franchise Tax Board
and I'm not sure the name of the case
but it was essentially a question as
- whether states have sovereign immunity
from private lawsuits in the courts of
other states can I sue the Vermont
Franchise Tax Board in a New York state
court in 1979 the Supreme Court ruled
that there is no constitutional right
for states to avoid liability in other
courts states state courts so this is a
forty-year-old
precedent which was overruled yesterday
by in a five to four ruling by the
conservatives the fact that this
precedent was overruled is not going to
have much impact on our daily lives
because there's only been 14 instances
in those 40 years where a state has
actually faced a trial in another state
you follow that but what the Supreme
Court does is that they use some cases
to create principles that can be applied
to other cases sometimes they'll do it
within the issue set so they'll look at
one limited case about abortion the rule
on one small thing that will have
implications for a case down the road
they begin to build a record through
their decisions they create a series of
assumptions or predicates for later
decisions Clarence
Thomas wrote Monday's decision said
there was an implied right in the
Constitution these are literalists
incidentally right there's an implied
right in the Constitution that means
states could not be hailed involuntarily
before each other's courts states can
give immunity to other states that can
get into compacts with each other
he said the courts design a decision for
decades ago in this case Nevada V Hall
is contrary to our constitutional design
and the understanding of sovereign
immunity shared by the states that
ratified the Constitution stare decisis
that's the idea of respecting precedent
does not compel continued adherence to
this erroneous precedent now put aside
the quality of his ruling he argued that
the state's sovereign immunity is
historically rooted principle embedded
in the text and structure of the
Constitution although it was not
explicitly set out in the text the
document all right but put that aside
because that's just the run-of-the-mill
conservatives originalist sand
textualist BS we should only know the
Constitution is only as written it's
like ala carte right it's only as
written unless we can see something that
we can imply that's in there then you
use your common sense and then you use
your common sense
all right but that's not the issue the
issue isn't the nature of the ruling the
issue is the argument as to why they can
reject and on what grounds and this is
going to be the the new standard for
this Court as long as five people
determine it's erroneous that's it it
can be overturned which for lawyers and
for judges undercuts the fundamental
point of the judiciary it's not suppose
to be a a third house of lawmakers right
it's not just a majority of people it
has to be it has to be because there's
some type of legal rationale that makes
sense here is justice Breyers dissent in
franchise V tax a Franchise Tax Board
rather and it is a warning some people
suspect in terms of what could be coming
down the pike in terms of roe v wade he
writes it's one thing to overrule a case
when it quote defies practical work
ability when quote related principles of
law have so far developed as to the left
the old rule no more than a remnant of
an abandoned doctrine or when quote
facts have so changed or come to be seen
so differently as to have robbed the old
rule of significant application or
justification this is in the he cites
the Casey case and those are three
separate tests as to whether you can you
should or can overturn precedent when
the law simply doesn't work out the way
that we anticipated and doesn't function
when the related principles of law have
so far developed as to left the old rule
no more than a remnant of an abandoned
doctrine in other words the all of the
other doctrines around that law have
made the original law seem archaic or
nonsensical or when facts have so
changed or come to be seen so
differently in other words hey gay
people have the same rights as us as
straight people or
turns out black people are not
second-class citizens or should not be
second-class citizens or it turns out
that I don't know maybe down the road in
terms of what constitutes animal cruelty
if we find out that animals are
completely you know have a level of
consciousness that we did not understand
something like that I'm not making any
problem a shion's about that I'm just
using that as an example
he writes it's far more dangerous to
overrule a decision only because five
members of a later court come to agree
with earlier dissenters on a difficult
legal question the majority has
surrendered to the temptation to
overrule Hall even though it is a well
reasoned decision that has caused no
serious practical problems in the four
decades since we decided it today's
decision can only cause one to wonder
which cases the court will overrule next
so he is basically saying this case is
being used as a way not just to resolve
a barely existing problem in our law as
it stands now which is whether a state
can be hauled into court in a another
state's state court but rather it's
being used as a tool to overturn the
precedent of a different case of future
cases it is being used as and may not
just be roe v wade there's going to be a
long project for this conservative court
and if Thomas resigns this summer and my
guess is that's gonna happen my guess is
he's going to announce in June maybe
even later
because I think you know Mitch McConnell
is going to it's going to it's going to
replace him with someone younger that is
the end of the project even if Donald
Trump leaves at that point and that's
the project to have a five conservative
members of the court who are in their
40s and 50s who will be there for
decades to come 20 really 30 or 40 years
is the question and will fundamentally
change u.s. society in addition to the
Supreme Court Mitch McConnell once again
for those of you who have been following
this over the years there are two ways
in which a minority in the Senate can
stop the confirmation of a federal judge
one is to filibuster and the filibuster
is now gone in terms of lower court
judges and Supreme Court so that is
actually effectively gone excuse me
there traditionally I meant to say
that's gone the other way that was a
tradition was that the home state
senators both have the ability to
withhold what is called a blue slip
which is basically like a sign-off on
federal judges who are being appointed
in States or in circuits or in regions
that the state is included in yesterday
the Senate voted 54 to 42 to confirm
Joseph Bianco the US Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit based in New York
State every Republican voted for him two
Democrats doug jones and joe Manchin
voted for him as well
all the other Democrats either opposed
or were not around to vote Bianco's
confirmation marks the third time in
history that the Senate has confirmed a
judicial nominee over the objections of
both of a nominees home state senators
Chuck Schumer and Kristen Gillibrand
they didn't turn in their blue slips for
Bianco and McConnell ignored that
whereas Patrick Leahy allowed that to
happen multiple times he is Donald
Trump's 38th confirmed Circuit Court
judge that's more circuit judges than
any president in the history of the
United States has seated at this point
in a first Torrent term at this point
err that one in every six seats on the
nation's circuit courts is now filled by
a trump nominee and this is pretty
stunning this complete domination of the
courts that Republicans now have short
of the the first circuit in DC which is
you know probably the second most
powerful court in the nation
Republicans are slowly basically taken
over the judiciary not so slowly
actually under a under Trump McConnell
has been just shoving these these
justices and judges on to the courts and
the bottom line is is that Democrats not
just need to win the presidency they
need to win the Senate and they need to
win it not just because you got to be
able to give a Democratic president the
ability to get judges passed through the
Senate but also from a structural
standpoint if they don't win it now they
have a very very hard time to win it in
the future
