[Music]
speaking of cynicism here is Donald
Trump on with Laura Ingraham talking
about the massive invasion that we are
underneath this is where we all take to
the hills and yell for Wolverines I
don't want this I want people to come in
Legally we want the people that we want
and I want a merit-based system but we
shouldn't have anybody they shouldn't be
able to walk through Mexico and now I've
told Mexico if you don't stop this
onslaught this invasion people get angry
when I use the word an invasion people
like Nancy Pelosi that honestly they
don't know what the hell they're talking
about I watched her she was saying we
have to protect Mexico we have to take
care of Mexico look I'm dealing with
Mexico right now they send in five
hundred billion dollars worth of drugs
they kill a hundred thousand people they
ruin a million families every year if
you look at that that's really an
invasion without the gun are you so now
it's not just that they're letting
immigrants in now it's that they're
actually sending drugs in Fast and
Furious it's unbelievable I mean this is
the strategy I mean it's totally
believable it's the strategy I mean we
played a clip yesterday of him in
Northern Ireland and it was you know
funny because he knows nothing about how
brexit could destroy the Good Friday
deals and he's sitting there with the
Irish Prime Minister going like you've a
problem with the wall too and you need
to have a wall and of course the guys
thing they're like it's literally the
exact opposite you massive prick if a
wall happens this whole delicate piece
we've had for a couple decades will be
falls apart you immediately in a
horribly violent manner but you know
this sells the idea that Mexico is you
know they're sending I mean you know
it's amazing Donald Trump still three
years later four years later same same
essential calculus right Mexico sending
over rapists and killers and I'm sure
there's some good ones gonna need to be
even more so because
the economic part of it which he did use
I think to some effect even some of the
pretend anti-war noises all that other
stuff is gone all you got is racism it's
gonna be even worse
