there is a a meta story to this as well
but for the sake of the the narrative
let's hold off on the recent update to
this story that took place this week
because on Tuesday of this week there
was to be a vote and it was going to be
held not by a body of lawmakers not by a
panel of judges but some other
organization and this vote was going to
dictate what the law essentially is for
literally millions and millions of
people now I'm not making this up
even though it sounds impossible what am
I talking about yeah I mean it sounds
like a secret society kind of star
chamber kind of stuff right but exactly
there is this there's this organization
called the American Law Institute and
it's composed of several thousand
lawyers law professors prominent judges
all the members of the Supreme Court are
members of the American Law Institute
and they as part of their their duties
self-appointed duties they put together
these things called restatements and
what restatements are is they look at
the common law that is used in all 50
states and they try to summarize sort of
the the what the law is as you say it's
you can call it the cliffnotes almost of
of common law and it's very influential
it's it's used by judges to see what
these sort of precedents are out there
used by law students to teach you know
what the law actually says and as
interpreted as so it's very influential
even though it's you know nobody nobody
sort of bestowed this honor upon the
American launch
but they've taken upon themselves as a
prominent preeminent organizational
legal profession to really put this
together and and they just yeah let me
just ask you a couple of questions
before we go forward on this is this is
this a dues-paying institution like how
do you get appointed to this is there a
mutation only it's an invitation-only
organization and and it really is the
cream of the crop I mean we're talking
about elite Society this is an elite
gathering of legal minds and then they
pay dues presumably right I mean or how
do they get funded I'm not sure how the
funding actually works oh okay question
but I don't so it's a little bit so it's
a an elite institution that is
invite-only that is rather opaque in
terms of where it gets its money at
least to some extent and the man okay so
they take it upon themselves to assess
and right cliff notes for the nation's
laws state to state and who how is this
peer reviewed who who checks on this I
mean you and I rigorous process I mean
so so the one we're talking about is
consumer contract law and the the
Restatement started in 2012 so this is
seven years of review it's typically
farmed out to a sort of committee of
they call them reporters they're really
just co-authors of this reinterpretation
this restatement of the law and you know
they get feedback from other people
within the organization but you know I
mean I might my sense is is that once
these co-authors are chosen they're
they're given a fair bit of discretion
and leeway to make these restatements
and in this case you had
a trio of law professors that you know
are part of the law and economics
movement which we believe talked about
on the show before it this is sort of
the right wing very much interested in
cost-benefit analysis and economic
efficiency in the law it's sort of been
this blending over of a sort of business
friendly attitude to the legal
profession and so they approach this
thing of consumer contracts and we all
know that this is a problem I mean Sam
yeah I'm sure you've you've purchased
something on on iTunes or you purchase
something in a web site and there are
terms and conditions and you're asked to
click to agree to the terms and
conditions and I would say there's a
99.9% chance that you've never read any
of the terms and conditions before
clicking to agree with let me correct
let me correct you it is a hundred
percent chance that I have not read a
single one of those conditions
whatsoever there it is and everybody
agrees on that right the the but you
know the question is how do you what do
you how do you deal with that and and
there are a variety of ways in the law
to sort of still protect consumers that
we know aren't reading the terms and
conditions but the one that these three
authors co-authors came up with is that
consumers just wouldn't have to read the
contracts to be bound by the terms as
long as it had some sort of notice and a
quote reasonable opportunity to review
them like if there was a link on the
website about the the terms and
conditions which could include the
privacy policy it could include an
arbitration agreement to settle any
disputes or waiver of class-action
status it can include you know virtually
anything and you would just as long as
there's a link on that website and you
show up to the website you would be
presumed to have agreed to all of those
terms now on the back
and the co-author said okay and we'll
we'll toughen up the standard of
enforcement so that if there's something
really bad in these terms and conditions
you could litigate and and and you know
knock it out it's just called the
standard of unconscionability if the the
terms and conditions were unconscionable
in some way the problem that of course
is number one you might be bound to an
arbitration agreement so you're never
able to get in the court and I mean just
just to dispute it in any fashion you
you have to be you know have the money
to go up against a deep pocketed
corporation and that's going to be a
difficult road so you know consumer
protection advocates saw this as a real
bulldozing of consumer rights we know
that they click and agree but the
situation doesn't really work but how
could this be the solution and how could
this be a presumption of what the law
says when it was based on case law that
didn't seem to even fit this this this
Restatement seem more like a radical
reinterpretation of the law rather than
a restate well first off I mean okay
there are enormous problems it seems
with me even if I was to accept the that
a organization like this self-appointed
has so much influence on our law in this
country the process of having three
people who the moment you say to me come
from this law and economics movement I
can already tell you that the nature of
what they're gonna come - I mean right
you're predisposed to having a certain
perspective on how to assess these
things it necessarily you could it could
be rigorous as rigorous as all you want
but when you're a hammer everything's a
nail and people are predisposed and the
idea that there would be three
professors who are the only ones
determining this all from the same legal
school of thought is preposterous I mean
I you know I you know just from going
first-year law school I can tell you the
implications of going to two specific
lawyers who subscribe to a specific
school of thought all right well let's
let's take a break here and I want to
talk about like you know what's the
recourse and further the implications
here because I mean if I was to go in
and sign a conic
if this is the case that just showing up
there constitutes an agreement the
between me and the company one that I
may not even seen why should we just
keep that to to online stuff right and
and let's talk about how completely
unfair and really just bizarre this this
Restatement is and what has happened to
it and are we all subject to it we got
to take a quick break I'll be right back
with David and this is ring a fire radio
