[Music]
Larry Kudlow was on Fox & Friends this
morning arguing why I don't know if this
is funny if we got to do this bit to
make it as funny first we do but uh
arguing that you know talking about the
again praising the Democrats for raising
the minimum wage to $15 an hour and
trying to come up with reasons why
that's a bad thing a congresswoman
Rasheeda Talib we've heard $15 minimum
wage now she's saying how about $20 an
hour one of my best friends and some
restaurants down in Florida and I wrote
her and I said what do you think about
this would you be able to survive she
said quote that would kill us I don't
know that we could survive having to pay
that actually I'm quite sure we wouldn't
then they would not have any jobs well
ok interesting point really watch that
she's like so what was he do with all
the alcohol so that it 75 cents to the
dollar cause if that's possible you can
just shift it up to me okay you got
markup and then you get ship it in there
think you can pick the best your work
hours so full bar right people weren't
there they black is we got more black
employ with their ultra I've drunk the
thing that I did not think that I did
not catch the first time her friend owns
multiple restaurants it ended there yeah
or maybe maybe you've been able to build
your entire business on exploiting
people who are working for him it's like
look if you've got one restaurant you're
struggling and it's like I hire two
people and I'm there every day I'm
kicking ass and like Dracula looking at
a newspaper saying like sucking blood to
be outlawed to kill me right exactly
it's going to completely put me out of
business no sympathy for the small
business tyrants well that's the thing
is that this I I only wonder like how
small business it is like you've got
multiple rogue just roll
back on that because the CEO of
Applebee's honestly said that will be
entirely eliminated
honestly like like you know this is not
a situation where it's like it's just me
and my family we'd work the restaurant
we have two people here now we feed them
every day and this and that this is a
situation like you know say any small
business right deli a foot a few people
you got your own little enterprise wage
now she's saying how about $20 an hour
noon one of my best friends and some
restaurants down in Florida and I wrote
her and I said what do you think about
this remember survive she said quote
that would kill us I don't know that we
could survive having to pay that
actually I'm quite sure we would it then
they would not have any jobs okay
interesting point look actually a recent
study by the Congressional Budget Office
when you have these big increases in the
national federal minimum wage yes some
jobs some wages go up for you know some
set number of millions of workers but we
also lose millions of jobs all right
positives well let me just again just
because every time this lie is gonna be
put out there I want to say there's two
sets of numbers he's talking about once
that a number is the some set of people
millions of people will get raises the
CBO was 100 percent sure that would
happen that millions of people will get
raises then on the other end of the
ledger how many people will lose their
jobs
the CBO basically said we don't know we
have taken 11 surveys on this or studies
on this they didn't do the most recent
one which showed actually that there
would be no job loss but they had other
surveys that showed there would be no
job loss and so when we aggregate these
11 surveys we have a range of job loss
that goes from 0 to 3.1 million and it
could fall anywhere in there
we just don't know so we're just gonna
call it 1.3 million because that's the
average of those two things
see
skaar I can still read sorry they've
tried it in a few different places
they've tried it in Seattle the job loss
did not happen that's right that's right
in those and there are other sort of
modeling's that show but in terms of
like real-world data there is no
real-world data that you could predict
job loss at fifteen bucks an hour now
it's difficult because there are places
in the country where you would
anticipate maybe there would be some job
loss because simply the the cost of
living is so much lower and the way that
the the the revenue generated by
businesses is lower but fifteen bucks an
hour I think based upon all of these
reports is probably around the safe area
where you could do for a federal minimum
wage twenty dollars an hour don't know
there's a question but here's the best
thing that we should do let's let's do
the $15 an hour across the country see
where it's at if there's a problem we'll
adjust it boom bang go boom bow there
you go very easy to do go point look
actually recent study by the
Congressional Budget Office when you
have these big increases in the national
federal minimum wage yes some jobs some
wages go up for you know some set number
of millions of workers but we also lose
millions of jobs because a lot of these
businesses small businesses can't afford
it
look here's the Kudlow remedy for
minimum wage you ready I'm ready let me
take you need to take notes here pull
the pencils out please this is very
important we have tremendous prosperity
we are growing down wages are up
consumers are booming it's across the
board every conceivable subgroup African
Americans Hispanic Asians and so forth
less educated less skilled are doing the
wages go up naturally so we can have an
unlimited minimum wage
through private sector prosperity great
you look at some advances aren't there
any more because listen say there could
be three drinks but what about uh open
bar here's the problem here's the
problem this quarry to Larry Kudlow
consumers of booming everybody even the
dumb people are working it's all great
except for we have millions of people
millions millions as he said
definitively who are not only not making
the minimum wage not making a living
wage that is the reality right now we're
booming everybody's booming so larry
cudlow theory has one element that is
that disproves it and that is it's not
working it's not the case wage growth is
anemic still people are not getting a
minimum wage if your remedy for getting
rid of the minimum wage was working
there would not be a desire for a
minimum wage but it's not and the
minimum wage has not risen in pace with
productivity or the cost of living for
decades for decades so that they give
you the coupons you know they say you
get three free beers or the GUP odds
yeah okay maybe that's nice but what if
you went to a place in it just all of it
you just drink
that's the free-market emotion and by
the way they say stuff about us send
them back whatever what not were racist
you could be easier to drink as much as
you want you can be uneducated or
you'll be black his baggage olives just
everybody's dragon alright it's not just
fanciful economics remember Larry Kudlow
was the guy who was talking about if you
go back and look at the footage of Larry
Kudlow on Kudlow and Kramer or whatever
program he had on CNBC in the summer of
2008 talk about how we are smooth
sailing for the economy you could not
have been more wrong or incorrect or
completely wrong on what was happening
with the economy then Larry Kudlow
