[Music]
let's go to tim ryan launching his
campaign in Ohio this is a very odd
pitch it seems to me but and I what did
this happen this weekend
the amount of news this guy gets is not
very much and he announced it on the
view ahead of you thought maybe he did
but here it is here's a Tim Ryan making
his pitch as to why he should be present
into our social media and they
intentionally my Posse trying to go back
it's you cut off the the part he's
talking about Russia went into our
social media into our social media and
they intentionally try to divide us if
there is if there is an incident I want
everyone to listen to me here if there
is an incident in America that's
controversial about kneeling for the
national anthem or there's a school
shooting or there's an incident between
a cop and a kid you know who comes onto
our social media the Russians okay I
want you to hear this the Russians they
come into our social media and they spin
things to get us into these divided camp
and I have a theory about wow now people
don't quite get what's going on here but
I don't know cuz maybe it's cuz you're
too young but Bob Uecker who I believe
was a player for Cleveland at one point
was famous for being this type of
of agitator in the context of of light
beer from Miller he would get in between
people who thought it was tasty great or
it was less filling and then he would
start arguments all around the country
this was happening Bob Uecker was above
and that's what Tim Ryan is suggesting
that there is absolutely no disagreement
on things like black lives matter or
think you should have seen the I mean
our enrollments be level an association
meeting in Moscow where the Ferguson
cops look I don't want to bother members
of our community I don't want to harass
black teenagers and terrorize
communities into paying fines to
subsidize the rich part of town that's
not what my jobs but you will kill black
tea there just won't get none good but I
got a we were very very Merrick
activating meme on Instagram and I'm
like I'm out there now with the tanks if
you don't do this we will mean Police
Department out of existence snapchat
Instagram both I think I think Paul I
think Ryan actually is a Glenn Greenwald
fan he's trying to set the tables for
before we run the interview on Tuesday I
was gonna say there really are people
this insane and demented well there's no
doubt that there there are people this
insane demented but it also proves my
point like Tim Ryan like no it actually
does shock me though is like here's a
guy I mean he wouldn't be my candidate
obviously but like he represents a
blue-collar district in Ohio he actually
has some decent ish stuff on like labor
and blue-collar issues and he easily
could just say like guys you gotta win
Ohio and you got to have a Labour
message that isn't too ambitious or
alien like I'm saying like you could
write a script of a super credible
argument for him and and he's doing this
well maybe he also knows that the that
Russia stuff actually plays the best
with those type of folks and that could
be true I think that like maybe as an
eternal poem we have talked we have I
mean we have I've talked in the past
you know I think guys like Manchin and
Heidi Heitkamp come from very right red
states I'd camp not so much anymore but
that in many respects the idea of this
Russian narrative I think gave them some
latitude in which to vote against the
president's priorities because it
resonated with with with their sort of
like red state America have no internal
problem racism nothing what they're
going to do I make a Facebook post and
then there will get mad I have no Jonas
Cartman at that stupid Americans I have
no doubt that like there are people on
Twitter you know who just try and
instigate but I think that like if that
becomes in your opening statement of
your presidential run I feel like you're
not being super ambitious I used to read
Alice Walker then I got in this dank
mean pit I just realized work Donnell
try I didn't notice this at first but
Colin Kapernick went to Moscow
University for college ball right
exactly what incredible did he actually
complete like NFL protests with school
shootings as just controversial like
commercial controversy
NFL players taking a stand against
police murders of black people what else
might you know you ghouls being shot up
but I'm curious as to why decide and it
just it was being shot up was one of the
last places of conscience I'm country no
he was talking about about about unarmed
black people getting shot I think he
said no he's like school shootings but
but I'm curious as to what he thinks
like where is he on these issues because
I remember when the President of the
United States weighed in on Colin
Kaepernick and can't help but think that
the the Russian bot army to the extent
that they exist on Twitter was not as
effective as pushing this narrative as
say Donald Trump and the entire you have
media I think Donald Trump's that go
ahead I need to send out a unifying
message that condemns the
starix stain of racism now you will not
see you inhale see you lookin damn Colin
Kapernick is there limit to how many
people can run for president at once
we're approaching it goes back to the
Central Park five as a Russian operation
did he say that now I like I like that
you thought it was conceivable I didn't
I didn't read that piece but it's not in
it's not completely no it's though
nothing would surprise me at this point
what all you see coats doesn't get so
the Russians did that let's go larry
cudlow is out there and they are right
now the president
