[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat da
majority report with sam cedar it is
Friday January 25th 2008 19 my name is
Sam cedar this is a five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA scheduled Friday folks of
course it's never casual in the Trump
years or it's always casual it all
depends on your perspective joining us
today in studio TYT correspondent emma
biglan joins us she's here in studio
also on the program today Larry Murphy
will jump out of my texts and into the
reality huh yes my dreams onto the
program
Larry Murphy known as just about almost
every character on Bob's Burgers will be
here well not here
also on the program today major airports
on the East Coast halt air traffic over
lack of air traffic controllers and
Roger stone has tumbled into the barrel
as Paul Manafort shuffles into court to
find out if he's going to go to prison
for
long time meanwhile Democrats draw
Republican support
but the shutdown bills in the Senate
fail White House now drafting a national
emergency order to pretend to build the
wall you end to meet in a special
session tomorrow about Venezuela and
apparently White House overruled
security professionals in giving Jared
Kushner top security clearance Oklahoma
Republicans want to strip teachers of
their certification if they engage in
any future labor action as Denver
teachers prepare to go on strike and
remember how a governor DeSantis from
Florida surrounded himself with racist
well yeah
also on the program today heartwarming
story of an Indiana school principal who
got arrested for helping a kid get
medical care all this and more on
today's majority report I think it's the
first day in about two weeks where
someone has not jumped into the
democratic primary if I'm not mistaken
it's pretty close
how many official contenders do we have
now in the race is it six is it six
right well you got Harris Warren Oh Jo
was the first right actually isn't
really a great shot he doesn't have a
huge shot but he is officially in the
race Tulsi Gabbard that's four and
hawlucha gag there's a guy there's a
lighter guy lay Buddha gag yeah so
that's five there was oh there is a six
that that weirdo from Maryland the
congressman guy no no Delaney Delaney
Delaney all right oh do we say Tulsi
Gabbard yeah yeah all right that's
that's quite a bit considering we're not
even out of January
Sylla breath so we still yeah I think we
do
but so there it is so we don't have
anybody new to report today but we will
talk a little bit about this week
obviously we I mean it's it's sort of
fascinating juxtaposition between Warren
and the way that Warren is running for
president right now and the way the
Kamala Harris is running for president
right now but we will get to that in a
few first off let me just read this
we've actually we haven't done an ad for
better help in a while and we got some
pretty good feedback from when we did a
couple of months ago so that's what is
you know is driving me to to to mention
this again better help is affordable
private online counseling you get
unlimited access to a licensed trained
fully accredited therapist it's perfect
for you on your phone on your computer
through text voice video chat whatever
your fill you feel comfortable with
their lgbt-friendly it's great for
couples counseling anything else you
going through in life right now all you
need to do is go to better help calm
slash majority you fill out a
questionnaire they match you with a
counselor who's perfect for you and you
can start counseling today if you decide
you don't vibe with the therapist you
match with you can switch whenever you
want it's less expensive than in
in-person counseling but you're still
getting the crew same great help from
licensed professionals and if you have
trouble affording it better help has
financial aid available you're always
connected with your counselor you'll
have unlimited access which means you
can talk to them every day if you want
you connect from anywhere you our work
home on the go so you're not wasting
time traveling to someone's office or
sitting around in a waiting room it's a
lot of people have never been in therapy
before which is I mean I I went to a lot
of therapy I think that probably comes
across but I'm a certain sense yes in
some respects but this is a good way to
sort of at the very least get yourself
introduced to the notion see what it's
about a lot of people are not
comfortable talking to a therapist in
person
they don't have time they can't afford
it better help solves all of those
problems you can
right now save on quality professional
therapy by going to better help calm /
majority all right let's jump right into
this we have some lets first we're
talking about the the shutdown yesterday
we had two bills Emma in the Senate that
were basically test votes right they
were they were ways I think for both
parties to sort of say this let's get a
clear sense of where this is trending
it's trending against the president and
the the real question is how much our
Republican senator is gonna feel like
they're getting chewed up by this and if
you look at the list of people who voted
well if it was a test vote Joe Manchin
failed that test right so he was the one
Democrat that sided with the Republican
oh did he side with Republicans yeah I
didn't know that no did he vote he voted
YES on both bills yes okay so he didn't
vote against the Democratic bill and I
think the Republicans who jumped did the
same thing they you know yeah you had
the opportunity to vote for both
political theater I mean that's what's
frustrating about all of it was that
yeah what you were saying it's a test
vote but it's it's what mansions doing
is just kind of signaling to his home
state what he's done his entire career
which is I will be a Republican but just
be a little bit nicer about it yeah he's
he's covering his his his arse as it
were he drinks he was on Jake I didn't
never forget that he called him Jenks
all the time that was awesome he made me
like Joe Manchin all I think I'll tell
you what's sick I don't know about
killing innocent civilians and babies
but I think we've got to come together
it's interesting when you look at all
six Republicans who voted right it's a
Susan Collins no surprise Lamar
Alexander also no surprise but you get a
sense of like Johnny Isakson he's up for
re-election in Georgia Stacey Abrams we
that's exactly right and and and we had
mentioned Johnny Isakson like weeks ago
because if you look at what's going on
in Georgia it is trending
and so they're nervous and and in those
instances they vote for both the plans
so they can turn around and say I want
the government functioning but this clip
with Michael Bennett who I don't know in
Bennett's been in the Senate for how
many years now at least well close to I
don't know when he got elected in but
for four years I don't know his entirety
in the Senate I don't know that I've
ever said his name more than like three
times on the show and I go oh nine so
he's been in there for Wow
so he's been in here the entirety of
this show and I have never ever had an
instance to quote him or to play a clip
of him he's even managed to avoid like
being castigated he's just never come up
I think like maybe we've mentioned him
in the course of probably the year that
he ran which was probably I think 2012
or something I'm not sure but here he is
apparently and this is a twofer for him
because he gets to speak against the
shutdown and he also gets to crap on all
speak at all and crap on Ted Cruz and
apparently everybody hates Ted Cruz only
thing that is necessary to pass a clean
bill paying the salaries of every man
and woman in the Coast Guard is for the
Democratic senators to withdraw their
objection is that correct that's correct
thank you from Colorado seldom as you
know rise on this floor to contradict
somebody on the other side I've worked
very hard over the years to work in a
bipartisan way with the presiding
officer with my Republican colleagues
but these crocodile tears that the
senator from Texas is crying for first
responders are too hard for me to take
they're too hard for me to take because
when you should when the senator from
Texas shut this government down in 2013
my state was flooded
it was underwater people were killed
people's houses were destroyed their
small businesses were ruined forever
and because of the senator from Texas
this government was shut down for
politics that he served to a
second-place finish in the Iowa caucuses
but were of no help to the first
responders to the teachers to the
students whose schools were closed with
a federal government that was shut down
because of the junior senator from Texas
pretty powerful stuff no that was great
I mean he's gonna probably announce him
in a week right exactly but I I mean I
think like you know the it is it's the
first time in a long time it feels like
where you have these protracted battles
where the Democrats not only appear to
be winning but appear to be confident
about their in their wins yes they're
politically emboldened for the first
time in you know ten years eight years
and that's what's exciting about it I
think that their poll watching which
they never do on policy but when it
comes to you know right like it takes
now two-thirds of America wants
marijuana legalization and you still
have Democratic senators saying it's
pie-in-the-sky but when it comes to
President Trump they're holding their
ground and their poll watching and its
successful his numbers are dropping and
it allows someone like a new name guy
like Bennett to take to the Senate floor
and go all in it sort of feels like
there must be some polling in Colorado
that is not necessarily public because
Cory Gardner was one of the first
Republicans to defect right and hit a
big op-ed and The Denver Post about how
it's the right thing to do to reopen the
government yeah I mean it's it's
interesting in it and it's helpful
insofar as I feel like you know the
you want other on some level there's you
want other lessons to come from these
you know that they get into the
bloodstream of the narrative that like
government workers are not these sort of
faceless bureaucrats who are you know
you know live in the life that their
average Americans who are trying to make
ends meet
and can't survive without a provide
essential services exactly the whole
context relies on if he wants to keep
speaking like that he's gonna need to
figure out what to do with his hands
though who's that better than it well I
don't think he I mean he seemed you know
I like genuinely like that you like that
you know he was genuine yeah you look so
like you're so mad you don't care you
look uncomfortable right right well yeah
he's probably uncomfortable expressing
that level of rage if you Ted Cruz
though is that's amazing
she's amazing just even just that that
distinct personality and physical
profile got elected to the Senate even
with his politics he's popular with the
Republican base yeah he came in second
as was pointed out by Bennett twice in
instances I mean he has a a real finger
on the pulse of a certain brand of
Republican I think it's a dying brand of
Republican I think it's the same if
there's a weird crossover with Trump
even though he's a complete philanderer
and vulgar person but there's an
evangelical base that doesn't move that
will always support a complete freak
show like Ted Cruz do you remember when
the bikers got in his face in Indiana
the bikers who supported Trump that is
was my favorite most cognitively
dissonant clip of the whole 2016 primary
and they're like in his face with
leather jackets and they're like lyin
Ted lyin Ted and he's like well actually
all right and then you know he's trying
to debate them and all this nonsense and
they're just bullying them and then out
of nowhere they're like yeah and you
know what else you promised to like just
light up the sand of Syria and that's
gonna kill a lot of innocent people
[Laughter]
the New York Times reported the whole
thing publicly that's a total lie you
are the problem you are the property
location you are the profit can I ask
you something - no can I ask all of the
candidates name one who had a million
dollar judgment against him for hiring
everyone a one Donald Trump healthy
younger so you like rich people where's
your Goldman Sachs jacket at we know
your wife works there million
contribution all over the country our
average contribution is $60 on
immigration you know Donald Trump had a
million dollar judgment against him for
hiring illegal aliens you know what he's
doing right now in Florida he brings in
hundreds of foreign workers instead of
hiring Americans sir with all respect
Donald Trump is deceiving he is playing
you for a chump why is it that the
mainstream media so desperately want
Trump to be the Republican and why is it
that John Boehner supports Donald Trump
did GG agree with John Boehner now do
you agree with Nancy Pelosi the thing is
there everybody but I believe in Trump
he's the only one that's gonna put us
where we need to be what are you gonna
do another Second Amendment okay okay
great all right
I have defended Second Amendment in
front of the Supreme Court of the United
States do you know that Donald Trump
supported Bill Clinton's national ban on
some of the most popular firearms in
America and that is a fact you go read
his book where he said I agree with Bill
Clinton fact he said I hate guns that's
a quote from Donald Trump I've spent 20
years fighting to defend the secular and
I'll tell you this sir coughing if
Donald Trump ever becomes president
is dancing like that great I don't like
on the Supreme Court is gonna take away
your second Amendment right there is a
reason why Gun Owners of America has
endorsed me in this campaign because
I've defended the second memo while
Donald Trump is a New Yorker who will
take away your Second Amendment right
this man is lying to you and he's taking
advantage of you and I wouldn't have
shown you that buzz the protest all
right we never get that it was they do
get to Syria and the guys just like
you're gonna kill a lot of innocent
women and children if you do that and he
literally is looking at the guy like
what I went leading up to 2018 so I
think eight Trump rallies or something
along those lines and spoke to
supporters that was kind of the work
that like I got most attention for me
last year and you really there is that
populist fervor that guy was more
articulate than a lot of the people I
spoke to but there they were focused on
campaign donations and the fact that
Trump was a self-made businessman that
made a lot of supporters feel
comfortable because anti corruption is a
widespread sentiment throughout the
country no matter what kind of person
you're talking to you know we
interviewed someone who had done a
history of the concept of mesmerism in
this in the country and the snake oil
salesman and the thing that she said was
that Trump was indicative of that
tradition was that people know the guy
is a liar it's just they feel that he's
on their side and lying on their on
their behalf and that that idea of like
that he's self-funded and is not taking
other people's money led them to believe
that he was in their corner which of
course he wasn't but and I don't you
know like and that's not I don't even
think they have to get that much more
sophisticated beyond that you know small
campaign donations or just the idea of
like he's rich he does he's just doing
us a favor by writers need these sugar
daddies of Goldman Sachs etcetera I mean
they hate that guy hates the financial
institutions just as much as
progressives do and
we just have to remember that in our
strategy no doubt yeah I don't know I I
I think that's true the question is is
that on the list of things that will
motivate that guy to vote absolutely how
high up is it you know protecting
dodd-frank or a 21st century glad Frank
F to Syria yeah because you have a
really weak position of dodd-frank rule
but I think I don't doubt it I don't
doubt it but I also might buy probably
does support more rapid stuff than that
but but my point is is that how
motivating is that versus protect my
guns how motivating is that or yeah well
and that's keeping our country white and
that's the problem and that's also the
big a problem with just anti-corruption
politics generally right because the way
it's been deployed whether it's with
Trump or bolson ro or Modi it fascists
win elections using generic
anti-corruption campaign so unless
you're really specific about what you're
actually talking about it becomes like a
stand-in for everything and has actually
been used to deal with it amaze some
really good leaders yeah I just don't
think that it's it's the primary
motivating factor or even the secondary
motivating factor or even maybe the
tertiary motivating factor for a guy
like that I think that comes in but it's
a general fu it's also like I'm sure
they hate Goldman in the same way he
hates immigrants that like we said hates
everybody else it's a it's a generic
stand-in and unless you get super
specific for I mean even going back to
the 90s
like that's how Bella's Kony got into
power they had big wide-ranging
corruption scandals he's like I'm a
self-made billionaire and I'll fix it
that's the map that's been followed by
an anti-corruption yeah
anti-establishment always victorious
whereas anti-corruption you're right you
know when you've a it can be used to
deflect and kind of prop up strongman I
think Boston Errol is it an incredible
exam and they're all incredibly corrupt
themselves like and then capitalism
itself more broadly is but the problem
with anti-establishment 2 is just who's
defined as the establishment right I
mean Donald Trump was established
exactly
bleep state folks what is a fascinating
moment though which is you know with
with everything that's going
with both the shutdown and Davos there
just seems to be a mega narrative that
is that we're enjoying this week
essentially here is Wilbur Ross this is
this is one of the most stunning pieces
of footage now I've heard some reports
that say that Wilbur Ross is just
completely out of it that falls asleep
in meetings yeah that he's just
completely out of it but he seems to be
not completely out of it here but just
completely out of touch and here he is
being interviewed by Andrew Ross Sorkin
so this is really the functional
equivalent of like his name well will
Andrew Ross Sorkin oh yeah this is a
home game yeah this is a home this is
like beyond Wall Street reporters in the
history of life on Earth right I mean I
don't want to say like this would be
like my sister Julie interviewing me she
would be more adversary she would be
more adversarial and so here he is on
this is a guy if you'll remember andrew
ross sorkin
when occupy first started he was the one
who bragged about fielding calls from
financial leaders asking whether they
should be afraid of what was going on in
Zuccotti Park and here he is
interviewing Wilbur Ross and Wilbur Ross
is just like wait a second just you be
quiet for a second I'm digging a hole
here and I don't want to be interrupted
mr. secretary well I wanted to come back
for just a moment to the US government
shutdown while here in Davos I
interviewed the Alex carp he's the CEO
of Palantir a major government
contractor in the United States working
on behalf of the Pentagon and the
Defense Department he said that the
government shutdown he believed was
terribly damaging to the brand of our
country do you believe that pause it for
a second just I mean contemplate what it
takes to ask this question in this
manner the framing is completely from
that perspective it is that's why he
cares
it is sociopathic I've just spoken to
a contractor who thinks that our brand
is being hurt by this
we should note Palantir as Peter Thiel's
right right and it's super bad for the
brand okay
believed was terribly damaging to the
brand of our country do you believe that
I think that's a great deal of hyperbole
we've had shutdowns before I'll be it
for not such a long period as we've been
thus far put it in perspective you're
talking about 800,000 workers and well I
feel sorry for the individuals that have
hardship cases 800,000 workers if they
never got their pay which is not the
case they will eventually get it but if
they never got it you're talking about a
third of a percent on our GDP so it's
not like it's a gigantic number overall
mr. secretary but there mr. secretary
there reports that there are some
federal workers who are going to
homeless shelters to get food well I
know they are and I don't really quite
understand why because as I mentioned
before they the obligations that they
would undertake say a borrowing from the
bank or a credit union are in effect
federally guaranteed so the 30 days of
pay that some people will be out there's
no real reason why they shouldn't be
able to get a loan against it and we've
seen our number of beds when a
convention yeah you could hear him you
can hear ross sorkin going like okay
yeah let me this is too much of a train
wreck I mean I'll never be able to have
another government official on again
I mean first off the III I don't you
know like this is the this is this is
this harkens back to what's-his-face
from from Vietnam well the guy from Ford
McNamara right look it's just 800,000
people it's a drop in the bucket for
some dumb yes even if they never got
paid
3% of our GDP it's been believable and
he's also sort of implying like the
there they're up to something fishy
going to get the free food responsible
and get payday loans yeah exactly I know
I mean it's such it's like this old
timey view of banking right I feel like
it's straight out of It's a Wonderful
Life
I'll just go down to the local bank take
out a $50 loan for money which yeah yeah
I think yeah yeah exactly they are
they're not just the loans fairly method
for a guy like Wilbur oz you you can do
that you walk into the barrier and it's
like oh hello mr. Ross shall we get you
your typical drink I actually have to go
the banker probably goes to him yeah I
know I made a joke that he's the kind of
guy that thinks a bag of potatoes costs
400 dollars right because he's just
never been to a grocery store he's like
that what's a good what's her name from
Arrested Development Lucille Lucille
Bluth no no clue know it so ever and you
could take out a loan get a bag of
potatoes but the idea of just like you
know it's a bridge loan you get a bridge
loan and it's federally backstopped
because you know the federal government
is going to pay off as if like these as
if you could walk into a bank and
there's a loan officer there who's just
like has the authority to say oh sure
we'll give you a non securitized loan
basically there was some money I was
washing through Cyprus and there was an
Interpol red notice on it for a minute I
needed a bridge it's like a lot of
people could learn from that it's it's
it's stunning and here is Donald Trump
not to be outdone by his Commerce
Secretary
in terms of complete obliviousness he
also thinks that banking operates like
it did I don't know if it ever operated
like this but as if it's some type of
like you know small-time small town
movie and you just go down to the
general store and his delusion I mean
this is it is amazing right now of
course nobody's gonna see this although
this is on Fox so I imagine this is why
he's losing support is that the veneer
is really starting to get thin here no I
haven't I haven't heard the statement
but I do understand perhaps you should
have said it differently local people
know who they are when they forego for
groceries and everything else and I
think what Wilber is probably trying to
say is that they will work along I know
banks are working along the mortgagees
the mortgage the folks collecting the
interest and all of those things they
work along and that's what happens in
time like this they know the people
they've been dealing with them for years
and they work along the grocery store
and I think that's probably what Wilbur
Ross meant but I haven't seen a
statement no but he's done a great job I
will tell you that yes what does worker
Mel American Rejects this guy is
completely imagining a world for people
that does simply does not exist I mean I
you know I at a hardware store upstate
that I go to quite a bit people have
accounts give me your phone number and
they're like Sam and yes and some people
they put it on their bill contractors
can go in and they just put it on their
bill they don't need cash right there
they're just picking up stuff and at the
end of the month they square up but the
idea that there are supermarkets that
function like this anymore like you're
gonna go into local Kroger's and you're
gonna say to the manager hi I come in
here every week okay like everybody else
here I have no idea who you are and yeah
I I just put it on my tab right I'll get
fired if I do that sir exactly just put
it on my because look at that scene in
the super
knows where they go to shakedown on like
the Starbucks place and they're just let
it be shame something happened the
windows or like no you don't get this
like every penny in this system is
tracked globally like I can't do that
for you and they're just like no real
small business no more
but I mean you so you traveled amongst
you know these folks for an extended
period of time something like that seems
to me more than anything else is going
to start to crack that veneer a little
bit I there's a 30 to 35 percent that
will never move right I think that's
true yeah but I do think you know my but
my boss jank has said this before the
local mom in Kansas or in Indiana right
who sees she voted for him because she's
socially conservative fiscally whatever
the case may be when they see the human
costs of decisions like this that's when
that support kind of tries to starts to
trickle away and we're seeing this bear
out in the poll numbers how long they
stick who knows but I think that it's so
obvious who is being blamed for the
shutdown and the narrative is correct
and it's it's it's fascinating to see it
unfold he's crumbling a little bit yeah
I think that's true and even you know
there's I but you watch that you track
the AP headlines the Democrats block the
Republican version and then in terms of
the Democratic version it's just both
bills fell and of course the Democratic
one got more votes and I think all of
this has just had Donald Trump not said
on national TV although I'll own it
blame me I think there would have been a
very different story it was actually a
very shrewd move by Pelosi and Schumer
with it which you know in hindsight I
thought they kind of looked a little
weak on TV where you know Schumer is
just coward over saying we disagree
right but they got that soundbite they
got a few and it's it's worked so big
it's Wordle little nebbish is fine well
it's totally but it's it's still highly
problematic that the Democrats need the
mainstream press
right - to have something that is
already predigested and force-fed and
then still you know are still the
mainstream press will hedge they
attempted to do this right for a while
takes two to tango we see all these op
eds to that effect and that the
Democrats are still so beholden to that
is is problematic I understand the
dynamic because frankly like the on the
right Fox has a sort of singular control
over these people in a way that tu IT or
you know two hours of MSNBC or whatever
it is don't and that's a that's a sort
of a systemic problem that I don't know
I don't know how that's how that changes
well I think what's really interesting
about the news cycle and this shutdown
is that trumps lies about who's to blame
for the shutdown they keep getting
repeated they people keep going back to
it because the media is hyper focused on
the shutdown so he doesn't get to start
a new scandal that distracts people I
mean this Venezuela thing obviously is
is is breaking some of the shutdown news
cycle but the lie continues to be
repeated and it's pervasive and so
there's not a new scandal or awful tweet
that the media is losing their attention
to and this the bright new shiny object
the shutdown is consistently the story
and the story gets worse every day and
the lie and the soundbite gets more
effective every day so that's why this
is a particularly bad news cycle for the
president and and we should say there
were reports today of in New York in
Florida so the FAA confirmed that there
is a ground stoppage at LaGuardia
Airport flights are delayed in New York
and Florida airports due to air traffic
controller absences we saw reports of
Philadelphia also stoppage is that right
Brendan and others and there's just this
is just going to increase I mean this is
just going to increase and there and
you're going to get to a situation where
you have these
air traffic controller I think senior
staff is just gonna start to like give a
vague nod and say yeah don't worry if
you if you're sick stay home it's going
to be one of those deals because they're
they know that they have the ability
it's the TSA and the the air traffic
controllers who really control this it
seems to me in terms of like any type of
work stoppage will what will inhibit it
because you're dealing with centers of
the media you're also dealing with
something that impacts people across the
country simultaneously right like you're
shutting down in the in the world and
there's nothing else that can match that
you can't you just you you can't have
local coverage and national coverage
simultaneously for anything else other
than this type of travel because the
stories in local Miami papers and it's
in New York papers it becomes a national
story even if you had IRS people who are
denying you know who are not getting
your refund and you're in Florida and
I'm in New York it's just not present
there enough because like the you're
getting a robo call from the IRS that
you face forfeiture but then you can't
get anybody on the phone well to figure
it out but I mean I just want to say
really quick there was a report in
Reuters that just came out that just
puts meat on it right like Wilbur Ross
is that's funny in a dark way and we
should play that Simpsons thing but
there have been an 18% increase in
pawnbroker chains ez Corp and first cash
there's a huge jump and payday loans and
like you know I mean you're right mom
yeah Mike weren't probably I mean but
it's just you know it's happening and
obviously those loans are catastrophic
for people my dad yeah yeah well oh yeah
well yeah we can play that in a minute
but let's play this Kudlow because
they're bringing out everybody
and it's you know I always get nervous
when I watch a clip of Kudlow now fellow
looks good
Thank You Carol you can healthy amazing
carrots he's taking runs I'm a little
bit concerned
this guy's like he's turning into Rudy
Guiliani it's the same sort of power as
Julia's but my brothers they do don't
think it looks like he's gonna waste a
lot more of our time before he goes here
is here is uh Larry Kudlow he is the top
economic adviser to Donald Trump guys
some some real heart problems and he
he's trying to make the argument that
well he he's trying to say that you know
federal workers are stand as stepping up
now what he you know people sort of
catch him on is the fact that well if
they don't show up for work they get
fired immediately and even though
they're not getting paid and that is
just beyond the pale to remind him of
that closet I should just say that like
prior to this he says look you have
federal workers who are coming in
they're volunteering to work at a time
when there's no pay they really behind
the president that's why they're doing
this this guy's taking off his his I
think his microphone Oh
maybe dressing him yes
they're coming out workers they're
showing up you know what I'm not even
gonna go there you know what I'm saying
it's very clear and you know what else
with respect to people who do have
financial hardships that someone was
asking they are coming to work and
giving them 20 same 24/7 work they
always did and I will say to you
whatever semantic game you think you're
going to play with me and I'm usually an
easygoing guy give them credit okay they
honor us they honors by their service I
don't care whether you're Republican or
Democrat and whinin sincerely their
honors Democrats have shut government
down or either it's it you know what I'm
saying
they onerous and they do it because of
their love for the country and the
office of the presidency and presumably
their allegiance to President Trump but
whatever they're doing it give me some
credit you know there's a lot of
wonderful people in this country there
are a lot of wonderful people in this
country especially some of these young
I've become I've become a great fan of
the Millennial somebody get another
drink
I thought you have another boy I love I
love it get presumably out of loyalty
for the president you know control of
the country and Trump I have no doubt
that there is that people who work for
the government have some measure of
pride that they're working for the
government
but let's not kid ourselves they want to
get paid and they're coming in because
they don't want to get fired all of the
Millennials know I'm not gonna talk
about that he I mean he was getting very
he was getting more trouble yeah given
this you know what I mean yeah exactly
he needs more heart medication I think
maybe not more hard medication for
breakfast but they're all are the
defensive they're all on the defensive
he went full Patriot Patriot mode
yes exactly total last refuge situation
and but he still managed to get it in
like they're praising President Trump
about going I like saying you don't want
to play semantics games when you're
trying to call that volunteering yes
you're playing like you know what I mean
right you know what I mean everyone
knows what I mean I don't even need to
say it they're getting paid but sir
they're not getting paid don't get don't
play semantics with me who was the dude
we played last week with Libby Watson
when I was in the chair of I forget it
was one Trump one of another Trumpy
Kevin Hassett yeah this is a vacation
who's getting an early advance on a
vacation right and they're gonna get
back then anybody paid for it so
actually they're having a great time I
like that he's a fan of the Millennials
now yes that's good he's really
impressed
he's on Twitch what is the thread why
did he bring up Millennials there no I
think he was I think he assumes that
most of these workers are Millennials
yeah all TSA guys they're all
Millennials named duquon beside all
dental Etios and air traffic control I
mean I for one am flattered playing
future thank you
somewhere someone's mocking me and I'm
pretty sure they're a millennial as much
as we think that this is hurting the
Republicans and Donald Trump and I think
we are days away from this basically you
know like we are it may take another day
or two of of shutdowns of airports to to
basically break this down but it
definitely feels like this is
culminating that there are one or two
senators who are walking down the hall
and and telling Mitch McConnell like
you've got to deal with this this is
time I mean you already have you got
what's his face not gosh I can't even
think in Wisconsin I want to say Norm
Coleman
but it's not normal almond anymore Ron
Johnson
not you know semi publicly blaming
McConnell for this you know making sure
that it gets out that he is he's gotten
mad at him which suggests to me that Ron
Johnson is rather concerned and worried
that that you know he's an iron Rand
trust fund baby
yeah that's literally like he's a rich
kid who read Iran and decided he needed
to go torture people in the Senate and
he he's feeling real heat because that
guy's also dumb
well he's not out of there for
reelection until 2022 I'm not mistaken
he's ureas he if he's starting to get
worried about it he knows that it's
probably that it's a problem and I think
we're a couple days away however with
all that said Donald Trump seems to have
a different perspective on it the State
of the Union speech has been canceled by
Nancy Pelosi because she doesn't want to
hear the truth
she doesn't want the American public to
hear what's going on and she's afraid of
the truth and the super left Democrats
the radical Democrats what's going on in
that party is shocking I know many
people that were Democrats and they're
switching over right now this quickly so
I hope they know what they're doing for
their party so far they haven't if you
know I won the Senate meaning we won the
Senate altogether but you know people
don't talk about that they talk about
the house I didn't have any chance to
other than a couple of people like from
Kentucky where I wanted campaigned for
Andy Barr and for some others they ended
up winning their races but I couldn't
campaign too much too many people but we
did a great job with the Senate and
people don't want to talk about it I
will dude he's coming back these are
some of the best Trump clips he's
falling apart here I mean really
honestly like he's falling apart
I think he's unflappable I just think
that's his one mode I mean he's falling
apart a little but like the run-on
sentence but consists he's a one
waacking run-on sentence he really did
he really did catch himself though and
he said like I won the Senate I mean we
did we all did well which anyway we are
whatever when I say yeah we don't on me
a love lost and he was like she gave me
nila as the bid the best storyline of
the past couple of months is hid just
like oscillating between like I won the
Senate historically unprecedented but
did I lost the house because of me in
love and at one point though it becomes
those moments where he's talking about
people can go and work with the locals
the local people you know like there was
a time where you could say this and on
Fox they would repeat it and and they
would see the clip and people would
genuinely be and I think they're still
gonna be 3035 percent
we're like Democrats are bleeding
support right now like they're just
people are walking away the president
said it on television
I don't think walk away is sticking like
I think it's I think it's Republicans
and like Charlie Kirk think it's
sticking no one talks about walk away no
I don't I don't even know
Brandon's darica
the locals are walking and they're going
to the milk people and they're getting a
milk loan and then they're leaving the
extreme the Democratic Party they don't
want the truth some people said you
can't handle the truth
that's that's evil
all right let's as this is all happening
it's the the it really does feel like
you know I watched a little bit of a
Morning Joe this morning because I was
just curious
I know it's first time in ever and it
was they had on jihadists on they really
did yep and he must believes are you
talking about he was on and it is but
it's fascinating to see all these things
sort of line up okay I mean because the
they spent the whole day talking about
the shutdown
it wasn't Joe and Mika was the it was
Willie Nelson or whatever the guys name
is oh that's like a no I don't think
it's not really good really guys really
so willie Geist was hosting but they
they're talking about the shutdown and
it's getting serious right and they're
mocking in the same way that we have
Donald Trump and Wilbur Ross and Larry
Kudlow trying to seem like they have you
know actual warm blood flowing through
their veins like the Millennials but
then this story that is coming out of
Davos the main story is the critique of
Davos at this point at least in what's
in the in Davos has been sort of out of
the the news for the past couple of
cycles and part of it is that there's
this critique out there and they've let
people into the building on some level
where the critique is and here is an
exchange and this is just a stunning
exchange for multiple reasons and I
think they should be obvious to a lot of
people a Washington Post reporter is
moderating the this panel and it's a
Washington Post panel the the reporter
is heather long she just does like a
general beat she's Niek oh no she's
she's she is chyron tear as an economics
correspondent for The Washington Post I
just want everybody to sort of sit with
that for a moment and imagine what the
base line knowledge of the United States
economy and just the things like the
history of the economy basic stuff basic
basic just knowledge of how the tax
system works just very basic overview
she is doing this panel on it is this
guy is Michael Dell from Dell computers
right and this guy from MIT named Erik
Brynjolfsson he is the director of a
Mighty's initiative on
the digital economy and so here's the
exchange she asks a question they get a
big laugh because the idea of actual you
know tax regime is hilarious but listen
to where this goes there are growing
calls to address these inequalities that
particularly the wage inequality with
more taxes in particular in the United
States there's been a call by
congresswoman Ocasio Cortes to tax
people earning over 10 million and a
seventy percent tax rate the current top
rate the United States is 37 percent
Michael Dell do you support this I just
want to throw the dirt Wow I mean you
know my wife and I set up a foundation
about 20 years ago positive I just love
the fact that he can't even joke around
like they're all laughing and he
immediately he immediately goes to the
talking points that he that that that
his Matt like he goes into defense my
can't we just say that Bill Gates who's
you know more classy unless I mean I
hate Bill Gates but he's less of like an
obvious than Michael Dell made
exactly the same point Jen about 20
years ago and we would have contributed
quite a bit more than a 70 percent tax
rate on my income on my annual income
and I feel much more comfortable with
our ability as a private foundation to
allocate those funds than I do giving
them to the government all right I'm not
supportive of that well and I don't
think it would help the growth of the US
economy
that's about why I'll name a country
where that's worked ever the United
States
briefly in the 80s no no listen first
off first off she is completely stumped
by his his challenge name a country
where its work in addition to having no
further really follow up this is the
this is an economics correspondent for
arguably the second most important
newspaper in the country I don't know
where it would rank internationally but
a fairly important paper they
internationally as well
an economics correspondence about me not
the economics correspondent and she says
for a short time in the 80s now when
Reagan knocked it up he whacked it up to
80% the top marginal tax rate starting
in 1936 through through Tilden 1982 was
never below 70% the highest was in the
90s and that was for over 10 to 15 years
it was in the high 80s from like 36 to
50 maybe hitting 90 occasionally these
reporters just worshipped the orthodoxy
of the current economy these reporters
don't have Google yeah they don't like
they don't like it like hey I'm going
and i'm reaiiy am the economics
correspondent for The Washington Post
and I'm going to ask Michael Dell about
these tax rates I wonder what the tax
rates have been in this country that I
am an economics correspondent for in the
second most important those magic
features of the modern economy that
you're always writing like dumb like
tributes to in the Washington Post is
Google each computer and then you go to
go and then discover out an item back
there's just something fundamentally
wrong with everything that that that
this basic level of competency when you
headed to like it's just it should mind
but you know what it is guys I think see
more interesting ideas its ideas but
wait a second so fortunately they have a
I guess you need to be a professor at
MIT to know this but go through the US
economy
that's interesting hmm and can you say a
little bit more about why why you don't
think I'll name a country where that's
worked ever United States briefly in the
eighties no no for from about the 1930s
through about the 1960s the tax rate
averaged about 70 percent at times he
was up as high as 95 percent and those
were actually pretty good years for
growth so I don't have a strong opinion
on that proposal a lot but the devil is
in the details
but I think it's there's actually a lot
of economics that suggest that it's not
necessarily going to hurt growth yeah I
mean and it's actually it wasn't 82 the
the top marginal tax rate went down to
50 percent and then in 86 I think it was
for the big omnibus tax reform I think
it was went down to where it is now like
in the 30s and the during that period of
time it was post-war granted they call
it the great compression the economy
worked for more people
broadly speaking than it has in terms of
wealth and equality and in terms of
everyone you know living a decent
middle-class life black people didn't
share in a lot of this and part of it
was by design
by the US government frankly but that's
that's the reality but the idea that
just the basic I I'm just flabbergasted
by the reporter more than anything else
I can understand doesn't she I mean and
I've never seen something so satisfying
as that MIT reporter bodying her I mean
I can say it cuz I'm a woman right thank
you but yeah I mean it was think it's
it's mind-boggling I think that there's
what when you see reporting around
economics the CNBC's of the world and
you know I've include her in that it's
not even about the history it's not
about looking at policy even it's about
this kind of disturbing worship of
corporate culture and of wealth building
Economic Forum's like Davos you know
we're part of that weird worship
it's a capitalism shrine basically and
they're just kind of stenographers about
what's going on currently as opposed to
giving context as to how things were all
in the past I think that was a prime
example of it an egregious example and
it also is a great example of the
implications of someone who gets elected
in a primary with 25,000 votes in Queens
and you were following around AOC during
that primary in the run-up to the
primary oh yeah I was one of the first
people I think so it was about a year
ago you know in March so that's when I
first covered heard or did that full-day
report on her in that that question
doesn't obviously doesn't come up and
there I think that that MIT guys
probably more emboldened to bring that
up or we're just all of it I mean it's
just people I think that's the other
dynamic of like cuz Davos I think is
always invited like they like to have
okay come give us a little critique to
prove that were will it's precise but if
you're in a room with all with like a
couple hundred literally the global
elites right like in the proper usage of
the word and then you just know it's
gonna be streamed on c-span nobody's
gonna watch it because it's really
boring after you like get over the
novelty of watching like bono lecture
like some leader from Zimbabwe and that
relief for others like nonsense that
happens at Davos but now because of
social media like their market and anons
gets this like better than anybody else
it's not Davos it's the fact that I'm
gonna get clips pissing tony blair off
right that's gonna go viral and that's
the whole point of this conference is
Michael Dell looks like an idiot they
are whining about tax rates and then
doing bizarre exercises where they
pretend to be migrants as like
experiential learning and it's for the
rest of us to look at them and go oh you
people should be in a dustbin of history
you've ruined the world and you're
delusional I'd say we're about three
years away from Davos being a lot less
publicly burg oh yeah like a government
and X
well I think it's gonna be like no
social media well definitely we need to
be able to really exchange we don't want
people they erupt with oh absolutely
here is another example of Davos
basically people basically jujitsu in
Davos in some way like I'm glad you've
all assembled here to make each other
feel good and now we're going to use you
as an example of everything that's wrong
and this is this is a Time magazine
panel on the state of inequality they
invited this guy rut Rutger Bergman he's
an author I don't know what else's
critic credentials are but he's written
a he wrote another book about about
wealth inequality and the I guess the
disequilibrium that's created by having
such wealthy people and I think where is
he from
he's European obviously Dutch Dutch
alright here is the exchange and it's
interesting to look at I don't know who
the other panelists are but they're all
like wait a second you know nobody likes
to have one of those comments that
indict severy buddy before being on
stage this is my first time at Davos and
and I find it quite a bill during
experience to be honest I mean 1,500
private jets flown in here to here Sir
David Attenborough speak about you know
how we're wrecking the planet and I mean
I heard people talk in the language of
participation and justice and equality
and transparency but then I mean almost
no one raises the real issue of tax
avoidance right and of the rich just not
paying their fair share I mean it feels
like I met a fire fighters fighters
conference and no one's allowed to speak
about water right there was there was
only one panel actually
we've had to your ii was only one panel
let's go there one panel hidden away in
the media center that was actually from
tax avoidance and i was about i was one
of the 15 participants so something
needs to change here I mean 10 10 years
ago the World Economic Forum asked the
question what must industry do to
prevent a broad social backlash the
answer is very simple
just stop talking about philanthropy and
start talking about Texas Exes Texas we
need I mean just two days ago there was
a billionaire in here
what's named Michael Dell and he asked a
question like name me one country where
a top marginal tax rate of 70% has
actually worked mm-hmm and you know I'm
a historian the United States that's
where it has actually worked in 1950
during Republican President Eisenhower
the war vet marginal tax rate in the US
was ninety-one percent for people like
Michael Dell you know top estate tax for
people like Mike Adele was more than
seventy percent I mean this is not
rocket science I mean we can talk very
long time about all these stupid
philanthropy schemes you can try Boehner
once more come on it's we got to be
talking about Texas yeah that's it Texas
Texas Texas all the rest is in
my opinion enjoy your last time at Davos
I mean that's the I mean it's it's
obvious it just it's a lot shorter
conference if that's the only panel that
you have right which is the one which
talks about tax avoidance in basically
these schemes in which to roll back
taxes and they don't get to self in
Grand eyes about all the philanthropy
and foundations as Michael Dell did in
his first breath after that question was
asked of him while he was justifying tax
avoidance I mean there's net exit of
capital from Africa because of tax
avoidance schemes that cancels all of
the like you know because that's a they
loved the Africa save right but if you
buy a cow for a local business person in
Africa that'll change it yeah Michael
Dell is like I much prefer to buy a cow
for someone in Malawi than be tax a lot
of a lot more comfortable with that
there was also a massive report that
came out just I think at the beginning
of this week probably timed for
Davos which showed that a very very
strong correlation between companies
that have donated to nonprofits and
those nonprofits turning around and
advocating for deregulatory practices on
those companies just willy-nilly really
I know that's very shocking to you know
I hope we haven't ruined any of your
illusions I know I'm a mere 24 but I I
still AM as cynical I feel like is
everyone at the table so it's a little
sad it's a little sad oh all right well
let's we got to take a quick break Road
Davos actually we're gonna take a quick
break and hopefully Larry is back and
we're gonna stick around you ever watch
up Bob's Burgers no it's on my list all
right well there you go then you won't
you won't know who Larry is so he's
gonna call in done other things besides
Bob's Burgers well I actually that's a
good point
nothing no funny voices in a variety of
platforms
I see McGee do you know that cartoon
asking McGee no take a quick break we
come back we'll bring on Larry Murphy
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen our next
guest needs no introduction but I will
give him one anyways he is the voice of
Teddy and Harold's wife on Bob's Burgers
I can't remember her name but it has a
name and your husband
well Harold time Harold is uh is Edith
right that's right I did and Alan
 good
mr. Spock off I just walked off the set
I'm not exactly sure why she was not a
fan and also of course you were a sea
and a seaman McGee right that's true and
Larry Murphy ladies and gentlemen thank
you Sam thank you very much no Michaels
Mike Michael has left taking a little
vacation for a moment he'll be back and
Emma is here from Young Turks are you
familiar with her work
oh hello Emma no I'm not I'm sorry okay
well she didn't know yours either so you
were pretty excited this morning Roger
stone was arrested
yeah those good news yeah what I mean
it's not surprising news right no it's
not surprising was there anything that
you found surprising about it that he
would speak to the press after he came
out SWAT team what do you think about
that I mean I I'm not surprised by that
I I think that you know you have to I
think that they probably have to do kind
of win the press over and make it a big
enough deal so that it comes up on the
radar I think I don't know what the
logic is for 29 guys or whatever he
laundry listed what what showed up at
his house but you know they did the same
thing exact thing to Manafort they did
the same thing to Manafort the animals
oh yeah there's in fact we have video
footage of the arrest
of Roger stone and I look I think it's
psychologically damaging when he
couldn't pick out an outfit before he to
go the courtroom that hit hit hard you
know throw up the Nixon sign though the
stuff that he did to Randy credit go to
it seems like he really you know he
really was abusive to Randy cretak oh
yeah who I think is you know unbalanced
a decent guy and maybe got caught up in
something that he wasn't quite sure that
he was what he was involved with but
here is same ran with course he did he
did he did they basically said he
flipped did that happen last week we
don't know of course he flipped yeah but
he seems awful sweaty the last time we
saw him right here is some footage of
the arrest we just playing in the
background b-roll jerome corsi make oh
what's his face look healthy oh okay
let's play this footage of a Roger
standpoint as they all look really I
know I look I get one thing to just
report we were mentioning about 20
minutes ago that it looked like over the
next couple of days we could see the
Republicans crumble on this thing
particularly with the with the
announcement of the the shutdowns at the
airports this morning CBS reports that
senior officials tell CBS News they
expect President Trump to endorse a
short-term bill to reopen the government
and end the partial shutdown the length
of such a measure on clear two to three
weeks so this could be done by by you
know Monday people could be back at work
hopefully home ends that means Goss
State of the Union oh well that's good I
mean you saw today that basically now
that air traffic controllers they were a
pretty forward letter that was the
equivalent of this anything if anything
happens it's on you know like yesterday
and then now there's kind of at
LaGuardia this morning
it was kind of that situation where they
weren't saying it was LaGuardia that was
closed but it was the other East Coast
no LaGuardia woods a lot of ones getting
canceled impacted right yeah yeah all
right well they said that if it happens
it's Nancy Pelosi's phone will track the
here is here's Roger stone outside you
probably know Nancy he's he's so addled
you can't even do big Dave's a t-bone
Nancy Pelosi as I call it here is the
greeting that Roger stone got when he
came walks out of a federal court in
Fort Lauderdale apparently not a huge
hero down there
[Music]
as I have always said
is not being talked about here
Inquisition the charges today relate in
no way to Russian collusion
operation or any other illegal act in
connection with the 2016 campaign I am
mostly accused of making false
statements immaterial and without intent
lock him up Wow yeah that was pretty fun
very good
the FBI agents they when they knock down
the door they should have screamed get
me Roger stone right he's guy I I do
hope he gets to jail so that he can talk
about oh no I didn't get this I didn't
get the thing here I got this before I
came to jail big Nixon tattoo he
literally has a Nixon tattoo would you
uh would you hire Rudy Giuliani as your
attorney if you were him absolutely
complete chaos 100% chaos
what do you think it's going down with
Julie I know Larry Larry come um
the last thing that I heard was that
they asked him you know Trump tweeted
basically no collusion and then they
asked Rudy Giuliani and I think they
must have him on a gag hold now he's not
allowed to speak so he was just like I
did speak with the president I spoke
with the president about it and the
president said shut up
[Laughter]
okay here is uh like Trump's really
losing it but still together enough to
realize that Rudy Giuliani should really
shut the up
here's John know usually takes 48 hours
for him to realize what happened who's
that Giuliani yeah I thought that was
groan don't catch it in real-time it
takes like
it takes a little processing how does he
process it little delay what
how does he process it Oh what would
they ask me about that what am I
supposed to say him just don't say
anything don't say anything about that
got it got it boss listen hypothetically
speaking if he talked to Bruce ap'to if
these two are in communication if he
worked for the Kremlin if at some point
they got on a three-way call that's not
a crime not if he didn't say anything on
the call not that he did and if it was
on tape you don't have those tapes yes
you the best is what he why did he
mention paint why did he mention that he
think that's weird
well yeah it was weird and he said
because I should I should have said
[Laughter]
taping system inside the place no
surreptitious cakes were ever made by
the president by anyone that is I don't
think there's audio of it it was in the
interview with chaat nur and he said he
says look I've reviewed the tapes I have
reviewed all the emails they didn't
mention anything about it and then chato
goes you heard tapes I should have said
tapes yeah he was a lot our copyright
was murder and my PA was torturing there
it is here's this is it this is it right
here all right okay so he goes he goes
but I could tell you from the moment I
read the story I knew the story was
false and Chadha goes because because I
have been through all the tapes I have
been through all the text I have been
through all the emails I knew none
existed and then basically when the
Special Counsel said that just in case
there are others I may not know
they probably went through others and
found the same thing wait what tapes
have you gone through I shouldn't have
said there were texts and emails that
corroborated Foucault saying and there
were no texts no emails that's trusting
oh my god you stupid kids so hate you so
there were no tapes you listened to
though no tapes well I have listed two
tapes but none of them concern himself
it's unbelievable it's unbelievable I
mean he's a PR wing right I mean isn't
right with this isn't this just to come
out ahead of something before it gets
exposed yes thank you is he actually his
lawyer like is he doing any legal brief
right with is he an actual lawyer right
I think that we should establish whether
he are guys so what is the point I think
that's what they're starting to realize
I think what every single like figure
from the Gambino and Bonanno family so
this guy put in jail start his career
should be released from prison
immediately and they should all have new
trials well they're all good without a
doubt they're all I know the Trump but
Trump can't get outside counsel because
no one will work for him because he
doesn't pay people part of it you have
somebody who will just be there and do
like process is that largely snow
tonight
but isn't it largely that he thought
that he might be culpable in the end for
crimes Giuliani I think he loves
attention it's part it no I think it I
think it could be I think it could be
both a good job I don't think of
protecting himself
I think it also I think I think yes I
think it's I think it's he enjoys it I
think he also monetizes it I mean he is
as long as he has the ear of the
president he's out and he's getting
contracts for a million two million owes
doubt he's going to be is going to
Brazil I would put so much money on that
he's already ran he ran a business
throughout the Obama years of teaching
like governments in Latin America how to
even have more ruthless police the price
he's gets all these private contracts in
the Department of Homeland Security yeah
no he's a horrible human being and and I
think and part of it is it's also a
political process and so he's trying to
he's trying to you know muddy the waters
but the real question to me manok I
always circle back on this is like these
guys are bad at this they're bad at this
anyway things like they're good at it
well when it comes to even being why did
it take they know what they're doing is
illegal it doesn't seem like anyone's
clandestine did you hear did you see
some of the things that came out with
Roger stone words like hey since we're
going to talk about something illegal
should we switch to our whatsapp app you
know the one that's encrypted so that
they can't read the illegal thing good
idea yeah it's like whatsapp I can't get
past who saw the pro you know the time
story the Pro Publica stories that show
that basically trump has been just his
entire enterprise has been criminal for
decades how is it that these people have
been able to act with impunity for
decades in this city where you have some
of the most ambitious political
prosecutors in the country right I mean
this is not just we're protecting the
bigwigs cos not like Donald Trump had
some type of like broad constituency
there's a real sense that everybody
thought he was a schmuck yeah 25 grand
but I mean how much better would he
well that's 25 grand is is a decent
amount but for a DA but how much better
would he have been off if he was the one
who took Donald Trump down oh yeah I
mean it's that's I just think that rich
people get to use New York as their
personal playground and see themselves
is above the law and a lot of people in
law enforcement just don't you know turn
a blind eye I just don't think it's at
the top of people's priorities I think
generally that's absolutely true
particularly people who are in the
system but I just sort of feel like
Donald Trump was is if you were a
prosecutor and you want to make a name
for yourself kids there would there have
been a better person to take down the
Donald Trump and it seems like it would
have been the easiest thing in the world
to do the only no consequences because
he doesn't represent any actual power
exact just a trust-fund he's just a
jackass exact it's not like actually
going after it right they're not going
after people you can't go after he just
seemed to be tolerated by all of society
like oh Donald's gonna show up again I
think that's true too that's a type
person go after right yeah but I mean
there's also this celebrity worship - he
was in each kinds of circles I mean
before he became really right-wing he
was hobnobbing with the Clintons so it's
not like he was a haven sorority figure
for a majority of his public life
definitely that was also that was one
before right now any copies Fox News but
that was when he was like I was just
reading this piece about Indonesia in
the knee at times big stuff going big
stuff getting stuff yeah it's true the
Thomas Friedman column boy what a smart
guy big stuff going on India Larry Larry
yeah
Alexander's reading about Palestine yeah
big league oh yeah about time yeah Larry
now do you go through some of that too
I mean do you find I'm not gonna say
specifically we're in Massachusetts you
live but do you find that you basically
have carte blanche because of your
status
what do you mean car plunge I mean like
I mean can you get away with all sorts
stuff cuz your celebrity duis get away
get away with what what am I getting
away with I mean why don't you list off
some of the things I don't have a lot of
interaction Sam
I really don't it's limited yeah he's
like I'm not gonna do it yes and larry
built a an unpermitted shed his back
[Laughter]
those allegations there Sam really Larry
let me ask you this did you get a permit
for that slab that you put down did have
a slab and you never got a permit
there's no problem with it anyway
because there were no tapes of the slab
being discussed Ron okay
here is this guy John Berman on on CNN
talking to Sarah Huckabee Sanders you
sent me a picture let's just look at the
picture first
she looks like she is crying I've been
told I look like her can you do like
that that that that face though that she
has they're like we already said we're
not gonna respond to what Jenks had said
before I'm not even bringing I'm not
gonna bring what Ben mankiewicz his
comments into this alright let's let's
listen to this exchange Roger stone the
president's longtime political adviser
placed under
what's your reaction look my first
reaction is real simple this has nothing
to do with the President and certainly
nothing to do with the White House this
is something that has to do solely with
that individual and not something that
affects us here in this bill was it just
the president is literally named not by
name but as you know whatever he is is
all in the passive someone is ordered to
do this stuff who else would be doing
the ordering there's all sort but
they're good at something that affects
us here in this building nothing to do
with the president on this show a couple
months ago Corey Lewandowski who was one
time campaign manager to then candidate
Donald Trump used to tell me it would
make him crazy when then candidate Trump
would talk to Roger stone on the phone
and it would happen a lot is the
connection between Roger stone and the
now president of the United States you
would concede that look Roger stones is
somebody who's been a consultant for
were dozens of Republican presidents and
candidates and members of Congress but
conversations between those individuals
have nothing to do with the fact of what
these charges are about and that's about
whether or not he made false statements
we'll let the courts make that decision
I think a bigger question is if these
state if this is the standard will this
same standard apply to people like
Hillary Clinton James Comey clapper when
we see these same people who we know
have also made false statements will
that same standard apply and that's a
question that we'll have to see what
happens on that front mmm like what
Obama had Axelrod coordinated with the
Iranians to get third on Mitt Romney
like you go you got through Assad
listening well as if you're listening
yeah you get more get more you got more
stuff like more on them is this
mustachioed axle rather non the statue
because they're totally mustachio right
if we're gonna keep talking about crimes
we should get on the what's
oh boy Larry where does this go
what happens next here on top I don't
our you I mean I'm your man on the
street I'm in DC right now you you
follow you follow reckon you follow the
mauler investigation as much as anybody
I know I mean what what do you think is
happening you you know it's you're not
completely you have some sentiment I
don't think we have a think we have
conceived fully what's happening behind
like I did think that that Sam yeah go
ahead I'm listening
no I did think that's a Tom buzzfeed
story I thought that was a little
sketchy considering they hadn't done
anything before and then that occurred
that has never happened before would
literally that was not not a leak I
think that that's I think that's gonna
be I think that's gonna be true I think
what was said was gonna be true what
they said it was it was inaccurate I
mean if it was inaccurate and it was mmm
any inaccurate does not mean false right
I think they chose their words and I
think they were forced to respond
through trumps lawyers and who knows
Whitaker I mean that's gonna be asked at
some point my sense is I mean I don't
think that I don't think it's very
unusual that that happens and I feel
like if that happening when it did and
all of the at least from what I've read
all of these indictments these can't be
altered they can't stop them from
happening because they were already
sealed and filed so it's basically like
they can't there's no workaround for
that but every other angle they can work
I mean come on who's going to admit that
they had a conversation with the AG
where they were like I'm telling al
Qaida's Bob press juice cupcake
that doesn't make any sense that's
obstructionist
and like when he has to speak before the
house and explain the conversations he
had with Trump how would he do that
exactly what's he gonna say who's that
Whitaker yeah well I mean he's gonna be
asked a series of questions that are
like there's no reasonable answer for it
III don't know that Whitaker would have
told the molar investigation to issue
that as much as the Muller investigation
would have done that because you know
Marci wheelers explanation is that they
don't have the same relationship with
Cohen that the Southern District of New
York does Southern District of New York
does not need him for and don't want him
as a witness and so you had to
investigators had said that clearly
indicated it wasn't with the Muller
investigation that probably are aware of
this stuff meanwhile Muller chooses not
to use this information because there
for some other reason he wants to
maintain Cohen's validity as a witness
in other areas and so he doesn't want to
impeach his own witness because that is
not even sufficient apparently whatever
Muller has is bigger than telling Cohen
to lie to Congress right
and speaking of can you explain to me
what transpired in the last week with
the fact that he declined to show up
voluntarily and then he was subpoenaed
by the house and then he was subpoenaed
by the Senate I mean it sounded correct
no I I don't think I think he's not yet
subpoenaed by the house right but I now
his excuse to postpone like the
voluntary doing is the threat but I
thought smells like BS to me
definitely yeah and I think it's
probably because they he Muller has said
to him you don't want to be asked that
question in front of Congress because
they're gonna ask you the question if
you lied to us before and you were gonna
have to you're going to be compelled to
answer and I would imagine that the the
committee also is aware of this and they
don't want
to spoil Khan but I don't know how long
they think they can punt and so he goes
to prison in March it seems like stuff
may be coming down very soon because of
that most the prison in March and that's
scheduled for mid-february and I thought
it was I mean no matter what he will be
appearing but now it's behind closed
doors he's an informant which is totally
unfair and you can appear once he's it's
gonna look bad no but that was that was
another Trump classic man a couple
months ago and he's just literally was
like he's like yeah it's called like
Rico and what they do is they get a guy
to rat should be outlawed so I've seen a
lot of great businesses taken down to
that technique it's really it's actually
think about it to be flips on him and
then he tried one until then you've got
the ball
they couldn't get the bus on the road so
they get somebody else do the dirty work
for them that's why I come build them up
Muller that I can kick stacking mother
fishing guy Muller come up with a bunch
of different things throughout these
rather used to help it by casinos so
Larry what what what why don't we break
some news here what's the story with
what is going on with the Bob's Burgers
movie no story you're probably getting
daily phone calls and daily update
what's going on am I gonna be in the
movie or what I have no idea they come
on say
you know that these are questions I can
answer for you you ask a lawyer like a
very evasive Larry I would ask you yeah
if if we knew anything about the Bob's
Burgers movie even if it was moving
forward without you Sam he's not
obligated to tell you under no
obligation hypothetically well I never
said that about Sam Larry
always a pleasure buddy hey thanks
thanks bye guys
bye thanks Larry it's awesome to have
Larry on who's in a good mood
about what's going on yeah the last
couple of times he was on he was like
I'll do funny voices but uh the
Republic's collapsing dude right and
today he's like well I just don't going
to jail good day for he enjoys he enjoys
the he enjoys the police work do we have
a do we have a we have a Jason no every
but what doesn't even know about Jimmy
reefer cake I don't know that's okay
that she's our esteemed guests I am
esteem yeah I mean come on I think
one-minute absurdity of your song is
Anna Navarro c-class folks just a
reminder of this program relies on your
support you can become a member at join
the majority report comm join the
majority report calm I'll give you extra
content every day he's got a new
Calabria Los DJ Kue and on so it's a
minute 30 where is that three minutes I
can't tell DJ Kue and on a minute thirty
all right well let's play a minute
[Music]
easy killer
got beat win over she is where we need
Danny robot sukazi
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
far far afield from the original mandate
the lyrics are well the original mandate
they promote the show and talk about
weed no look back on the on the week
what are the lyrics um DJ Coonan got
beats Twitter machine is where we meet I
need robots to compete professor RC will
compete I'll skip a little bit head for
real you know I'm a gangster see with
patented secret technology a bot that
slides right up in your DMS and pretends
that you're friends but stray from the
approved facts and the reefer Tron 420
attacks a tweet every four and four
minutes and 20 seconds they all get
taught a robot lesson with the bots that
I got the show never stops and you'll
never know if they are real or not blame
the Russians the FBI the DNC and the
number one bot man will always be me he
lives and man get him some help Michael
what sir what happened on Tuesday night
my show had happened on Tuesday night
and it would be a great show but I guess
actually so next week I don't know
what's happening on Tuesday but we
rescheduled to Thursday in case where
Jesus god forbid doing live coverage of
Trump talking about the shutdown ending
so Bill Fletcher juniors joining us
we're talking about labor uprisings in
the Sudan which are happening right now
and then the kind of the political
legacy vom Michelle Cabral on this
Sunday the illicit history is the second
candidate guide and it's gonna be of
Tulsi Gabbard with Sonia Shankar of the
intercept and that's like a doorway into
talking about Hindu nationalism as well
that's that's totally fine I've gotten
that reaction piece although I know but
actually but um I all fans with peace
and torture I'm 100 piece on the other
we need torture but really quick as
always the
the paradox that's the third way
position but I want to say that uh you
know just because people I know get very
sensitive and emotional about her she
tweeted the right thing on Venezuela
yeah that was all for the show after the
show yesterday so we couldn't include it
not a word on Lula or Brazil but so and
then there are now like very few left to
the live show Friday night with alone
amid coughs ki Trevor Beaulieu Bosch
Carson Cara Mike Racine and of course
the TPMS gentlemen so get your tickets
patreon.com slash t MBS for the whole
show and on youtube and what you're
gonna stick around with us but what
where can people were the the freebies
you're leaving us so what where can
people check out your work so i host a
show called rebel HQ well it's not the
show i do kind of videos for it
Jeng does the show we're kind of dueling
on the channel youtube.com slash
revelations but we have to work together
so we do hopeful thing i represent
obviously the east coast and he's on the
west coast but i will be i guess i'll
announce it now I'll be in LA not next
week but the following week so I'll be
on the main she'll be doing the damage
report all of the good stuff you guys
oh yeah breaking the news breaking news
breaking
[Music]
oh I should say but ya know just check
me out on Twitter that's where I'm best
Instagram I can't even figure it out
it's so hard and I'm not gonna take a
picture of myself in front of a colorful
wall licking an ice cream cone so just
follow me on Twitter yeah
wow I'm really bad at promoting myself
anyway rebel HQ Facebook YouTube and
then me on Twitter at Emma tigland
uh I'll be doing a brief livestream with
Matt bender tonight so and everybody
should should we should say more to
check out doom to check out me oh yeah
check out bender stuff and Matt knew
Matt yeah literary hang over the house
of Seven Gables episode it's gonna be on
YouTube this weekend but you can check
it out on the podcast feed now alright
quick break
heading to the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty we will
take your phone calls and your I M's
see you in the fun half folks six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see you in the fun
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
are alpha males
almost as what I am a total
can we bring back DJ's Anarchy son yeah
are a couple you put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break
[Music]
Hawkins's and the alpha males Oh psych
Oh
[Music]
a lot of back
a lot of back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blocked
our males are back back
Oh
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadist keeping it 100
[Music]
for the bigger game plan it's my
birthday
that's birthday to meet you boy I have a
comics benefit for you the alpha males
somebody's to pay the price reprise be
around here yeah
we are back it is the fun half ladies
and gentlemen we're and we will take
your phone calls I will answer your IMS
Emma has graciously agreed to stay for a
little bit longer she can't stay here
forever she has she has worked to folks
but let's let's start with this the idea
that Dana Perino is now taking our cues
from AOC is actually I don't know how
really I don't know how really to deal
with this but it's sort of fascinating
just to see how much the idea that one
person can be dominating the narrative
like this and it's not terribly
different from stuff that Bernie was
saying but it does sort of take it a
step further I think in some ways and
she just from she's just more
representative frankly of the what is
now becoming the largest voting bloc in
the country and that is Millennials but
here is Dana Perino who launched her
career or first became a national figure
by lying on behalf of the Bush
administration and their insatiable lust
for war he is the intellectual leader of
the left that's sad Dana and the polls
are backing that up positive
she said we cut it off just a little bit
there she says that Alexandra Acacio
Cortez is the intellectual leader of the
left and Jesse Watters says that sad
clean that up and she they're all having
to respond to her we'll see how well
they handled their own Trump right there
I just said in the break that I would
love to sit next to President Obama
while he listens to something like that
and and to hear what he thinks because
it would be interesting to hear some of
her ideas
it's not just that they're unaffordable
is that their bad ideas and so then how
do you counter those bad ideas if even
if they are directionally true in her
mind that you got to explain why there
are bad ideas and we could give you a
million examples I'm going to tell you
where I think the Democrats have a good
point on on the economic argument
against President Trump the way you hear
them frame it and I think the
Republicans better pay attention to this
it's that there was a tax cut was for
the rich it absolutely helped the ridge
you look at the stock market look at
what the companies did they bought stock
back they didn't reinvest you have
billionaires that are wealthier you have
wages that have only gone up two percent
knock it off do you do you read Maryanne
Marsh who's a she's often frequently
seen on Fox News she writes at Fox
news.com
she writes a piece this week that I
think they have a way to make an
economic argument against President
Trump the Republicans better pay
attention we love when you give advice
to Democrats data God he is the he is
the worst the worst
I mean viscerally my I just like my
stomach churns looking at him the
interesting thing is and that's
absolutely true the interesting thing is
that they don't no one at the table even
attempts to refute those pretty damning
points I mean I'm sure there's other
stuff that that the the left is
critiquing but that's a big big part of
the critique they rush off that point I
mean this is deviating from the talking
points that we know Fox News given
that's Dana joined Deus DSA DSA what she
should do it but they just mean that
it's it's I I think it's fascinating the
phenomenon of you know you mentioned
Bernie Sanders the response to
Alexandria cosmic Cortes and the media
obsession with her versus Bernie Sanders
he's kind of seen as this fringe person
where she's dominating the coverage as
just a freshman congresswoman and I'm
kind of going a little off topic here
but I do think it's fascinating how some
liberals white liberals especially are
responding to aoc versus Bernie Sanders
they are so inundated with wanting to
appear accepting
I'm wanting to think about identity
politics in a lot of ways that they are
so quick to accept her and want to like
her and want to seem like they like her
but still have this hatred of Bernie
Sanders and I think it's allowing in
this kind of perverse way for his ideas
to permeate parts of the left and parts
of the center that otherwise wouldn't
she's a Trojan horse no doubt paying
attention although I think on the flip I
think like as an example at some point
if Bernie runs I think she's definitely
gonna have to endorse him oh sure right
and I'm sure she will and so then that
like oh yeah look at her clapping bit
because it is interesting because I
think you're I think it's like on one
hand she's changing the whole terrain of
the tax debate for everybody so it's a
huge success but there's another chunk
of people who in the group you're
talking about that really like they
relate to politics like pop culture so
she's just like another person that's
like look at her own on Twitter or this
and I think that's true I think that's
true but I think III think emma is point
is well-taken there are the there is not
the chill towards the ideas that she's
espousing which are I mean in many
respects not dissimilar to the other
ones that Bernie were espousing and I
don't say they're identical but they're
more like identical I mean it's not like
they were Bernie's ideas he was just
like the only one talking about it in in
who was an elected representative and
they seemed much more amenable to that
you know it's interesting
Sean McElwee we've had once or twice do
you know him from data progress he
familiar with it work I'm familiar with
the name he he was you know abolish ice
for a while on Twitter and now I can't
remember exactly I know now I know what
he his outfit does a lot of data work
for various progressives sometimes
candidates sometimes you know other
groups and he has been saying for some
time that progressive ideas
combined with a strong candidate who
represents women of color is the winning
recipe for Democrats in a vast majority
of seats because the all of those things
align it you want someone who is who
looks like the people that they're
representing because people like to
think that their representative
understands their their issue sets and
one of the ways that you do that is you
look and de-seed do they look like me on
some level and it is but it she
undeniably has has mainstreamed ideas
not just just as well broadly speaking
but with people who were specifically
resistant to Bernie because of you know
you know issue issues you know without
judging why they were resistant to him
okay I think in some instances it was
sincere in some instance it was just
sort of like irrational resent my I will
use this anecdotal example of my my
lovely parents right who are centrist
Democrats that worship Obama and I'm you
know like their worship civility and the
institutions and Democrat Baba bah blah
blah love you know their so their trip
over themselves to love AOC but then
Bernie it's like oh did you hear about
that sexism in this campaign and it's
it's frustrating because I think he's
the Godfather of all of this but maybe
it will come full circle in 2020 we'll
have to see but that I do think his
identity is going to be an issue
I mean without a doubt particularly I'm
definitely it's much more so in the
democratic much more so in the
Democratic primary then in the general I
would imagine that Democrat others also
think the other thing that's happening
is you know what's that it's not a
Gandhi quote it's like a POC refer
Gandhi quote but like the first they say
you're cray
see then they like argue with you or
something in that conventional wisdom
because that's the other weird thing
that of and we're not talking like
people like your parents like normal
people now but people who are like
political operators who hate Bernie for
whatever self-interested or whatever
reasons it is and the way they have gone
from in 2016 being like this is disaster
and we can never afford it you can't
have Medicare for all yada yada yada and
now it's like what's the point of Bernie
everybody supports Medicare for all
right like they've yeah I mean that was
my dad
I've been saying these ideas to him for
years and years then I get an email did
you read this Paul Krugman about my
stuff sister texted me saying goddammit
like we're like passive-aggressively
texting each other outside the email and
change cuz it's just the one big thing
that she has done that Bernie did not do
and I don't think that Bernie can do is
she has been very rigorous in
identifying herself as a Democrat right
like that element of obsess over that
well I mean yeah yeah believe me I
that's one of the chapters in my book
the the voters are stupid no I call
blaming the all aiming the electorate
but but that has that inoculates her
from a lot of stuff that came at Bernie
right like she is she does this
studiously and it's very smart because
there's no cost to her there's no cost
to her and for this there's only a cost
to sort of to you know to be it's one
thing for Bernie do it because he's done
this for 25 years or more 770's where
he's established his brand that way and
that's how his people know him but she
was able to get where she is now to
change this conversation specifically
because she was a Democrat I find though
both bolt this is a definitely of both
sides of that equation are so annoying
to me like some people still have this
it's smaller but they're like you know
there's something special or important
about identifying as an independent
versus a Democrat who cares unless
there's major electoral reform anybody
on the left who engages in electoral
politics nationally is functionally a
Democrat so it's like a silly semantic
point and then on the other hand like
who cares if you're like a proud
Democrat I mean this conversation is
like I don't know it just seems so non
sensible I mean I could understand it if
you're a part of the party apparatus to
make sure that we're able to make it but
beyond that it's just bizarre but I know
the poetry it's but I don't you know I'm
not but I also think it's not going hard
but you know people who insist on saying
that like no no I'm not a Democrat even
though like they're on the left and
always vote for Democrats bizarre like I
just think it's such a it's just such a
it's it's all posture yeah get on the
ball like who cares
doctor chaos MD so awesome to see Emma
on the show today she does great work if
a national emergency is declared and
while money is pulled from the Pentagon
budget or if a short term budget passes
both chambers do you think Miller would
advise him to reject any budget with no
while funding for bigot of reasons and
Mulvaney would advise Trump to refuse to
budge on the budget keep the government
closed because he's received a lot of
money from payday lending lenders and is
this shutdown potentially feeding at
least 800,000 people into the predatory
loan system yes we just read that
Reuters piece is depressing
I love Sarah Palin I don't want to give
old Brooklyn Chuck any credit but he
deserves to go up to the mic and the
Senate and say we don't fold we don't
bend we don't break it's the Democrats I
want to defend Larry Kudlow I know he
and the Trump administration getting
criticized for the advice they give him
federal workers during the shutdown but
some of their advice is applicable when
Larry's dealer said he couldn't front
him anymore coke do you think he just
walked away
hell no sure he asked his dealer if
there was a certain okay turn up Bega
Sam in regards to the Oxfam report you
asked what 3.8 billion people looks like
the other day here's what 3.8 billion
people roughly equals the entire
population of North America South
America Africa Europe Australia Japan
Russia and
Vietnam with about 400 million more
that's more than the u.s. population
left over kind of confused because I
last year I thought Oxfam said eight
people owned as much wealth as half of
the world am I missing something
well I would imagine there's a drop-off
after the first eight I'm not I'm not a
hundred percent sure all right let's go
to the phones come from an eight four
seven area code who's this where you
come from
hi Sam it's Josh from Chicago Josh from
Chicago how are you sir I'm good I
thought that I've also had people I know
dismissed Bernie and defended Paul
Krugman now 20 articles back at me about
how Paul Krugman loves you so it's an
interesting phenomenon Secret Service
subscribe to the same policies but I
want to talk to you about your 2020 no
cone at Chuck Schumer
okay please do give you some Oppo
research that's okay this was like wait
can I can i interject is this fire
festival related no his chief of staff
is in the documentary and Netflix when
the Netflix one helping the fraudster
working with him and if they identify
they identify him as Chuck Schumer's
chief of staff and yeah and it's like
while he's on bail it's not likely I
mean if you watch even good it's like
obvious what this guy is going on it's
guy the whole time but this is like when
it's like he's literally on bail after
this like massive national embarrassed
good idea not to hang out with that guy
good chance that something's up but the
best PR line in that whole dock is ja
rule in a conference call going I
wouldn't call it fraud and they're like
what would we call it is like
advertising
what does what's on your mind Josh I was
in a room with him on Sunday actually ja
rule ja okay rumor sucks humor
I was getting so what were you doing
well he spoke at our state senators uh
inauguration ceremony apparently he does
to all these states on her Senators
inauguration ceremonies and he really
came off as quite a radical quite quite
a leftist you know he's a talked about
how he was a tenant organizer and that
he grew up part of the working class and
that he's also very emotional they cries
a lot including the fact they cried that
uh
Dumbo oh and that he also rides his bike
through a constituency every morning it
was a very weird you talk about he's not
very a friend sounds like somebody's
getting a little afraid that I might
jump into the race yeah did he talk
about as imagine well I I think so
imaginary the Bailey yes the Bailey's I
think they may have radicalized him in
force and maybe there's a meeting okay
real quick I think know about the
Bailey's I do not so this is legit Chuck
Schumer has an imaginary company that he
says lives in Massapequa and they are
who he like runs ideas by to see if
they'll like sit well with like
middle-class Americans you could talk to
middle-class Americans my understanding
is that mr. Bailey dropped acid over the
weekend things have gotten a little bit
weird over there yeah right oh they're
getting a little bit you at the fire
truck mr. Josh appreciate the call
thanks for the thanks for the Oppo
research I cry one comic now call him
from a five one eight area code who's
this where you calling from five point
eight I hello Mike from Schenectady
what's on your mind good radio hey so
it's just really quick X I'm glad I was
on the program so I'm a college student
and I was wondering where this whole
nonsense about conservatives being
censored in college came from because
it's before my time and I don't know
what it means or what it you know so I
did a story on this a little while back
and now I'm going to forget all the
details i but you could probably search
rebel HQ
find it there a lot of it is from I mean
that the nation wrote an article about
it a lot of it is really manufactured
and it comes from conservative
think-tanks basically pushing that
narrative out there I think that it's
basically a made-up problem is my stance
on it but now again oh wow oh my god
sorry we're out but search college free
speech battle has dark money ties I must
have done this like last year and you
can find my video on it about rather now
turning points are getting a lot of
money from yes in fact for a long time
too they would pour money
it's fascinating they would pour money
into college races not and by college
races I mean like running for class
president and for student government
president and having been a class
president and a student government
president in my college good night
college was small kids my law school the
camels it's but the idea of of dark
money going into these races is
absolutely bizarre and I need to raise
taxes and exactly the idea was we want
to get a control of the student
government their way that way we can
control the student council activities
budget and not invite people on the left
and invite basically use that money as a
slush fund for for right wing thinkers
for the most part they got caught
because why are you spending so much
politics though if I could have like
gotten money from Venezuela or something
like wages student government camp we
brought Cornel West came to my school
Billy Bragg came to our school and Abbie
Hoffman appreciate the phone call car
mic Rita's dark money to there's a whole
big section in it about
funding colleges all in and the beta
Bradley's and things like that
calling from a 3:01 area code who's this
where you calling from hello Andrew
what's on your mind
so my question I had kind of I had same
key to ending questions that I wanted to
kind of pose to you guys uh-huh a bit of
a no one called a revelation but I guess
I didn't realize how foundational this
idea was to live right raining and all
rightie type people but just how
important it is to trigger left people
and how that basically formed so many of
their ideas and I just can't funny I
guess the reason I said this is a I'm a
bit of a I like to consider myself a
recovering libertarian and glad to hear
it how'd that happen
just just maturity yeah but also I mean
started with you guys I'd like to say
but uh you know you know I guess the
marketplace of ideas right okay
so right so I still have friends in that
circle let's call it you know a lot of
them think going right as I go left and
sorted by effectively I feel I like the
us see a lot of are like I like fight I
was a writer myself and I didn't know
where I got a text from a friend I
basically just said you know there was a
fight last weekend so hey I'm rooting
for Greg Hardy which is if you don't
know who this guy in teams all NFL
player with domestic violence charges
some really horrible stuff ends up long
and short get kicked out of the NFL
finds its way to the UFC and they're
desperately trying to run this
Redemption story that is just failing on
every level and I'm pretty anti this guy
guys the total scumbag doesn't deserve a
sexy gotten it's like a champ doesn't
deserve a third and four chance and when
I get this text the first thing I
realize is there's no there's no reason
to send this except to try and piss
people off like there's no real
to even bring it up if the guy's not a
good fighter he doesn't have a good
story he's not a compelling figure and
they just don't understand and what I
guess I want to ask is two things why do
you think that this concept of just
triggering people is important to them
and also I'm at this crossroads oh do I
stay in the flight and do I try and just
keep challenging these ideas or do I
just say screw it like I can't deal with
this anymore I'm out I just don't know
where to draw that line and I kind of
want to see what you guys think about
that the the concept that the right is
all about owning the left is has been
around for for quite some time part of
it is just like you know it is I imagine
it predates Breitbart but Breitbart was
before he died was was married to this
belief that politics are downstream from
culture I think part of the reason why
he was so married to that belief was
because he didn't seem to have any
politics whatsoever
know anything about it he didn't care
and he would say I don't care about
policy details and it's really for them
it's very much a cultural fight and in
that instance it is they feel threatened
by anything that is in any way new or
different or in in partly because that
threat is real I mean this is the you
know this is the zero-sum argument but
that and by they I usually mean a white
male and because they're going there
power in society and their status in
society is threatened by other people
other groups of people you know
attaining some measure of social status
and economic status and so the idea that
they can win and take them down a peg is
a huge motivating factor
you know said this many times that's why
I think part of what helps AOC is that
they it is so programmed into the right
to attack outspoken young women that is
like that's the recipe for ratings for
them
it's just the problem they're having and
it's like they're very slow to pick it
up it's like it's not they they just
found the wrong person to pick on its
Pelosi they write heavily focus on
Pelosi versus Chuck Schumer I mean even
when Chuck Schumer was the majority
leader when it should be the opposite oh
yeah she's a stirrer
she's way better and she's better and
she's actually been pretty good well I
mean akhon would 100% but I'm at but I
hate to think terms of in terms of even
just like picking a target that you know
normal and potentially persuadable
people might identify with not liking as
easily Chuck Schumer is a more
target-rich environment unless you're
totally dressed inside they're still
also like loved the fact that she has
San Francisco values but that's the the
I mean in like four years people are
just gonna be oh that's awesome like
Stephanie you know but not only that I
could start to say that as a critique
like San Francisco values means that
you've asked me for uber and create a
homelessness crisis I opposed San
Francisco values I will fight them all
my political career they still they're
still in that sort of more sticking but
San Francisco values like for the vast
majority of those Fox News viewers who
are in their 60s it's just a chance it's
all just immediately it's chapped down
studs and leather hats as far as whether
you should stick with it dude that is a
choice that you've got to make you don't
want to be out there in the sock yes
exactly it's being miserable that's not
so exhausting
good luck good luck with your decision
yeah appreciate the call oh yeah
speaking of which here is uh you
mentioned a wrestler it's interesting
this is all look this is all cosplay
right and I like real sports it's old
Matt though it is interesting though to
watch just with this stuff it's it's
interesting just because it gives you a
sense of what is in
zeitgeist right and what is and this guy
this is a WWE Champion Daniel Bryan now
Donald Trump retains Donald Trump was
heavily involved in this a good friends
with what's-his-face McMahon that's how
he met a young small business do you
remember the Sam Nunn Berg thing that's
the might the best part is that where he
saw where you saw him as a weird little
boy dressed as a wrestler and Trump came
out and he was just like he was there
and he shook my head and 15 years later
I didn't know I'd be planting racist
memes for a mother thing called Facebook
but that's how it all started here is
what does the name of this wrestler
doing now Daniel Bryan Daniel Bryan and
he is the antihero in the context I
think of wrestling he'll be interesting
to see his narrative arc but he delivers
this critique to Ed McMahon and it's
it's pretty legit Vince Vince of course
you don't want to listen to this because
you and the entire baby boomer
generation are the great parasites of
this world
[Laughter]
you see these people bow down to when
you came out but they don't realize that
you and your entire generation you take
you take you take and you give nothing
back putting profits over both the
people and the planet every single time
and they bow to you for it saying this
isn't real magic trip this illusion well
you concealed from them all the economic
and environmental debt that you've
created and they've become saddled with
trading Instagram likes and Facebook
messages and social media stop all while
you're in the back boarding all the
wealth
hoarding all the power and they ignore
it you've created an environment for
somebody like AJ Styles to become a hero
it took us off the rails at the end
there where he's really talking about
promoting another respite but it's
pretty that's pretty good stuff I think
yeah getting the concept of
environmental debt in your bloodstream I
think you should start wearing a DSA
monogrammed we should have him on the
show that would be pretty cool
definitely don't know if you could do
that with this contract but that would
be worth checking out it'll be worth
well I don't see why not
I mean we should we should see if we can
get him on the show that he did it in
the cardigan to yes the yolk coffee shop
guy that's awesome it's so dope looks
like so the guy he's like winery
listening to Ani DiFranco office uh took
steroids and threat so do we have any
update on what's going on in Denver have
you guys seen anything now we we got a
report that on Virginia there's gonna be
a lot of teachers walking out over the
cross over the course of the day they
can't legally strike they can't start
the strike until the 28th Denver yeah
they can't because the contract is still
in the works or what is it I think they
need to give a certain amount
before they can start the strike so
Virginia is going to be a one day strike
at the least Randi Weingarten is
scheduled to be there with teachers and
here is the announcement from the Denver
I think he's the the President or the
spokesperson know the lead negotiator
for the Denver CTA the CTA is part of
the aft loosely affiliated with the aft
as opposed to the NEA but they're those
are the two major national teachers
unions it's a breaking news announcement
right now from DC ta lead negotiator Rob
Gould on the potential of a Denver
teacher strike thoughts alone in DC ta
that came out to to vote tonight and
they came out on Saturday to vote after
five years of studying and 15 months of
negotiating Pro Comp we have something
to let you all know over the past ten
years dps has been taking money from
teachers to fuel their reform
experiments that's a date haven't proven
to close the achievement gap but rather
have fueled a twenty percent turnover
rate in DPS educators have told us that
they want an increase in base salaries
and a decrease an unpredictable bonus
pay over the past few years
teachers have seen decreases within
their take-home pay and have had to
decide on whether they will leave
Denver's kids in order to earn seven to
thirteen thousand dollars more in base
pay in neighboring districts teachers in
Denver find themselves spending an
average of seven hundred and fifty
dollars out-of-pocket for their
classroom needs while DPS spends more
than four million dollars on bonuses for
their administrators while DPS claims
they're putting funding towards school
everyone knows the reality the reality
is that Denver teachers are tired of
misleading statements teachers and
parents know the truth last Friday when
our team met with a district the
district refused to fix our prokop
problem our team took the question to
our members and the members have spoken
tonight
Denver teachers overwhelmingly agreed to
strike
93% voted to strike wow they're striking
for better pay they're striking for our
profession and they're striking for
Denver students so there it is I mean
the you know this this is not a big
surprise not just coming on the heels of
LA but obviously what happened over the
course of the summer these are the
people I spoke to in Pittsburgh at the
AFT conference they all seemed to have a
greater appreciation for overworked
actions but sorry no yeah did you see
and also I don't know the flight
attendants that's big yeah flight
attendants just announced that Sarah
Nelson the head of the association of
flight attendants CWA is urging members
to visit their congressional reps and
demand action to the shutdown and
basically they're starting to mobilize
that doesn't mean necessarily that
there's going to be work action but it
means that they're gonna start to
agitate and tell you just start hearing
a lot more stories I think they're also
putting forward like not necessarily but
like look if you know there's our hero
right there's a bill threat yeah you
know these are the people who fly
professionally and they're gonna come
out there and say it's dangerous and I
know
yeah teacher strike one update is there
is no set date for when they are going
to start the strike other than having
authorized it but the public schools PR
head of PR sent out an email to teachers
saying that if you are an immigrant
teacher on a visa we will report you to
ice it would take Gration services if
you go to strike Wow they retracted that
but they did send it out it was only
after right yeah in Denver that's
incredible the message got out whether
they retract right or not exactly that's
pretty stunning like oh no our bad we
wouldn't do something like and that's
also a veiled threat to parents too
right and I don't think that's gonna go
very well but well what I love about the
this round of teacher strikes is just
how you know I believe it started with
West Virginia and then was at Kansas I
think it was Oklahoma Oklahoma came
first and then West Virginia no that's
West Virginia was first and it was
Oklahoma right in Arizona and then
Kansas yeah so it's all started in red
states and then it's you know they get
better benefits they get better pay but
then people showing to realize like even
in blue states proper education has been
deprioritized and this chartering has
become rampant and you see it everywhere
and this just resource is being
completely sapped and there needs to be
a reckoning nationally not just when you
have these red states that are
especially egregious well you would have
you would think that Los Angeles right
would be up near the top of spending per
capita in terms of students but
California as a whole is about maybe
somewhere in the middle speaking of do
you think this affects Eric Garcetti 's
presidential bid chances the fact that
these teachers are striking on his eyes
I doubt he'll throw his name I mean I
don't know how much the
the my understanding of the system there
it's he's not terribly in the crosshairs
of that a large largely it was the
funding from the state and then the LA
School District Board essentially is I
think fairly autonomous relatives in the
mayor but he's he's super invested in
their car city future because you know
one of the things that I talked to Randi
Weingarten about in in in in her looking
back on the the 2016 election because
they endorsed Hillary Clinton very early
very and it not without controversy
there I don't think they took a full
vote of their of their membership and
there was a lot of people are upset
about it and I think she regretted it
but the calculation was this according
to her that they saw what what happened
was when they went in with Obama late
and Obama was horrific for public
education in this country because Arne
Duncan all the the Charter movement all
of the the race to the top was a
function of was basically just an
extension of No Child Left Behind
it was high-stakes testing testing that
yeah that well in charter I mean it was
all there was a myriad of problems and
they were determined to get in on the
ground floor so that their endorsement
meant something so that they would have
sway within the context of the
administration because and it's also
just like you know you build a campaign
right and Clinton came and already you
know somewhat fully formed but when you
look at these campaigns that are
developing now right none of these
people have have a you know are like
little institutions there's not a ton of
Bernie people out there in terms of like
who have worked institutionally for
Bernie there's not a ton of big Kamala
Harris as you know people out of
California I would imagine but the
people in there who can go in and
deliver value in terms of votes and an
apparatus around the country around the
country
those people have value to these
candidates and they are there and they
have these candidates ears and that's
the way that they in you know implicate
the policy but the gamble is re my
picking the right person and with I
think with Clinton they were like she's
definitely gonna win you know two years
out everybody assumed that she would win
so they wanted to get there early so
they could have influence but I think
there's a good sign that they're just
seeing that there's also power in their
ability to strike and that's super
important so so I got a run okay well we
have some breaking news actually not
just that and let me say goodbye to you
in a moment but here's Donald Trump
announcing a short-term deal to end the
government shutdown with no wall funding
thank you ms-13 and members as bad as
them I missed 14:15 amazing sadistic in
the last two years ice officers arrested
a total of two hundred and sixty six
thousand criminal aliens inside of the
United States including those charged or
convicted of nearly 100,000 assaults
thirty thousand sex crimes and four
thousand homicides or as you would call
them violent vicious killings can be
stopped vast quantities of lethal drugs
including meth fentanyl heroin and
cocaine are smuggled across our southern
border and into you our schools and
community and Nancy Pelosi what's drugs
left him because she'd much more than
70,000 Americans a year and cost our
society in excess of seven hundred
billion dollars the sheer volume of
illegal immigration has overwhelmed
federal authorities and stretched our
immigration system beyond the breaking
point
nearly 50 migrants a day are being
referred for medical assistance they are
very very sick making this a health
crisis as well it's a very big health
crisis this is pure idea know what
fascism our backlogs I'm frustrated yeah
I mean he just got close now far greater
than the eight hundred thousand cases
that you've been hearing about over the
last couple of years think of that
though eight hundred thousand cases
because our laws are obsolete so
obsolete all over the world they've been
there for a long time or the
laughingstock all over the world
everywhere we do not have the necessary
space or resources to detain House vet
screen and safely process this
tremendous influx of people in short we
do not have control over who is entering
our country where they come from who
they are why they are coming two days
ago Tulsi Gabbard says the results for
many years out bipartisan is a colossal
danger to public safety we're gonna
straighten it out it's not hard it's
easy if given you literally just failed
in front of everybody we could break
them all wait a sec in a row on our
southern border think of that we
apprehended sixty thousand people that's
like a stadium full of people a big
stadium
there are many criminals being ready to
see baby you see what's happening this
is the State of the Union and give me a
nice no we're allowed the house military
isn't even and no way to promptly remove
them you can't get them out because our
laws are so obsolete so antiquated and
so bad without the resources from and
anachronistic we will be forced to
release these people into community
something we don't want to do gold catch
and release release you guys are those
dentures and you release criminals you
then release them and you can't release
them from where they came so they go
into our country and end up in places
you would least suspect yes and we do it
has the little releasing living
underneath underneath Lakes you know I
have had zero there becoming a mini
Apple Democrat lawmakers volunteer to
have an event released into their
districts or states and I think they
know that and that's what we're going to
be discussing over the next three weeks
then we're gonna put them all in the
painful reality is that the tremendous
economic and financial burdens of
illegal immigration ways to fall on the
shoulders of low-income Americans
including millions of wonderful
patriotic law-abiding immigrants who
enrich our nation as commander in chief
my highest priority is the defense of
our great country wait we cannot
surrender operational control over the
nation's borders foreign cartel of
trafficking we want you to Americans to
come to our country equally and through
the bottom line that's like the
beginning of a Steven Seagal shorter
each good operation shorter Donald Trump
I lost and Republicans were caving and
it was inevitable that it's gonna happen
I still might win though I still a guy
who knows I really want to do that State
of the Union yeah that's crazy so easy
you could still let me win positive
momentum strikes work Democrats didn't
fold I mean is a really positive I mean
these are very good yeah I mean this
strike I think it's huge imple I think
there should be a hell of a lot more
strike there was country definitely I
mean look the I said this four weeks ago
when the airlines become a problem
that's when this is over this morning
you had shutdowns in three or four
different airports for just a couple
hours but that's all it took I mean
there was obviously more there was a lot
of pressure it was heading to this but
that's all it took basically to open up
the the floodgates and Trump became
overwhelmed and the Republican Party did
to the it's gonna be interesting to see
where we go from here I think if the
Democrats again from my perspective get
a permanent citizenship for daca you get
extension on TPS and and anything else
you can get dhaba great but get some
real wins that that materially that you
know the idea of making a million people
essentially daca DPS million-plus maybe
to end their anxiety permanently is
worth a lot I think it seems to me well
certainly worth five billion dollars for
a wall that's never gonna get built also
a good time to ya know called Donald
Trump of Chuck on Twitter
I don't usually advocate this but I
think now is a pretty good time at this
cultured oujet ax apparently has dropped
out of the presidential race he
was a state senator from West Virginia
he sent a video that he recorded and
provided to the intercept in the young
turks he said I don't want to see people
send money to a campaign that's probably
not going to get off the ground
that's I mean good for him yes very much
I mean I don't say the more richard
oujet has been around the more i like
the guy and I really hope he plays a
real role in policy I think he's a good
guy yeah like I was very skeptical about
why he would run for presidency but I
mean this makes a lot more sense that he
thought maybe I catch fire I can see
after a month or two I'm not going to
catch fire and I don't want people to
waste money on it good for him but we
should be thinking of it yeah I mean
hopefully there's other ways that he's
thinking about being in the mix cuz he
is he's a good he's a you know I someone
asked me I forget the question on TBS
but it was something Oh jeta related and
I've I've been agnostic on I mean I've
had a lot of positive thoughts on him
and then some obvious skepticism but I
remember on the day of that question
which unfortunately I can't remember it
was like well you know Richard know Jed
is in LA right now with the teachers
right I mean again just he's just
showing it and I think this does to I
mean because there's a lot of skepticism
about that campaign and yeah I think the
the the the thing that well I don't know
that it hurt his presidential campaign
bid I mean the tough part is you've
running for something you didn't win
that's gonna bog battle but he's been a
sitting congressman so you don't have a
federal position that's hard it's just
hard you don't have any you know
national profile and and the other tough
thing is that on some level like his
ability to win was oversold based upon
his positions I mean I like his
positions obviously and I appreciate the
I would like to see more labor actions I
hope this guy gets a position
you know maybe in unions because he
seems he seems to be able to motivate
people to to get active
labor strikes so that's not going to be
the last we hear of Oh Jetta good for
him and I think that shows a lot of
integrity where you basically are not
out there looking to be you know to
finance a tour for yourself what you
could clearly have done so good for him
let's go get time for two more calls
sorry callers I know we got a lot of
people on the line calling from a 5-1 to
area code a bunch of you've been on for
50 to 53 minutes 5-1 to area code who's
this where he come from hello this is
Victoria from Austin Victoria from
Austin what's on your mind Victoria hi
Sam I've been an avid listener for a
while I wanted to call Pez I was a bit
disappointed on Michaels coverage of the
Venezuela crisis yesterday yeah I feel
like there's a massive misunderstanding
among the left in the United States
which I consider myself a part of and I
understand and I grasp that effo
Gallinger is not a reputable or unbiased
force so I would like to clear up a
couple things and I hope y'all are
receptive okay sure yeah shoot yes
so first of all this is an endogenous
movement and it is not who we have been
attempting to get rid of this regime for
a very long time they have committed OS
or abroad repeatedly since 2002 and this
election that Maduro imaged was under
assent a sham
well obviously he's not legitimately
there he wasn't even legitimately there
six years ago so this is an entirely
constitutionally back move it's
endogenous yes it is being supported by
the Trump
government I hope that they do not
further interfere aside from
humanitarian aid but it is
constitutionally back and no way let me
ask you this presidency let me ask you
this I mean and and you know there's I
think them certainly people have made
this argument and the United States is
not the only country to back you know we
have part of Europe Canada Mexico is
basically more taking a wait-and-see
approach it seems like but what so give
me your sense of why do you like what is
okay
so aside from asserting these things
what's your your evidence that that's
this is the case that it's that it is
not faux made fomented from the outside
I mean I imagine you would even concede
that of course it's been helped right
but to some degree right but why do you
think that this is I mean just give me
elaborate a little bit on these
assertions oh sure
well first of all I grew up there I
moved to the United States about six
years ago my family and well also I have
been victim of certain aggressions by
the governmental police in different
types of illegitimate action well and to
get to respond to your question but it
is entirely endogenous and it's stemmed
from the medicine population which has
been massively unhappy and in you know
disappointed with the management of this
government that is corrupt and well
basically a criminal entity and a
criminal enterprise funded by China and
Russia among other government and to
give you an idea of why there hadn't
been any why it had been such a
unanimous rule over the last 20 years
yes the opposition has been disorganized
and it up until this day it's
pretty disorganized and not unanimous in
this message as you may recall there
were a couple of movements by Henrique
Capriles and Leopoldo Lopez in the past
to take over the presidency which had
not been successful as the government
controls the electoral authorities and
it does it fraudulently so okay well let
me ask you this is there any I mean is
there is there is there an ideological
fight here is it just simply this no no
this is entirely to get out of a
dictatorship it's not ideological if you
if you were to get idealism not left and
right if you were to actually put the
opposition on the spectrum they would
line up with Alexandria Castillo Cortez
and Bernie and a little bit Lauren
rather than the right wing on the United
States it's not ideological by any means
it's entirely out of a democratic
principle and not being tortured today
and not not having a drug cartel and
permit can I just say really briefly I I
just want to say first of all I don't
have any like your personal experience
of the government is not even for me to
like have a comment on right and I think
one of the reasons I do dispute what you
say about Ava I wouldn't have her on if
I didn't think she's a credible source
and I think it's transparent and I think
it's well well she's been someone who's
well that's literally part of the
introduction that she advised Chavez and
also she's been actually a really robust
critic of Maduro but the bottom line I
mean I guess there's a lot of assertions
there's a lot of assertions that I did
there's a lot of do you want me to
response no raise I mean honestly like
if you don't want me to I'm not like
invested but ya know okay so yeah okay
so that's sort of setting I mean
there's a lot of other things that I
just empirically don't agree with you on
I mean definitely I think the recent
elections have been much more
questionable but definitely not going
back several years that isn't true and
but I think the real bottom line and I
also don't agree with you at all about
the nature of the Opposition and I think
that there's a reason that you know that
this is actually basically failing right
now but all that being said I just think
on some level look sometimes it lines up
we've interfered in Brazil and it
happens to be that there was a Brazilian
government that was incredibly admirable
and important there's other places that
we've entered like we it was a mistake
for us to intervene in Libya and I have
no doubt that Qaddafi was in many ways a
total monster so the bottom line is
right now is there's a coup in process
promoted by swamp and bolsa not well and
recognizing even if we hate Trump and we
do if Nancy Pelosi went to a foreign
embassy and said I'm the President of
the United States and other countries
said she's the president we recognized
her and we're threatening military force
yeah that would have a external element
for sure let me a that's what I've just
got to say blasting also is my primary
obligation is what the United States
does abroad because I'm here and I
oppose that interference and I have no
problem with criticizing Maduro but I'm
gonna oppose coos at any time okay so
let me ask you call it let me ask you
this what is your understanding what is
your understanding okay what is your
understanding of the constitutional
provision under the they claim the
opposition government is legitimate well
so if you want me to get specific
articles 233 from Charles's Constitution
1999 Constitution allows for the
National Assembly the only legitimate
body there at this point appoint the
president the assembly as the interim
president of Venezuela what
that there is no viable president figure
or it is not legitimate which is not in
this case but how is that legitimacy how
is that legitimacy I mean it's certainly
Maduro certainly seems viable at this
point he controls the military right
like he's sitting in these sitting he is
yeah well we're having a dispute over
principle and practicality obviously
it's not sewing a plan in principle
Maduro should not be there well that may
be the tanks I'm just asking you I'm
just asking you look I am somewhat
agnostic in this because I can't I just
don't
I haven't read enough into this to be
able to make some type of assessment on
my own so I'm just trying to understand
I understand there's this constitutional
provision you tell me that it is a
function of a if there's a non-viable
president well I mean whether whether
you know he's clearly viable the
question is whether he's legitimate and
my question to you would be how is that
assessment okay no I believe you but I'm
asking how is the how is the question of
legitimacy assess its he's illegitimate
because the elections were a sham we
were and they have not been for a while
I can tell your personal anecdote that
what opposition didn't participate those
elections that would because other
viable candidates were arbitrarily in
habilitated by Maduro and they were
obviously sick and tired of
participating in elections that were
rigged and fraudulent historically by
this government all right so let me ask
you this without having resolved these
questions what do you think the position
of the United States should be I believe
that you know it could absolutely Anna
Terry aide and that should be about it I
like like
Michael was saying I do not agree with
in any sort of military intervention not
by Brazil not by Colombia not by the
United States in principle by any means
I think that happened in Chile and in
Honduras and in Libya all of those
regime changes have been ineffective and
in principle just intrusive and being in
a geopolitical sense yeah absolutely
it's not by any power so whatever I
think you just we have some really big
disagreements about what's actually
taking place in terms of what the United
States is doing but my final question
for you then because I think that what
Ava ended up saying
and certainly what some version of my
position is is actually what Mexico and
Uruguay and the Vatican are saying which
is that they will participate
everybody is constantly think everybody
is consul everybody all right all right
okay okay let Michael say his piece yeah
all I was gonna say is it's I mean yeah
everybody's conflicts of interest that's
besides the point would you support a
negotiated process seeing is that this
is a stalemate and you obviously know
like of course it would be disaster of
military intervention so there should be
a real diplomatic process by which um
maybe some new solution could be formed
here I wish that had been attempted
before
and given the utter you know control
that this government has over the
military / all the institution
institution / the supreme court no it is
not viable there's no way that that
would happen peacefully and no
absolutely not I would encourage you to
read upon Jorge Rodriguez and the 2004
referendum I would encourage you to read
up on Tabatha's rate a few
with Fidel Castro and his indoctrination
by them I would greatly encourage you to
be informed audience that Okabe Jose
terrible drug business ceilings I
definitely know that the Venezuelan
military's cartel connections do not
start with Chavez like that's the other
big problem here is like a lot of these
things are structural problems and they
would not be improved with its change of
government and if you really think that
like a far-right aligned Colombian
linked Venezuelan coup would stop doing
cartel business that's just not
plausible but there has to be a well
alright it's not a coup and I would
really encourage you guys about you know
it's misinforming all right and like
y'all well we've I think the the bottom
line is that what is clear is that the
United States should not be getting
involved in it in in one fashion or
another it seems to me and I guess what
they are and that's the point of our
coverage I mean that's that's the big
departure that's not credible but I'm
sure the grievances are totally
indigenous but not the movement the
movement definitely has us back all
right well we're not going to resolve
that question but I'm glad we resolved
it's very unlike you all to be you know
spreading this information and talking
to people like a vocal under listen to
Ricardo Hausmann and Moises Naim and my
family are you serious Moises Naim isn't
right all right all right appreciate the
car all right voices Naeem I think it's
a right wing figure associated with the
traditional parties Venezuela so that's
okay there we go I think the word coup
can be both descriptive and moral and I
think like I don't see anything from
even what she said
based on the constitutional questions
that you couldn't descriptively call
this a coup even if you think that
Maduro should by all rights get out of
there somehow
yeah cool a coup implies that it is
extra constitutional there is
zero I mean it seems like they're like
basically deciding the Constitution well
that's the problem is that you can say
someone's illegitimate but I mean well
as the point has to be some Trump is
illegitimate by any number of metrics
but you can't just if you want to
respect institutions its United's if
China threatened to invade us and
recognize Nancy Pelosi is president we'd
had been no but also would have we have
a very specific definition of what
illegitimate means no I I sent you that
the article she's talking about they're
talking about if the president's dead or
has been removed from office I mean the
reality is is like for a couple of
decades the United States has been in
there with ruthless sanctions and
funding opposition groups and by the way
like I don't hold that necessarily
against opposition groups sometimes you
take money where you can get it but our
prymaat a criticism has to be of us with
our imperial maneuvers in my view all
right final call of the day called from
five one zero area code who's this hey
hey hi there
yeah hey it's Dan for Troy Dan and while
that call was one helluva discuss and
that was that I don't even know I would
even be a touch that but Michael Dillard
did he was talking about going on the
FBI with everything you know bombshell
story with that guy on Fox when he was
admitted he was undermining left-wing
groups yeah
there's a personal story in the area
that I grew up in where the FBI
contracted these two white supremacist
courts trying to pretty much build like
a terroristic x-ray weapon back in 2013
I remember and they basically entrap you
remember that yeah it was they're going
after guys were anti Muslim right
were those other guys work yeah this
happened right in my town and you know
these guys were just engineers from
General Electric and the one guy Eric
fight went to a synagogue in Albany to
try to like recruit these people to
fight against the enemies of Israel and
then those guys from the synagogue
obviously you went to the FBI
instead of you know just doing you know
like surveillance on this guy and seeing
what he was gonna do they started
funding this guy giving him the
resources right to entrap him buddies
and it's yeah like they these guys were
morons they did they weren't a threat
they were just morons who hidden Muslims
so much that they wanted to try to like
create this insanely unrealistic like
terroristic weapon which dr. evil right
was gonna
yeah but they they couldn't do it it
wasn't feasible the FBI knew this the
FBI knew it wasn't a realistic the yeah
I can tell you this I mean and not none
of what you're saying is surprising to
me but the the reality is the FBI's been
doing this in terms of Muslims to in an
incredible fashion over the past 15
years or so right I mean yeah Fort Dix
five you can read about you can read
about guys I think came out of Florida
who were in touch with an FBI informant
or an undercover FBI agent and they were
trying to get boots and uniforms for
about a dozen of these guys because they
were going to take over the US
government if they could just get boots
and uniforms I mean this is the yeah the
FBI is in this business and it is highly
problematic
I mean look guys like that should be on
a list there's no doubt in my mind
I mean if somebody's coming in trying to
recruit people to go and attack other
people then and they're reported they
should be on a list and there should be
an investigation around these people to
see how dangerous they are there's no
doubt about that in my mind however the
FBI is expanding far too many resources
to get so that they can Bank numbers
let's say that they're taking people off
the field as it were and it's a it's
highly problematic because they're
missing a lot of people who are actual
threats and in part because they're
spending so many resources just so that
they can get the numbers on the board
essentially
so yeah yeah it's problematic I don't
I'm not I'm not terribly concerned about
these lunatics who are looking to
recruit people to go out and kill but I
mean if you look at these stories of of
like Fort Dix 5 or others it's pretty
stunning just what the the FBI has been
up to and much of that frankly was under
Muller and and coma but listen I
appreciate the phone call Thanks all
right either to do it but they knew they
have to take on Trump that's all that
all the time that we have four phone
calls
we're gonna take five more items and
then we're gonna be out of here bull
prog sort of it's using the Roger stone
arrest to BLM pill his followers I'm not
sure I know what BLM blacklivesmatter
like you mean like get critical of law
enforcement I mean I'd be surprised if
certain de explicitly mago this
is how black people are treated by the
police people who pays no threat Wow
wait that's what Mike surfaces yeah
black lives matter I don't even know I
guess if it takes that it takes that
Congressional baseball fan is in
remembrance of MLK Monday day on Monday
we all stop to remember the multiple
occasion Steve Scalise voted against
recognizing MLK Day is a holiday in his
state jonathan Armstead thanks for the
Aaron Sorkin segment earlier this week
where he attacked democratic socialism
while he's written some great movies and
TV shows I do don't I do think to have
to understand a guy is that most of the
liberal who wants a friendly and
affluent face to American Empire Sorkin
was on Charlie Rose years ago and said
he was most proud that the West Wing
audience had the highest average income
of any show on television he later made
that a plot point on a show a studio 60
years later it was then I realized the
only white screenwriter I could respect
was the guy with the eyebrows who left
Jay Leno Show in order to make it be the
only white writer on a black variety
show let's make 2019 the year we put the
old show the show episodes up on YouTube
thought thank you I that was not
actually me it was the character I
played be careful with Daniel Bryan guys
he voted for Jill Stein
oh the wrestler is there I know it gets
a pass like I give wrestlers a little
bit more leeway wrestler I think if
you're Cornel West or a wrestler you get
to vote for Jules I'll be careful with
them yeah but but ya know we'll be very
attentive handle with care' the WWE
socialist Bravo from VA all billionaires
are a policy failure but Michael Dell
speaking about his benevolence is
hilarious I was looking for a new laptop
and checked the ethical consumer organ
Dell is ranked at the bottom just above
Fujitsu and Toshiba they get 5 out of 20
based on environmental school score
material resourcing and supply chain
workers Kentucky Fried comrade hey Sam
some new material for your equip ad
company new scientists publish that idea
that scientists are currently running
clinical trials suggesting a link
between gum disease and Alzheimer's
interesting kamala ha iris Sam when you
tell the hardware store clerk to put it
on my tab do they ever ask what all the
super glue and duct tape is for Winnipeg
Craig I got elected vice president my
Union Local this week is that worthy of
a shofar or other so much yeah of course
Daniel Bryan apparently a huge Naomi
Klein fan in real life famous Darwin Sam
I think we need to consider the
possibility that there's more than
stupidity going on at Davos if Dell says
he doesn't know about the Eisenhower tax
rates that's also possible he's lying
third possibility is that we are not
repeating this point often enough and
getting it to sink and indeed Jen's
Garth Leigh Matt get your head out of
your water boat and look beyond the
superficial celebrity aspect to the
louis c.k sexual predator issue it's
always a political issue when women are
seen as second-class citizens in your
snarky chat room dismissals are part of
the problem it's just did you see um
David Miranda Glenn Greenwald's husband
is gonna be taking the seat of John will
last a guy who fled oh geez yeah Sam
suffice to say I love you but your take
on this was pretty disappointing well I
I look I made it pretty clear that I
didn't think I was a non predisposed
arbiter in this situation because I'm
just privy to more of the story and so I
rather than espouse a an opinion and
saying that it's just a baseball I know
makes it hard for me to to land I think
where you would like me to land on that
but broadly speaking I think we're
probably in the same column from
Nebraska Sam my Rams are facing your
Patriots next Sunday want to make a bet
Rams win I mail you a Broncos burdur
Broncos burger from Omaha to eat on air
oh good it may take a couple of days to
get here I don't know if I want to eat a
day-old or two-day-old non refrigerator
Bronco burger sounds hard well maybe we
I was thinking I actually thought he was
something that we'd have to like you
know you'd have to grill it up at your
house and bring it over that's when I
eat as many Bronco burgers as the amount
of points the Pats win by no that's not
a good bet well I'll bet but I won't bet
that mo brains hey Sam how long until
Kamala Harris takes a hard turn into
Supercop angle in light of Roger stone
arrests
three more day in day out is there a
clear way to distinguish a Democratic
Socialist or a progressive well you
gotta say from what pyjama Boy hey so I
recently became majority reporter and my
newfound knowledge when you guys have
been getting into arguments with my
center leaning a Democratic family they
argue we need to go to the center in
order to be Trump my question is do you
think center leaning Dems are more
likely to vote for a progressive
candidate or a progressive voters more
likely to vote for a center leaning them
uh I don't I think actually the the
latter may be the case however it still
doesn't mean that you need to get those
Center leaning Dems on board because I
think there's a it's it's about driving
out the base and I think you'll get more
out of the base do you think I wonder
that I know we gotta get out of here but
I wonder if there's another way of
measuring like it I could see people on
the left and I could see people in the
center who are willing to sabotage
things because of their own like
internal grievance and then I can see
people on the left and on the center who
absolutely understand that there's a
superseding principle you need to get
rid of Trump and I don't know how much
that even crosses I don't think I don't
know it's just ideological what what
what the what those people on the center
are about right yes we know that he lost
a lot of Clinton voters didn't lose as
many Bernie voters but part of that was
also Bernie voters weren't as Democratic
as Clinton voters were in 2008 as a
whole so there was less of them to lose
but all right
the final I am of the week attorney
Andrew on Bernie 2020 one thing I
thought Hillary did during the debates
that was very effective against Bernie
was having the kind of white woman
confidence of saying absolutely
irrational with complete sincerity
for example I don't want Donald Trump's
getting freaked kids getting free
college or in my opinion on Iraq was so
bad why did Obama pick me for Secretary
of State
do you see anyone in the field being
able to muster that kind of irrational
confidence and responding to Bernie this
time around no and I don't and part of
that is because there isn't anybody who
has the qualifications that Hillary
Clinton had frankly except for maybe a
job
iDEN I'd be the only person he will and
he runs he will alright folks see you
Monday
[Music]
no sir
[Music]
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
