gram professor of journalism at New York
University author of her latest the
failed promise of a billion-dollar
business diversity Inc Pamela Newkirk
welcome to the program thank you so much
thank let's I mean let's first start I
guess with the the what that billion
dollar business is before we get on to
the the failed prompt and both the the
promise and the failure I guess right
because I don't I'm not sure that people
are totally savvy as to the the
existence of diversity as an industry
right and and it's kind of a different
way of thinking of it but so I guess
I'll start at the beginning when I was
thinking about this project what what
brought me to it was just constantly
reading these reports by companies like
Google like every year they would look
at their diversity numbers and issue a
report and every year they would talk
about the disappointing results and then
I also kept reading about these
institutional scandals if you will where
you know there was some revelation
either about a ratio episode in the
workplace that then you know would cause
the company the institution to higher
diversity czar and then you know I just
started reading about all of the money
that is spent on diversity by various
institutions every year I the task
forces that are assembled and the
climate surveys that are commissioned
and the diversity consultants that are
hired and the diversity czar is in the
diversity conferences that draw hundreds
of people to
you know two cities around the country
and then started thinking of it as an
industry and we're looking at an
industry that is actually growing by
leaps and bounds particularly over the
past couple of years with the rise in
movements like me too and black lives
matter
diversity jobs are on the rise and there
was a study by indeed.com that that
showed that the numbers have gone up
something like 35 percent over the over
the last couple of years you know the
postings for diversity jobs so we're
talking about an industry a professor at
MIT more than ten years ago had said at
that time companies for spending
something like eight billion dollars a
year on diversity and since that time
the numbers have gone up so we're
talking about a burgeoning industry and
I mean the maybe I'm jumping ahead just
a little bit but I mean from your
perspective and we should say that you
know one of the books he wrote within
the veil black journalists white media
sort of I guess you know extrapolated on
the problem on some of them right right
how we're not really making the progress
that one would think we would have made
over 50 years of looking at this issue
and grappling with this issue and I and
I want to get to that because that's the
that's the failed promise I guess yeah
but does the to the extent I mean is
there a way to maybe me make this
assessment but when we see the reaction
of you know the sort of the apparatus
right to increase diversity how sincere
you know and we could talk about the
efficacy of this apparatus and and and
why it has not been effective but how
sincere is the effort do you think I
mean because we do see it in reaction to
like oh we had employees who removed you
know two black people from our store
because
and now we've got to we're gonna have
all this like how how have this big like
public kind of great how much of it is
public relations and and how much of it
is a sense I mean how much of it is what
to what extent can you attribute what
motives to it I guess right well well
only only the institutional leaders can
honestly say how sincere they are I I
can only look at the results of their
efforts that they're spending billions
of dollars on something and getting and
having very little to show for it and
doing the same thing over and over that
it that is not bearing results so I'm
just wondering why you know when you
keep doing the same thing and getting
the same results and maybe you need to
try something new right so you know
that's that's in part what inspired me
to look at this because it's like we're
having the same conversation for decades
the exact same conversations you know
looking at these numbers where black law
partners increased from one point seven
percent to one point eight percent
between 1985 and 2016 looking at black
men and management at companies with a
hundred and more employees going from
three percent to three point two percent
over years you know the the largest
public fashion and apparel companies
where only 11 percent of board seats are
held by people of color who who comprise
roughly 40 percent of the population so
if if all of these companies are
spending you know some hundreds of
millions and you know you know
collectively billions of dollars of year
a year and having so little to show for
it like what could we do differently
what what like what new ways might we
look at at a systemic problem because
surely what's happening now is not
working all right and before we get to
sort of like that that concept of
solution and and I think you know you
give obviously the statistics you just
laid out for us are indicative of you
know across any number of industries in
in a myriad of different ways we talk
about the entertainment industry as well
in that regard like I guess the the
relevance of the Quai can't you can't
assess intent but are there indications
and I mean I don't have a it sounds like
that this is an agenda driven question
but it's not right but I'm just curious
to what extent like is mission
accomplished simply by showing the
expenditure like well yeah I think
that's the approach that many of these
institutions were taking that to to
simply construct an apparatus of
diversity is indication of enough that
that institution cares about diversity
and I'm not certain that many
institutional leaders are owning their
role in the end the result part of it
like you know they're kind of farming it
out to a consultant or to some
marginalized division within the
institution instead of actually saying
that you know this is something that I
as a leader need to incentivize you know
when leaders of companies actually care
about something right they can they can
move the needle if they don't farm it
out and actually say the buck stops with
me you could see this this problem
pretty much you could see progress
pretty much overnight in many
institutions if that kind of intention
is is brought to bear so I think you
know when you ask me how sincere they
are I mean they may think they're
sincere they may be sincere but
if this was another kind of problem that
affected their bottom line and they were
failing consistently I would just
imagine that you know if you're a CEO of
a company and things are failing and
you're throwing a lot of money at it
you're going to want to try something
different and so I think with this
problem I think there needs to be some
serious soul-searching to find out why
we're doing the same thing if it's not
working right I mean if we're if the
agenda was in a company we need to
increase our sales and in in this region
of the world and you know five three
years later and look at it and like it
hasn't moved a needle I would say right
we need to do something different I mean
I mean and if every year you're like
every year you're releasing reports
they're saying oh we're disappointed
like you're gonna be disappointed for
decades like at what point do you take
responsibility for for that failure who
does that failure belong to like who
gets to own that failure and I think the
way it's been looked at is you can blame
the consultant or you can blame you know
the diversities are you can learn it's
it's out there you know the finger is
pointing outward when it really should
you know go in the other direction it's
a it's a systemic problem and it's a
leadership issue and in a lot in a lot
of these situation well if it is I mean
let's look at it from the perspective of
the systemic qualities of it I mean
because I think it you know the the idea
that there isn't a re-evaluation of the
methodology suggests to me that there
isn't necessarily a feeling of genuine
failure that the attempt is sufficient
for a lot of the people who are who are
doing this to fulfill what is the actual
problem which is the
and that there right am i right and I
think perception has a lot to do with
this too I think many people have still
clung to this mythology that you know
people of color are not in these
positions because they are not enough
qualified people of color or their you
know the the the problem is the pipeline
that's a that that's a that you heard a
lot in the 1960s when diversity became
you know sort of like a public you know
a social concern you know from the
President on down this is something that
we need to to address there was an
acknowledgment that that
african-americans and other people of
color had been systemically shut out of
most fields but in that time and in the
50 years that had that have you know
since then it's no longer possible to
point solely to a pipeline issue when
you've had scores of people of color
going through not only just college but
some of the most elite schools in this
country and yet we still have this
problem where we're saying you know we
tried and you know we just kind of throw
up our hands and it's like no let's
let's do a little bit more than that
let's let's really look for something
that coca-cola did after it was sued for
discrimination and it settled what it
did is it looked at the metrics across
the company it looked at hiring
promotions bonuses who was getting who
was not by racial group by gender and
then they were able to both identify
patterns of bias and to disrupt those
patterns of bias in real time so they
would look at these metrics even before
a job offer was made even before you
know bonuses or score you know raises
were were given to see are there
patterns of bias you know a lot of this
is not intentional bias but you know we
live in this
racialized society we wear you know
ideas are deeply embedded and they they
play out in in ways that are kind of
insidious we don't often see it is sort
of an invisible thing but if you look at
the metrics in this way then maybe you
can like make some adjustments so this
is just one way that a company kind of
turned itself around and became a lot
more racially diverse can you give us
like a like a like even more sort of
like granular examples in that way so in
other words you would look in the I
don't know the I don't know the
different divisions of coca-cola but you
would look in distribution and you'd
look at people in the same job and see
okay like what are the salaries across
that that that job category what if you
if you're hiring what what does the
applicant pool look like what does the
who's getting bonuses so if you look at
that across the board and you kind of
like you know do that kind of assessment
you can actually see patterns and so
that's how they did it and then they
would say to you Human Resources in
those different divisions look you are
what you're hiring is is much lower
based upon application uh the division
your bonuses are you know and making
people conscious of that ah disparities
right making people a lot more conscious
of these patterns of disparity yeah so
that that's one way and I mean obviously
that took that took intention it took
you know vigilance but that's that's
what they did and that's how they turned
coca-cola around so there are models
that are that exist you know but if you
look in higher education where African
Americans are about four percent of
University Professors and like
he knows or 3% or under like in a
country where those two groups alone or
about 30% of the population
you know something needs to like there
should be some way to look at what's
going on what's going on with who's not
only who's hired who's even considered
for these positions to what extent I
mean it I mean is there a is there a a
pipeline problem or a maybe I mean a
culture there's obviously a cultural
problem insofar as you have these
disparities in the way that maybe people
perceive but I you know a while back we
interviewed maybe I guess it was over
this summer
Anthony Abraham Jack who wrote a book I
think it was called the privileged poor
about how elite colleges are failing
disadvantaged students where it you know
one of the things he looked at was
particularly african-american students
who were you know coming from from
living you know in poverty or down
further on the income distribution and
that colleges would seek out
african-american students they were more
apt to admit them if they had already
been a cultured in a private school in
some way and right I wonder just because
you know I guess that their defense is
that they want students who can compete
with with with their peers and they they
don't want to set students up to fail
but I guess what what what I want to say
about this is that you know I think
you're talking about the pipeline and as
I said for five decades we've talked
about the pipeline for many of these
fields that's no longer the issue
because what I found is that the more
elite and the smaller the more boutique
a field is the less diversity so we're
talking about
oftentimes like news rooms where we're
not talking about large numbers of
people right we're talking about like if
you only look at took one elite
journalism school and and just
considered candidates from that one
elite journalism school you could you
could turn around newsrooms like pretty
much overnight with diversity so I think
you know I the the higher up you go the
more elite the field or you know museums
we're not talking about needing you know
thousands of people it I think it's why
companies like coca-cola you know
corporate America is far more diverse
than some of the more elite progressive
fields you know we look at journalism we
look at you know all the other higher ed
it doesn't take that many people to move
the needle on this on this but yet we're
not really moving the needle okay so if
I understand what you're saying you know
that that you're talking about you know
coca-cola hires thousands of people
whereas you know thousands of people may
include everybody who works in broadcast
media in New York City right and that
the in terms of getting percentages much
easier to find candidates you know
another theoretically but but so let me
ask you this is it is it is it and I
guess what I was getting at with with
with bringing up that that other
research was that is the issue that
there are sort of like I guess there are
cultural streams or something like that
that people don't recognize and don't
break out of that you know that that
there is other factors at work or they
just mean well they're they're
definitely social networks and I think a
lot of this
is due to social network so I mean I
live in New York City have you know I'm
born and raised here and I often attend
events related to publishing or
journalism or the arts and oftentimes
I'm one of few people of color in the
room these are fields that in which
people of color are acutely
underrepresented and I think these kind
of segregated social spheres are them
replicated in the workplace because who
do we hire we hire who we know who we're
friends with who our friends recommend
and I think you know we do live in a
society in which we are pretty much
socially segregated and and I think that
then plays out in other ways so I'm not
talking about overt racism I'm just
talking about the natural ebb and flow
of of our relations and and what happens
due to those relations so who gets
recommended for a faculty position who
gets recommended for a great you know
position at a radio station or TV
station or a newspaper oftentimes it's
not people who who are not reflected in
these very small social spheres so I
think that's and we should tell you know
part of this yeah those things are
downstream from more racist practices
nicely this has nothing to do this is
about racism this is just the way we
live in a society that has kind of been
socially ordered this way we live in a
very you know we like to think of
ourselves as living in a progressive
integrated society but you know our
churches are pretty much segregated our
schools are pretty much segregated our
you know we're we're arrangements out
yeah so I mean so this is all part and
parcel of you know how we
find these workplaces and particularly
the more elite ones are still very very
segregated and and and theoretically a
lot of these elite ones to probably have
a more bare and certainly when you talk
about journalism when we talk about
entertainment on some level more bearing
on the culture in some ways you know
okay so how much of the the argument of
you know who our market is I mean for
instance I can tell you that I used to
years and years ago I was a sitcom actor
and I did a sitcom where I played the
white writer on an all-black variety
show it was a very early job I had I was
on Fox TV I'm not doing an advertiser
myself it's long gone but but I it was
it was really my first or second job in
Hollywood and it didn't occur to me
until the the the decade that followed
how rare it was that I was on a show
where I was the only white guy maybe
there was one other white guy on the
show and everyone else was black because
and the difficulty of a show like that
because of it you know I should say you
know the audience the the sell to the
audience is very segregated it's it's
either got to be a black shot or what I
think but but I think that's a really
old-fashioned way of looking at the
world as it is today well I gotta say to
be fair and that was 25 years old but
all of the research shows that more
diverse casts are are make more money
films with diversity make more money
than films that don't have it so I think
that is the way that that that's a very
old Hollywood way of looking at it that
you do a black cast for a black audience
and a white cast for a wide audience
Shonda Rhimes kind of like just exploded
that whole myth by having diverse cast
that were among the most popular shows
on television and we're seeing the same
thing with film the hollywood diversity
report their number of reports that come
out every year by USC and UCLA that show
that diversity cells in and particularly
in a global market that is that is more
you know likely to to gravitate to films
that that reflect the world so yeah i
think there was a time when that is the
way that that's what producers directors
you know people who greenlight projects
thought of audiences but that is not
actually how audience audiences work
look at some of the the biggest films of
the past couple of years black panther
crazy rich Asians you know I can go on
and on I think you all into that
predictable like blacks for blacks and
whites for whites
I mean I think the consumer-facing know
I mean I and I agree and I and this show
was you know in the mid 90s and and I
think the the consumer facing part of it
now I think has changed yet you still
have a problem with the would the
producers in terms of make a lack of
diversity you still have a problem with
the writers in in terms of a lack of
diversity the people who aren't facing
you know sort of consumer facing on some
level and I I guess my point was more
just sort of the consciousness of the
different networks that existed like I
would I never saw any of those those
those men and women that I was on that
show it I never saw them again okay you
know it is a point about our separate
social yes yeah yeah no I'm sure that's
true I mean I can't tell you how many
weddings or parties I've gone to of my
white friends when I'm it it's so high
so okay and so so I understand you can
you know if you're if you're if you're a
company the size of coke
kolja you can make these changes because
you can actually you have a lot of data
exactly if you're talking about a small
you know like a like a small journalism
shop or you're talking about you know
even like broadcast news and you don't
have that many people there the data is
not as sort of like obvious right where
cuz what one person could change the
percentage by you know a significant
amount how do you do it in that like
what what is what are there both
examples in that situation where i yeah
i guess diversity just has to matter to
a company matter not just you know for
the bottom line but matter as just an
issue of justice and what's right
do we not hire people because of their
of color does having diversity make us
smarter give us give us you know just a
broader take on the society that that
we're covering i mean can you really
cover a diverse society with all-white
newsrooms
or can you do it fairly guessing can you
do you know can you do it well so i
think when we think of diversity as more
than just check a box but as something
that actually makes us better then i
think that might give news directors
managers more of an incentive to do it
because it just will make for a better
product whatever you don't how you how
you do it is it's it's really not that
hard i know at my you when you know when
we have searches because we have a far
more diverse faculty now than when i
joined the faculty 25 years ago we have
a much broader social network and
professional network that you know that
we have our tentacles out in the world
and in a you know a far more
comprehensive way it becomes
self-replicating on some level precisely
and
you don't have that and it's not
self-replicating it's not that hard
especially in journalism I mean we're
journalists we do research how do we
find people who don't look like us I
don't if there's national organisations
there are you know there are all kinds
of ways to do it it's really not I think
we treat diversity as like rocket
science like to do it is like so hard it
really isn't well it really isn't what
if the answer is that there's a lot of
these places that don't consider it
important and that they don't concern
important beyond the sort of the public
relations aspect of it which they feel
is satisfied by expending money and
saying we're doing our best well then
then we'll continue to have the
consistently disappointing reports and
and we'll just like except that I guess
I guess I'm calling it out because
because I mean come on it's it's like 50
years of saying the same thing it's it's
just it doesn't go down well such as the
failed promise of a billion-dollar
business diversity Inc Pamela Newkirk
thank you so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you Sam
