[Music]
so just a reset we're gonna talk about
Iran more with Anna but Donald Trump
ripped up the Iran deal Mike Pompeo and
John Bolton have long sought a war with
Iran the administration in general has a
beyond cozy almost joined at the body
with relationship with Israel and Saudi
Arabia and other extremist forces trying
to provoke this and they've charged Iran
with attacking oil tankers they've never
provided any evidence they have sort
tried to sort of tell a big lie about
Iran al Qaeda links even though to the
extent that we do have Declassified
intelligence about Iran and al Qaeda
it's basically mainly al Qaeda figures
sort of complaining about Iran and Iran
basically allowing temporary status for
some al Qaeda people but not allowing
them to communicate with other members
of the group and thinking of their own
strategic calculation of how to use al
Qaeda not to mention the fact that Iran
is fighting al Qaeda adjacent groups
every single day in Syria through its
own proxies like Hezbollah Donald Trump
apparently he's saying publicly that his
concern over 150 people is what led him
to call off strikes in the last minute
obviously you know one I mean of course
you know one I mean look what he does to
children in this country obviously this
is nobody who cares about human life but
I do think that this is an area where
objectively speaking
Donald Trump has I don't know why but
he's got a fear or an anxiety or an
instinct or some type of understanding
that it may be even just on a workload
level that this would require time and
focus this isn't threatening people on
Twitter this isn't you know doing your
Cagney impression
before you get on Air Force One this is
really serious and it absolutely will be
catastrophic and the real fanatics and
the real nut cases with regards to these
issues the Pence's the Pompeo is the
Bolton's they want it they don't care
they are happy obviously to see plenty
of innocent people die in Iran they're
happy to have poor and working-class
people be sent over there and be killed
have their limbs blown off they're still
in the afterglow of the millions of
lives that they helped loss lose in Iraq
and you know Greg Gutfeld in addition to
being very unfunny is actually a good
doorway into the mindset of right-wing I
wouldn't even say armchair warriors I
mean less than armchair you know people
like Marco Rubio who are adults in
positions of power whose understanding
of the most important matters of war and
peace really do come down to like Bing
Bing Bing Bing Bing and you know telling
like stories to themselves about
aircraft carriers and they think that
the world is I mean we said that during
the debates during the Republican
debates that literally people like Rubio
were just fetishizing aircraft carriers
I mean the extent they could get into
specifics of anything it was talking
about different weapons systems the way
a seven-year-old would if they got to go
on their first you know naval ship on a
tour it's pathetic and dangerous but
also pathetic and stupid here's Greg
Gutfeld this is now just a video game
and I think that's good news we're now
I'm sorry I have to sand this I feel
like we should just replay it this is
now a video game and that's good news so
the thousands of people that have died
from drone attacks across the globe
since Bush accelerating under Obama and
accelerating under Trump that's good
news this is now just a video game and I
think that's good news we're in and
we're now at a time where it it doesn't
matter how large your population is
because the population is no longer
expendable in war it's now about
the machines that you have drones and
are now replacing bones so it'll be
stuff versus stuff and fortunately for
us we have the best stuff and if we have
the stuff up there doesn't matter what
they have down there we control them if
we have a sky of drones so then how do
you retaliate alright how do you
retaliate to something that isn't human
like we you know they took 160 million
dollars worth of machinery from us we
have to do that which means either
hitting some parts of their Navy or
refineries or whatever you find out you
Itali 8 with machines but I think it's
good news because I think we are moving
away from through hurling bodies if
bodies that's a good that's good can I
discrete slightly no you can't do all
right I mean look he's obviously a very
dumb guy and even just the you know
machines example Donald Trump was able
to understand that as an example you hit
an oil refinery you will kill human
beings then that also begs a further
question than if we were going to accept
the demented logic of this that security
is guaranteed through a swarm of
unmanned killing robots hovering over
the Middle East then why do you need to
do anything you're right you know what
yeah and by the way it is true that
fundamentally Iran poses absolutely no
security risk to us in any conceivable
remote manner they have never indicated
that they have any desire to hit us in
any way shape or form certainly
Hezbollah does not theirs forget that's
us with the Europeans Iran has mostly
normal diplomatic relations with the
Europeans the Europeans obviously see
the United States as the belligerent
aggressors in this situation they have
real security and real strategic
differences with Israel and Saudi Arabia
Israel and Saudi Arabia oppose both
profound dangers to Iran and those are
the types of problems and challenges
that in a sane diplomatic environment
you'd be working out so but I I mean you
know
way he's basically saying once again yes
Iran actually does pose no threat to us
and so that should be the upshot of all
of this right they pose absolutely no
threat to us anybody that says they pose
a threat to us is either a mental you
know is deranged and having fever dreams
is stupid or lying and usually in most
cases all three one of the reasons
Guernica was so a such an atrocity
remembered in the Spanish Civil War in
the 36 was because they attacked
populations for the first time with
flying vehicles so it's not like a
Gutfeld saying it's no longer on the
table like it could be very easily on
the table again and in many parts of the
world it's still very much on the table
without it's out and also look I mean
look at Yemen there's no right question
that in a place like Yemen or Pakistan
that you could absolutely correlate
activity and interest in groups like
al-qaeda with the fact that for what you
is a video game for what them is their
family members getting wiped out in a
robot attack that we on the delivery end
don't even know the people that were
killing they could just be fitting a
behavioral profile in his brain that's
so bad and negative shoutouts to all the
Warhawk liberals with their galaxy brain
takes that they're tweeting at Trump's
that he's like a coward for not just
lighting up a hundred and fifty Iranian
people like this one guy tweeted you'll
never be 1% if the man Obama was which
like okay I got to stick up for Obama
for a second and remind everyone that he
made the Iran nuclear deal that's right
but also like if Obama were to follow
through and kill a bunch of people like
that wouldn't make him good no of course
not no these the the types of total the
absolute idiots on one end an Adam
Schiff who ran with Mike Pompeo as
assertions about Iran without any proof
as well as yeah I mean just the kind of
garden-variety morons that would tweet
stuff at Trump I mean these are they are
to say the very least part of the
problem and then that's just the liberal
version of Gutfeld which is that the
rest of the world including human beings
flesh-and-blood human beings are all
just a proxy for your own particular
neuroses and fixations that you're
working out on Twitter including
whatever the like issues you
have about your manhood that somehow
Obama and Trump is a dick measuring
contest that can be manifested through
killing or on Ian's and you know
precipitating a catastrophic military
engagement anybody who's doing that or
bring in the whole Russia piece are
stupid are dangerous are reckless
are immoral and should never be taken
seriously on anything yeah here's a good
rule of thumb
don't try to neg Trump into killing more
people yeah I would say that's that's
that's a pretty solid one and if you
recognize that Trump is a deranged
incompetent racist and so on you know
probably a good idea to not encourage
him to wage a war that could be the most
dangerous thing to happen on the planet
it's the thought not that this is about
efficacy but this is a common delusion
in the war liker sort of genre which is
like we can just do this with our air
power which is what we tried to do in
Vietnam which is it's also what the
Nazis thought they could do to Britain
right but the v1 rocket now right you
have the best stuff we have the best
technology also and I mean
excuse my language but yes we killed
three million people in Vietnam I mean
we did in a quantitative air war which
is a genocide genocide all campaign that
was also by the way precipitated by a
lie about intelligence look up gulf of
tonkin all right
