[Music]
let's let's play that clip of Nancy
Pelosi like you know I don't know what
motivates this I'm trying to find like
what is the political value of this now
conceivably I have a couple of of ideas
in my head one could be that this is
just driven by donors although that
seems somewhat silly to me but maybe two
it could be one of those things that
Pelosi always wants to make it seem like
she is the you know from a public
standpoint to seem like very reasonable
because she feels that this makes the
Democratic caucus seem reasonable to all
those people on the right who say stuff
like San Francisco politics like I
actually think this is the most
misguided and most likely perspective
that she feels like it's not
inconceivable to me that she walks off
this set and calls these five members of
the class and say look how you know yeah
I got to do that I got to do that
because I've got to project some notion
to protect the members of our caucus who
come from more purple districts it's
conceivable to me that she does that I
don't I don't know I mean 60 minutes is
a big platform they're very calculated
and where they release this type of
stuff and where they project this so
that's what could it be but I think
going into an election in 2020 very
unhelpful to do so particularly if
you're worried like that due to just
called in that in some way you're going
to alienate a big portion of the
Democratic base or party so you are
contending with a group in Congress over
here on the left flank
are these self-described socialists on
the right these moderates closet new
years now let me just remind you that
this is Lesley Stahl right she's full of
garbage they're not self-professed
socialist they're self-professed
democratic socialists they're basically
FDR Democrats but good
let's on the right these moderates and
you yourself said that you're the only
one who can unify everybody and the
question is can you by and large
whatever orientation they came to
Congress with they know that we have to
hold the center that we have to go down
the mainstream they know that they do
but it doesn't look like that it looks
as if if you're it's fractured she likes
to minimize the conflicts within her
caucus between the moderates and the
progressives you have these wings AOC
and her group on one side that's like
five people know the progressive group
it's more than the 4s I'm a progressive
yeah wait what wait can we go you do
that last part again like I'm not quite
sure I understand what happened there
what happened was we just got a new
sound drop wait a second yeah there are
different interviews but yeah go to that
that totally different interview a
different time I don't know when that
took place but in the progressives you
have these wings AOC and her group on
one side it's like five people no it's
the progressive group it's more than the
4s it I'm a progressive all right so you
know this is a I mean I think there is
it's unclear what Lesley Stahl is saying
it all it is is that Lesley Stahl
doesn't understand that maybe something
she's when she says there's the
progressive group she could be saying
there the progressive caucus it's not
what she's saying like you know it's
unclear and but to say that it's like
five people in terms of AOC it is it's
rather reductive because AOC represents
a lot more people in the Democratic
Party at least her perspective on these
things than just the people in Queens
yeah and it's too early to really tell
what's going on with it the fact that
they have like five people is actually
really amazing considering the history
of politics in
the past few decades and it's trending
upwards well they always began the fact
that those five people are the most
national Democratic Congress people in
the country and but the other thing that
I would imagine an c-- pelosi knows is
that 80 some odd percent of Republicans
know who AOC is only 60% of Democrats
know who AOC is that she has an option
here and that is she can cut bait which
it seems like she's doing and saying
well I'm gonna allow the Republicans to
define her uh or she can try and
reorient the the conversation she also
may feel like she's the worst person to
do that because she's San Francisco
Nancy Pelosi so I I think that that's
also I mean Nancy Pelosi is one of the
first members of the old Progressive
Caucus which Sanders founded with I
think Barney Frank of all people right
and that was a process in the early 90s
of basically everywhere from you know
Sanders as a Social Democrat who was
totally marginalized and a couple dozen
people who particularly in the context
of that time even someone like Pelosi
was relatively speaking liberal compared
to the Clintons of the world so I think
she still I think that's what she's
doing is she's actually explicitly
saying I am the one to reconcile them
because I'm not a southern blue dog or
whatever and I'm also not this new thing
I'm a progressive and I think you know
she's kind of historically out of date
but I think that that's how she's
framing it I think that's a very
conscious triangulation within the party
that's a very charitable interpretation
I don't think it's charitable I think
it's years off I mean I think she's not
in the current historic moment but I
think she totally conceives it for self
is impressive I mean I think that she
that's and I mean to the extent I don't
even know whether how much that even
matters I just think yeah I mean and she
cut bait on AOC in the clip for sure but
I think she thinks she's in the
mainstream Democratic Party which she
might be that's a very well this is
backwards because I do think that she is
actually probably in the mainstream
aggressive a very loaded ideological
of where she's pivoting herself well I
think ideologically speaking she is
principal aussie is probably in the
center of the party the mistake is it
seems to me that she is dividing those
five people more than the Conservatives
and in the party and that is a mistake
because the energy even if the the
population is closer the Democratic
Party is closer to where she is in terms
of politics which I I think probably the
data would show but but who knows how to
measure these things even if it's that's
the case and I'm again I'm not sure on
an issue-by-issue basis but by Ana you
know the way that people perceive
themselves might be she's she's she's
whacking at the bees nest and I think in
a way that is unhelpful and I don't
think I understand well I mention of it
though like III talked to somebody a
couple of days ago who is you know
different age group problem certainly
does not identify as a socialist I would
say pretty left but is more like a Nancy
Pelosi type of person super pissed that
people like Pelosi don't have all Mars
back because of just like this is our
team and you're letting somebody take
out out that team that's and they
wouldn't like the way a OC was handled
in that interview purely on that's
exactly right items around that's what
I'm saying that's what I'm saying is
that I think she is mistaking where she
is ideologically for where the energy is
in the party right now and because she
probably represents the politics of
people who are not paying attention and
she's whacking the people who are paying
attention right now and I think that's
the problem with well or maybe she's
absolutely aware of all of these things
but she just needs to hold on to power
and that supersedes any sort of smart
electoral strategy or strategy to appeal
to the base or strategy to appeal to
people who don't normally vote because
there are a lot of them and I think that
that's more important like she there are
some things are more important than
helping the par
be healthy change with the times or win
elections and that's holding on to power
and status yeah it could be she's doing
that she's doing the thing that centrist
liberals do where they're like I'm the
real progressive and everyone to the
left of me is just crazy yeah and I
think I think that has been effective in
the past frankly but I just don't think
that it's gonna be effective this time I
think it's it's it's problematic this
time around
[Music]
