so Paul these are inserts interesting
times we happy they are
we have finally cost across the
threshold of of impeachment there was a
sense that this was I don't know I mean
I I guess this was to be expected I
think people anticipated it happening
earlier frankly just give me your broad
overview about like you know the the
timing of this does it matter that it's
maybe some people feel it's a little
late but certainly according to
reporting that I've seen it seems like
this was building since the August
recess yeah and there's an interesting
kind of dynamic going on within the
Democratic Party there was a good
article by Ryan groom and the intercept
talking about the sort of tensions
between the the more progressive members
and some of even even some moderates who
felt like they were getting increasing
pressure from their constituents that it
was really building that there was a lot
of frustration feeling like Democrats
were ineffectual and that was about not
just impeachment but a whole lot of
things that you know things like the
fact that we have not yet seen Donald
Trump's tax returns and the chairman of
the Ways and Means Committee seemed to
be sort of slow walking that whole
process there was this building sense
among Democratic voters that you know
you have this kind of lawless president
who is just refusing to respond to
subpoenas who was sort of walking all
over them and Democrats didn't seem to
be doing anything about it
and so that pressure was really building
I think and I think there was a lot of
grassroots organizing that was having an
effect of you know creating the sense
among Democratic members that their
constituents were not happy because
they're getting all those phone calls
and emails and people pressuring them
about it and so that sort of laid the
groundwork as that was building once you
had this story come out about this phone
call with the president of Ukraine it
just burst and it's interesting is when
we go back and look at this
and through the lens of history you're
going to see all these little signal
events I think one of the big ones was
the op-ed that was published in The
Washington Post the other day by a group
of Democratic freshmen who had been
among the holdouts they were there from
more moderate districts they're people
who have experience in either the
military or the intelligence community
and they came out and supported an
impeachment inquiry and you immediately
saw all of these reporters on Capitol
Hill using the phrase the dam has burst
that that really was kind of the final
straw that that once those people said
the you know those members who were
resistant before said okay now he's we
to support an inflation angry that was
really kind of the final straw and then
of course that was even before we saw
the whatever version of the transcript
that the White House actually released
which appears to be heavily redacted but
it's still incredibly and incriminating
and at that point you know there was
just no question anymore yeah I mean the
the it's it's interesting to me how the
this sort of the this was really one of
those things where Nancy Pelosi would
not get off the dime until it was almost
a hundred percent locked in and even
then there seems to be a tremendous
amount of reluctance which well how do
you explain that right I mean if because
I mean I I had a I have a different
opinion as to the efficacy of it
politically I certainly thought that the
necessity to do this for the sake
frankly of the country it may sound a
little corny it's not usually the way I
talk but you need to hold if you
couldn't hold donald trump to account i
don't know why we have impeachment i
don't know why i don't know who you
could but even if you put that aside for
a moment from from the the political
calculus that nancy pelosi was making
right presumably it was like these front
lines so-called front line democrats
they understand their districts better
than you do in brooklyn and so you know
we need to on
and protect them well when they come
back from from recess and say like we
got to do this cuz it's we're getting
hammered by this
why doesn't Nancy Pelosi sort of like go
full-on in why does she need to be
there's still a sense of like this is
being done sort of kicking and screaming
yeah you know I think that and I say
this is somebody who has great respect
for Pelosi and has written lots of
things complimentary toward her I think
that there's a there's a degree to which
she still thinks about a conception of
congressional politics that is no longer
true if you look over the last few
elections what we're seeing is that
where some elections are getting more
and more nationalized and so there have
been analyses that a political
scientists have done showing that the
the correlation between the presidential
vote in a current congressional district
and the vote for Congress is getting
more and more complete and so you know
20 30 years ago you had lots of members
who Democrats are got elected in
Republican districts and and vice versa
and you know you could as one of those
members you know set a more moderate
course be a little different from your
party and you'd be reward for it by your
constituents but that's really no longer
true we're now in a situation for a few
different reasons where people are
voters are seeing their own
congressional elections in their
districts in a national context and if
you think about it that makes perfect
sense you know if I am a Democrat and I
would prefer to have Democrats control
Congress but my congressman is a
Republican and I think he's a nice guy
should I vote for him or should I vote
for the Democrat because that'll make it
more likely that the Democrats will then
take over Congress well you know even if
he's maybe bringing home some things for
the district and you think is a good guy
it may actually makes more sense for you
to vote in a common national with a
national view and more and more voters
are thinking about it that way but I
think the Pelosi still sees day it sees
a lot more variation in in what members
of Congress can get away with or should
be able to get away with and
has become so focused on those on those
frontline members and sees them as the
key to to keeping a hold on the majority
and you know of course there's a degree
to which to which that's true
you know there's no question that that
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes is going to get
reelected and it's much more uncertain
for you know somebody who comes from a
marginal district where they're really
going to have to fight and it's going to
be close but there's a been a question
of the is that member going to win by
being more moderate are they going to
win because the Democratic Party as a
whole is more energized and so you know
this is the the same the argument that
we've been having for a while but as you
said even these frontline members they
went back to their districts and they
were getting an earful from constituents
saying why isn't this guy being
impeached yet and they were feeling the
pressure and they came back and said you
know we have to do this too so you know
there's a there's a kind of a national
dynamic - even to every congressional
race that I think has taken hold you
know the old saying was that all
politics is local well now it really
seems that all politics is national I
mean I think that is the case and you
know when I look back at when the
Democrats took the house for the last
two times I've taken the house one was
back in 2006
you'll recall and and that race was also
nationalized right the story of
corruption that sort of coalesced around
the idea that you know I think we like
to look back and think about it as the
war but I remember in real time that
being very very much about Mark Foley
and about the the the Republican
leadership in the house protecting a guy
who had been sort of predatory around
congressional pages to the point where I
think like the whip the Republican whip
went out I think he was from Buffalo at
the time went out for a press a press
briefing and surrounded himself with
young children so that they couldn't ask
questions about that and and that became
like a sort of a a national phenomenon
and of course I think at 20 18
all the the data points to people who
distanced themselves who who went after
Donald Trump even in these these purple
districts or even reddish districts did
much better running against Donald Trump
and this seems to me to be a like a
turnkey run against Donald Trump even if
you're in you know some congressional
seat in Iowa you're running against
Donald Trump because your opponent will
have taken a very explicit position on
whether Donald Trump should be held to
account and and you cited Ryan Grimm's
reporting and I think frankly everybody
seems to be citing this reporting he was
he has been on this sort of beat about
the the how democratic politics have
been playing out in the house for quite
some time he just wrote a book about it
as well and you know it's been
fascinating to watch this because as he
laid it out in a story that was more or
less I think reported out before Nancy
Pelosi decided to to pull the trigger on
impeachment that part of the dynamic was
a a fight between the moderates and the
so-called squad and and the freshman
Congress people who are not just more
you know progressive in some ways but
but more partisan which are which are
not necessarily the same things of
course and I just remember you know
Nancy Pelosi rolling out HR 1 which I
thought was a a pretty ambitious bill
and I could understand the theory behind
it but they also got bogged down and
going after illa hon Omar at that time
and nobody paid attention to HR 1 it was
all this story about the Democratic
leadership going after ill on Omar do
you think that in addition to all the
implications of that we're seeing with
impeachment that we're seeing a
fundamental shift in a dynamic within
the Democratic Party in the House you
know I I think it's possible and I think
there's probably a good deal of
resentment toward the squad and other
young members
you know come in and have a different
style of politics and get all this
attention and I'm sure that that members
who have been around for a while are
thinking you know how come I'm not you
know on TV every night and on the cover
of magazines and the number three
fundraiser in the Democratic caucus
I mean she's raised more money than just
about anybody in the caucus yeah so I
think that that has something to do with
it I think there's there's still you
know persist somewhat naive belief that
you know you often hear people say well
you know we just need to stick the
kitchen table issues and show the public
that we have good ideas that will
improve their lives and as you say you
know that's all good it's good to you
know think about those issues and lay
down things like HR 1 so that you know
what you want to do once you actually
have the chance but there's there's a
naive belief that that will actually get
you some kind of credit the people will
ever know but you know the reality is
that that that's going to pass by
without notice by most people but once
you have some kind of you know dramatic
intra-party conflict like you did with
with stuff about Ilan Omar that's going
to suck up all the attention because we
have a media system that is you know
that that goes toward conflict like moth
to a flame so so you know I I don't I
never really understand why professional
politicians think that they're going to
get any kind of agree of attention for
their you know substantive meaningful
important bills as I say like that's
something that that the Democratic Party
should do during this period but it's
mostly because they need to prepare
themselves for when they actually have
power so if you you know they've already
written HR 1 and has lots of nice
reforms in it and so you know if they
get a Democratic president elected and
they have control of Congress and that
is a ready to go on day one and that's
great but it's not going to get you a
whole lot of credit in the meantime so
you know those are I think that that's
in many ways people like like Ocasio
Cortes are much more in tune to
the way politics works now
and you know a lot in many ways for
better in some ways for worse but they
but they understand it and so that's
part of the reason why they get the
attention that they do we have about
four minutes left give me a sense of how
you think this should happen we don't
know exactly all the details about terms
of like timeline there's some talk by
Democrats this week that we should only
focus on Ukraine as opposed to the wide
litany of things that are impeachable
offenses by this president we we've
heard that basically the the multiple
committees will continue to work and
refer things to the judiciary which I
think cuts against that idea that it
would be just one issue but what do you
think optimally from your perspective
would be the best way to handle this
when would it end when would the vote
take place what would happen in between
well there's two things to consider one
is whether the process can actually
elicit facts that we don't already know
and it might I'm you know we've seen we
were learning more facts seemingly on an
hourly basis so there's not
consideration of what is it going to
take to actually to get a you know
everything we need to understand
although you know a lot of it we already
know I mean the president went on
television and admitted to his
impeachable conduct as did his lawyer so
so that's one part and the other part is
you know the reality is if this is the
this is a spectacle that you want to
create you want to be able to educate
the public you want them to understand
and you want to have something that will
that will be on television that they can
watch and so they can have the facts
laid out for them and there are a number
of different ways you can do that you
know they had talked about having a
select committee but it seems like
they've they've rejected that idea you
know one hopes it doesn't devolve into
the kind of you know series of
five-minute little grandstanding that we
see so often in committee hearings you'd
I think would be much better if you had
some kind of professional counsel who
was the one doing most of the
questioning because that always ends up
producing you know things that are more
fruitful but a big question is how much
is the administration going to Stonewall
are they going to refuse to
you to answer subpoenas when when the
committee issues them are they going to
refuse to answer questions once they get
there is it going to be like like Corey
Lewandowski every time we actually have
a witness testify I don't think we know
the answer to that question yet but the
the if they are as they are now seem to
be saying going they're going to
restrict this to just the Ukraine matter
well it seems like you could handle that
pretty quickly it didn't have to take
months and months I mean it's pretty
straightforward why would you want it
but why would you want to you know I
think the rationale that they're that
they have is that this is something that
it's easy for the public to understand
the misdeed is clear and therefore you
know we can just sort of get through
that and make our case without having to
bring in a whole bunch of stuff that
maybe you know we have to teach people
about other people or that maybe it
seems less clear to people thinks about
emoluments and self-dealing and we get
needed arguments about well you know was
the airforce actually going to go to his
resort I mean but they must have a
fundamental belief in that instance that
the real jeopardy is is basically that
the Democrats will burn themselves on
this I mean that's the only explanation
because otherwise I mean if you thought
the net benefit was for Democrats you
would I don't know drag this out until
July like you know congratulations
you're impeached and you're the
Republican nominee I think you're
exactly right and I think that it does
come down to that ties of lack of faith
the Republican approach this is just
shoot in every possible direction you
can and you never know what you might
hit and it's true because on the 8th
congressional investigation of Benghazi
was when they discovered that Hillary
Clinton had a private email server the
8th and but there's a feeling among a
lot of Democrats that you know we
shouldn't really that if we really tell
people what we really think they're not
going to like us and so we have to kind
of you know
be as gentle as possible and careful and
and if we're to you know if we are to
mean to trump them will be punished for
it if we're to progressive and what we
advocate will be punished for it so
there's this that is a kind of a
deep-seated affliction that the
Democratic Party has had for decades
that they they believe that the public
is always ready to punish them and ready
to reject them and I think that that's
that that you're going to see part of
that in in how they end up planning
these these impeachment hearings
all right well Paul Waldman I hope I
hope they they listen to us and not to
themselves appreciate a you tentative
thanks my pleasure
