[Music]
Las Vegas Nevada for the 2019 mass torts
a conference joining me now is Andy
Betterman he is the chair of the aaj
political action committee pack also an
attorney from the Washington DC area I
guess and so Andy first off let's start
with what is the aaj okay aaj is the
National Trial Lawyers Association
organization it's basically the National
Bar Association if you will of civil
trial lawyers who represent plaintiffs
and their claims for compensation for
all manner of injury but especially
personal injury against individuals
corporations government and so on so aaj
stands excuse me for the American
Association for justice that's what aaj
is I'm chair of the I'm the volunteer
chair of the political action committee
and like most organizations in America
we also have a political action
committee which is the only non partisan
political action committee in the United
States dedicated to the preservation of
the civil justice system in other words
we keep the courthouse doors open for
every American right and you know that's
one of the themes obviously of why I've
been coming here is because because of
that function like why is that important
and you know what like what does that
mean the courthouse doors that open ade
let's just start with why that's
important and then we'll get to the ways
that that metaphorical door is sort of
shut it's very important because the
founders of our country contemplated and
in in fact designed a system in which
every citizen had equal access to the
courts and to the rule of law regardless
of their financial position and life and
that's what we do I mean we when I say
we keep the courthouse doors open
plaintiffs lawyers like myself and those
in aaj do not charge a fee when a client
hires us we are paying on what's called
a contingent fee basis which means we
get paid if and when the case resolves
favorably for our
and that to me is the great leveler
because it used to be that you people
thought they'd have to have thousands of
dollars to pay a retainer to an attorney
take a legal representation with a
contingent fee which has been around
least 50 years if not longer
you don't need that oh yeah all you need
is a meritorious case and an attorney is
willing to take it and you'll have
access to the courts just like Exxon
Mobil just like AT&T and okay so how
does the the doors these metaphorical
doors how do they get shot
that's a good question they get shut for
the most part legislatively and there
has been an effort again throughout my
40 years at the bar in an effort by
business and industry to do just that
by legislation so to give you an example
a common a common law that's passed has
been passed in many states but not yet
federally is a cap on damages which is
advocate has been advocated for for a
generation by business and industry and
a cap on damages does just that it
places a limit on the on the amount of
money a victim can recover for what's
called non-economic loss which is injury
to your basically your injury and your
pain and suffering so for instance in a
state like Maryland where I practice we
have a cap that 30 years ago you know
which was under a hundred thousand
dollars and has been escalated to about
a million dollars but we still have a
cap
some states have caps that are two
hundred fifty thousand dollars so I've
had cases where people have been
horribly burned and the most that they
can recover for their injury not for
their economic loss medical expenses
lost wages and have you but the most can
recover for their injury and their scar
if you will is about a million dollars
when the case is worth far more than
that and and so you know and we have
many examples you know people can go
back and listen to the the
the probably at this point dozens of
interviews I've done with attorneys here
yes where corporations will cut corners
they will they will I mean almost that's
the best-case scenario when we're
talking about these cases they'll cut
corners and think they can think it
won't be a problem certain amount of
negligence there's also cases where like
they know this product is going to hurt
people but they've invested too much in
the marketing they've invested too much
in the development they need to it you
know they need to create shareholder
value they go forward and they make a
calculation yes I do we may have to pay
out X amount of dollars I do but that's
going to be 10% 5% 2% maybe 25 percent
of our profits and so caps at that point
do two things right right one it
basically it makes it less viable for an
attorney to bring the case because you
need an enormous amount of money to
fight an exon or a DuPont or whatever it
is so you need to you need to have built
a war chest or gotten a line of credit
or whatnot and it also undercuts the
functioning of what of civil litigation
as a sort of second order regulation yes
right it doesn't turn hibbett as a
deterrent yes and and and so that's why
they why caps exist on some levels so
there is no deterrent to this type of it
and in fact a cap in many cases is a
disincentive to the corporation or the
whoever that whoever the defendant is
the person or the corporation that
you've made claim against it's a
disincentive to them to settle because
they know that they go to trial and a
jury finds for the plaintiff and is
empathetic to the plaintiff and awards a
lot of money that most of it will be
taken away to the extent that the award
exceeds the cap so it's really it's a
disincentive to them to roll the dice in
states where there aren't caps and
you'll find that many defendants come to
the settlement table much more readily
and freely than they do in states where
there are caps
do you does does the aaj pack do you do
work on this on a state level or is it
is it's a good question we only we raise
money for federal races for the Congress
the House the Senate and the presidency
so and we help identify candidates who
share our views about the court system
about equal access to the courts and
then we help them win election to office
and if they do then we know where they
stand on our issues right we know where
they stand on our issues in the last
election we raised over six million
dollars we supported two hundred ninety
nine candidates for office eighty-five
percent of them won election and we were
instrumental in the election of the 40
members of the House the 40 seats in the
House that flipped from the GOP to the
Democrats and and hence placed speaker
Pelosi in the Speaker's chair and
removed speaker Ryan from the chair now
Andy I I know you're a nonpartisan group
I'm going to guess though that Democrats
tend to share your perspective more than
Republican we are a nonpartisan group
but practically speaking most of the
candidates and we support members of the
Democratic Party there are some
Republicans who share our views and if
there are then the weak gladly support
them give you an example Senator Lindsey
Graham is a great friend of the court
system
I've got nothing in common with them
right and I really and in no way do I
support him but he is the senator from
South Carolina he's not going anywhere
but he has a guaranteed vote for us
because he used to be a trial lawyer and
he understands the system and shares our
views what what what our recent what
what has been the the most significant
threat to the ability to bring cases in
in recent years has it been legislative
legislation has it been
executive action or has it been frankly
just a judiciary that is been it seems
to me concerns too overwhelmed by by
conservative justice yeah I think it's
legislation myself
I mean judges or judges will be judges
they'll make decisions and they have
tremendous power in our system executive
orders less so legislation
I mean aaj which maintains a lobby staff
as well
last year dealt with in the last session
of Congress addressed 700 over 700 tort
reform 700 measures designed to close
the courthouse doors if you will or one
of them seeks to impose a $250,000
national cap on non-economic or pain and
suffering damages regulate attorneys
fees which would then basically
basically be a disincentive to attorneys
to take cases if they can't make what
they need to make when the case resolves
to justify the investment of their their
time and money in a case there are there
was a bill in the last session that mean
the most salient ones were the one to
impose a national cap regulate attorneys
fees and that would apply to medical
malpractice nursing home and
pharmaceutical or bad drug and bad
medical device cases there was a bill to
make it most of these cases are filed
and sort of what sort of like a class
action it's not it's called an MDL but
there was a bill that would make
basically mandate that within 45 days of
filing your case you have to file with
the court proof that you're going to win
without the benefit of civil discovery
or information exchange personally
impossible to do so these multi district
litigation cases so that's where and
we were talking to someone yeah on
yesterday's program about a case
involving three MS earplugs earplugs
that they sold to the the military there
are cases of damages probably of
military personnel all across the
country yes instead of all those issues
being litigated in each state they're
wrapped up in federal court and they're
actually going to be tried in Pensacola
in this in this instance they could end
up in any jurisdiction and so I have two
questions on that legislation so one is
that how do you if you could prove the
case in 45 days why wouldn't you just
prove the case in 45 days because you
can't because as you know in our system
of civil litigation right the plaintiff
files a complaint that the defendant
files an answer then you begin what's
really a beautiful process called civil
discovery and the purpose of that is to
literally allow each side to actually
discover the other side's evidence and
there a number of tools written
questions document production requests
and depositions what you've seen on many
many of your listeners they're probably
seen on television right you know where
the witness is sworn under oath and and
and and has asked questions by by the
other attorney right and that's a
lengthy process and particularly in
complex civil cases against large
corporations it takes months if not
years to complete discovery and
typically at the end of discovery
then if the other side feels that it's
not liable it's going to file a motion
to dismiss right which the judge has n
decides under this this measure which
has not become law right
you would have to a lawyer who files a
case would have to file prima facie
proof which is about 51 percent right
that that the defendant is liable within
45 days of filing and that's virtually
impossible III mean you know so it's a
way to just it's another way to close
the door right so eliminate eliminate
plaintiffs and slam the door shut so and
with that with that legislation
basically say that there should not be
discovery essentially or that's a
practical side right okay because in
understand that what a company you know
and just for example Mike Papantonio who
from Levin Papantonio obviously used to
do ring a fire with me and he still hops
on maybe get him this week here but he
does a case against DuPont over the CA
and they basically back up an 18-wheeler
with millions of pages of documents and
say good luck and you know it comes from
a firm that's a big firm that has a lot
of money as a lot of resources has a lot
of staff and they actually went through
the documents and found documents that
even the the 3m lawyers didn't realize
we're there and that's how this guy wins
the case the idea that you could do that
process in 45 days is absolutely absurd
okay it still is impossible so clearly
that that you know that's basically a
poison pill for what why specifically
MDL zwei Moto's that's because that's
the venue that's where all the bad drug
cases and the medical device cases end
up and they're they're all it's really I
mean MDL was is a met is a tool that the
court system has to make it easier to
handle large numbers of cases it's like
a class action and in a class action
each victim has to have the same each
victim had to suffer the same injury as
a result of the same act by the same
defendant right and if if you are such a
victim and the class is filed and you
can opt into the class and you can get
your share of whatever the ultimate
award is without having to litigate your
case and the reason that the class
actions are not used in bad drug cases
is because in bad drug cases that there
may be common liability among all the
defendants in other words the same
evidence approves the defendants liable
to you which prove the defendants liable
to me but the victims have different
injuries okay varying degrees I take a
medicine that's been tainted with jet
fuel let's say to use an example that we
may end up have
conversation about while we're here and
the company that produced that that
medicine did the same act that got that
medicine into your bottle in my BOB
right but for me it gives me colon
cancer right for you it gives you you
know a headache gives you a headache or
but it but gives you maybe some type of
like collided different injury rent
injury and so there's uh and that's when
you you would need a multidistrict right
the multidistrict case which really is
is where all of these all of the cases
that that we talked about at this
conference and uh virtually all of them
end up in a multi district litigation
then you have the the liability issue
which is common to all the victims is
handled commonly and once for the
benefit of all the victims right but the
injury part of the claim is obviously
they're different from they vary from
victim to victim and they have to be
handled individually and so they set up
basically an algorithm right well
ultimately I mean if the case resolves I
set up a master you know matrix if you
will that's used to determine who's
entitled to compensation and to what
extent but this measure which was
introduced in the Congress right which
was probably probably hatched at Big
Pharma or the Chamber of Commerce or
both right would essentially close that
door because no one can really produce
prima facie proof than 45 days it's
impossible what's the biggest piece of
legislation that is actually passed that
there has there been any no there really
hasn't and I have to say largely because
of mostly on state levels yeah see this
right federally right friendly there's
been very little significant torn form
legislation in the last decade and
that's largely because of aaj now I
would say the most damaging thing I mean
there was a court decision about
mandatory arbitration right was that
concepción and ATT or is any believe so
and we're fighting fighting to overrule
that legislatively that's probably the
biggest the biggest bad thing that's
happened is forced arbitration but none
of these other measures have passed
there's no national cap
the court sister the courthouse doors
are still open right there still MDL s
but there's a lot of time and energy and
money that's been invested and will
continue to be invested by business in
America to close those doors and it's a
drumbeat that I've been hearing
I've been practicing law since 1978 and
I've been hearing this non-stop since
then and and and they've used many
tactics ranging from like the story you
know we I don't know maybe it was four
or five years ago now
I had a documentary filmmaker on who was
here who had done a documentary on the
famous hot coffee games from McDonald's
right which was lampooned when the but
it turned out she liked when people hear
the details it's pretty nice yes and
that's been an ongoing and what does aaj
do in terms of like on from a cultural
perspective right because there's a you
know there's there's theories out there
that legislation and politics are
downstream from culture yeah trial
lawyers I mean you call yourself plain
my attorney
you know because trial lawyers right
been maligned and it's a unfairly III I
mean I I couldn't agree more but there
was a specific agenda behind that right
so the best of what we do is educate as
best we can and we tell our members you
know aaj sort of the mother organization
of all the state trial lawyer
associations each state has one and AJ
sort of the the mothership if you will
and we work closely with the state
organizations and for you know for a
long time we've been trying to educate
people on the state level but the best
education is for when is when a doubter
is suddenly a victim right well you know
and once a doubter is a victim then the
doubter looks at things dramatically
differently president Trump for instance
you know I was just in speaking in the
in the session there about the work of
the pack and I always talk about
President Trump who loves to litigate
when it suits his needs right when it
doesn't suit his needs he hates lawyers
hates the court system so but he's an
example of a guy who who knows that when
the doors are open for an individual and
that individual needs him open it's good
what would you say do you have a sense
of which state is the most hostile to
civil litigation there are a number of
states that have $250,000 caps I can't
take I can't tell you the names right
now they tend to be States I mean the
states that are more hostile tend to be
more rural right
the smaller populations and a history of
real real conservatism Oh interesting
the other state like Arizona where the
right there's never been a there was I
believe there was a cap there that was
held invalid by the state's High Court
because it contradicted the States
Constitution which guarantees everybody
equal access to the courts interesting
that's and that's unusual for that state
which has a history of conservatism and
that's a good dynamic that the court
would interpret I mean it's almost like
a poll-tax right yeah in some respects
as applied to the opportunity to to have
recourse in civil litigation all right
well just other so let me just ask you
this
I'm curious you've been practicing for
since 1978 has the behavior of corporate
America changed significantly during
that time or has this been is this a
consistent animal that essentially each
new endeavor there's going to be a
certain percentage of them that are
willing to cut corners or to just naked
Li ignore evidence that they have and
are aware of that their product could be
damaging for example has that changed at
all one way or another yes and yes it's
I mean I think that I think change on a
national level is an incremental slow
process just like legislation is but I
think some corporations have changed
your behavior but I think the vast
majority have not and and and and what a
corporation might have to pay victims
right because of the failure of a
product really hasn't changed at all I
think it just just remains a an economic
calculation for them
especially in the pharmaceutical
industry you know where the development
costs are high understandably I just
think they factor it in that's all you
know a certain number of people are
going to are going to in a bottle -
they've invested so much money in the
development of a product that they're
gonna do whatever they can do to keep
that product on the market and if they
know or should know that there's going
to be a problem with the product they're
just going to factor the cost of that in
into the again - the cost of the
product that's simple so things haven't
changed that much in my opinion what has
changed is the frequency with which they
have to move with which they're called
to account and ultimately have to pay
it's not yeah I think that's changed
dramatically that gotten up or it's
increased yes I think you see it a lot
more is that because just this level of
sophistication of those are the
plaintiff terms because of the
plaintiffs bar because of what
plaintiff's trial lawyers do you know we
keep America safe and if it's not safe
we keep the courthouse doors open for
you well Andrew Bederman
the director of their chair I should say
the aaj political action committee
thanks so much for your time thank you I
appreciate it
