as a rule Friday that means Monday is
casual Monday Tuesday casual Tuesday
Wednesday casual hump day Thursday
casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat gommage Rd report
with sam c de it is Friday October 18th
2019 my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we're broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks
things are not casual around here crazy
week of news on the program today we're
going to start with a interview with
Eric Blanc who's gonna give us an update
on what's happening with the Chicago
Teachers strike and with us all day will
be no Mickey Const
in the meantime Mick Mulvaney admits
quid pro quo wait a second did I say
that out loud
meanwhile after a rigorous search Trump
administration awards his hotel the g7
hosting rights meanwhile air Dewan
manhandles Trump and Kurds will pay
speaking of pay pay fifty billion dollar
settlement of the opioid case may be in
the offing the New York City Council
votes to close Rikers
but then build four new jails meanwhile
Rick Perry to resign and congratulations
September 2019 was the hottest ever in
North America
the Republicans most vulnerable senators
are losing ground very disturbing CDC
report suicide rates of 10 to 14 year
old children have increased three times
in the past ten years all this and more
on today's program ladies and gentlemen
we've got a lot to get to today so much
news I have really not been able to
sleep for the past like week because of
just the constant barrage of news but
joining me today
Michael is ill joining sadly but but
fortunately and Noemi was coming into
studio anyways so we're talking time
Jess thanks Michael exactly exactly
before we get into stuff and before we
get to Erick block a little bit of
housecleaning we have some great news
ladies and gentlemen right now if you
are go if you go to your App Store
whether you are iOS or Android or you
can just go to majority app comm for the
links you will find a new updated
majority report app on that app not only
will you have the ability to search our
entire set of shows you also have the
ability to download shows I'm getting in
the subway I don't get i can't stream it
okay
download it and then you look in the
menu it's in your downloads folder and
then you can also get rid of it there's
also obviously all the links to support
the show and do bababa but also on that
show lays on the app I'm holding here in
my hand
you go to am am queue so not only can
you get the majority report live right
now we're live as you can see live now
shows up on the app gives you the
opportunity to call or you can go look
at the YouTube show or you can play the
show that's gonna be weird
yeah there you go
yeah it's creepy and or you can just
call into the show and you can message
at the bottom the show down there and
then if you go to the podcast obviously
has all the podcasts as you can see I'm
a member of the show so I get the member
version and then Oh what's this AM Q
what the heck is that
oh wait that's the majority part live
wait a second sorry so easy
that's the AM quickie is available right
there on the app so you can either
subscribe of course the aim quickie and
other places but so there it is all in
one place we're gonna add the link to
the Instagram account as well on that
app we but we don't have it up yet just
occurs to me we need to do that you got
to check out the Instagram are we have a
huge supercomputer that uses artificial
intelligence and puts up all the the
best content that you could possibly
want on the Instagram feed we have one
Joe Biden taking a selfie and not quite
figuring out how you supposed to hold
the phone but this is that yeah no I
think the teeth were in on that one
alright so let's just start here this I
mean any one of the top four stories I
have here we could spend an entire show
on but we don't have the ability to do
that yesterday the Trump administration
announced that they had struck the deal
of a lifetime with Turkey at this is
after releasing the letter that looked
like it was written by an eight-year-old
and supposedly showing how tough Donald
Trump was here he is making the
announcement about the supposed
ceasefire within moments after this
turkey made it clear this is not a
ceasefire it's just a pause and it's
basically
what what this amounts to is basically
saying like look you got five days to go
we're going to you either ethnically
cleanse this area the easy way or we're
gonna do it the hard way and that's
basically what turkey is saying and
Donald Trump is announcing this as if it
is some type of huge feat of disp Lomas
II he waived essentially Turkey in
Turkey is a NATO affiliate I mean a
signed member of NATO and the idea that
the United States wouldn't have the
ability to say to to Turkey no you're
not doing this and it didn't have the
leverage is of course absurd but here's
Donald Trump trying to spin this in some
way and nobody seems to be buying it I
mean I imagined the people who don't
care about it at all buy it some of his
supporters but nobody seems to be buying
this but this is an incredible outcome
this outcome is something they've been
trying to get for 10 years everybody and
they couldn't get it other
administration's and they never would
have been able to get it unless you went
somewhat unconventional I guess I'm an
unconventional person I took a lot of
heat from a lot of people even some of
the people of my own party but they were
there in the end they were there they're
all there look this is about the nation
this isn't about Republicans or
Democrats this is about our nation so we
have a five-day ceasefire during that
five days the Kurds and other people
that could be taking great care of
they're going to be moving around moving
out of a safe zone which is something
that turkey has always wanted the Isis
they call them dice but we call them
Isis the Isis fighters that we have
captured they'll be under very very
strict control of various different
groups but we will be watching we will
be in charge and he also went on and we
did part of the clip also where he
basically says the turkey the Turks need
to go in there and cleanse it I mean
that is I mean literally says the word
cleanse and I thought that was the clip
that we had there but
I think it was just a different part of
of what Trump is saying there but it's
stunning so he knows enough to use the
word cleanse this is why when people say
oh he's an idiot he doesn't know he
knows he's theirs he's like he has
enough information there to use it the
wrong way
dangerous with it and I mean would
somebody somebody could have like
literally it could have been one of the
you know the the Senators who have a
problem with this come in and say you
realized you're basically the the Turks
are going in there to ethnically cleanse
this area and he probably just stuck in
his head and then regurgitates it but
this is I mean we're on the brink of a a
massive disaster now the the Kurds have
been sold out by this country mm-hmm
I mean I don't know when the first time
was but I know it goes back at least
until like the Kissinger era where the
Kurds were used where the Iranians used
the Kurds I think on Iraq and then when
Saddam basically toed the line we then
sold out the Kurds to to Saddam and then
George Herbert Walker Bush said rise up
in the north of Iraq and we'll be there
for you and we weren't it's it's a
horror show I mean I don't know what the
the the solution is in terms of the you
know but this is but we're on the brink
I think of a another humanitarian
catastrophe and I don't know I mean look
the the Syrian civil war was one that we
couldn't I think in my estimation do
anything to improve the situation but
this is one which I think we caused do
we have that clip of him saying
cleansing all right here it is 22 mile
strip and for many many years turkey and
all fairness they've had a legitimate
problem with it they had terrorists they
had a lot of people in there that they
couldn't have they've suffered a lot of
loss of lives also
and they had to have it cleaned out but
once you start that it gets to be to a
point where a tremendous amount of bad
things can happen so a process started
and we started to negotiate and I think
that obviously the sanctions and tariffs
were going to be very biting I'm glad we
don't have to do it we'll be taking them
off very quickly as soon as this is
finalized but this is an incredible
outcome this so in other words you can
go in there give us five days to get as
many of those people out then go ahead
we're gonna lift the sanctions there's a
lot of people who are are I mean there's
two different theories here right one is
that there's some type of payoff
situation which wouldn't be that
terribly strange knowing Donald Trump's
modus operandi the other is he just got
rolled by erawan and was literally just
too intimidated to do anything do you
think that or I don't know which one I
believe but but it had to have been one
of those two things I mean either either
there is some type of leverage being
exercised on Trump right by you know
someone's giving him this idea to do
someone is definitely doing it is it
arrow on or is it who benefits from
global destabilization and NATO well you
know I think we right I mean you know
look the I don't II Russia's not upset
about this let's put it that way
obviously but it could just be that air
Dewan just sort of muscled him in it
could be that like oh he has a hotel
there but the idea that there is some
type of like policy prescription here
that he is thought out or that his
people have thought out or the idea that
he thinks his people who vote for him
are really that heavily invested in
those you know several hundred US
military personnel who were going to
leave Syria I mean you never want to
minimize any sort of presence military
presence but it's it's pretty small and
they were basically on a peacekeeping
mission exactly I mean so of all the
things that places you could pull our
military
it means it was a it was a combat
theatre but there but they were not they
were not actively engaged in combat I
mean it's hard to come up with an answer
that people would get it is fun to hear
him talk about it like he's a goddamn
game show host though we made a you will
not be advancing to the next round
bye-bye
it's very funny not hey
today's show is sponsored by babel
battles gonna get you speaking a new
language quickly and with confidence you
can choose from 14 different languages
you want to hear the way here it is yeah
well you can learn Turkish they can
teach you Turkish at Babel German
Spanish French Italian Portuguese
Swedish Dutch Turkish polish Indonesian
Russian Danish Norwegian and English
no Greek sorry Turkish and not Greek
what is this no wonder I can't learn
Greek still after 35 years well but now
you have the opportunity to learn
fourteen other languages and the thing
about Babel is that their lessons are
created by over a hundred language
experts real people not by translation
machines not by artificial intelligence
the lessons are engaging and convenient
they last only 10 to 15 minutes and you
can learn through interactive dialogues
so you perfect your pronunciation and
accent Babel is available as an app or
online your progress syncs across all
devices if you want in on the
competition that we're gonna launch very
shortly with Babel amongst everybody in
the office and speak their language
quick it could tell me about this
Michael is gonna learn Portuguese
supposedly it's Brazilian Portuguese
I'm going for Spanish myself I think
Jamie's going Spanish and I would
imagine I have a bit of a head start but
in order for me to actually do this it
should probably be Spanish yeah and I
would like to improve my other German Oh
French so is this is is the competition
like how much progress you make because
if you have a base how good you speak
yeah I know that's we gotta figure out
some some
I mean very qualitative on this well and
as you listen to this show Babel has a
special offer for you go to babble
dot-com and select the language your
choice once you try it for free and then
are ready to sign up select the three
month option and babble will give you
another three months free with the promo
code majority that's six months for the
cost of three with promo code majority
go to babble ba BB e l.com and to promo
code majority babble speak a new
language with confidence and this is one
of my favorite our advertisers I used
these guys quite a bit actually we've
talked about grove dot co its grove dot
co not calm co it's got healthy
plant-based non-toxic cleaning products
ones that work the good ones are
actually enjoyable to use and sometimes
it's hard to know which products to
trust trust that's where Glick Grove
collaborative comes in Grove
collaborative is the online marketplace
that delivers all-natural home
beauty and personal care products
directly to you very convenient
they offer reoccurring shipments - so
you're always stocked with your favorite
brands like for me seventh generation
yeah I mean they have others but seventh
generation is the one because I'm very
sensitive to smell and so I get the Hat
seventh generation soap hand soap as you
can see we have it in all of our hand
washing places here you can join over a
half a million families who trust the
Grove collaborative to make their homes
happier and healthier plus shipping is
fast and free on your first order so the
service trade deal I have to say my mom
just did this my mom renovated her life
and got rid of like every chemical in
her house and I walked in and it was was
I was like you must've spent a fortune
and doing this myself Whole Foods
whatever it's a really good deal yeah
this is a it's the stuff is it's ink
it's convenient and then there's new
stuff that you find on
that that I use but for me seventh
generation I got it for my dish soap I
got it for my hand soap they've got the
the spray cleaners and they had these
actually these they're your own little
concoctions that they make I don't know
how to do but it's a no it's a spray
bottle and then you they have a
concentrate and you put the water in and
you have a spray bottle and it's you
know kids around if you got pets it it
makes you feel a little bit safer not to
have all those chemicals and for a
limited time when my listeners go to
grove dot co slash majority you will get
a free five piece fall gift set from
mrs. Myers and grove free shipping and a
free 60 day VIP trial for a limited time
only you can choose from the best
selling fall sense like apple cider
acorn spice mom and pumpkin spice simply
go to grove dot co slash majority all
right we're gonna take quick break when
we come back Eric Blanc will discuss the
Chicago teachers strike with no me and
myself we'll be right back after this
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the author
of red state revolt a book on the
teacher strikes that took place last
year I think it was now I can't time is
completely dilated for me he's also a
former high school teacher and a writer
for Jacobin Eric block welcome back to
the show yeah thanks for having me out
again so Eric you're in Chicago just
give us the broad strokes of what's
happening with this strike and and
people should know for context this is
the second strike that they the Chicago
Teachers Union has gone on since I think
the first one was in 2011 if I'm not
mistaken yes so the first strike really
that broke the labor movement refusal to
withhold its labor for a long time and
really started turning the tide on
corporate education reform was the
Chicago Teachers strike of 2012 actually
so only seven years ago and in that time
we've really seen a sea change most
recently with the spread of the teacher
strikes but what you see now in Chicago
is not only the teachers striking this
time but it's also the school staff
personnel in local 73 which is SEIU
affiliate so you have teachers together
with school workers on strike today is
day two of their strike and really this
is in some ways an offensive strike
which is to say that it's to roll back
all of the budget cuts and understaffing
and real deterioration of conditions
that have been imposed upon both
students and teachers over the last
decades in Chicago so the demands for
the teachers are primarily around things
like lower class sizes demanding nurse
in every school a counselor you know
real quality of education type demands
and then for the school workers for them
a lot of them are making poverty wages
they're working two three jobs for them
it really is not just about better
conditions but they need better pace
just so they can survive and stay in
Chicago
the one of the things that I think that
really sort of came out of the the 2012
strike was a I guess a widening sense or
understanding of the concept of social
justice unionism as opposed to the
managerial unionism and there's been a
lot of like I mean since that time I
imagine it was and maybe that's just
when I became more conscious of it but
we've seen that spread particularly in
the context of teachers unions in
particular and and and not even unions
in some of those states that you that
you wrote about in red state revolt but
just give us a sense of like you know
what that means in the context of a
teachers strike right the slogan that
Chicago coined in 2012 one which is
again the slogan and which has spread
really across the country now is we're
fighting for the schools that our
students deserve and so the framing and
the demands of the strike aren't limited
to just getting better pay for teachers
and they're not limited just to getting
better conditions for teachers the idea
is that in order to win against such
powerful enemies because we're talking
about just about the Democratic
establishment but the big business
interests that stand behind them and
that are profiting off of privatization
and I don't want to see their taxes go
up in order to pay for good schools you
know so if you're going up against such
powerful opponents you need to roll deep
you know you need to bring in the
community you need to bring in parents
you need to bring in students and that's
really what Chicago in 2012 and since
and again now with the strike has shown
is that if you can make this about the
working class as a whole because really
that's what we're talking about the
whole city you can't walk around Chicago
right now without seeing almost done you
know every couple blocks you'll see
educators picketing together with
students and parents keep bringing all
of working people in the city then
you're a lot stronger and so really this
is a type of model of unionism that used
to exist it's not really new it's what
the labor movement was founded on in the
you know 1930s and earlier the labor
movement
thought not only for its members but for
working people general that's one of the
reasons why I had so much support but
for reasons having to do with the
institutionalization of the labor
movement that kind of broader working
class struggle got lost and so what's so
exciting about the strikes in Chicago
and then you know West Virginia Los
Angeles in recent period that it's
bringing back that fight for social
justice what's called bargaining for the
common good and you know it works and
that's why it's spreading do you have a
sense of how the the teachers I mean
because in in the context of this type
of strike but also this kind of unionism
like the work is done right before the
strike I mean these relationships are
forged before the strike the Solidarity
is created over time through and I guess
my question is like through what like
what do you have a sense of what from
talking to the Union folks there what
they learned in 2012 and what how they
the lessons they took and what they went
and started doing in terms of like
broadening and deepening their reach and
their relationships around the city so
to have that wider sense of support I
mean the first thing that comes to mind
obviously is that they're they're
striking this time with all the other
school employees what else is indicative
or what else have you learned that
they've done during that time that that
is sort of like pursued that goal more
right so as you alluded to teachers you
know not unlike some other professions
like nursing or other workers have
because of the nature of their job
organic links with broader sectors of
the population so that does give a lot
of potential leverage for making
connections in a way that isn't always
the case for all workers but there's
nothing inevitable about that you know
for decades teacher union just fought
for the most part for better pay if they
fought at all and so what you've seen in
CTU in 2012 and again just to talk about
right now
part of the way they want over parents
is through the demands and so because
what they're fighting for are things
like a nurse in every school or
counselor or smaller class sizes it's
very easy to make the case that in fact
teachers aren't walking out on their
students but they're walking out for
them and for parents who you know
understandably this is not an easy thing
to deal with you know having school
shutdown creates a crisis for
working-class folks in any city because
where do you send your kids what do you
do you know it's the sacrifice but if
you are fighting on behalf of their
students clearly not just in rhetoric
but in the demand that you're insisting
on winning from the city then becomes
clear what the sticks are and why the
broader community should support and
then even then it's not inevitable you
know you can raise the demand but you
have to do a lot of work you have to do
a lot of outreach meetings with parents
a lot of one-on-one discussions at the
school sites that's the sort of
behind-the-scenes organizing that gets
lost in you know the really brief
accounts of the strife it makes it seem
like they just pop off but in fact it
takes a lot of work just like any
organizing Drive what are they doing in
terms of I mean I think I saw online
bread for Edie and what are they doing
in terms of like oh there's a lot of
public school kids who get their lunch
at school and that because they qualify
for free lunch or you know hopefully and
I'm not sure what the story is in
Chicago I know they do this in New York
now free lunch for everybody so that
there's no stigma associated with it
what would what is the Union doing in
terms of like material help for parents
and for students during the course of
the strike that are that that you know
the when they're dealing with issues
that are a function of the strike yeah
so well one of the things that the Union
has been is made the picket lines very
inviting and supportive for both
students and parents and part of that is
having a lot of food and a lot of
singing and a lot of act
so that people will spend all day and
it's not very warm out right now so
spend all day you know under forty
degrees it's not an easy ask but you
know when you have that kind of
proactive approach to getting folks out
to the picket lines it's easier the
bread for Edie initiative actually came
from the Chicago branch of the
Democratic socialists of America which
had done a similar initiative in Los
Angeles with tacos for teachers in the
Oakland strike we'd also called bread
for Edie and so now there's a pretty
strong tradition of Democratic
socialists taking the lead locally to
raise funds we're talking tens of
thousands of dollars in past strikes
there's even hundreds of thousands of
dollars to raise money for food for
students who need it and you know it's
that type of solidarity that's really
important because if we can make the
case to working people and I think they
have shown that in Chicago that this is
their struggle if the educators win we
all win that requires a lot of effort of
Keena egg requires providing food it
requires providing all the types of
support needed so that students have
some sort of option when the strike is
happening well what's your sense of I
mean do you do does anybody there have a
sense of how long the strike is gonna go
on I mean is it are how much are people
hunkering down I guess yeah that's a
good question I mean I think there is
not any sense that this is gonna end
very soon you never know but the mayor
is really to the surprise of many people
playing hardball and the reason I say
that is that mayor Lightfoot ran on a
progressive education platform you know
it's almost like she copied and pasted
the teacher unions demands
you know it's what she ran on and so the
fact that there's a strike at all and
then now that the mayor is pleading
poverty despite having run on this
platform and the fact that there's
actually a over a billion dollars more
nearly funds for Chicago schools so the
money is there even though she's trying
to claim it's not so given that you know
we could see this dragged on for a
little while my my sense
is that the mayor's gonna get a lot more
pressure to cede to the demands of
teachers and for the most part the you
know the polls show and just walking
around the city shows that the public is
backing educators so really the pressure
is increasing and will continue to
increase on the mayor to settle lastly
at least from a report or report Oriole
perspective is there's anything going on
there that you think we should know that
we haven't talked about at this point I
got one more question after that but
that's a little bit less about what's
going on specifically in Chicago well I
mean I think one of the aspects that I
touched on but it's just worth
underlining is how important it is that
this is a strike not just of the
teachers union CTU but also of local 73
of the universe represent the special
education classroom assistants the
custodians you know bus drivers things
like that and the reason that's
important is that unlike a lot of
strikes including that some of the
recent ones this is a strike of all
school workers and it gives it a level
of power to shut down the schools that
is really important and it's also
there's a racial justice aspect to this
because overwhelmingly the support staff
are black and brown overwhelmingly
female and so this strike this time is
about racial justice not just in the
sense that it's supporting black and
brown students but because there's pack
and pound workers who are taking the
lead by taking this risk and a lot of
them you know are making poverty wages
as I mentioned before and for them going
without pay over you know even just a
couple days is not an easy act so I
think that you know it's just worth
highlighting that aspect of the story
because it's not just the teachers
strike okay so lastly you know you
literally wrote the book on on the
teacher strikes that that took place
over the past year or so in in rather
unlikely places at least in terms of the
you know organizing or I should say you
know institutionalized unions and in in
to a certain extent there there was a
sense I think with those strikes that
Chicago had set the template it you know
on some level
and it wasn't necessarily the the
inspiration at least not directly right
because there's a five or six year lag
in between there but do you think that
this that that this second Chicago
strike will have a similar and/or
greater impact on other teachers unions
or just teachers around the country
because it does feel like they the this
is a more offensive strike as you said
to open it up as opposed to back in 2012
I think they were reacting to Rahm
Emanuel I want to shut down 50 schools
and in abandoning you know all but
abandoning some of the operating schools
give me your sense of whether you think
this will impact other teachers around
the country definitely well the first
thing to say is that the 2012 strike did
have a real demonstrable impact on the
more recent strike upsurge not not
necessarily for that teachers as a whole
but for the small groups of activists
that actually initiated these strikes
many of them were Democratic socialists
they started their organizing by
studying the Chicago strike in Arizona
West Virginia very consciously trying to
organize on a similar model and then
today looking at the impact I think
you're right this is going to make a big
real change as far as the dynamics of
the movement because similarly to the
Los Angeles strike and earlier this year
we're at this very interesting moment in
public education policy in which the
Democrats have been forced from below to
change their tune around corporate
education reform privatization austerity
and so you have the space now if the
strikes continue to not only beat back
attacks but to really start talking
about winning schools that we need and
that's not inevitable it's going to take
a lot of struggle but I think you know
the moment is really ripe partly because
we also have the 2020 elections coming
up you have Bernie Sanders calling for a
moratorium on charter schools massive
refunding of schools and so now
everybody is running is talking left so
the combination of these strikes
continue
the Democratic Party saying that they
support education which is a good thing
we need to lean on and then the
presidential elections means that
there's a moment now that if it's eased
can really start transforming the
schools in a way that we haven't seen
for decades and I should also add one
more element of that not only has there
been it seems like a change a retreat
from the corporate reform movement
within the Democratic Party part of that
is not just a function frankly the the
Gates Foundation's
experiment the you know 750 million some
odd dollars that they pumped into
education to experiment with the with
all of the things that we we know as
corporate education reform they came out
with a report I guess was I can't
remember who was the end of of 2017 by
maybe mid or I should say end of 18
didn't work the rand foundation comes
out with the rand study comes out with a
report it didn't work we should probably
listen educators and so there does feel
like not only like that there's no
rudder right now in in the world of
education it seems to me at least in
terms of like the corporate forces and
as reflected in the Democratic Party
there there is there's room like you say
there's oxygen there and I think there's
just not at the same countervailing
forces at this point yeah and I would
you know take it a step further which is
to say if you can transform public
education now you know get a massive
refunding of schools and really show
what a robust all the public sector
could look like in education would think
about the implications of that across
the board because that's what we're
talking about Lawrence and about a green
to deal when we're talking about
Medicare across the case that actually a
well-funded public sector is better for
all working people and the vast majority
of people in this country if you give it
the funds it needs and so it the stakes
really around education which is one of
the few remnants of the welfare state in
this country are really explosive
because if you can show that education
is better when it's run
the people and public sector really why
should that hold for other industries
and for other sectors of the economy and
so I think that's what we're talking
about that's why the moment where I'm is
so exciting all right Eric Blanc people
can follow you on twitter at underscore
eric blanc couldn't get that first one
without the underscore how buddy yeah
but folks can follow you on twitter and
of course pick up red-state revolta to
learn more thanks so much for your time
today I really appreciate it yeah thanks
for having me man
so there you have it we we broke format
today to have a guest you know the thing
is there's so many stories going on
right now that in any other era the this
would be a story oh it's been the whole
day on well I'm also thinking flashback
to was a 2004 and we were having
education presidential debates with
Republicans talking about you know their
version of education reform but how
missing we didn't have one education
question in the democratic debates and
that is an area you know they might be
frozen right now the cory booker's of
the world and the people who teaches and
even Joe Biden's I mean these are ed
reform you know they've been backed by
charter schools throughout their entire
careers and you know and I think if you
look back to the last ten years the
Democratic Party that has been the
marker for who is a neoliberal and who
is not even Hillary Clinton was not a
charter school person I always gave that
to her she was you know tough on a lot
of other issues but when it came to
education she stood by the teachers you
know maybe not as progressive as you
know we would have liked but at least
she wasn't a charter school you know she
was she was more progressive than the
Obama well I mean that's funny because
you know I remember interviewing some of
the top
teacher union folk at the DNC right
about the at the DNC at the Democratic
National Convention about how early they
endorsed Clinton and there was some
sense of like maybe had we known that
Sanders you know but people wanted to
get in there first and I think like the
I I think the sense was and I spoke to
Randi Weingarten you know subsequent to
that and the way that she explained it
to me was like they felt that they got
burned in 2008 by not getting to the
table first getting in there early and
it allowed other forces to get in I mean
it's sort of interesting that dynamic
that exists there the calculation that's
made you want to get in early in an
endorsement if you feel like you need to
have more influence and I don't know
that that's I mean you would have
obviously a much better sense of this I
think on some level just you know having
you know with your direct involvement in
politics but I don't know that that
makes sense to people
that's the top-down union management
that still is a force of nature and
unions but it's also become you know one
of the biggest problems the the teachers
union is very progressive obviously the
membership of 2016 supported Bernie and
there was a little bit of an uprising a
response to Randi Weingarten who is the
president of the American Federation of
Teachers but when you look at a state
like New York this is actually a perfect
example
you know Governor Cuomo takes tons of
charter school money and the IDC that
held up the government took tons of
charter school money but the union's not
just just the teachers unions and it's a
little complicated in New York as we've
- but not just the teachers in other
unions feel like they have to support
the governor at the end of the day
because he controls the budget yep and
that's the power it's a smart
calculation right because they know that
these these unions knew that if by some
miracle Cynthia Nixon won the election
she wasn't going to punish them she was
still going to be a pro-union governor
but if
whoa mo got in which he was probably
going to and they didn't endorse him
he's a vindictive and it's the
same thing with leaders of a lot of
unions yeah I mean that's exactly right
and I think I think there has been a
change at the very least there's a it's
not a radical change in the context of
particularly the the you know the wine
gardens Union that the membership has
exerted its power more and and they've
done so by by withholding their labor
across the country in many respects and
there's a there was you know I went to
that teachers union I guess it was maybe
last last year in Pittsburgh the the
conference and there was a sense of like
hey we sort of forgot I mean this is
more the local folks we sort of forgot
that we had these arrows in our quiver
and we've there's a feeling like we're
much more likely to go grab one and I
think that sentiment has the
implications of that sentiment is that
the leadership of the Union is where
that like I've got a more militant Union
now and that militancy is not
necessarily just fired that demands for
the schools it's you know they're
they're gonna they're gonna take more
control and demand more say within the
context of the Union so this is I mean
that that has big implications I think
for the union movement going forward and
I think we're gonna I I mean I think and
particularly if Donald Trump loses
regardless of who is the Democratic
president I think we're gonna see unions
become even more aggressive going
forward oh yeah
and let's just be real you know the
tipping point was Betsy DeVos Cory
Booker had to suddenly flip his script
on write on unions because he'd been
palling around with Betsy I thing to
boss I mean Eric Blanc mentioned the DSA
in all of this and this goes back to the
rank-and-file strategy which got a
little bit of it
tenshun after it passed at the National
Convention this year we're in TSA
members young socialists are encouraged
and helped to get jobs in strategic
sectors so that we can get more involved
in our unions and create something more
radical grassroots and rank-and-file and
it's kind of a win-win because a lot of
young people in DSA need good jobs
anyway so it makes a whole lot of sense
yep
all right let's turn back just to to
Turkey for one more moment because I
know that you were in the area right
when I was there in August and you know
I was like where could I go I had to I
had to get out of the you for a there's
just for you guys to know in case you're
curious you can only stay in the EU for
90 days but there are parts of the EU
that have unilateral agreements and you
can leave the EU area and then go back
to that country and it's a reset but
it's only it's like Greece France a
couple of others so I went to Turkey as
a Greek which is controversial and you
know every travel advisory says don't go
if you're an American some of its a
little overblown and retaliatory against
Turkey um same thing from from the EU
but I wanted to see was like well can I
go how far and can I go before you know
gets very dangerous and sure enough you
can as an American go right to the
border it's extremely dangerous
obviously but I was I was a little
surprised that given you know cuz I
wanted to go to a refugee camp I should
back it up like why I actually wanted to
go um and you can go he can't get into
the refugee camps unless you have if
you're pressed you can go to volunteer
but it's extremely extraordinarily
dangerous and it just really blew me
away by the lack of restrictions
um I know Turkey to me is a really
confusing place for a million reasons
it's extremely developed you know there
was so much hope if you could look back
to the Obama administration Biden and
Obama were praising the relationship
with air Dewan early on you know trying
to build a strong friendship you know
erawan was notably a friend of Obama's
and and when you go to the place like
Istanbul if you haven't been there it's
a beautifully Democratic City as a
facade
um you know there's people are freely
expressing themselves to a limit until
they're arrested you know so there's I
as I want to be cautious because I did
talk to people I was there Turkish
people and I want to respect them but
those who I did talk to you about their
ability to freely express themselves you
know it's it actually reminded me a lot
of being in Trump's America but with us
it's like through technology through
through them it's like they can't they
have to be very cautious about how they
organize because they will be rounded up
you know it depends on what community
you're from in the United States but
there's this there's surveillance
everywhere and I just think it's gonna
get get worse depending on what your
background is what I mean if you're
Curtis you're it's yeah this is the next
five or six days we're gonna you know
are gonna be rather telling and we
should say that right after you know
right after the supposed ceasefire there
was fighting continued along the border
now that happens after cease fires but
what was more relevant was just the way
that essentially Turkey was
characterizing it it's not a ceasefire
it's just our basically saying like
we're gonna give you a little time to
get out we're gonna start the the other
aspect of this is from the --use
perspective you know they're doing
everything they can right now to control
the refugee flow because depending on
what country are from whether it's
Poland that just basically like shuts
them out or Germany which you know has
opened their arms to refugees or Greece
of course um you know that the pathway
is really complicated like I was
thinking about I was well I was increase
it was like wait how are they getting on
but why don't they just go up through
land mass into and it has to do with
these restrictive countries like Poland
where they're blocking so that's why
they're getting on on the boats and it's
extraordinarily dangerous in the
Mediterranean waters and it's actually
the distance even that large you know
it's a small distance it's just gonna
get worse and you know that destabilizes
the EU that actually is a huge cost to
the EU not that we should ever look at
it from that perspective but you know
they are already having those problems
and this isn't as you said you know a
member of Nate
how how does this affect you know of the
effort of the world frankly right it's a
little bit scary and Donald Trump of
course is you know said that it's
terrific and fine so we're okay
meanwhile let's turn to the other half a
dozen important stories that took place
yesterday the Mick Mulvaney this is the
quid pro quo or the no the other one the
g7 one okay yeah let's I mean I guess we
could start with the g7 and one wonders
if I don't know here it's hard to impart
to the Trump to Trump and the
administration like some type of
strategy but I think tactics wise the I
think it's fair to say that Trump
understands like it doesn't matter you
could just keep putting stuff out there
and if something's a little bit less
controversial I'd rather have people
talking about this than that and we'll
get back to the that but that this is
that Mick Mulvaney went out and did his
press did a press availability and they
don't do many press I mean we don't see
this anymore right there's no more
there's no really
bullies Achieva staff number one right
so but we don't see even like White
House press briefings really anymore and
so here's Mick Mulvaney coming out to
talk about the fact that the White House
did a rigorous search for where to hold
the g7 summit and through their rigor
and a series of vetting committees and
analyses that they ran they found that
the best location that could exist for
the g7 would be at would be in Florida
in fact at the coincidentally the Trump
Doral hotel that have been used by past
administrations there's a long list of
the accommodations on site
that the the ballrooms bilateral rooms a
number of rooms the photo ops the
support hotels that are there the the
proximity to cities and airports
helicopter landing zones medical
facilities etc so we use the same set of
criteria that previous administrations
have used we started with a list of
about a dozen just on paper and we sent
an advanced team out to actually visit
ten locations in several states we
visited California Colorado Florida
Hawaii Michigan North Carolina Tennessee
and Utah we got that list down it was
just under ten and the advanced team
went out to visit those and from there
we got down to four finalists that our
senior team went out to look at they
looked at I think it was one in Hawaii
two in Utah and in Florida and it became
apparent at the end of that process that
Doral was by far and away far and away
the best physical facility for this
meeting in fact I was talking to one of
the advanced teams when they came back
and I said what was it like is it make
you not gonna believe this but it's
almost like they built this facility to
host this type of event and any of you
have been there you know that there's
there separate buildings with their own
rooms separate and apart from each
building so that right when you country
can have a building another kind you
have another view folks can have your
building for the press and obviously the
common areas are going to be perfect for
our needs down there again anticipating
your questions how is this how is this
not an emoluments right yeah that's a
good question actually I would start
with that one how is this not an
emoluments problem I mean I wish we had
footage of the look on the on the
reporters faces as he's saying this and
they're all just going like are you you
can hear them laughing did you hear the
point where someone he's cracking up
when this happened I was I was at Fox
News ready to go on and then there was
another press conference and so I'm just
googling where's the Korra I wanted to
know who owned it cuz you know he
licenses his name out so I'm thinking
well it made me just like Russia owner
does China who the hell knows who
actually Turkey for all we know can own
it but then I when I was doing it just
in May there was a report saying that
trumps
Doral resort is in steep decline
according to company documents showing
where young as problems are mounting how
opportunistic I mean this is I'm
surprised they didn't have pictures of
like look at these kids having fun there
it's a family place and this is it's
basically an infomercial yes for the
hotel and I I mean do yet I would like
to see I mean I hope someone is
foiiowing for you oh boy oh boy oh boy
in all those trips that they took to go
check out all these different places we
sent people far and wide we said people
across the country we went from from sea
to shining sea to find the best resort
in the country and it turns out to be
Donald Trump's ride that's also in
decline yeah thank you
the other thing is this is a Golf Resort
and we know Donald Trump loves to golf
but I was just thinking about these
meetings like how many I know some of
them when they go to Camp David when
they've been at Camp David which is the
history traditionally you know they're
not recorded meetings but there is
something intimate and odd about having
meetings on a golf course and I was
thinking about that the other day like
he spent a third of his presidency on
the golf course meeting with people yeah
it's I think it's hard to imagine that
they didn't do this as a way of sort of
distracting and changing the the news
cycle however despite the fact that it
was clear that Mick Mulvaney was up
there announcing that after a rigorous
search they were going to hold the g7 at
Donald Trump's hotel as a way of turning
the page maybe or at least getting the
news off of the huge disaster that the
turkey in northern Syria not to mention
the impeachment Mick Mulvaney apparently
from what I understand CNN reports that
he was not briefed about what to say
about the impeachment stuff
and so he was on a slightly different
page than the entire legal team of the
administration which has been trying to
argue there's no quid pro quo here he's
the acting chief of staff yes but to be
fair the legal team is Rudy Giuliani and
his five detained associates well to be
fair to it's also JC clout and he I
think had to do the Drivetime radio show
in Boston so isn't that where he does it
or something like that but that's right
yeah here is Mick Mulvaney making what
we will call probably I think the
technical term is a boo-boo that he also
mentioned to me and past the the the the
corruption related to the DNC server
absolutely no question about that but
that's it that's why we held up the
money now there was a report of the
demand for an investigation into the
Democrats was part of the reason that he
it was on to withhold funding to Ukraine
we look back to what happened in 2016
certainly was was part of the thing that
he was worried about in corruption with
that nation and that is absolutely
rolling the fondant yeah which which
ultimately then flowed by the way there
was a report that we were worried that
the money wouldn't if we didn't pay out
the money it would be illegal okay it
would be unlawful that is one of those
things that is that little shred of
truth in it that makes it look a lot
worse than it really is
we were concerned about in our blue over
at OMB about an impoundment I know I
just put half you folks to to bed but
there's a there's the Budget Control Act
impound Budget Control impoundment Act
of 1974 says if Congress appropriates
money you have to spend it at least
that's how its interpreted by some folks
and we knew that that money either had
to go out the door by the end of
September or we had to have a really
really good reason not to do it and that
was the legality of the issue just
described is a quid pro quo it is
funding will not flow unless the
investigation is
it's a democratic server happened as
well we we do we do that all the time
with foreign policy we were holding up
money at the same time for what was it
the northern triangle company countries
we were holding a beta at the northern
triangle countries so that they so that
they would change their policies on
immigration but by the way and this
speaks to it this speaks to an important
I'm sorry
this speaks to important point yeah
their policies on immigration and
arguably maybe a has something to do
with sort of US interests harder to make
the case that asking them to pursue a
conspiracy theory that they think will
vindicate the president is really in
national interests but Mick Mulvaney
comes out says yeah it's quid pro quo we
do it all the time and now he doesn't
acknowledge and nobody asked him in that
exchange as far as I can tell
well how come he also brought up
Purisima and Biden in that phone call I
mean we know he did and it would have
been interesting to see if Mick would be
that far off the the script however
later in the day he put out a written
statement saying that no I didn't mean
that I didn't say there was a quid pro
quo
take it back Mick he's on the way out
right I mean no are they about to find
out him like he's not choosing to be on
the way out wasn't the rumor last week
that he was about to be canned no I
don't think so I think that was Rick
Perry
no just too many to keep up with guys
well I wouldn't be surprised if they
didn't cut him loose after this on some
this is a pretty major screw-up
for those people who want to argue that
there was no quid pro quo to have the
acting chief of staff say yeah of course
of course there was at this point and
also on top of that there's like a
thread of truth that it was illegal for
us that would hold the mic I yesterday I
did a had an exchange with a Tim Poole
we I think they're gonna release it this
week and we spent a long time
he he had a lot of different Ukrainian
theories about depositions that had
taken place in Ukraine saying that the
Biden's had done this and that and who
knows if it's illegal and we can't
really know the truth there's two
different sides of it and that's why
impeachments not going to be good we
also argued the political side and we'll
get to those polls in a moment that he
was a little surprised existed but uh I
mean there was a moment where I said
look you know you have the sort of the
the moral not moral but the ethical and
the sort of the hold people who are in
power to account and it's quite clear
that there was a tremendous amount of
Lee if not illegalities
inappropriateness that warrants an
impeachment in terms of what a president
can and cannot do
or should and should not do but the
other aspect of that is is the political
one and we now know that well I now know
as of yesterday I thought you know we're
hovering at around 50 percent and who
want impeachment and I said I cited the
Fox News poll and he told me well that
oversampled Democrats because of those
Fox News polls always do that and he had
some numbers and I'm like well okay fine
go Google what the Real Clear Politics
average is and it turned out to be fifty
two percent so and with Republicans it's
going up it's gone up 20 some-odd points
amongst Republicans independents and
Democrats are through the roof and more
importantly I have here a polling that
shows that you have Republican senators
2020s I'll read this off Susan Collins
since February of 2019 her net approval
rating has dropped two points to
negative six Tom Tillis has dropped
negative three points to negative five
Joni Ernst has lost nine points in
favorability she's at negative four now
Cory Gardner has dropped three to
negative three martha mcsalley has
dropped one to just two points positive
Doug Jones in Alabama gone up three
points unbelievable he's up at five he's
a five Annette and Gary Peters in
Michigan up one and john cornyn in texas
the only one who has had no change these
are the most vulnerable Senate
Republicans Iowa voters soured on Joni
Ernst by nine points and you can see it
the way that she's talking about stuff
she is definitely trying to say we need
to hold the president to account sort of
and she's got to walk that tight
tightrope
I mean from a political standpoint all
the stuff that's coming out of here what
what would be your perspective on how
the Democrats should approach
impeachment at this point at this point
Donald Trump is creating his own
impeachment every day I mean I think in
it's very hard with impeachment to look
back on previous impeachments you know
everyone has been saying it's bad
politically because because of you know
we lost the midterms and blah blah blah
and but there's really no case study
we're not we're in a presidential year
and despite the fact that it might
happen you don't think yeah Andrew
Johnson's experience holds here
I actually don't okay fair enough very
good point I will pick up that book
again and reread it from a decade ago
that won that won the Pulitzer um no I
think it's it's I think that the
scenario is about the Senate and I think
you've been really smart to lay that out
you know in every state also where we
have an early primary like Iowa you know
not only is Joni Ernst doing it to
herself but you have Democrats literally
like blanketing Iowa with an anti
impeachment anti-trump message and like
this is what we want to be as a party
and I think that's in Iowa's a very
maverick II state like Arizona is and
Democrats aren't invested in Alabama so
that's why you see a Doug Jones doing so
well right now despite the fact that the
president is losing popularity so
overall I think it's a it's a good
scenario for Democrats
in states where there's real
presidential primaries because that
message with the more you invest in the
message the more people know more more
everybody democratic primaries or okay
Grady as a Republican primary but well I
mean there are some states that have
canceled the primary I think there's
like a half a dozen states that have
canceled that primary but so wait so the
the the point being that the the states
where you have early primaries are
seeing more messages from Democrats that
we need to impeach this president and
it's creating pressure on their
Republican opponent so in some ways what
you're saying is that if I'm not
mistaken that what we're watching with
Joni Ernst is an early indicator of
what's gonna happen to Susan Collins and
what's gonna happen to Thom Tillis and
what's gonna happen a Cory Gardner when
this impeachment message sort of like
gets blasted in their state right and
the message isn't working because Donald
Trump isn't doing anything to counter it
you know in the past okay with with
again we can't look at past impeachments
for a whole array this is a presidential
election there's gonna be over a billion
dollars spent just on the Democratic
side you know after the general election
this is why Democrats have to compete in
every state every state you compete in
every state that you invest in is your
message getting out and when you don't
invest in that message the Republicans
take folder vacuum fill the vacuum
exactly and I think Democrats are
starting to see that I mean with Maine
for instance Emily's list is pushing
their candidate very hard
I mean Maine is an unusual state but but
there is a possibility you know given
the weaknesses that we can win we can
win back that seat and that makes all
the difference
yep we could lose the presidency let's
be clear um the Teresa Greenfield
backed by the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee and Emily's without
raised Ernst in in Iowa in Arizona Mark
Kelly and he's going to be probably my
third least favorite senator if he wins
I don't know if he's gonna win that one
he's out raised mcsalley
like she named you right she's she's
dropping she hasn't dropped you
as precipitously as the others but she's
now at two
she's never been you know it's from
advocate she's fairly moderate put her
back you know next to to Mark Kelly and
you'd be like what's the difference well
there will be a big difference if the
Mitch McConnell allows a vote in the
Senate right that's why that's why I
don't think he will ever allow us he
says he will but he will not he will
find some reason why it's an
illegitimate impeachment inquiry and he
will not hold the vote because if he
holds the vote Mark Kelly's job is his
guess is sitting right there for him how
do I make a distinction how do I tie her
to Trump she voted to protect him that's
right and that's the vote that that she
desperately doesn't want to take and
that's why I think Mitch McConnell is
full of it was so famous for it it was a
weird state that I think Democrats are
just starting to figure out it's not
traditional conservatives and it's not
traditional Democrats or independent
it's very maverick II very populist very
libertarian and it's why John McCain
could get away with voting against
Republicans on health care and many
issues not all but many issues because
because of that or at the very least
talked about talked about I don't know
if he voted as much as you did talk
about it in those scenarios but just I
guess dipping in with the impeachment
stuff just a little bit more I mean what
how do you think the Democrats should
handle it in so far as like hearings I
mean do you think this is something they
should wrap up quickly it seems like
that I'm not hearing that as much from
Nancy Pelosi you know three weeks ago
she's like we're gonna do this quick now
it seems like there's a lot of stuff to
cover here I have no idea I mean it's
all happening behind closed doors and
the message is changing on one hand it
it seems to be working for Democrats on
the Senate side as we just said but when
you go back down into the districts
people want to hear what are the
Democrats offering us what's what's the
actual difference let's talk about
Medicare for all let's talk about
education let's talk about you know all
the issues the bread and butter table
issues that we
dinner table issues that that people
vote on but it's also working so I mean
I really think we're in uncharted
territory people I think are now like oh
this guy actually might go down this is
fascinating cluding myself I was tuning
it out right and I'm not like wait what
what's what's happening is Nick Nick
Mulvaney the next one out is it's I
think that the country is starting to
pay attention as they do at all
elections right they pay attention you
know when it starts to matter and the
same thing with impeachment it's a good
fundraising opportunity for a lot of
Democrats and a good one for Trump to
progressives the progressives that are
advocating for the green New Deal and
Medicare for all are the ones who pushed
for impeachment so at the end of the day
you know you can chew gum and walk as
Democrats as long as you make sure to
walk that's right the most ambitious
policies that the Democrats are offering
came from the most aggressive
pro-impeachment freshman Democrats
frankly I do wonder if it's giving
something to the centrist Democrats that
I think that they can run on and giving
sort of like an uneven advantage there
right like if the progressive Democrats
have real material issues like Medicare
for all and the green new deal and
they're running on that and the centrist
Democrats have basically the same
nothing as always and they're running on
that wooden impeachment give sort of an
uneven advantage to the centrists in a
way you just clarify you saying in
primaries or in the general elections um
in the primaries right now but maybe
both I don't know I it's strange because
I was just looking at the fundraising
numbers for four congressional
candidates and it's still a little early
right little early not too early and the
numbers just came out and it seems like
for the most part with exception to a
few key races where they're getting a
lot of attention you know the atom
shifts of the world the Jerry Nadler zuv
the world the Kerala Maloney's of the
world still have an extraordinary amount
of money and are raising that money I
don't know if it's off of impeachment or
if it's just the establishment is really
protecting them the way that they didn't
for what's it what's our old congressman
Crowley yeah well I see
I think there's emotionally I think
there's a much greater awareness that
like wait we could these this insurgency
is real now the return of the
establishment is a friend of mine side
um but with that being said you know
there's also more progressives run some
of these primaries are split which it's
not great for progressives and I think
that's a great message for anybody who's
thinking about running for office when
you have three progressives in a race
against one establishment candidate it's
very hard to raise money when you're
progressive and there's one candidate to
choose not saying that it should be that
way all the time but it ends up that's a
scenario that ends up happening but you
know carolyn maloney
um you know she was just because of the
death of my god I'm like losing today
who died guesser representative Cummings
acrimony
thank you so because of the death of
Cummings she was just put into his
position on Oversight Committee did she
become the chairwoman oh and that's
gonna be I mean that that was that's a
protection racket right distraction
racket right there so at the end of the
day I mean she's the one who's out there
campaigning for impeachment raising
money off of it and is in this position
they're just gonna back her up even even
more so yeah I mean she's I mean that's
gonna help her I think no doubt in that
and that and that primary challenge
because she's also gonna be on TV
I mean she's a head of the Oversight
Committee it's you know putting aside if
there was no impeachment she would still
have that huge advantage because there's
all sorts of there's all sorts of of
reasons why you would hear from the
Government Oversight Committee when
you're talking about you know what the
Trump administration is doing emoluments
a whole host of other things too but I
think I think it's I don't know that
that it works for all of the it
necessarily works for all of the
incumbents that it helps them the
impeachment stuff right I definitely
think it helps both incumbents and
progressives in the general election
without a doubt I mean I think you're
gonna it's such a value add going up
against the Republican particularly if
you're a challenger and they have to
take this vote now the Republicans in
the house
we'll have to take the vote and I think
that's going to make it much harder in
many respects for them to to take back
the house if there was any chance of
them doing that because I mean even in
those frontline districts I just saw
some polling Cheryl Bustos sent out a
memo saying we've got to be very careful
cuz it's only a two-point net positive
in terms of impeachment in these
districts and that's a tough way to
swing swing districts these are the
frontline Democrats like the the 7 or 8
you know most sort of like at-risk seats
that the Democrats hold there's still a
net positive for impeachment in these
districts right so that's very hard to
raise the sort of like alarm bell and
say we shouldn't do this
and that's where they're actually a lot
of those seats are being primary drive
the Cisneros district in Texas right so
these are these are flippable districts
and I think you know if you're an
incumbent going back to original point
and you know you're there's this
delicate dance between getting through
your primary when you have certain
targeted primary opponents that are
raising three hundred thousand dollars
or eight hundred thousand dollars means
some of these races their challengers
are raising an extraordinary amount of
money because just as the d-triple-c
will target specific districts now
progressive groups are targeting
specific districts and so at the end of
the day if a challenger does win and
beat that incumbent now that challenger
has to go and run against a Republican
and if the where it's taken I think it
it puts Republicans in a tough position
I think it just does I mean because we
can see even in these districts you got
you know two percentage points of in
favor of impeachment on top of
everything else that the Democrats may
or may not offer in that instance even
if the even if the Challenger the
Republican challenger doesn't doesn't
take the vote they have to answer how
they would vote right I mean because if
they say I would vote against the
president in most of these districts
you're gonna lose like almost like in
that instant ten
20% of their base is just gonna say like
no I stand with the president I'm not
gonna come out and I'm not gonna vote
for you ever and under any circumstance
I think these these people will walk
away how do you think that's gonna play
out in in with RNC I mean is RNC going
to back the president Lindsey Graham
pulled away again how do you think this
is gonna trickle down into communities
where I think to a certain extent the
Republicans view what's going on with
Turkey as like a gift because it gives
them some reason to separate themselves
from the President on foreign policy
that they can make you know where they
feel like they have the military on
their side you know this this not
abandoning the curb Kurds also dovetails
nicely if you're a war hawk right
because you want to be able to have
proxy wars and this is going to inhibit
our ability to have proxy wars and so I
think they perceive this as a gift I
think this gets Lindsey Graham sort of
like have it both ways and but this is
going to go if this is either gonna turn
into a disaster that it's going to be
much harder to continue to support the
president or it's just not we're not
going to be talking about it six to
eight months but we will be talking
about impeachment in six to eight months
and so I think from a political
standpoint I just don't think they can
afford to distance themselves from
Donald Trump I mean he's got there's a
certain you know higher percentage of
Republicans that are supporting
impeachment but at the end of the day
there's still 50 cent 50% of the
Republican Party period I
unless Donald Trump is naked on the
White House lawn chasing you know that
little boy in that picture of the lawn
mower I don't I don't think they're
gonna abandon him and I think not only
they're not gonna abandon him I think
they're going to go after whomever tries
to take Trump down well look at Mitt
Romney for instance Mitt Romney
is contrasting himself you know he lives
in Utah Utah is a state even though it's
extremely red is extremely probably the
only state in the country where you
could get away with that maybe Arizona I
mean to an extent everything it's not
alright crazies right there's a large
Mormon population in Arizona as well so
I mean if you but you won one seat here
one seat there you've got Lindsey Graham
challenging and then suddenly you know
there isn't gonna be some sort of chorus
of I just don't I think that they I mean
it could happen that way but I think
that the support for Trump is too
rock-solid
yeah and too big in the Republican Party
and because it's also you got to
remember it's not like that doesn't
happen in a vacuum right Donald Trump is
if he starts to see erosion with the
Republicans he's gonna go at them and
and you're gonna get Mark Levin and
you're gonna get Sean Hannity and you're
gonna get the whole crew on their radio
shows and you know that's how that's how
they that's how the Republicans lose is
that they they are at the Trump East is
basically say no way I mean it's not
like Donald Trump's gonna be quiet about
it right he's not gonna take the lumps
he's gonna go out and he's going to just
he's he's going to attack these people
and he's eaten his donations I mean
those small dollar donations blew me
away yes it's one thing to say that
Russia created this man and there was a
pseudo social media support of him but
at the end of the day those small dollar
donations are very real and very
competitive yep all right well good-bye
Dana got him no no we're gonna take a
quick break
heading to the fun half and we'll we've
got a lot of clips to take a look at
also just a stunning story of the White
House this is you know if there was ever
trial to see you know how many
sociopaths are in that White House now
that we would we'll show you that clip
folks a reminder it's your support that
makes this show possible you can become
a member by going to join the majority
report com join the majority report calm
and don't forget go right now because
you can listen to the show live on your
app go and get download the majority
report app it's at majority app comm it
gives you access to the YouTube channel
tells you how to support the show etc
etc you can listen to the AM quickie
super easy you can listen to the podcast
you can log in as a member and we have a
new super easy way to log in now if you
forget your EEMA if you forget your your
password all you got to do is click a
button and we'll send you a one-time key
through your through your email address
so it's super easy to log in and once
you log in you can search archives and
the episode archive is super easy to
search let's see how about I'll search
know me uh-oh oh no let's see let's see
what happens here this way I wish we
could which hit pieces come up first
wait no but this is just on this show
okay no no this is just so no me you've
been on the show quite a bit so now you
came up during and I don't know I have
to look in the we had you on on the fun
half I'm not exactly sure why you're in
that I gotta check that out but showed
up a 123 124 125 January 29th
there you are of February 8th don't know
the year and that also see February 14th
maybe this we were talking about you in
the erase 911 you were on yeah I can day
you have it all there in the app so
check it out a majority app calm also
check out our Instagram page majority
report dot F M on Instagram
good stuff happening over there and as
always just coffee co-op fair trade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code but jority get 10% off tell me do
you want to plug your your twitter
follow your I was just tweeting someone
back actually it's talking about
languages this will help you with your
language and like I'll try that
I'll go find know me on Twitter Jamie no
Mickey constant well I'll just remind
you today's Friday and so Wednesday
happened this week t MBS was on on a
special night because of the had a Ryan
grim in studio
Ryan Grimm is in studio he had a good
good conversation on the whole Bernie
verse war and debate yeah we never hear
and never talked about that never
happens anymore no one ever talks about
that we never hear that well if you want
a little break from the Bernie Warren
debate you can listen to this bonus
episode of the ante fada that just came
out today for our patrons yeah that's
right it is the first episode of Andy's
new side project in which he focuses on
Latin American politics and history so
in this one he speaks with the bread
tuber bad empanada about the upcoming
elections in Argentina that will return
Kirchner use mode to power after four
years of Mauricio macri's neoliberal
perfumery but can left populist Peron
ISM walk the country back from the brink
of economic collapse or will there be a
new insurrection like in the year 2000
and who do the Posadas support that's
right there's still Posada sin Argentina
after that they discussed the life and
politics of Che Guevara and the claims
that he was a blood-soaked homophobic
murderer they talk about the excesses of
the Cuban government the extent of
Chay's role in them and some of their
favorite stories of the revolution and
after check it out folks patreon.com
slash the anti Fattah also I've got an
op-ed in protein mag called it's not
that surprising that Ellen is friends
with Bush and other crimes of Hollywood
liberalism so check it out and put a
link to that and the podcast today Matt
and then the worst cover-up ever
we'll be talking about the Salem witch
trials in the upcoming literary hangover
episode as a state cover-up the increase
the increase in Cotton Mather kind of
really fanned the flames there and then
took two books to cover up their role in
that it really discredited the theocracy
at the end of the 17th century there so
we talking about that so literary
hangover subscribe on YouTube or on your
podcast
who knew alright see you in the front
half six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mock them on YouTube he's up there buggy
whipping like he's the boss I am NOT
your employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you you nervous a little bit upset
you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you alright dude you wanna smoke
this joint yes do you feel like you are
a dinosaur
good exactly I'm happy now so
win-win
it's a win-win-win hell yeah
now listen to me two three four five
times eight four seven nine oh six five
oh one four five seven two thirty-eight
56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow bird don't you see why don't you get
a real job instead of spewing this we
all engage with your left one bomb
everybody's taking their dumb juice
today come on dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
seafood I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars to hear your
come here not they accuse me you
 you belong alright take quick break
I want to take a moment to talk to some
ability Ria's out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber laughing I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
go flirt with such No
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
it's me directing Busey and it was there
was a guy yeah folks welcome it is the
fun half I of course did not call in but
we will we will call in to the show
right now busy I was too busy talking
about Gary Busey that comes up now and
then and I get gives me a stomachache
he is fascinating Busey was easy
yeah he gets unfasten a ting quick let
me tell you that it gets unfasten a ting
super quick in that scenario now let's
go back to Mick Mulvaney talking about
the g7 they're gonna be in Florida it's
gonna be the summer I believe right is
it gonna be and when is it gonna be in
June as you know Miami will probably be
underwater permanently within twenty
years I think they're saying they really
can't stop it because Miami is built on
essentially a sponge limestone and it is
porous
and so as the sea level rises the water
will not be washing up on from the
shores there's no sea wall that you can
build it'll actually literally be coming
from inside the city as it does right
now they have floods in these like
constantly and so of course you would
think that being in an area which is the
canary in the coalmine as it were
geographically for climate change at
least within the context of this country
you would imagine that the g-seven would
be addressing global climate change it's
almost like they worked with the
Democrats and yeah it's um it's almost I
mean I mean this is exactly where you
would do it in this country I think if
you want it to really highlight climate
change but of course if you were to
think that you would be incredibly naive
ag7 someone being held at a property
owned by the President or a president
and my second question is as you're
looking at the content of what you want
to do next year I'll be gonna be hot in
Florida and June will climate change be
one of the issues that you just the
first question is no I don't know if
another presidents ever done I don't
know if another president has owned a
property that was even consider for g7
so now we haven't I don't know the
answer that question climate change will
not be on the agenda yes sir there you
go well they gave it some thought
well Florida is also the Yolo state
that's one state where people have too
many snakes so you know you never know
well y-yeah also an aged population
especially the South that's like yeah
you know only last another five years
yeah I guess that's the theory
what's going on here with my surprise
Democrats won't even do it this is the
reality we live in now right there is no
reality that's the reality we live in
they're not doing even even the the
Paris climate Accord was not nearly
enough
to actually do what we need to do to
prevent the most extreme cases of
warming I think that's true but my
understanding is that it also was like
the first time they've been able to sort
of agree on something like that and it
was a good first step of course
sometimes you can have one step forward
and two steps back and that's sort of I
think where we're at at this point
neoliberal agenda let's go to the
phone's calling from a 308
area code who's this where you come from
hey Sam its Kowalski from Nebraska
Kowalski from Nebraska how are you sir
oh not too bad what's on your mind today
oh uh well as you're aware I'm gonna be
starting the campaign here pretty soon
but I recently came across something I
think you'll find fairly interesting
okay so I was talking to some retired
mayor's about my views on Medicare for
all they seem to really like it
oddly not they say they won't publicly
support it because they won't do it
unless it's like popular among the base
but they did mention something that I
found pretty fascinating and pretty much
anybody I mentioned it to absolutely
loves the idea so with Medicare for all
they basically said if it was also going
to go towards like assisted living
centers and elderly care they said not
only would it be more popular but pretty
much nobody here would vote against it
because anybody in small towns would
want that so it's actually extremely
popular I mean I've got left-leaning
friends right learning friends
libertarians they all love it people
want their elderly relatives to stay in
their hometowns what when you say the
base these mayors or the base of what
the base of the Democratic Party or the
Republican Party Republicans if you find
a Democrat here I think we're supposed
to tag them and moderate Iran because
they're
all right well fair enough that's
interesting that'll be interesting that
it's a good point we you know that is
one of the things and thanks for the
call Kowalski that is one of the things
that I think has been sort of lacking in
this debate as we've seen it in the
context of the debates right it's all
about how do you pay for it right I
don't think that to the extent that and
Bernie has spoken very eloquently on
this and Warren has to some extent as
well about the problems with the system
we have now right now some of them
they're not selling the benefits in the
same in the way like they're not selling
the benefits you know he says no
premiums no co-pays and this and that
but but there's they could spend a lot
more time it seems to me unlike how good
this is gonna be well even for small
business you know this is ultimately why
people hate Obamacare but what Kowalski
was saying right there right now we have
2/3 of elderly who are in nursing homes
are paid for by Medicaid however in most
states in fact I think all I don't know
what the specifics in every state I
happen to know what it is in
Massachusetts you need to be essentially
down to your last two thousand dollars
in assets and any money that you've
spent up to that point can be clawed
back against what you know what you can
get from Medicaid I mean it's it's it's
a horrible process it is it means that
you won't have the ability to leave
anything to your kids $5,000 $10,000
I've been saving up my whole life you
know to give my kids whatever it is any
type of of help I think your car doesn't
count towards it I think even your house
actually depends on the state as to
whether it's an asset that cuts against
your your your ability to pay for the
nursing home I mean you really need to
be basically without assets in in vast
majority of states maybe all the states
I mean they each have these disorders
specific rules and that's very
problematic
and the idea I think the
medicare-for-all you're gonna be dealing
with nursing homes and you're gonna be
making sure that our elder you care for
and it's becoming obviously the baby
boomers are hitting that the the ages
now and so you don't hear that as much
like we don't hear in part of it because
the way these questions are framed but
but you know Bernie and and and and
Warren and others who actually genuinely
support Medicare for all
should be pivoting on these questions
and saying you we've heard about the
payments but let's talk about why the
public option version will fail that's
right and what you get with this and
because that's the way you do any type
of sales is always like I'm gonna get
them pregnant with what they want and
then I'm once they're pregnant I'm gonna
say you know that's the vernacular and
then you say this is what it's gonna
cost or they I mean even if they were to
address the costs Washington posted
publish something yesterday I believe
and it was not bad but it was
essentially saying you're still this is
already being that the costs are going
to be the same for the most part the
studies are all varied and pretty much
all over the place but it's an
employment tax and so this is they need
to have a one-liner response shut it
down and pivot it's like debate 101 I
don't know who these people I love
Bernie
I love Warren I love how Bernie stays on
magic message but the numbers are going
down in terms of approval and that is a
big concern because it's happening very
quickly and I do think that these
debates and the right-wing media and the
op-eds are having an effect and if you
don't have a counter message that's
what's going to be in people's minds and
it's enough in a 12 way race that
actually could impact you know whether
or not they win in Iowa or New Hampshire
they got to come up with an answer and
in Warren not having an answer hurts
Bernie or Bernie needs to take over that
conversation and say listen you know I I
understand that Senator Warren is
whatever come up with some sort of
answer but how would I help you out here
I know this because I wrote the bill and
she signed on but I'm really familiar
with this right well we knew that all of
the other candidates were going to muddy
the waters and
appropriate the medicare-for-all
language in a way that is very confusing
to people so it really is I agree it's
on Bernie Sanders particularly because
he's the one with the strongest
medicare-for-all plan he's the one with
the real singer player single-payer plan
that's actually going to work it's on
him in to some degree warrant to explain
why the other plans are not Medicare for
all and why they're not gonna work I
think Warren has tongue-tied him and
he's he's so afraid to go after her that
he doesn't know how to this actually
helps her to this helps everybody and
and I you know he needs to kind of own
that space and it's it's frustrating you
know having endorsements like the squat
are great and it'll change the media
narrative and it'll pivot back to you
know his strengths but at the end of the
day this is about can you get over the
hump in New Hampshire I see that you won
easily last time around right and you're
in third place in right now where
medicare-for-all is extremely popular by
the way in New Hampshire yeah they're
they've got to go out and just I think
be a little bit more aggressive on the
benefits because I think there's just a
de sumption that everybody knows that
and I just don't think that people do
they just hear that and they just they
they think it's something good but they
don't know how good and I don't know I
mean I feel like you know just the you
know go through it with my kids just
trying to get money back you know my son
goes to an eye doctor he's gonna head
some eye problems and you know the
doctor is not covered by insurance or he
doesn't take insurance and so I've got
to submit the this stuff and hope that I
get whatever it is 50 or 70 percent back
or whatever it is and it's just the
whole process is a complete nightmare
that's it
well they need to hammer on the idea
that it's gonna be free at point of
service for everyone always like we saw
those survey questions the other day
that didn't even mention that fact like
that's the best part of Medicare for all
I think even saying free at point
service is too abstract like you can get
as much health care as you need and you
never have to pay for it when you get it
I think honestly saying something about
like
you know what Kowalski said like make it
clear like is it your your parents are
gonna be able to go into a nursing home
right and you know and something
specific like that and you're going to
be able to go and see a dentist and if
you have problems with your eyes it's
not gonna cost you a thousand dollars to
get a pair of glasses I mean these you
know get as specific as possible this is
this is is this from 1966 is this
whenever the NHS was oh the NHS yeah
yeah no you know my console had was
posting some stuff yesterday I think
about there was a in 1993 they would
they had some type of symposium about
the people who actually instituted
Medicare mm-hmm and they said it was
super easy they did it within a year
right and now there wasn't competing
health insurance in the same way that
there is today in this an app but you
know the idea is you know and they're
comparing it to the ACA on some level
which is like you know the ACA this is
how you operate the ACA you've got to
see if you're eligible for the exchanges
you got to go and find out what you know
you got to prove your income you've got
to make sure that your income is going
to stay the same for the next amount of
period of time etc Karam if you go
through this is a thread that people
should look at and if you go through
that and then as opposed to open the
envelope here's your card you're done
boom uh so much better here is let's
listen to this because I don't think
this we can we can we can present it
enough because you you you characterized
the race to me
before we went on air about what's
happening in terms of like the the give
me your perspective on the race because
this guy yeah plays I think he sees
something and I'm talking about Peabody
judge and I think it's what you were
articulating today so Pete I've covered
the DNC chairs race and to me the DNC
chairs race was I don't think people
remember he ran yeah exactly so he ran
and everyone was like who is this guy
and what folks may not understand about
the DNC chairs race is
very very similar to this race it was a
multi-way race 12 people and I don't
even know what it was at the beginning
and it really whittled down to power
brokering and I think you know this race
is a little bit different but when you
go into Iowa for instance and you're not
in the top two you remember what
happened last time around you know
suddenly those votes become a bargaining
chip a tool but here we are you know two
months before the Iowa caucus three
months before the Iowa caucuses and New
Hampshire
and historically and other presidential
races the race has shifted drastically
in November like who's a front-runner in
October is not a front-runner or even on
the map in November this has happened
several times in history so right now
you have Joe Biden who's the supposed at
frontrunner he even calls himself loud
he has nine million dollars cash on hand
that is extremely low it will not last
him to new New Hampshire's if he loses
in Iowa if he loses in New Hampshire and
his firewall is in South Carolina which
is where Joe Joe Biden is doing very
well right now that's an African
American base you know he may not make
it to South Carolina and if he loses the
narrative shifts and suddenly the power
dynamics shift who is going to probably
take off you know at least that's where
he sees his lane as his people judge
he's he's raising money he's got a lot
of cash on hand his values align his
staff is former a lot of former Obama
people you see the overlap there I
actually don't see and I think this is
what Warren is trying to do by not
answering
how much Medicare for all is gonna cost
because she doesn't want to be labeled a
socialist I think what she's trying to
do is really pull and she has been from
the Biden support now let's look back at
the polls Biden those who vote for Biden
majority of people who choose Biden
first the majority choose Bernie second
so there's a real opportunity for Bernie
to swoop in but he has to be aggressive
in a smart way not the way people judge
was and in taking swipes at everybody on
stage but really differentiating himself
and and calling out their strategy you
don't have to attack them but call out
their strategy Pete is there's donar
overlap I think that a lot of Biden's
donors have gone to his side I think
Pete is looking to build his centrist
path as being the the new Obama keep in
mind even if he isn't the front-runner
he's probably an audition for for vice
president right from Indiana
up on stage as a gay man from Indiana
debating you know a very very Christian
conservative former you know governor of
Indiana exactly so there's a real
narrative there like this is the future
and that is the past I've always thought
that that was his strategy from the
get-go how he got there would be
complicated but now given that Biden's
imploding there's a real opening so it
could be a throughway race in January
between Warren Bernie and Buddha judge
unless ironing I think that that is
because I think that they there is a
feeling because I don't look I think the
big money doesn't want Warren I mean the
I don't even think they take Bernie
seriously I think they think that Warren
is the biggest threat that they may may
not be right I haven't you know we will
have a better sense of that I think
after Iowa frankly but but they think
regardless of who they think that that
left thread is I think they're starting
to realize Joe Biden is just not gonna
cut it
he's just not gonna make it and they're
looking they're searching around and
Buddha judge is the most obvious choice
to because he's he's the only one who's
raising money and Buddha judge must
realize this too because yesterday or
two days ago
we paid we played the clip of Buddha
judge when he was on c-span saying that
Medicare for all was the compromise
position you had on one hand a
completely free market situation on the
other hand the NHS in Britain and
Medicare for all was the the compromise
plan and of course now he he doesn't
feel that it is here is another example
now to be fair that was when was that
clip that that clip February that was
from February it was a different time
yeah well this is February was a
different time right it's cold it's like
a winter but April it's also another
different time and April is actually
closer to when we are now just to show
you like how quickly this guy can turn
on a dime you know it's like
looks like a compact car you can really
is a very high turning radius there's
not a straight tomorrow yeah
here is Buddha judge complaining about
right-wing frames being used against the
ACA and Medicare for all you know the
right did a pretty good job of shifting
the the basic terms of the debate
rightward over the last 30 or 40 years
in fact the ACA itself is a good example
right so you know in the seventies you
got people like Richard Nixon talking
about basically universal basic income
by different name by the Obama years
we're doing a basically conservative
tweak to our health care system that is
characterized at by the right as sort of
dangerously leftist well looks a lot
like Nixon's plan actually yeah and and
you know cooked up in the Heritage
Foundation and and piloted by a
Republican governor and what's funny is
you know single-payer which is very much
a compromise position between
nationalized medicine and fully private
payer and provider right a system where
you have a public payer but a private
provider that's the middle ground and
only now are we even beginning to talk
about it as something Democrats can
embrace let alone something that we
would consider centrist while the
majority the American people actually
think it's a good idea
wow you really seem to get it that's
gonna be a campaign ad I mean I hope so
if if if I was Bernie or Warren in the
next debate I would take that quote and
I would go
who said this and it was it me or was it
Elizabeth or you know and that's what I
would say if I was Bernie Sanders and
then actually Pete it was you what is
fair it was when his his father the
Marxists professor was writing his
talking points what yeah back in April
well but I mean that that to me how does
people to judge respond to that I got
smarter I don't know what a nesting doll
of total emptiness I'm willing to kill
people for money if it's gonna get me
elected well he he will pivot I mean
this is this is a McKenzie right
consultant the guy who talks about
wholesome America and like what inner DC
Beltway he is
to the Beltway is a product of Ivy Lee's
this is how he was trained he was
trained in the neoliberal art of you
know shifting on everything constantly I
mean he covered I remember asked him
about charter schools and he came up
with the best spin on charter schools
that looped back to why the DNC was not
there budget needed to be transparent
he's a good pivoter very good well we'll
see I I would be shocked if that doesn't
come up in the next debate because look
the way you know even the way to pull
Biden supporters is to go after bootie
ditch right I think you you're showing a
spell set and you're just like you're
you're showing your skillset in terms of
being a fighter but you're not going
after the person who you know who has
the support that you want I mean I that
to me seems well that's what Col Bashar
is doing that's what that's what Pete's
doing yep if he doesn't want Bernie's
support you know he's trying to show
that he's a centrist you know sellout
and Bashar's just doing whatever she's
being told that she's the delaney of the
debates lately yeah but that's the only
way she gets any time it'll be
interesting to see if she gets even a
slightest bump do we have we seen any
polls after that did she get anything
out of that Washington Post says she was
one of the winner
besides some solid laughs lines you mean
well no she supposedly was the winner
according to everybody she's like one of
the winner list but I just what she's
going to win I think is probably
somewhere around nothing corporate media
is such trash she's gonna win the
corporate media pretend award talking
point of war of the year goes to
now next up let's look at some
sociopaths on television no not
Zuckerberg I know this we got a lot of
them lined up here no it's this guy kid
Lee what's his first name
Hogan watch Hogan your buddy Hogan here
his stripe on stripe that he's offering
us today here's Hogan this is an
unbelievable story there was a US
diplomat I don't know if she was a
diplomat or she's the wife of a US
diplomat who was in Britain
this is so crazy yeah it's horrible it's
a horrible story she was driving on the
wrong side of the road there in 10
England they drive on the left side
couldn't woken up but tired not thinking
who knows who knows what the what what
situation
she was under but let's just presume
let's just presume that it was just a
mistake and that there was no other
influence on her right I don't know that
we know because apparently like she got
out of there lickety-split she hit a
teenager British teenager killed them
and then got out of the country year as
a as a diplomat you get you there's
really no jurisdiction over you and they
got out of the country back in the
States
I I don't know that there's like I don't
know that they can extradite them but I
think that they want her to come back
and face some type of like suit or
whatever it is not sure I think there is
immunity but I think they still they
want it I don't think they're gonna get
it okay so the parents came to the White
House the British parents came to the
White House to plead their case to
Donald Trump and apparently the White
House thought maybe what we just need to
do is get these guys together in a room
and this is this is Hogan Gidley being
questioned about this on Fox News
they're even having problems with this
Hogan were you were you in the room when
the parents of Harry done this nineteen
year old British man who was killed by
the wife of a US diplomat overseas she
was driving on the wrong side of the
road she fled she was at the White House
along with the victim's parents
the parents said that the president's
team tried to arrange a meeting with the
parents and the woman who killed their
son those parents appeared this morning
on another network indus and they
described that moment as an ambush
were there what happened how do you
explain that well I've spoken with the
president directly about this and it's
just a horrific situation he offered his
condolences to the family he understands
the gravity of this moment and the
gravity of this situation he did this
simply on the behest of Boris Johnson in
fact to meet with that family
he wasn't positive for one second that's
the sound of a bus driving over Boris
Johnson first they're gonna try and
blame it on Boris Johnson go back and
then we'll go forward en president's
team tried to arrange a meeting with the
parents and the woman who killed their
son those parents appeared this morning
on another network and as and they
describe that moment as an ambush Rivera
what happened how do you explain that
well I've spoken with the president
directly about this and it's just a
horrific situation he offered his
condolences to the family he understands
the gravity of this moment in the
gravity of this situation he did this
simply on the behest of Boris Johnson in
fact to meet with that family he wasn't
trying to ambush anybody the fact is he
wanted to offer his condolences he
understood exactly what was going on and
of course the diplomatic relationship we
share with the UK as well and he was
simply trying to offer his condolences
to a grieving date and when facing a
horrific situation he applied pressure
on that family to meet with that woman
absolutely not he was wonderful in that
setting explain to them exactly how
heartfelt and how sad he was about the
situation that's all that was was to
offer his condolences early and sharing
their grief they described it as an
ambush why would they they described the
scene as terrifying and they describes
the president's aides as aids as
henchmen again that's their description
I didn't get any of that when I talked
to the president about the situation in
fact he was it was we say he's I I asked
the president were were you surrounded
by thugs were they acting like
man were you trying to ambush them and
he said absolutely not
I was heartfelt I was so high so sad I'm
sure it was real tactful good they
described the scene as terrifying and
they described aids as henchmen again
that's their description I didn't get
any of that when I talked to the
president about the situation in fact he
was the one calming everybody down and
saying listen I'm just here to offer my
condolences to you who have suffered
such a horrific loss that's what this
president does in these situations it's
sad that people come out and they look
they're they're entitled to their own
opinion about the matter but people
pressure anybody he doesn't do that in
those situations he's a father he's a
grandfather he understands this type of
sadness he talks to people every day
across this country who have lost yeah
no yeah you know he doesn't again he -
how does that guy do that well he's not
predict for Huckabee he also was anti
Trump at one point all of them are their
operatives they go in there they do
their job they're gonna have another job
afterwards and that's it there are no
hearts but do they have like how like
how hot do their showers run like how
much like scrubbing like do they need
like a loofah sponge made out of Steel -
just like scrub their bodies like this
is great an basically cleans off all of
the filth I just find that unbelievable
and you meet them you've done this
you've been on these shows before you
meet a lot of these conservatives and
they're actually quite lovely more
lovely than some of the neoliberal
Democrats that you meet in real life and
it's just as you see it's an apt so much
of this is an act now just to be fair to
those two hosts they were on the news
side of Fox News which people still
don't understand there's there was with
Shepard Smith at the head there was a
you know a little bit of a little bit
more truth on that side so they're
willing to push back um what's going on
over there do you have any inside scoop
I was there the day that Shep Smith
stepped down and you know this has all
been reported out people were shocked
Neil Cavuto was on air outside
it's gone yeah II was shocked and Neal's
a nice guy I mean again they're nice
people they'd get along with not in
policy make that very clear the shop was
just just at it is what Trump did
because it's so horrible that it's kind
of funny right like just now making
ambushing these parents because again he
thinks about everything like a reality
show so in his reality show brain
he's on an episode of Jerry Springer and
he's like oh hey guys what if I told you
that you could talk to the woman who
killed your son right now
yeah I mean I don't think he I don't my
sense isn't it yeah I don't think he
came up with the idea I don't you think
he thinks about people that exactly the
kind of idea he would come up with like
let's bring her out folks I think it was
just a there was some plan that like oh
we could you know let's let's get her
there see if she can talk sense to him
show that she's sad it's your problem
you fix it yeah exactly did decide to
come to the White House I mean it wasn't
I mean they came to make the case so it
wasn't like the meeting was set up by
him I'm not no be a diplomat being there
though from the White House is cuckoo
town right right the other side of this
that it's a big story in the UK and
understand what's happening with Braga's
it now Boris Johnson has to move the
Parliament move his party's vote in
favor of brexit to get it to go through
after the you approved it so it was a
weird kind of any sort of normal
politician global leader would not blame
Boris Johnson especially if Donald Trump
wants breakfast actively being yes and
you get the sense now I imagine your
buddy Gidley wouldn't have thrown
Johnson under the bus from a
professional standpoint unless unless
the president said like make sure you
tell him it was Boris Johnson's idea
wasn't my idea
I didn't even didn't even occur to me I
don't even see what the big deal is it's
a Trump first white house it's the way
he ever was like what how does he he
thinks Trump first immediate and that's
it right
what's this clip here
he's talking about the meeting oh this
is where a Trump himself talks about him
he was a perfect meeting it was a great
meeting I haven't seen this clip I bet
you it's gonna be just as horrible as
you imagine it's gonna work they've
treated the Republican Party with great
disrespect okay thank you very much
thank you
[Music]
my meeting with the family was really it
was beautiful in a certain way they did
not want to meet with the person in
question but we had a person that made
killed nice people and we met with the
full group was four people actually as
you you know how it's all broken up and
the meeting took place right here at
about six o'clock Wednesday night and it
was very sad to be honest she lost and
they lost their son I believe it was
going down the wrong way because that
happens in Europe you go to Europe and
the roads are opposite oh my god and
it's very tough if you're from the
United States she's in try it hard for
the united thats a decision to make a
right turn we're supposed to make a left
turn the roads are off the city and she
said that's what happened that happens
to a lot of people by the way but she
said that's what happened she was in the
room right out there we met right here
in these this area and I offered to
bring the person in question in there's
any question and they weren't ready for
it but I get offers they also didn't
know about Boris he asked me if I'd do
that and I did it but unfortunately they
wanted to meet with her and
unfortunately when we had everybody
together they decided not to mate
perhaps mom by that time I don't know
exactly I know the people were lovely
they were very nice and they were you
know desperately sad the live studio
audience was very disappointed I would
be curious to find out the parents
reaction to this idea that they somehow
said it was okay and then they revoked
it because it doesn't sound like they
had any idea that this person in
question who could happen to anybody
habits really hard on Americans obvious
it roads very bad it happens what are
the roundabouts about anyway you kid he
had a good run of it though you know
remember early on Gonzalez and how the
country just it was it was such a big
story this is like this one a thing can
happen
and it turns into a large story where
the country's just paying attention that
story for like a month or two this would
be that kind of story in a normal news
environment and normal administration
yeah but of course in a normal
administration they would never do that
I mean the thing is that if this
happened if if somehow there was a if if
Trump was a Democrat right this story
would be all over the place it would be
huge because the right is is much better
at exploiting this type of thing you
know it doesn't occur to anybody the
Democratic Party that like oh we should
exploit this in some fashion largely
because it's you know there's no policy
is just like a horrible human being but
it's hard to imagine that if this story
got didn't you know got more play but
you know again I think that Donald Trump
is you know I think that the
relationship with the Republicans and
Donald Trump is pretty well forged I
don't think that much is going to shake
it loose and I think it's all negative
partisanship these days and so you know
I think Democrats might respond to
something like this but it's not worth
the time but it there's just so much so
many other stories but it's crazy this
is the kind of story in the 90s that
would have taken over the country I mean
during Obama we had two weeks of he wore
a tan suit right right I mean still my
favorite suit I just wish they'd let him
keep talking a little bit longer because
he was so close to saying that all the
roads in the world just need to be the
same as we do it in America we should
have this is a great ad there's a lot
happening with with da's we almost had a
big wind up in Queens with Caban and I
think she contesting there wasn't there
like another level of investigation that
was happening with some of the ballots
recently but I don't know what the deal
was there was some suit to count ballots
that were uncounted nevertheless with
krasner in Philadelphia there is a sort
of a wave of of there's a reform
movement among
das or at least the you know do you know
people who are seeking the position of
district attorney this is a key as a
boudin jessa sorry
boudin who is well let's play the the ad
I mean some people may know who he is
already we live in a city built on
simple ideal it's called equal justice
for all
but for so many of us this ideal is
being betrayed we've become a city of
prosperity but also of abject poverty
we've become a city of aspiration but
also of exclusion and inequity our most
vulnerable residents do not receive the
mental health care and shelter they need
we fill our jails with african-americans
San Franciscans will make up more than
half the county's inmates but only 5% of
the city's population
we let the wealthy defendants go free on
bail even if they're dangerous by the
poor remain behind bars even if they're
innocent I know what it's like to be
impacted by the criminal justice system
when I was an infant
my mother was sentenced to decades in
prison my father may never get out my
earliest memories are walking through
steel gates to visit them when I served
as a public defender I brought those
experiences with me to the courthouse
every day as I worked on behalf of the
poorest and most overlooked residents of
our city to ensure that people who
couldn't afford a lawyer still had
access to equal justice
I'm part of a growing movement that's
bringing a new vision to the District
Attorney's Office a vision to make the
criminal justice system work for all of
us not just a rich and powerful justice
demands an independent voice someone
willing to directly challenge a broken
system that means someone willing to
confront those with power not someone
beholden to a political machine not
someone who owes favours to the people
who protect the status quo San Francisco
is one of the greatest cities of Earth
but it isn't money or power or venture
capital that makes us great it's our
vision of a society that values everyone
we can end money bail test every single
rape kit stand up to ice and the Trump
administration and eliminate racial
disparities we can make San Francisco a
city of equality and inclusion we have
that choice before us right now in this
election
let's make San Francisco work for all of
us
please vote chaser Budin for District
Attorney
so his folks Kathy boudin and David
Gilbert who were members of The Weather
Underground and were or you know I think
it was a Brinks robbery and sent to
prison for I can't remember how long
Kathy boudin was it was in there but
maybe 20 years or something or 18 years
and then raised by Bill Ayers and
Bernardine Dohrn and and now he's
running to be a cop and now he's trying
to be a cause it's poetic right yeah and
shout-out to Leighton Woodhouse and his
partner I don't know Layton's partner
but they emailed out the this they
worked on this it's an impressive a tank
it's gonna be interesting it's
interesting to see reform hit that
position mm-hmm
in a way that like you know in a way
that is you know I don't it expands the
imagination of what that position can be
in a really important way I do
especially in a state like California
with the private prison complex it's
just owned the state's criminal justice
system and politicians for decades I
mean we see it with Komal Harris right
now I think it's it's a great narrative
counter narrative and you know her
approval rating in her own State forget
about the presidential primary are going
down so it's it's amazing to see just
the the shift so drastic and so rapidly
in California even in Northern
California where you think it's just
like beacon of progress right there's
been a lot of conversations with India
say specifically about how to approach
these quote-unquote
progressive prosecutors that are running
right now there was a resolution that I
think did not make it to the floor at
this year's convention and I can
honestly see it from both sides I think
if you're more of a progressive liberal
reformist type it's a no-brainer
these are reformist performs its
harm-reduction it makes sense if you're
coming at it from a perspective of
abolition as the organizer is from no
new jails are the people that I spent
all day with yesterday at the no new
jails rally that's not enough it doesn't
fit into an abolitionist horizon as they
say there's no such thing as a
progressive prosecutor and no new jails
is a non reformist reform in that you
are not just making things better for
people in jail you're reducing the
number of people who can even be put in
jail in a way that hopefully has a
snowball effect and the relationship
between these two approaches and between
these two tactics is it's got a fraught
history it's really complicated but my
hope is that an organization like DSA
can kind of walk the line between them
because we have so many different kinds
of politics and we have so many
different kinds of organizers and you
know in all the internal contradictions
that come with it but like you can do
both though you can apply the political
pressure I mean a DA doesn't have the
ability to to really decide on whether
or not no new new gels are set up after
you close Rikers it's really a political
decision it's a city council decision
it's a mayoral decision so having you
know you have to if you're gonna go the
political route I understand where to
apply that pressure effectively and
where to apply the pressure within the
terms of the DA is gonna exist it's not
gonna be shut down so would you rather
have the thing there well I think I
think there are I mean I think you know
at one point the DSA has to or you know
figure out what positions are we going
to endorse what positions as a matter of
policy we will not endorse anybody
because we don't think the position
should exist
well it's delicate right because there
are people in the know new jails
movement who don't trust us a partly
because it's you know our race and class
makeup that we have right now but partly
because we do do things like endorse
DA's and we do things coming from more
reformist less abolitionist perspective
they uphold at the end of the day the
carceral state and the bourgeois state
so I mean I want them to trust us I
understand why they might not I also got
a
shout out to folks like Tiffany Caban
who did endorse no new jails and took up
the cause of abolition despite knowing
that the people who are most heavily
involved with this are never going to
give them their support or their
endorsement in return let's check in
with the the folks over at the five I
forgot everybody on that show what do
you think that they make on that show
they got to be very wealthy I don't know
if each one of the five make a million
dollars a year but someone like Jesse
Watters is on there and he does he's got
his own show he's got to be a Greg
Gutfeld I bet makes you know I don't
know if he makes a million but he's got
to get pretty close the others I'm
thinking probably well deep deep into
the six figures they've all been there
for quite a while Democrat yeah exactly
and now I don't know who's this she's
Martha McCallum Oh Martha McCallum okay
yeah here we go this is they're
complaining about the idea that it's now
convenient for you to figure out how
much you should leave for a tip and you
know these are the these are the the
free market is rightly they have no
problem with you know an opioid
manufacturer you know pushing opioids on
you know hundreds of pills per person in
a any given County they have no problem
with the president promoting his own
product but if you're a waiter yeah if
you work at or you work at like a coffee
shop and you try and ask for a tip
that's obnoxious it really tips me off
is the iPad thing that they hold up in
your face after they give you coffee and
say do you want to tip me 10 15 or 20
percent and
[Laughter]
[Applause]
well I mean all you're doing is handing
me coffee you're supposed to sign think
oh how much you wanted to be in there
look looking over your shoulder I
noxious too aggressively I think that's
obnoxious but I think most people in
terms of it yeah someone spin her coffee
exactly I hope gonna do it now I mean
it's unbelievable the it's just it's
just shocking to me my coffee every
morning
I'm granted it's a little bit of a
coffee snob it's five bucks okay I'm if
I'm paying five bucks for coffee I'm
gonna give you a dollar tip the the idea
though that you would brag about having
the I'm not afraid to leave them nothing
wow that's pretty that takes a lot of
guts man but you're spending so much on
these products this is what blows my
mind you there's no it's blatant blatant
disrespect for employees it's crazy
I'm sorry it's true that tipping is a
bad model of compensation where people
have to just like I get the sense that's
not what the yeah yeah obviously people
just have to kiss the ass of the people
they're serving and dance like monkeys
in order to get a living wage but that
is the system that we have and as long
as we have that you are an if
you know someone's making $5 an hour and
it's on you to pay them for the service
that they performed you and you don't do
it well waters is an and they
know they get it off both sides this is
when DC was trying to do the the tipping
stuff
I'm sure Fox and Friends if someone was
about how socialist that was basically
well and the other aspect of this is
they actually have you know a good chunk
of the viewers are working people so
what I actually enjoyed about the
old-school Fox News I can't believe I'm
saying this is you did have a little bit
of a populist that would never come out
of Bill O'Reilly's mouth ever because he
had this worker appreciation and he
would never disrespect the viewer and
that's why his ratings I think
essentially were so good is that he
wouldn't give in to that aspect in that
dance to stick to charge women
minorities towards well there's probably
way too switches in there twisted logic
and make the baristas these cultural
elites write book stuff that's bad and
you know but funny but they do have an
iPad that they're like they're carrying
around an iPad Kent iPad make the coffee
MF er I want more iced tea I do think it
signals the fall of Fox News though I
know that sounds strange but they would
never insult their base here's Mark
Zuckerberg trying to make a an argument
that that that that the technology is
empowering and here's the this is I mean
this is to some extent what he's saying
is true but you also need to realize
that he's saying this in service of
maintaining an oligarchy right it is
like you we're gonna give you here's the
deal we're gonna bake this big cake and
you're gonna get some crumbs from it and
that's more than you had before because
it is true that it democratizes things
like Twitter and Facebook and whatnot
that democracies is sort of the the the
discourse a little bit I mean you have
platforms they get created but at the
end of the day the power it what it also
is doing it is allowing the
concentration of power so that that
discourse becomes less relevant in super
important questions
it is a Fifth Estate alongside the other
power structures in our society then you
know people no longer have to rely on
traditional gatekeepers in politics or
media to make their voices heard and and
that has important consequences and I
understand the concerns that people have
about how tech platforms have have
centralized power but I actually believe
that the much bigger story is how
watch these platforms have decentralized
power by putting it directly into
people's hands it's it's part of this
amazing expansion of voice that we've
experienced through law and culture and
now technology as well all right you
know what's interesting is it yes it is
it has enhanced people's voices but he
doesn't really make it clear on how
they've enhanced people's power because
he says on one hand the bigger story is
not these massive concentrations of
power because I'm sitting atop a
billions worth of dollars and an asset
that can change all of this and I can
actually switch a lot of stuff by just
futzing with the algorithms the bigger
story is that people now can have their
own personal brands and can can talk and
be heard and that may be a bigger story
for the individual on some level right
like for me yes like I am on YouTube and
that's a conversation in like 2008
that's not what it is today exactly
there's no you know that's like like the
you know the Chamber of Commerce selling
small businesses meanwhile these small
businesses are being eaten up by
monopolies that's not the conversation
people are having today and and let's
not forget those voices what he packages
as free speech was actually free content
for him and that's what how he was able
to build his power and monopolize this
industry if I wanted to start a Facebook
tomorrow that wouldn't happen if I
wanted to start anything tomorrow on a
technological platform it would either
be eaten up right away or there's just
no way to raise the capital to be able
to compete with they're just sorry tech
entrepreneurs I hate to break it to you
you missed your opportunity like that's
where we are today the headline for him
is that he figured out how to make money
off of the things people do in the
course of their day-to-day lives in a
way it's a form of primitive
accumulation right he's it's like it's
like the gold rush he's broken new
ground there was a sector of life the
capital had not yet found a way to
intrude upon and extract value from and
he figured it out so when you might be
normally sitting around talking to your
friends around on the internet
whatever whatever these are
Social reproductive activities you do
for free he's figured out how to
monetize it and make us all his workers
basically the key adjective he used is
traditional gatekeepers because he can't
just write the word gatekeepers and he's
got to worry about the time where people
stop looking at Facebook as this new
tech thing and people realize that oh
that's just another gatekeeper in itself
will you just pull up some audio of
Donald Trump jr. because the these guys
sound almost identical it just the
Zuckerberg sounds like Donald Trump jr.
would if he was on ecstasy where I just
did her feel like he's got a little bit
more sort of like breath and a little
bit more feigned excitement like I'm
gonna try and make you excited about
this new frontier that yeah here we go
play play plate no wait to play
Zuckerberg and then play play Trump he
looks like a Star Trek in the world yeah
it is a Fifth Estate alongside the other
power structures in our society okay now
do it when you're the father and your
son's entire career is dependent on that
right Onew Shawn that's what he's just a
little bit more angry Inc and he's not
trying to sell he's trying to incite
people yeah all right we got time for
just a couple of phone calls and then we
got to get out of here folks a lot of
people been hanging on the phone calling
from a 7-3 to area code who's this where
he call him from seven three two hi this
is a nape from New Jersey Nate from New
Jersey what's on your mind I was just
wondering why hasn't someone invoked the
UN Charter with turkey just invading the
area I mean we that's how the Korean War
started did North Korea invaded South
Korea we invoked the UN Charter
everybody went in stop them ah no no
that is I mean that's a I mean I think
that's a
good argument I don't know why we're
we're not hearing that really frankly
you know the I think my understanding is
you know last week there was the you
know the before the vote where the
Security Council was going to condemn it
there was some argument about it but
apparently Turkey says the article 51 of
the UN Charter that they have a right to
self-defense against armed attack allows
them I don't I don't I don't know I
don't know how they can they can justify
that but they're saying that the YPG
gives material support to the PKK I
guess is basically their argument did
you guys see that an ambassador endorsed
you know Samantha power came out and
said that that trump has basically
endorsed ethnic cleansing and called for
the you an ambassador to denounce that
if this is uncharted territory this is
crazy
appreciate the call Nate we're gonna try
and do the a couple of these quick folks
cuz uh call from a 773 area code who's
this where he calling from UT Wally
Maine Lucci Wally what's happening
what's on your mind
Andrew yang basically he's been into
this thing that economics of America
going to be screwed up because of
automation he works that into like every
answer he gives and every question in
every debate and the unfortunate thing
is he's Dolly's economist supporting
what he's saying but economy economics
is a cult not a sign so the problem is
is that our point about this before on a
previous call but America when you
measure automation which is easily
measurable you're measuring productivity
growth right if you've got 10 guys
making widgets and you automate it so
one guy can do that work then you had a
thousand percent increase in automation
right yep you look at the automation for
the last decades it's not about 1.3 if
you look at product ohana me if you look
at productivity yeah same thing anything
right in manufacturing if you look at
it's about 1.3 percent which is lower
than it was during the 50s so the
problem that we have is that we're
preparing for this apocalypse of robots
taking our jobs it's just not going to
come and wasting all of our time with
that in the stupidity of the GBI I agree
about the the automation you would see
if automation was in fact responsible
for the the job loss that we've seen a
it wouldn't have come back around
cyclically like we have seen since the
the the recession the jobs aren't as
good people working more hours but the
fact of the matter is that you know
people are getting employed they may not
like the jobs they may not be the same
quality of jobs but that's not a
function if robots aren't doing the
better jobs in that situation and you're
right the the lack of productivity
growth the flatline of productivity
wouldn't happen if the story was that
robots were taking over and yeah it's I
that story just still remains in it I
think it's just an excuse in which the
you know for people not to do anything
well if you talk to a Marxist economist
they will agree with you on most of this
because if you believe Marx value
surplus value can only be extract what
we think of as profits basically it's
not exactly the same thing can only be
extracted from human labor so there you
go right there if you replace everyone
with robots the economy will crash and
Marx is sepra dicted that if you believe
in a consumer-based economy which is I
think ultimately the issue that Fox News
these well someone who works in IT I
have a strong problem with the idea that
robots going to end up taking anybody's
job it's all height right there they've
got is telling us that you know cars
cars are gonna drive themselves but if I
go to a car dealership where do I go to
buy one of these cars well if you're
going big I mean if you're sitting in a
city like like New York right now we're
Boober and lifter you know putting
together their plans right
there there it's actually in in the
works when it comes to Ober
transitioning within you know two years
to a completely driverless good luck
good luck because we have VPNs I mean
great unions technology is there great
but here's the other thing all I do is I
go back to that that article I found in
a steamer trunk twenty-five years ago at
a yard sale that was from nineteen
nineteen fifty a futurist was talking to
the Rotary Club in Miami explaining that
the biggest challenge we were gonna have
by the time we get to the 1990s is how
to deal with the leisure time that we
have because we will be at a four-day
work week because robots will have been
taking over and automation will be
taking over so much of the work that
there won't be enough work for us to do
they also her president I think it was
Nixon that actually said that well I
think we're gonna hear it
perpetually the guy also said to his
credit he predicted that we'd be walking
around with watches where we can watch
TV on the watches that would get
information from satellites and they
would be powered by kerosene quite get
all of it but he was close Moochie Wally
I appreciate if you're interested in
more of this Marxist digression Joshua
clover friend of my show
anyway he hasn't been on this show but
he's really rad he talks about the
difference between absolute surplus
value the amount that people work
basically the amount of hours versus
relative surplus-value which is surplus
value that's extracted with technology
and efficiency measures and makes a
really convincing case for the fact that
we cannot have an economy that's run
purely on relative surplus-value there
still has to be a base of absolute
surplus value for it to be laid on top
of so check it out so how does it apply
to journalism columns from a five one
five area code I can't wait for this
this my whole job to be taken over by
the robots as long as a you know I guess
I just gotta just I would assume that we
we have a way to go back call over the
library that we have pull all my words
right and just have someone edit
together the show in some fashion just I
just you know how many different how
many different poses what I need to do
for the deep fake to take place here
Mark Zuckerberg is it's basically the
manufactured version of his essence yeah
he could be a robot right now call him
from a five-on-five area code who's this
where he come from
hello Sam this is Lana laura from
southeast Iowa Colin Beck's oh yeah
what would Laura it was the first part
it's shaunell Laura Hana Laura like
Honolulu okay Laura welcome what's on
your mind okay um so I've missed a
couple days have you guys talked about
or heard about person King and the Des
Moines Register whole blow-up know it
might seem kind of nice but um so so
there was this kid Carson King he's like
he's like 24 something like that he held
up this sign at the Iowa State Iowa
University of Iowa game day like it was
on ESPN and it said Bush light supply
needs replenished and then he gave his
venmo
and so like money started pouring in and
after Bush life as in the beer as in the
beer Bush beer okay yeah you know just
you know just a gag or whatever so he
starts getting hundreds of dollars after
five hundred dollars he says okay I'm
going to donate this to the Children's
Hospital at the University of Iowa and
it's really cool you know and
anheuser-busch says they're gonna do
some kind of sponsorship with him
they're gonna donate a million dollars
to this to mint hospital and you in Iowa
City right we have solved the healthcare
crisis Tory what's that we've solved the
healthcare crisis that's all we need to
do right I know that's beer panhandlers
so the trouble cases the trouble comes
you know it's this great feel-good story
and a Des Moines Register reporter Aaron
Calvin is his name
work there anymore skinny he is going to
interview him and do a story and he's
doing his his work and he finds some old
tweets from when this guy Carson came I
think I did hear that were racist yeah
so then there's this huge backlash
against the Des Moines Register which
personally I don't I don't care they're
the right-wing owned by gannett I guess
so you know I don't care about them in
particular but I just find this whole
situation really sort of confounding and
then there's like another component so
if I'm ketchup if you haven't heard so
this this guy at the register got just
all this backlash they found old
misogynist and you know it's really sad
tweets you've heard another so yeah so
then the recent development happened a
few days ago so yes only if you're like
a biking Heat maybe if you would have
heard of this outside of Iowa but we
have this thing called RAGBRAI where
it's a whole week where people biked
across Iowa like ten to fifteen thousand
people I think it's been going on almost
50 years and it's RAGBRAI stands for
registers annual great bike ride across
Iowa so it was just started like through
the Des Moines Register I'm in the 70s I
think okay and so now the management of
people who've been running RAGBRAI just
quit and our day scheduled there's like
I guess like 16 people on this team they
scheduled their own bike ride the same
week this red guy and they're calling it
Iowa's ride and it's so so this whole
story kind of like right so we'll just
come through this mmm
yeah well I mean but just so I mean it's
an interesting story but what do you
perceive as the point um well I guess
Michael is not here to talk about
canceled culture but there is an element
of that where
you know the Des Moines Register this
reporter was getting you know death
threats and that sort of thing for you
know pulling up and you know ruining
this high a good story and then at the
same time it's like he was sixteen old
enough to be you know the difference
between racist jokes that you you know
well I don't I mean I guess my feeling
about this is is is a little bit
different I don't know if that's really
either one of those is the question from
my perspective it's that what bearing
what bearing to the extent that this can
I don't know maybe if this kid was going
to try and sign like some type of you
know deal where he becomes a
spokesperson for something or was trying
to professionalize this then maybe that
stuff becomes a little bit more relevant
but I don't see what the relevance of
this guy's past tweets are at least to
the extent that what you've told me
about the story and I haven't read you
know I I recognize the story but I
haven't read it you know that and beyond
what you've told us my feeling is just
like you know it has III don't I don't
even know what canceled culture means
really I mean I know what it's supposed
to mean but I don't know that like I'm
not terribly worried about it I think
people who are public figures can be
judged in what they put out publicly I
mean that's like you know Twitter is a
public meet you know means a
communication if you're a public figure
you tweet out stuff you got to be able
to answer for it now I've been in this
situation and you know you either got a
you either you've got an answer for it
in some fashion and but I don't see why
you know this kid who was like not
making a big affirmative move to become
a public figure yeah I do exactly I
don't think he had a responsibility to
the public and I died so I think it's
unfair for a paper to dig into him like
that and it looks like you know I think
a reporter who's doing that is being a
little bit creepy frankly and missing
the point I understand they're gonna get
clicks but I do think that that is
I'm not saying that I'm not being an
apologist for what the kids you know
racist stuff is but I think like that's
something that people on his Twitter
feed should deal with in that context I
think like it wasn't it also part of the
public record originally and that was
the reporter citing it so it's like it's
kind of like they it was already on the
public record so if you glossed over it
then are you making a problem by not
talking about what this guy like because
I don't think that broke I even followed
the super closely but my understanding
was that like the reporter justified it
by saying this was already publicly
known information and I just noted it in
the story well meaning Twitter's a
public what it's former but it's not
it's not relevant he doesn't mean to be
here's here's the brain he wasn't
running for office he wasn't you know
auditioning for some sort of position
where he had a maxima you he was
pretending to be woke he was a guy who
raised money of beer money and he didn't
have any responsibility wasn't being
vetted for anything yeah and even then
even then you know the canceled culture
has gotten to the point in my opinion
where there are people involved like I
can't think of any other situation then
then jank
when jank was one of the founders of
justice Democrats I've never comment on
this and he was kicked out because of
things that he wrote 25 years prior when
he was a Republican and his response was
yes I have been open about the things
that I used to do that were horrible and
how I evolved into becoming a
progressive and they still canceled him
well but from justice Democrats I mean
evolved I think it is the prerogative of
a of an institution or an organization
to say we're going to distance ourselves
from someone because it has public
relations problems I think that's fine
Jake's not canceled I mean we founded
Justice Democrats well I understand but
yeah you got kicked out of the
organization or they want to step away
from or whatever it is but I think that
like I I don't have a problem with that
like I mean if you know like if an
organization wants to sort of like it
could create some distant like I don't
have a problem with the idea the the the
argument should be made in terms of the
Justice Democrats and jank
based on its merits if people felt that
way strongly that what he said you know
was not that bad
and that it doesn't reflect poorly on
them by but it's like it's not up to an
institution to give to give atonement
it's you know like an institution has
their own primary directive and it's
it's their job to protect what they're
doing what the central mission is and it
is you know it it's up to like if Jan
could have made a huge issue out of like
they've lived jettison me and I don't
think he did that because he understood
that the directive of the organization
was more important like I think on some
level like you know Al Franken had
second thoughts but the fact is is that
he had to step down because he didn't
want it to inhibit the Doug Jones his
chances against Roy Martin now that was
his decision to make and and you know I
think I think that's a different because
neither one of them are cancelled
they're both living their lives that
both you know like to the extent that
Frank it's not a senator anymore which
is total he made that decision he could
have hung in there but he knew there was
another price to be paid which he made
the decision as to whether he wasn't he
wasn't rousted he was he was ecology now
well no he wasn't ala stood he was
pushed but he wasn't he made that he he
made that last jump I think like you
know a you know I think we're all in
agreement in terms of like this kid who
was not professionalizing was not you
know making an affirmative attempt to
sort of like make a as far as I know it
based on the limit limited facts that we
know I I don't think that is appropriate
you know in that situation but I don't
think that it's like I just have a
problem with the term cancel culture
because I think you know Harvey
Weinstein should go to jail well right
but in a different kind of canceling
whoa and I think there should be like
criminal I don't want I would have a
problem with I would have a problem sort
of assessing you know a news outfit that
allowed you know someone like
what's-his-face cuz I our or how
was it Halperin now you know like yeah I
mean yeah yeah I think it's an issue and
so and and and in silenced reporting and
pushed away report and I think that is
that's a current state I mean I think
the issue a lot of folks are having with
canceled culture is is number one are
you even do you even deserve
cancellation do you deserve the critique
you deserve the Fed inviting and I say
deserve from a context of is this
something that you are are you rising to
the occasion to perform some sort of
extraordinary jury duty that effects you
know the public's perception or
influences the public in any way okay
that deserves vetting but I think what a
lot of folks are having issues with with
canceled culture is past actions that
have been overcome learned from and
changed now NBC is currently sitting
under a crisis and they clear it up and
then they criticize Fox News which is
equally they're all the same they all
have these internal cultures you know
some are a little bit more open about it
and some it's behind the scenes yeah and
I think but then there also the question
is like how do you establish that
someone has has surpassed these things I
mean and and you know and then the
question is like you know does an
institution have the ability to make
that assessment to look inside someone
know if they've genuinely changed I mean
think something smart about it it's
great I agree and I'm told here I just
saw this that apparently it is standard
practice for to run background checks
according to the journalists right this
is it was in BuzzFeed but that's all
rejects of what well but that's the
point is like it's one thing to run a
background check and find out like oh
this guy has a history of raising money
and diverting it from what he's saying
he's giving it to because that has
direct bearing on this or this guy has
run this scam before right but to make
it about something that's completely
different even as it's bad I just don't
think it should be a part of that story
unless the guy's going out and trying to
trade off it in some way to expand you
know and ask for the public's trust then
it becomes relevant but here
being a hypocrite in some way the likes
of lady who was dissing Bernie for not
talking enough about LGBT issues and
then it came out that she had some
horrible racist tweets like seven years
ago right I mean fair enough but I think
the idea is if you're asking for the
public's trust then as some issues that
might infringe upon that but he made it
pretty clear like he was looking for
beer money
you know it wasn't like he was like so
if you're gonna go through that amount
of research why not do some like
following the money of actual
politicians or you know you're on the
Iowa beat why not follow the Democratic
primary and follow their money I don't
know this let's look at this beer money
in this like 16 or we're gonna search
and Twitter well listen folks we're out
of time we will see you on my no me
thank you so much yeah it's always a
pleasure to have you here it is very fun
to have you here we should be luck plug
the Bernie rally oh oh yeah are people
aware that there's a Bernie rally in
Queens that is going to feature a Oh see
I sadly I cannot be there but I know it
I saw you at the last one I know I
wanted to go but I've got both the kids
if I had just had the older one
six-year-old he gets a little nervous in
those crowds so are doing it extra for
you I appreciate that
all right folks see you Monday in that
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was I just got caught
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
the teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
