it has been a long time coming but
apparently Richard Neil the chairman of
the House Ways and Means Committee has
filed suit to get Donald Trump's taxes
just recap for us how we got here and
why it took so long and should it have
taken so long
sure so last year in the run-up to the
midterm elections everyone from Nancy
Pelosi on down said that the first thing
that the Democratic Party would do when
they took control of Congress without
the representatives in January would be
requests Donald Trump's tax returns
there's a statute that explicitly states
that Congress has the right to access
those documents they do so through the
House Ways and Means Committee and
there's no justification required it's
just a complete right of the House Ways
and Means Committee to request the tax
return of any person or business in the
United States they didn't do it in
January they didn't do it in February
they didn't do it in March people like
me spent a lot of time explaining why
they should be moving much faster why
they had an unimpeachable case to speak
that they had rights to those materials
and that the delay was benefiting Donald
Trump they finally made a request in
early April but everyone knew that they
were going to be told no by the Trump
administration for several weeks there
was a song and dance between the
administration and Congress were Richard
Neal would say pretty please please give
me the returns and the Trump people be
like well let's think about it and then
they would say no finally a subpoena was
issued in May the Trump administration
didn't do anything a response to the
subpoena which is illegal and yet all
throughout June and the end of May love
is to finally heesu's right before July
4th and now the big question is whether
or not they're going to try to move this
case as rapidly as possible there are
legal avenues to accelerate a court
system that is typically too slow but
needn't be slow we're going to see if
the House Ways and Means Committee will
do that
um ah why don't we start with what's
your prediction as to whether they're
gonna do that I mean because I guess
that maybe goes to what their strategy
is I mean I know that it only all they
need to do is wait a couple of weeks and
then August comes and then there's no
everything grinds to a halt when it
comes to court cases just a little pro
tip if you want to not serve on a jury
August is a good time to try and push
your your hearings to your when they
bring you out there because that's just
where things grind to a halt but what's
your sense do you think they're gonna
try and expedite it or is there a
specific agenda to slow walk this I
think there's a specific agenda to slow
walk it coming down from the speaker's
office
I think speaker Pelosi for
well-intentioned but my mind completely
inaccurate reasoning believes that
impeachment would be a catastrophe she
believes I think rightly that if a court
were to order Trump's Treasury
Department to turnover comes tax returns
Trump would intercede and would be in
violation of the court order and I think
Pelosi believes at that point in time
she would be compelled to allow
impeachment to go forward the outcry
would be so great and she thinks
impeachment satrap so I think that
Pelosi is going to do everything she can
just slow walk it I think that the
complaint was well constructed by the
attorneys in the house general counsel's
office but there was no explicit call
for expediting there was some you know
winks and nods in that direction but
there was nothing explicit and I'm
worried that the absence of any motion
seeking to for an expedited hearing by
the House General Counsel reflects the
fact that they report ultimately to the
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and
she wants us to move as slowly as
possible the other interesting
development is that New York State today
signed into law Governor Cuomo did a
bill that would allow the House Ways and
Means Committee to request
Donald Trump's New York state tax
returns which would not provide all of
the information of his federal returns
but would include many elements that are
some taken from his federal taxes it
would also include information about
when he's been audited which is the
reason that the House Ways and Means
Committee is going after Trump's taxes
in the first place to figure out how the
Trump Treasury Department is auditing
their boss Donald Trump so that was
that's very worrisome that the House
Ways and Means Committee is turning down
and open opportunities we got some very
real information about Donald Trump's
taxes wait so they're turning it down I
mean what is that so that declining to
exercise an authority that was signed
into law today by that the House Ways
and Means Committee can ask New York
State's tax authority to see the tax
records of any New York State resident
and obviously have we are we sure that
they've declined to do this or are we
simply waiting for them to respond to it
there's a statement from Donald's sorry
from a Richard Neal spokesman saying
that they will not do it Wow and that's
available only to the Ways and Means
Committee not to an individual not to
any Congress person that's pretty
stunning right I mean that couldn't be
more clear of an answer that there's
just simply a a concerted effort to I
mean slow walk it seems like it almost
might be a a characterization that's too
fast I mean this seems to be something
they they specifically just don't want
to happen
it might strike people as hyperbole but
I think Nancy Pelosi believes that the
entire terrain of the 2020 election
cycle should be about pre-existing
conditions and the affordable care act
and I think that those are both very
connected and very important issues so I
don't want to in any way disparage their
importance but obviously people vote for
president on a multiple
of issues that I think that
congressional oversight which were to
point out that the president seems to be
a serial criminal whose criminal conduct
often undermines the country that he is
nominally in charge of I think that
would bother voters but a pelosi just
really wants nothing to distract from
her caucuses very decent kind of
uninteresting was a sort of agenda that
keeps passing the house and getting
their vote in the Senate and drawing no
attention in either the traditional
media on social media well there's the
thing I can't figure out here Jeff is
that and maybe this baffles you as well
they have passed now I think I you know
as of a couple of weeks ago over fifty
five pieces of legislation some of it
would be great if it actually was to go
through the Senate it did I don't even
think it makes it through the doors of
the Senate frankly never mind getting
voting down there
but my understanding is they've run out
like here's the thing I just do not
understand if the idea was we need to
focus on this agenda which we're going
to carry through or we need to focus on
other elements of oversight and we're
gonna take a break in a minute or two
and you can tell us about your theory as
to how various parts of oversight could
be worked in to a broader narrative that
would be an electoral strategy in 2020
but I don't see any indication frankly
of of this legislative agenda like if
this was the agenda why did you do it
all in the first three months why wasn't
there a proper rollout why did you get
sidetracked with Ilan Omar when you're
rolling out HR 1 I mean I I you know I
think there's an argument to be made
that we should focus on this legislative
agenda versus impeachment I wouldn't
necessarily agree with it but I think
it's an argument but I don't see any
evidence that that was the plan from the
beginning it just seems to be like
whatever like it somehow something's
gonna
all the time between now and you know
the the 2020 election and I suspect the
Republicans are going to end up
dictating what it is it's going to fill
that time I agree I think that the
Democrats believe that if they offer
popular ideas then the American people
will support them for offering them but
the Republicans realize that they do not
engage with the Democratic agenda
because it's popular so if they ignore I
popular ideas from Democrats those ideas
are essentially irrelevant and so yeah
they passed a bunch of well-meaning
certainly highly popular bills through
the house that are dead on arrival and
therefore have been widely ignored all
right look we got to take a quick break
when we come back I want to talk about
your vision for oversight that can
dovetail quite nicely with pocketbook
issues that voters are going to be
presumably voting on in 2020 I'm Sam
cedar this is ring of fire radio we'll
be right back with Jeff Hauser
after this
