[Music]
all right let's go to this bench here Oh
still on the its it seems like every
every week he's got a new favorite
freshman woman Congress Congress person
that he is obsessing about I think ill
Hans his favorite Johannes his favorite
now well because you know in the attempt
to deny the obvious truth that hate
crimes against Muslims against Jews
against really anybody who is not white
in this country or not Christian has
gone up since the entrance into the race
by Donald Trump and the Republican Party
which enabled Donald Trump's rise which
trained its its electorate to vote for a
guy like this that has excused time and
time again rhetoric that ranges from I'm
sure there's some decent non rapists
Mexicans too you know we're gonna ban
Muslim countries Muslim immigrants to
just we're going to charge refugees
money if they're seeking asylum
and on and on and on I'm sure there are
good people on both side the whole thing
in their desperate attempt to hide their
and deny their own complicity in this
stuff whether they dress it up as like
we're we're just exploring ideas here
we're rebels we're talking about stuff
that was you know mmm-hmm hasn't been as
popular since we were talking about
eugenics or something they are
constantly looking for other people to
blame for what they know ultimately is a
function of their
politics and here is ben shapiro
trying to somehow tie alon omar into the
white supremacist who who shot up a
synagogue a couple of days ago as i said
before if you are blind to anti-semitism
from one particular side of the aisle
because it favors your a political
position you are not in the fight
against anti-semitism your part of the
problem
if anti-semitism is just another
political club to be wielded if iran
omar pause it you know it's just amazing
because i one could be forgiven for
assuming that that was the way he was
about to introduce his apology when
anti-semitism is simply used as a
political club and with that said i had
an epiphany and i'm going to retire and
i'm going to go work somewhere else and
do something else with my life because i
realize what i have been doing has been
so wrong but instead he turns still on
omar you're part of the problem
if anti-semitism is just another
political club to be wielded if iran
omar is given the credibility to speak
out against anti-semitism while
routinely engaging in anti-semitism she
has a lot of the same opinions about
jews that the white supremacist had in
that manifesto in that manifesto the
basis that the white the the shooter
basically says effectively says about
jews that they control the world media
that they control the way money runs
that they control opinion about israel
and i posit now allah no mar has said
none of those things none of none of the
things she's ever said could even be
remotely interpreted by that the closest
she's ever said is that the pact that is
has an ins mission statement to impact
the to impact the public opinion of
israel in this country does it by
expending money on candidates just like
thomas friedman said although thomas
friedman said it a little more
aggressively and a little more pointed
and a little bit more studiously but she
she never said any of the things he's
lying about now so you think how
decrepit you have to be in your brain to
make this case that we shouldn't
politicize anti-semitism as you are
lying to politicize anti-semitism and
basically comparing Elon Omar to a white
supremacist who's just shot somebody up
because and he has to lie about the
similarities in their manifesto and I
want you to keep that in mind we don't
need to hear a bench marrow anymore
because Ben Shapiro when we talk about
manifestos when we talk about the
implications and he's ray I don't know
what the point is he's making that Alon
Omar and he lies about her opinions are
similar to those of the shooter but we
know for a fact that the guy who shot up
in Canada which number is this one that
we have here the Quebec City mosque
shooter in the Washington Post the guy's
name Bissonnette appears to have
obsessively visited the Twitter accounts
of Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingraham
David Duke Alex Jones Mike tsarevets
Richard Spencer and busy Matt checked on
the Twitter account of Ben Shapiro 93
times in the month leading up to the
shooting so if you want to talk about
similarities in perspective if you want
to talk about inspiration for four
attacks like these here's a video who
did this video this is a clip from a
vicar ger Vick burger did a video
comparing the rhetoric from Shapiro with
the testimony not the testimony the I
guess the interrogation of this guy
Bissonnette listen to this
many Muslims are trying to kill Jews end
of story
this idea we are all Muslim no we aren't
and the only people who think we are are
leftists who are fully insane or Muslims
who believe that we all should be
Muslims and that they get to kill us if
we disagree so all of this politically
correct nonsense it's gonna get a lot of
people killed a lot more people will die
because there are people who believe we
are all Muslims
here's B's Annette I wanted to save
people save people they asked yes from
terrorist attacks I mean the the I I
don't know if I can say that that
Shapiro inspired this guy but we do know
in terms of factually this guy was
obsessively checking the messages he was
getting from Shapiro and that his
perspective his fears were completely
aligned with the warnings that Shapiro
was giving so it's really stunning for
this guy to come out and say this that
mister if we're talking about manifestos
actually read the one from the New
Zealand guy and I would like to see Ben
Shapiro explicitly say how his views on
the dangers of Muslim immigration differ
from those expressed in those manifests
he's very interesting to hear I mean
it's it's pretty shocking to hear Ben
Shapiro going out and trying to make
this argument yeah and he can stop using
all Jews as an excuse by the way because
most Jews do not agree with him well he
would not to be fair he would not
consider those Jews to be Jews because
Ben Shapiro completely inconsistent with
the with Jewish tradition feels that he
is the Pope of the Jews apparently I'm
the pulpit the djinns
or he certainly it appears to act that
way and a most pious
