CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous we must guard against
the acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is Monday
May 20th 2019 my name is Sam cedar
that's the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today
Peter Dow author of digital civil war
confronting the far-right Menace also on
the program today
Deutsche Bank whistleblower reveals that
money laundering red flags were
triggered by Jared Kushner in 2016 and
in 2017 but never reported interesting
meanwhile
Republican congressman Justin Amash
calls for impeachment those calls are
now officially bipartisan meanwhile
Trump is in a manic state over Iran one
day I like him one day not so much and
Democratic governor John bel Edwards
governor of Louisiana will sign what may
be the next more or less abortion ban
bill and to celebrate Memorial Day next
week Donald Trump may pardon more war
criminals on that day literally the EPA
planning to lower the number of deaths
from pollution by changing their
calculation of what constitutes
pollution that's the power of positive
thinking there's guidance folks
meanwhile Kamala Harris announces a plan
to force pay equity FCC Greenlight's
t-mobile Sprint merger all this and more
on today's majority report welcome
ladies and gentlemen it is Monday we are
now officially one month away I think
it's exactly one month away from the
first Democratic primary debates right
they are going to be on a Wednesday and
Thursday nights
I believe it's June 20th and 21st 26th
and 27th all right I jumped the gun a
little bit we're a week away but so what
I'm very excited about it stage two
gonna argue oh my gosh get the
babysitter get the beer the debates are
happening we're gonna get the beer
I hope most definitely I've already
checked that do you not have the kids
that those two nights so it's party time
ladies and gentlemen party tonight
prepare we will be going live our we
will be going live those two nights we
will do the same in July during the
debates these kids in your phone okay
bye
exactly I'm locking the door don't
answer it
do you have you memorized daddy's phone
number
good now forget it because it's debate
guy right exactly
folks just a reminder you spend one
third of your life in in your sheets
it's about time for a bedding upgrade I
should tell you solve almost basically
done with his issues with soiling the
sheets so I may say that a and almost
almost I may as a like as a reward get
them a set of Brooklyn ants usually they
have been they have been just in the
adult purview the adults that appreciate
quality sheets this has named the winner
of the best online banning category by
Good Housekeeping Brooklyn and has more
than thirty five thousand five star
reviews this is because by eliminating
the middleman working directly with the
manufacturers and customers Brooklyn and
offers luxury sheets without the luxury
markup
with over twenty five colors and
patterns these sheets don't just feel
great they look great too I now have at
least four four sets of Brooklyn and
sheets it is a function of of the living
arrangements in the post-marital state
that I am living in still New York State
but and I am loving every one of them
they're the classic I can't wear they
call them percale cotton I think it is I
don't know
I'm not sophisticated about that but I
know what I like which is the club the
classic crispy cool cotton sheets
they're fantastic and they they make me
look like I'm an adult
very attractive sheets my Brooklyn
sheets are the best the most comfortable
sheets I've ever slept on now it's time
for your upgrade Brooklyn and dot-com
has an exclusive offer for just my
listeners get 10% off your first order
and free shipping when you use the promo
code majority at Brooklyn and Comm
Brooklyn and so confident they're in
their product that all their sheets
comforters towels come with a lifetime
warranty the only way to get 10% off
your first order and free shipping use
the promo code majority at Brooklyn and
dot-com that's Brooklyn and cambiar oh
okay Li n en dot-com promo code majority
Brooklyn and these really are the best
sheets ever okay so this happened it's
graduation time as you know around the
country and this was one of the probably
the best speech in terms of what folks
thought around the you know or I should
say students considered at their
graduations this is a guy named Robert F
Smith he's a billionaire don't know how
he made his money
private equity great
um put that aside for a moment and think
positively just for a moment he is
addressing almost 400 graduates at
Morehouse College I assume he's uh he's
an alum there right because he well
you'll you'll sense it from the speech
pretty sure he's in LA maybe isn't but
he's challenging other alum nevertheless
he has an interesting announcement to
make
to the three hundred some-odd three
hundred almost four hundred kids
students I should say at a Morehouse
eight generations of my family who have
been in this country we're going to put
a little fuel in your bus now I've got
the Alumni over there and this is the
challenge to you alumni this is my class
2019
[Applause]
and my family is making a grant to
eliminate their student loans
[Applause]
okay I mean yes behind you know that I
think it's a faculty on the on the day
it's just going like whoa apparently a
chance of MBP we're we're chanted after
that there were people who obviously
very excited they're not quite it's not
quite clear how much money that is I've
I've seen stuff like ten to forty
million dollars worth of debt that he'll
be paying off but nevertheless it the
challenge probably should have gone out
to others besides the alumni but let's
hold on that for a moment let's hear how
Fox News Fox and Friends did talk about
this because I remember when Elizabeth
Warren talked about relieving everyone's
college debt not just the the lucky
people who set happen to be sitting in
that that audience they were very very
skeptical I've heard stuff like well
people won't appreciate the value of
their education or it's not fair to
other people who have had their who've
paid off their debt or just largely why
shouldn't you have to pay for it let's
hear their perspective on this now well
this guy James Alan Grant was exhausted
he said I'm listening to speeches since
6:00 in the morning he's 22 years old
but then all of a sudden when they made
this announcement he looked at his dad
who's a banking examiner was gonna work
for another ten years to pay off his
forty five thousand dollars in debt all
of a sudden his dad says I basically
retired because of what that gentleman
just did mr. Smith just did what would
you how would you feel do if you were
you'd already paid it if your parents
already well that's it that's losing the
spirit of it Ainsley but I'm just saying
you know you could be practical why
don't he just set up grants for it I
think it's great he also said one of the
keys to his success in life was it for
one second let's just stay there and
go back a little bit so I mean just
think about the implications of this
you're talking 380 people one anecdote
already one guy says I can retire like
I'm going to be able to fundamentally
alter the the trajectory of my life
because now I can retire now for those
people who didn't have a parent who's
gonna work an extra 10 years to pay off
their dad think of what they're going to
be able to do now options like I mean I
wonder how many of those 380 students
let's say are now saying like I'm
changing my plans like I may now go into
teaching I may know go into Social Work
I may now be an entrepreneur I may now
be able to take care of my my grandma
whatever it is we're gonna see I mean
and I mean apparently I mean I was
saying this would be this is a social
scientists you know best best you know
dream come true because you're gonna be
able to track what the choice is the
class of 2019 makes as opposed to 2018
or 2020 2017 2021 I mean you're gonna be
able to check this out
and apparently ALC beat me to the punch
yesterday to be fair I didn't see it
yesterday but she said this could be the
start of what's known in econ as a
natural experiment follow these students
compare their life choices with their
peers over the next 10 to 15 years I
mean it's it will be stunning and so now
of course I don't expect Fox and Friends
to get the idea like hey this seems like
a great thing to do for these 370 kids
if we have the ability to do so by
taxing that guy who can just like throw
it off like look at me
I'm just doing this I'm billionaire we
could tax those people Elizabeth Warren
has her wealth tax plan
Bernie has a plan we could tax these
people and do this for tens of thousands
of people a year we could do it but they
don't quite get it
meanwhile the stumbling on and just not
quite getting it doesn't just stop there
with this segment for the Fox and
Friends here is what's this guy's name
again Brian kill me oh yeah
kill me here he is also stumbling into
the value of a nother government program
that was controversial that I have no
doubt he would be against today in
retrospect and certainly at the time but
here it is he's talking about that
billionaire Robert Smith you could be
practical why don't he just set up grand
sport I think it's great he also said
one of the keys to his success in life
was the fact that when he was in Denver
they bust him to a predominantly white
school Carson Carson school and this was
where he met the best teachers most
inspirational people along with having
two parents with PhDs yeah that's the
school choice that's so important
how wonderful is okay first off let me
work let me work backwards on this
that's not school choice that's not
school choice when you here school
choice that's not the program that we're
talking about
that's called busing busing was a very
different program than school choice now
I know kilmeade when he first looked at
that casually was like oh this is gonna
be my opportunity to talk about why
white schools and white people are
better than other things I'm not gonna
get too deep into this I'm just gonna
point it out that the white school was
the best and what he doesn't realize
here was he is making an argument not
only for forced busing forced
integration
but that there are how many Robert
Smith's and Roberta Smith's are there
that back in that generation and
generations before them and following
them who don't have access to what those
kids in Carson have are sitting there
real with completely unreal eyes
potential not just to make a billion
dollars but to cure cancer to just be a
really good teacher to you know a whole
host of things it doesn't matter live a
decent life live a decent life I mean in
that one segment he pointed out one the
value of free college education to the
fundamental inequity that exists in our
public schooling and our schooling
across the country and how it how
government has the ability to fix this
and completely all of it just went by
and he just saw it as white schools are
better and billionaires can be really
good for society yeah you got ready for
being to the left if Joe Biden on this
issue I mean really stunning I had to
ask my friend mr. Smith who's giving me
money from his private equity PAC in the
past why the hell are you going easy on
these black Millennials
I bet peanut in the pool in the 60s that
was hardship yeah oh you can't get a job
and you're up to your neck and in
student loans I don't care i well know
anybody Charlottesville was bad buddy a
dank Fox who goes up to Brian afterwards
and said hey Brian I mean do you know
you just basically came out and praised
busing what's busing exact book exactly
I wrote a history of busing as I'm a his
story he's Somali not Brian he's still
in the 1800s he doesn't work that way
that'll work out yeah hey folks whether
you're trying to get a sweet deal on
something or find the best happy hour in
town what do you do you read the reviews
first so why should finding the right
software if you're
this be any different you can read
thousands of real software reviews and
find the right software for your
business at kaptara dot-com slash
majority cap Tara is the leading free
free online resource to help you find
the best software solution for your
business with over eight hundred and
fifty thousand reviews of products from
real software users in more than seven
hundred specific categories of software
from project management to email
marketing has everything you need to
make an informed decision fast join the
millions of people who use kaptara each
month to find the right tools for their
business I mean I don't I if I was
advising kaptara
I would tell them - there's also value
just go and find out what software
exists nevermind what's the best one
like there is no doubt in my mind there
are people who are listening to this who
have businesses or contemplating
businesses and have no idea that there's
actually software out there that is
tailored to those businesses I go
through it like I say and it's like just
sort of my what do you like your
dreamscape what's that thing where you
put it your type you gene pool you have
my vision board of all the things I'm
going to do after I one day Michael
you'd do this by I'm going to I was all
I was all over kaptara last and I got
four different careers I'm about to
follow rod get it running here PMP there
you go and I've got Airbnb software that
I have I mean or B&B bread and breakfast
software that I got I found on kaptara
comm check it out visit kaptara comm
slash majority for free today find the
tools to make an informed software
decision for your business kaptara comm
slash majority that's kaptara
CA p te RR a.com slash majority kaptara
software selection simplified also I
know many of you may think that you
don't need life insurance yet but if you
have loved ones who depend on you you
need to have a plan many excuses not to
get life insurance folks too busy too
costly don't
how to wade through it don't know
anything about it don't know the
difference between term or hole and I do
not give advice on this stuff I will
tell you I got term just because I read
online that was the the best deal
ultimately you get it I basically got it
until my kids will be about 25 and 30 so
that they are at least through college
and it's important to do and thankfully
ethos makes doing the responsible thing
easy with ethos you can get covered in
ten minutes online and even sign up
right from your phone no pesky paperwork
or pushy salespeople just put choose a
policy that fits your needs and don't
waste time deciphering the fine print
ethos treats you like a person not a
risk they work to make sure you have the
right policy for your lifestyle and
budget they have a dedicated customer
support team rate right here in the USA
to ask when they help with any questions
you may have
visit ethos live.com click check my
price to get started on the quick online
application ensure your life today by
going to ethos life.com slash majority
to apply online sharing your life and
providing your family with financial
security has never been easier that's
ethos eth OS life.com / majority and
you're only ten minutes away from your
estimated rate make sure your family's
future is safe no matter what
that's ethos live.com / majority quick
break when we come back we'll be talking
to Peter Dow on the digital Civil War be
right back
you
err back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone pleasure welcome to
the program Democratic activists author
of digital civil war confronting the
far-right Menace Peter Dow Peter welcome
to the program great to be with you
thanks for having me
all right so let's let's let's start
with the the book but I want to also you
know circle around to sort of obviously
like your your your online activism and
then into certain extent civil warring
but I guess maybe corridor war on some
level but let's just talk about what you
see well let me at least start with this
is there a digital civil war or is there
like a civil war I mean obviously we're
not having a an active war with well I
mean mass killings and and whatnot but I
mean to the extent that there is a a
civil war at all is it just digital or
or or what well the reason I settled on
digital and as you may know saying I I
grew up in an actual civil war in Beirut
so I've actually lived through a
military conflict for most of my youth I
I struggle to thing because you know the
the idea of a civil war is really when
you reach a point where you're no longer
debating in good faith you're no longer
even seeing the same reality you're at
such odds that really exists a fight to
the political death and I really asked
myself because a lot of people have used
the term cold civil war soft civil war
uncivil war and I thought that it's
really not those things because people
are dying and lives are on the line and
then I realized that that battles are
really fought online but then they spill
out into the non virtual world for
example a lot of the excuse me that mass
shooters recently have come have been
radicalized I'm talking about right-wing
extremists domestic extremists and
terrorists have been radicalized on on
harmonic borns from YouTube to 4chan H
and gab other places in Twitter and then
they go out into the non virtual world
and kill people that's one way that it's
it's it's it's digital because they're
actually getting radicalized there but
it's spilling over another way is these
massive battles that we have say over
the caging and the kidnapping of babies
that you know the student you know
president Stephen Miller's policy at
column president Miller on the border
policy because he really calls the shots
that is a life and death issue kids are
dying they're being thrown into freezers
and locked up in these detention cells
that are there ice-cold so health care
universal health care battle people
losing losing their health care every
single one of these fights has
life-and-death consequences and yet
they're largely fought on digital
battlefield so that's why I settled on
digital civil war okay I mean it's the
concept of the non virtual world is I
mean I mean I I'm afraid that like
that's more or less the way that I look
at things but I feel like that's
disturbing on some level but the as
opposed to you know the the virtual you
know it being the virtual world is the
but but that aside I mean I mean I just
curious because it seems to me that like
we have a legitimate rift in this
country that has certainly been
exacerbated over the past really I mean
not just three years but I would say you
know 15 20 you and you you you know I
mean you've been involved in this area
at least you know for that long and you
know in many respects you know we were
back in the day during the sort of the
the bloggers era correctly but the like
this I think is I think there is
something real here in that it is that
social media which has exploded I mean
let's put it this way has been just
another outlet for it because like do
you think that this this civil war and
again and and I want to touch on just
how you were raised because I think it
was just it's an unbelievable story but
but but you were there during the the
the era of just the blogosphere and we
had some hint of what things were gonna
be like today online but it was
different because it was just not as
frankly and somewhat respects it wasn't
as as democratic or as easy to engage
just tell me how it's changed since then
and if it's not just a function of like
there's just a new arena for the same
conflict or if there's a different
conflict
that's a great question that's a really
good question which is has the digital
technology actually changed the nature
of the conflict itself and and there are
some who have argue that I quote some
people in the book who talked about how
warfare has gone digital and on all
sorts of levels on an international
basis if you look at what Russia did it
was it was a digital it was a
cyberattack on our elections but yeah
yeah yeah you and I go way back to the
to the early era of just the beginning
of blogs I remember when blogs were
under cover of Time magazine like the
big new thing this was pre social media
so I've actually seen the entire
evolution of online politics and was
there at that very very inception of it
but it it it it took hold very quickly
salmon do you remember back during those
days bloggers were starting to have a
lot of influence and of course it has
been democratized and expanded and
anybody can get online and and and and
talk and fight and argue and debate for
me it is really the same battles and
part of what I did in digital civil wars
it go all the way back if you look at
the that I called the first of all war
you go back to the mid eighteen hundreds
and we went to the inception whose
country issues of race issues of
identity whose the real American is it a
white rural Christian mill that the
quintessential American that's one of
those myths that has started from the
founding of this country and continued
to this day
so those types of battles the the
abortion by immigration kept on for far
longer than digital technology so I
think that the technology has has
expanded the field of battle and added
more people to it I don't know that it's
really changed the nature of the fights
right I mean as you go through in the
your various chapters I think deal with
themes that that everybody who listens
to this program would recognize whether
its climate whether it's a question of
how much money is spent in campaigns and
in impacting the legislation the notion
of real Americans I mean particularly
people who and enemies enemies of the
people I mean I think you know a lot of
that also dovetailed you know in the the
war on terror in those first years after
9/11 when the blogosphere really first
to grew I mean I think largely as a
function of the technology that was
available but also the the complete lack
of of access to the media for anybody
coming from the center-left leftward
from there right I mean that's really a
lot of where like it seems to me a lot
of this grew out of in many respects was
that that combination of technology and
a complete shutdown there was no there
was no air America there was no MSNBC
there was no HuffPo there was there was
none of that stuff ya know exactly and
you've been doing a long time and you've
been on the front lines of this trying
to promote and advocate for progressive
media but it is true there was no outlet
there was nowhere to go there I remember
of the early message boards like
Democratic Underground and in the first
blogs and the chat rooms and communities
it was it was a way to get a voice out
and and then I remember when Howard Dean
first started rising in 2003 you know
we're talking about elections a lot now
and I'm thinking back to the first
election I was involved with which I
ended up working for Kerry but Dean
started tapping into that what we call
the net roots at the time that language
of that really in your face proud
unapologetic progressive language and he
exploded onto the political scene by
doing that so it was an outlet that's an
absolutely good point and and of course
we had more outlets now but I still
think there's this myth that the
corporate media somehow liberal
and this is the this is what the GOP
pushes and the right pushes that somehow
Fox and talk radio and Sinclair are
somehow a counterpoint to a so-called
liberal mainstream media which is utter
garbage frankly mainstream media pushes
right wing talking points just as
readily as conservative outlets do or
revising you can say conservative
right-wing now let's do all right well
let's talk about I mean I want to talk
about the the the 2016 and sort of like
how you because there has been you've
had a big I think public reassessment of
of your role in the context of I mean I
guess maybe like a different civil war
was that a civil war like you know where
what during the the primary battles and
I tried largely to stay out of those
specifics I mean I was supportive of
Bernie but obviously in the general of
of Clinton but a lot of people got
sucked into it super deep you were one
of those people huh yeah I just tell me
about that experience looking back on it
now I can see how exactly were saying
was a get sucked into it yeah I I've
been describing it as a family fight
because largely I think a lot of people
who were in the same place or generally
speaking we're looking for the same type
of America where people have more health
care and there are fewer shootings and
there was less inequality ended up
getting on different sides of two
candidates and it became as you know as
we all know so incredibly bitter but as
as somebody who grew up in a war and
once here in the trenches with somebody
you stay in the trenches with them I
sort of became that person in the
trenches with Hillary and I just was not
going to abandon her in the middle of
the fight but what that ended up doing
is I think making caricatures of a lot
of us and we we just we just went so far
in the direction of fighting that fight
that I think
it just ended up hurting and causing
more pain that it did that it really
needed two primaries can be contentious
and can be negative but I think 2016
just went off the rails and I and I do
believe there was they were outside
agitators professional agitators had
made it a lot worse but I decided saying
that I just wanted to take
responsibility for myself I can't tell
other people how to feel and I know
there are some people who are annoyed
with me for for going through this this
this transitional phase and reassessing
my role but it's something that I
thought I had to do because number one I
felt that I started getting so far away
in terms of how people saw me and things
people were saying to me so far away
from who I was which was as I know you
know because we've known each other a
long time a progressive anti-war
activist I started in politics because I
used to be a musician
fighting the Iraq war and fighting bush
and fighting Karl Rove and Cheney and
those people and so for me it reached a
point where I thought okay wait am I
seen if some DNC shill who's just being
paid to just parrot some establishment a
line I thought well I'm anything but an
exact opposite of that I was brought
into the Democratic Party to reach out
to the progressive community so part of
this was my own personal realization
that I had the perception of who I was
had moved so far away from who I and I
needed to reconcile that and the way to
do it was to start reaching out to
people and just saying who I was and
making amends what was there was there a
moment and and I understand too and and
I asked these questions because I mean I
I've had problems frankly with people
who wouldn't give up the ghost for in
terms of their support of Hillary but
also people who wouldn't give up the
ghost in terms of like a narrative they
had bought into about why Bernie lost in
2016 and and frankly I haven't had you
don't get the opportunity I haven't had
the opportunity to talk to people who
sort of like have added at least a a
change in perspective on how they're
presenting it so this I mean I I see
this as a pretty valuable opportunity
just from a generic standpoint like what
you know to understand
how people get that immersed into it
because I mean I'm sort of mystified on
some level how it gets because because
I've seen your work for you know 15
years or so more maybe how when when you
came in to this about issues it ends up
becoming so much about personalities was
there was there a moment was there a
moment where you're like hey wait a
second because cuz it because it wasn't
you know you're into this not just into
the primary but as late as like almost
the end of 2017 as far as I can read I'm
told you were still something like
Bernie you know ruined everything
what what was it was it I mean was there
a moment or was it just over a period of
time it was a period of time but it was
it was it was driven by one singular
purpose right which is build them I knew
how bad the the the Trump presidency
would be and it's even worse than I
thought it would be because you know not
having a single single Republican
lawmaker have a shred of decency or
patriotism or integrity maybe that was
to be expected but I think the
combination of the two so so looking at
all they were headed I called that I
called that early on yeah yeah yes you
did and you were and you were right and
look I knew it - I've been fighting
Republicans since 2000 but but I think
that the combination they also to be
perfectly honest the the unwillingness
of the Democratic Party leadership to
fight back with the requisite intensity
Vidia I advocated walking out on the
cabin all hearings right of collectively
walking out and it was neat - that even
by Democratic leader saying you know
this is a sham this is a charade and
then I said okay well if it's Shannon's
charade and you're saying that public
then why are you participating in it so
it's not just impeachment is another big
issue that I have a criticism but
they're even back to Merrick garland so
I have a lot of criticisms of Democratic
Party - and disappointments but overall
what started happening was I just
started looking forward so here I am
2016 still you know still stinging from
the 2016 fight its 2017 now we're
looking towards 18 that the midterms to
1920 and time is passing
what happens in 2020 if we're still
fighting 2016 three and four years later
I thought this is going to be a
catastrophe for us yeah as you say
talking about digital civil war we were
going to have a mini civil war within
the democrats leftists progressives etc
and I thought I have to do everything I
can to prevent that from happening so
who better to do it than somebody who's
a sort of hardcore pro-hillary guy who
partially critical of Bernie to come out
and say look we can make peace I grew up
in a place where people were shooting it
at each other and then eventually there
was a ceasefire and a piece and they
coexisted Lebanese people coexist people
who were mortal enemies then they did it
because eventually you can't be at war
permanently so because you live together
so so that was my sense that maybe I can
play a role a constructive role but of
course I've done a lot of heat because
there was skepticism initially on the
Bernie side I have to say Sam it's been
amazing how many people are sort of
welcomed this and reached back out to
and that's been very gratifying and
there are also a lot of people who are
my former in the trenches or Hillary
people who many have understood and have
come with me say yep we're looking
toward 2020 this is great and then
something very very angry at me and say
you're a traitor and you're abandoning
us and how do you do this and but you
know what sometimes you just have to do
what you have to do is not care about
who's who's attacking you and do it for
the greater good to me the greater good
is defeating Republicans it's just that
simple right so let me ask you this why
do you think so few people have made the
adjustments on both sides from 2016 or
am I not seeing that's they have I mean
that's the thing that's I think very
difficult about Twitter is that the you
know I Spy is a certain myopia right not
just because of you know I follow but
Twitter itself I could follow everyone
on Twitter and I would still have a
tremendous amount of myopia as to what's
going on but give me your sense of to
the extent of how many have turned
toward looking towards the future in to
the extent that they haven't what do you
think it is that
keeps some folks locked in regardless of
which side they're on
III think that people were genuinely
hurt they were attacked they were
smeared they were they were that their
their integrity and their principal was
called into question and and nobody
likes that people get angry and it is
true that Twitter is not fully reflected
you know I'm not one of those guys who
says Twitter is not real life that
Twitter of course it's real live the
reason I used to go back to an earlier
point admit I say the non virtual world
is because people distinguish real life
from Twitter which is not the case
whether is part of her life part of all
our real lives Facebook all these glad
it's just we're now integrated with
technology in so many ways so I say
non-virtual maybe I should say not
digital so but Twitter is real life but
in some ways the political fights are
happened there are not fully reflective
of the wider electorate and people who
are less involved so I think I think the
answer your question and I've learned
this over this process of the past year
and a half trying to trying to make
peace and bring people together there
are some people look at me say wait a
minute you know I got I got sexist
misogynistic racist attacks there's no
way I'm forgiving anybody to do that to
me and my answer always is look I can't
speak for you I can't ask you to erase
what you experienced and so I'm just
trying to lead by example by just doing
it for myself but I sure don't want to
be the guy who's telling people you know
forget about the fact that you were
attacked I so so this is so I'm not sure
I can answer your question fully Sam
that's saying you know why other people
are doing it I figure the best way to do
is just to do it myself and if it sets
an example for others great and if it's
just my own personal coming back to
where I belong which is a progressive
activist and I'll just do it for me now
is the idea that we want to come
together to fight the right or is it is
there do you have a notion that we can
all come together because that seems to
me to be right now like a big theme in
this primary and I don't want to start
right but but you know there are there
are some of the candidates who are out
there going like I'm a unity candidate
I'm gonna I'm gonna you know Biden
saying stuff like this Buddha judge to
certain extent although he's you know I
think he's he's trying to be a little
bit more nuanced bat out to a certain
extent was on that early on this idea
that we're gonna bring people together
maybe maybe there's other you know
candidates who are saying that as well
but those are the more I guess prominent
ones I mean how you know how much of
your from your experience how possible
is that I mean or let me put this way I
mean obviously you've been through an
actual civil war where people came
together but that didn't happen until
like people started yeah and there was a
lot of shooting that went on in between
there and it's much easier to live with
I'm gonna argue with people on Twitter
conservatives on Twitter and try and you
know beat them at the ballot box than it
is they're dropping bombs and they're
firing rockets you know right into my
neighborhood so what's your sense of
that I I it's an excellent question and
it's a very important one right because
I think that the idea of unity in this
very vague general happy such a theory
where we can all come together and
forget everything that's happening I
think is is is just pie in the sky I
think it's unrealistic and it doesn't
take into account the reality to me when
you when you fight injustice which is
what I do I'm not a political scientist
I'm not a political expert really I used
to be a musician I used to be a music
producer for most of my career and then
I got into politics as an activist if
somebody could just cared you can't
there is no halfway between hey you know
you like kidnapping babies from parents
and throwing them ice-cold freezers you
like police brutality and and just cops
getting away with murdering black
motorists for doing nothing but just
looking at them or just driving so let
me meet you halfway and we'll have unity
that's I think that's absurd and it's an
insult to the idea of justice and and
fighting injustice so now that said I
think it's important that we don't have
blanket sort of dismissals of an entire
side
of a population like they're all exactly
the same person I think I think that
people are different and people approach
things from a different place so what
you don't want to do is is be it's sort
of over the overly the sweeping in your
in generalizations about people and
their beliefs but fundamentally for me I
believe the Republican Party at this
point the Republican Party leadership
specifically is pushing for it or for
theocratic autocratic tyrannical
right-wing extremist rule at this point
they have no respect for the rule of law
they have no respect for our
Constitution they want to oppress women
and criminalize pregnancy and and
women's reproductive health they are not
they want to enrich oligarchs by
stealing health care from from from sick
people these these are not people that
you meet halfway these are people you
defeat at the ballot box and you
overturn their hideous hideous policies
now of course I have criticism
Democratic Party views as I say for not
opposing it strongly enough so when I
talk about coming together saying I'm
not talking about let's all just you
know this is all we'll just forget this
once Trump is gone and it's all going to
be better
these are long-standing fights that go
back to two hundred two hundred and
fifty years and they're not going to be
resolved because we say hey let's all
come together and be peaceful we have to
fight for justice and we have to
institute adjust society and that takes
a tremendous amount of work and may not
happen probably won't happen in our
lifetimes what's your assessment of what
can I mean well or right for me the
different roles that you see or values
that you see in in fighting the this
fight I mean when you talk about winning
this election in particular but more
broadly well how much of it is from your
perspective a messaging fight or how
much of it is from a policy fight I mean
so you know again we have examples in
this Democratic primary of of different
types of messaging you know some that
are more aggressive some that are like I
like Republicans
give me right and I mean I think I'm
letting my bias against a certain
candidates show but be that as it may
those are different messaging and
there's also tends to be somewhat
aligned with that aggressiveness in the
messaging how aggressive from a policy
standpoint like how much do the
candidates feel the Democratic Party
needs to offer material benefits to
people's lives
right rate those different types of
appeals and what you think Democrats
need to do in this coming election i I
think that from the flood of course
they're tied together the the policy in
the messaging and and and even more than
that the posture you know one of the
biggest problems I've had with Democrats
is the posture tends to be defensive
about their positions even though their
positions are more popular generally if
you look at environmental issues climate
things like this even guns if you look
at if you look at guns if you look at
the actual polling and I write about it
in digital civil war I talk about the
polls that show support majority support
for democratic size progressive issues
so but somehow Democrats always behave
like they're on the defensive like they
somehow have to pander to this so-called
and again another theme in the book this
is so-called real American this sort of
rural white church-going gun-toting
American whose the the so-called
quintessential American we appeal to
them we're going to start winning
elections and that's the way Democrats
constantly think they claim to these
right wing narratives so pushing good
smart policy is a crucial part if you
talk about Medicare for all its talk
about affordable college if you talk
about $15 minimum wage all these the
Green Deal these are all excellent
policies some of them need to be worked
through by experts to see that how
practical they can be how they can be
implemented but but putting forward good
progressive policy is very important but
the the the corollary to that is
understanding how the media and
messaging
some works in America one of the things
that Democrats are so weak on generally
speaking candidates and why Democrats
lose we win stun elections but overall
the countries move further further and
further to the right so when I look at
the peak of the past 20 years whether or
not Obama won whether or not the midterm
you know we've had some moments in which
we've had an electoral victory but
generally speaking we have gone
backwards roe v-- wade is about to be
overturned all our rights are going away
we have autocracy with Donald Trump as
president so I think the answer is put
forth excellent progressive policy have
the courage of your convictions but also
understand how communications and media
move around there is no liberal media
and right-wing media is it's a
programming 30% of the population people
I don't think Democrats get that's and
they're that my biggest concern if they
need to speak to that so it's a
combination of all those things and more
of course and just the courage of your
convictions who do you perceive your
audience I mean it and not just specific
I'm not just saying you but but but but
people who are situated like you on you
know on social media like like like what
is the I I'm totally with you that
Twitter is real life of course it's real
life everything that we go through is
real life and in Twitter has some very
real applications in the context of of
political fights what do you perceive it
to be and what do you perceive your role
in it well I I you can look at
demographic breakdown to different
audiences I Twitter gives everybody the
capacity to take a Jenner a very broad
look at who their audience is it but I
I've never been a fan of segmentation
I've been in the political trenches for
a long time I've worked with in care
I've worked outside the system inside
inside the system polling and focus
grouping and segmentation and you know
all these different types of ways we
slice and dice the electorate I I
actually have a believer in and maybe
it's maybe it's naivete in some way
maybe I just idealistic in the sense
that I think that that a good message
can reach everybody so when I when I go
on Twitter or Facebook or anywhere when
I go go on media and talk
try to speak in the the broadest most
general terms I don't assume everybody's
a political expert one of the things you
get in this media elite
is is all these isms and people you know
dropping terms and ideas and
philosophers and thinkers but to me
that's just a little bit too highfalutin
for me as a guy who used to be a
musician who used to you know who grew
up in a war I just look at it as okay we
all can agree that we need clean air and
water that one would want their child to
grow up in a world where they're not
drinking polluted water right that's
something that should reach everyone
there there shouldn't be an adult who
who can't understand the notion of okay
it's not fair that some hedge fund guy
and I'm a New Yorker is buying a hundred
million dollar condo overlooking Central
Park not even living in it just doing it
to show up to some other billionaire
while there are kids who can't afford
school supplies anybody with common
sense can look at that and say okay
that's just not right it's just not fair
so the same would say the Tamir rice
case which I talked about in the book
here's a twelve-year-old boy when the
cops were called on him because he was
holding a toy gun and playing in a park
the caller tune on one one said it's
probably a juvenile it's probably a toy
two or three times and if the cops
showed up in a drive-by shooting just
literally pulled up and shot the boy to
death left him dying in the snow for
four minutes not giving him any
assistance and then cut his young sister
was running to help her brother and then
there were no consequences
none whatsoever nobody can look at that
sale that's fine that's that's not a
problem that should happen in America so
the way I look at it is I'm talking to
everybody in Middlebury right whoever's
listening when I go on Twitter and say
what I say I assume any American adult
can understand what I'm saying if that
makes sense
yeah it does but the I mean the number
of people who are there on Twitter who
are talking about politics presumably if
they're following you they either really
vehemently disagree with you or they
generally believe right like is it isn't
it about influencing people who have you
know more
access to the media I mean I see I
believe well I believe the reverberate
see that to me III I'll do tweet and
then I'll see it show up and some you
know get picked up by some media outlet
talking about an issue then I feel like
the information flows if you often use
this analogy if you have a 30,000 foot
view of America and you think of
information as these sort of rivers of
data flowing laughs is where we're
getting information from Facebook from
New York Times from you from from
podcast from all over the place people
are exposed to information and
information has a way of moving through
the system and we use the term viral
which is was an overused term ten years
ago and it's certainly overused now but
it's it's understandable right the idea
of a virus so you can say something and
it can have like the whole butterfly
effect where a week or two or three
later can end up changing a policy so
yeah you are talking to a very limited
population but there can be much wider
effects of people speaking up also one
thing very important to me because I'm
glad you're a racist a lot of people
minimize the idea of somebody going on a
Facebook or Twitter or reddit and and
speaking out or having their own podcast
or their radio show or blogging or
whatever they do there's nothing more
important than speaking up about
injustice right that speaking out is the
first step towards taking action and
fixing it and it is an accident of
itself so anybody who minimizes all
you're just you're just tweeting always
time but I know countries where you
cannot speak freely or you'll get taken
away you'll disappear I lived in a place
like that during war you can just speak
freely against the government so so
there's something powerful about being
able to go out there and just say this
is unjust it's fascinating stuff
Peter Dao glad to to see you I mean it's
a it's too glad to have you on and to
talk about this stuff and see you you
know a focused on on on Victory whoever
that that that calls for at the end and
we also put a couple links to your
pieces in the nation about Bernie
Sanders which I found fascinating as
well and the book is digital civil war
confronting the far-right Menace thanks
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it thank you thanks for what
you do
Sam very much appreciated buh-bye take
care all right folks
there's a big guy need a big transition
I mean he was he was out there in the in
the battles yeah I wouldn't have seen it
coming I did not see it coming
I'll take it take it of course you need
a legion of Dow's he that sounds yeah
guys look I saw it coming I mean it's
got a piece and I guess had his sight go
laughs gems the center is just GOP light
I mean I think he's always been to the
left it's just been a question of where
that fall I mean it's interesting
dynamic like you know how sort of narrow
your perspective can be once you sort of
feel hemmed in some people maybe just
are too sensitive to be online and he
goes on to in the nation less than a
month ago he wrote I was Bernie's
biggest critic in 2016 I've changed my
mind this have come out to necessarily
endorse Bernie but he I think has backed
off a lot of his criticism in terms of
the implications of Bernie on the
general election and you know broadly
speaking whether he's a net positive for
the Democrats as a whole hard to argue
that that that at this point that Bernie
has not been a net positive for the
Democrats particularly when you look at
like the and you know I mean I think
there is a tendency maybe particularly
on the left but I don't know to really
invest in an individual versus what they
represent or what has built up around
them you know and great man theory yeah
I mean but it's also like you know as
easy as like saying that that glib thing
that people say like
Republicans Democrats fall in love and
Republicans fall in line is basically it
and there is a sense of like Democrats
need to love their candidates and even
for someone like me who thinks that
elections are very important I don't
think that they should should in any way
supplant constant agitation because I
also think lawmaking is important
activism is important actually many
respects more important but I certainly
don't think that you need to love your
candidate no I prefer to keep a
collegial distance from my candidate
maybe like at least the length of a
ruler yes exactly
arm's length is is the best way to
approach these people and realize that
it's more about that person what builds
up around them and what their
perspective towards what builds up
around them is and sometimes it's hard
to determine like you know I was going
back through some old some archives of
mine back in during you know right after
Obama got elected right before he got
elected and I mean for me I was clearly
making a bet and I knew I was making a
bet I thought that Clinton and Obama
were very similar
but there was a better likelihood in my
mind that Obama was going to surprise me
happily and on top of which there was
also a massive grassroots I mean Dow
mentioned Howard Dean and Howard Dean
was sort of the first of that the first
one where online fundraising where your
appeal where grassroots appeal could be
sort of weaponized in a way that
couldn't be weaponized before because of
of what was happening online
and and Howard Dean was not particularly
a leftist candidate many respects he was
I mean he was against the war and so
he's you know people sort of projected
that position on to other positions but
a lot of his politics were very very
Center lefty to Center II he was
conservative on a lot of economic issues
I wouldn't say like conservative in the
way that we're talking about with
conservative people identify as
conservatives but nevertheless he
represented a democratization of of
power which Obama did to Obama
ultimately decided and it was quite
clear very early on that he had decided
to basically quash the organization that
had built up around him because they
didn't want to be challenged and hemmed
in by it now someone like Bernie and
Elizabeth Warren frankly it seems to me
dispositional II and also as a function
of their politics they know it not only
would not do that now they don't have
neither one of them has the ability to
build what Obama did or has at this
point not only dispositional II do they
not seem inclined to do that they can't
their politics are completely a function
of that I mean and well they could but
they'd be huge hypocrites well no I mean
Obama was hypocritical you can be a
hypocrite it's just that I don't think
that they even think that they're they
could succeed if it was just an inside
game Obama not only thought that he
could succeed if it's just an inside
game felt that we can only succeed if
it's an Enka inside game to the point
where the Obama campaign during the
election said to donors do not donate to
outs
groups even you know doesn't matter if
they support us don't donate them we
need full control we can't have anybody
going rogue um some respects that's
helpful
they had no drama they had no scandals
from their perspective it's helpful but
from the perspective of you know if
Obama for America had been allowed to
grow Joe Lieberman would have had to
vote a different way when it came to
either like a Medicare buy-in at 55 or
public option straight-up defect which
would have been bad but at least would
have clarified what it was about well he
wouldn't have at that point um he thinks
I mean I guess with just a couple years
left not running again and only looking
for the future lobbying jobs why not I
mean he could have I guess but he still
wanted to maintain at that point even
just sort of his brand yeah I think so
but Joe Lieberman is just an example and
and so I don't know we'll see I'm not
even sure what led me down that path but
I will say this folks you can become a
member of this program by going to join
the majority report calm when you do you
not only support the the free show but
you get extra content every day you also
get it commercial free don't forget just
coffee co-op fair trade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get 10% off I don't consider that a
commercial because they're there they're
a total movement Ally that's like and
we're doing everybody a favor by telling
them about that also kaptara it's the
leading free online resource to help you
find the best software solution for your
business with over eight hundred and
fifty thousand reviews of products from
real software users in more than 700
specific categories of software does
everything you need to make an informed
decision fast visit kaptara calm
majority for free to make an informed
software decision for your business
today
everything's free on the site folks this
is it it's just a free resource
it's CA p te RR a.com slash majority
kaptara software selection simplified
Michael today is Monday weird for me to
say that hmm as feels very odd to
actually to talk to you on a Monday but
be that as it may tomorrow it's Tuesday
listen deep and I know you'll be here
Tuesday
Andy why I will be here Tuesday to help
ship the majority report at noon and
then then at 7 o'clock we will be
talking about the illicit history of
Bernie's anti-imperialism the New York
Times and hats absolutely disgusting
inability to understand it and the
dangers of Elizabeth Warren's green
militarism and then Chad vigorous of the
discourse whose brilliant is gonna be in
studio and we're gonna talk about Nate
Silver pod save America nerdism and then
loop back to the difference between
politics and policy
Bernie verse warren and a whole bunch
more patreon.com slash TPMS michael
brooks show on youtube will he be
joining us in the food buckets i'm gonna
try to rope him into the food buckets I
should say this at 6 of p.m. that's not
right I'm just literally asking him if
he wants to know you gotta eat it all
all three no no that's uh no it is
really to see who gets through the most
of it yes that's like and then the
winner I'm like let's see winner hunch
the softest and then the winner never
play that game let's see you could punch
this off no you go first you punch this
off now and then I punch you and I go
oops I lost yeah that's actually sounds
like a pretty good game but like this
all I do who's gonna get through more of
the bucket no no it's three of us first
of all and the winner and the loser has
to buy a couple rounds of drinks I'll
tell you what is it ripoff if I was is
it if in fact I am I am a patreon
and order that is not what I was and
what I was doing I was doing this to
watch you eat the whole bucket not to
see you who cannot eat the most well
we'll see how much we get through its
we're gonna make it putting a lot on the
line how I'm gonna make how many drinks
to buy a couple of rounds a couple Hey
so a second so you made this or thing xB
wait a second let me just be clear going
you made this whole thing when we hit
two thousand patrons two thousand patron
get challenged you can go through the
most of the food book of Matt I think
we've been pretty clear that it's an
amount of how come they're the most
talented you don't think you just reveal
your own ignorance excuse me I'm sorry I
guess I wasn't when I signed up I bought
into the classic a construct of
challenge which is like who can eat the
most right is a challenge the ice book
challenge the ice bucket challenge
wasn't like who can who can maybe
actually that's as much ice we're gonna
pour it over us I'm gonna pour it on and
we're gonna have to go out and get
drinks we're gonna have to have a drink
we really yeah bad the three of us are
gonna have to go get drunk yeah I gotta
get into the show a little discord
because this is bless me Father for I
have sinned oh oh sorry to read the five
prints on the bucket challege bless me
Father it's gonna be at 6 p.m. what are
we calling it Matt what's the Korean in
the what thing
what's the we're gonna do muck bomb at 6
p.m. so yeah I'll have a bite or two and
file a complaint yeah Mike I should have
to eat at least 25% of the bucket Oh 50%
50% for you and then a quarter and a
quarter
yeah oh no if it was revenue-sharing me
much lower sorry go ahead Jamie I'm just
filling out a form my girl gets a better
business bureau okay I'd like to speak
to the Better Business Bureau because I
expected by my uh uh uh uh co-host she
read to you for me I I never watched the
program but I was tuned in to see him
get violently ill on YouTube
and and I am not getting what I thank
you if you could type that up I could
just copy paste hold on I do have to say
August 24th live show in Chicago tickets
are available and they're going fast I
would get them today linked on the
majority dot F M homepage oh are they
going fast just like you're gonna eat a
bucketful full of food well unlike
unlike the bucket full of food we will
be in Chicago and August 24th at Lincoln
Hall okay for a full show uh man I don't
even remember what I was gonna say now
this week on the anti fada
we spoke with Samuel Stein author of
Capitol City
gentrification and the real estate state
about City Planning why capitalism
cannot solve the housing question it can
only move it around and why Trump is the
apotheosis of the real estate state we
also recorded a bonus with Sam where we
talk about our worst apartment stories
he's got a especially crazy one that
involves attempted murder on the part of
the landlord and yeah check it out I'm
sorry my brain is literally still in
recovery mode from taking in so many
high-level ideas yesterday when we
talked about communism with the people
from swamp site chats so that is a
teaser for what's coming out this week
now on a literary hangover the YouTube
channel got the song of hiawatha the
episode
one I believe it is and coming up this
week it's gonna be a little bit early
for patrons is the life of Margaret
Fuller we're talking about her and her a
woman in the 19th century she was sort
of the best of the Concord Massachusetts
mid-century set and actually she went on
Brook Farm you guys heard a brook farm
was a sort of so like a early social
Autopia yeah it was based on the works
of her the teachings of Charles Fourier
and Margaret Fuller bought a cow there
that Nathaniel Hawthorne called the
transcendental heifer because they
kicked over the met pale because
Hawthorne didn't like her very much
thought she was evil oh my god that is
so cute I mean really I like this set
like one of these side I feel like
literary hangover is remind everybody
the aura was an actual socialist and
make exceedingly clear that Hawthorne
was a jerk it's like a major theme of
the show yeah that is a valuable project
actually we're gonna be doing
Hawthorne's the Blithedale romance on
Brook which is sort of a satire of brook
farm next actually sounds funny all
right we'll be right back six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty fun
half Jamie and I may have a disagreement
yeah you can't just say whatever you
want about people just cause you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean maybe
you should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur good
exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27
1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow don't you see everybody's taking
their dumb juice today come on dance
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
seafood I'm hoping to add more moves to
my repertoire all I have is the dip in
the swirl fine we can double dip yes
this is a perfect moment no wait what
you make under a million dollars come
here not they accuse me you you
 all right take quick break I want
to take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber laughing I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
are these people Shitler with such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
I am literally like every time we play
that I am just always completely blown
away by I mean I almost don't want to
know the answer to this but like I'm
wondering like did he contemplate the
visual first or the story first or did
just went along with the audio and then
built the video to the audio I don't
know it's like gravity's rainbow man it
rewards repeated readings definitely
Dada
come from a 2:03 area code who's this
where are you calling from
you are the first caller of the week hey
this is uh Oh first of all it's a week
awesome I can slowly feel the air
rushing out of my lungs thanks for
picking up this is Tyler from New Haven
um from the rest of voice need yes yep
hello Lou can you hear me yep you still
with me Sam yes Tyler go ahead um the
progressive voice did a video not too
long ago kind of like hovering a sort of
recent back-and-forth between Joe Rogan
and Alex Jones I'm surprised I didn't
hear anything about it from like anyone
else other than him so I'm sure you guys
could find that video pretty quickly but
basically
he supposed arrow key for saying some
pretty racist stuff oh I thought I did
you a video no I think we did do a video
on it
when it happened I'll back is it which
did you know if when your guys clipped
it I didn't see that whenever around
when it happened I would just go maybe
it was three months ago I maybe yeah
maybe it's Alex Joe what was your guys
what was your guys take on that I mean I
don't remember specifically I don't even
remember specifically what it is but I
mean I just remember the Sam thought it
was five go through it real quick so
basically like Joe Rogan made some like
really romantic like criticism of Alex
Jones like not too long ago and Alex
Jones had a hissy fit and he then like
put out a video where Rogan has said
some racist stuff yeah I know okay I
mean I don't ya know I mean I think I
mean look there is in Boston in
Massachusetts broadly speaking a healthy
dose a dose of racist attitude no I
think that well I mean there is
everywhere but I mean I'm just familiar
with it in Massachusetts I mean it's
there's it seems to me to be like a
special brand but maybe that's just
because I I know it I remember from that
clip just to help them out I don't
remember the name of it but I remember
Sam saying like this is back when Joe
Rogan was really funny yeah I mean I
think that was a yes or it was a lot of
sort of Sam remembering that Rogan used
to be more the I will say that's awful
look I wouldn't say that I think Rogan
more than others like for instance Nick
DiPaolo like I mean these guys are
similarly situated guys from Boston for
the moral more or less outside of Boston
who I think both had
fairly classic Boston II Massachusetts
II type of racism I mean like that in
sort of New England isolated yeah and I
think it's it is a lot of it is not
necessarily you know well-thought-out
type of racism which you usually hear
you know we hear articulated in the
context of like of some of the people
that we generally joke right I mean yeah
and I think of of that genre Joe Rogan's
probably done more to try and enlighten
himself on some level and probably has I
you know I thought worth that said it
only goes so far
and that also remember exactly I wasn't
I don't remember I mean like it was I
don't remember psychically but it was it
was it was a Planet of the Apes joke at
a movie theater in the inner city oh
yeah that was bad yeah stupid it was bad
but it was I mean but it was not
something you wouldn't you know what's
really interesting to me is that
basically Alex Jones had like made a
video about it because he was mad at Joe
Rogan or whatever for some like baby
criticism ran when you had him back on
it was like one of the most cringy like
cooking's I've ever all right Tyler I
mean look let's also you should watch
what we're talking with what we're
looking at here is it's it's business
these people are doing business
there's no ideological you know
arguments here it's business and they're
attacking each other you know and
particularly you know they're attacking
each other and they don't care about any
of it other than to the extent that its
positions themselves in its business
that's the that's the that's finally the
only relevant part of any of it yeah
sure that's a progressive voice you
actually like talking about people like
that who are just so totally in the sort
of like the the always do nothing I mean
well I think it just sort of feels like
you might be not totally gay
the point hey I love you just get a
little like it's all just yes it's all a
little bit narrow like listen I engage
in YouTube culture sometimes it's fun
but to the extent it's really at the end
of the day it really is just because
that's where the kids are I mean
literally I get a response with you to
the stone progressive response video to
the drunk hedonist response Constitution
with workman with the with the backdrop
I mean that's just sort of almost like a
parody of that I appreciate the cop will
say it kind of puts the light of the
idea that Joe Rogan is just providing a
neutral platform for ideas when he has
on I don't know maybe not all right but
certainly all light people on his show
and the fact that he has previously felt
it's okay to make racist jokes makes me
think he's there's something more behind
it this was a time in Rogen's career
while he was doing a lot of misdirection
comic it's an incredible breakdown at
how funny very least he's not very
finely attuned to racist attitude yes I
think that's totally true and I also
think that look if you have a platform
that's that big you got to take
responsibility when you put anybody on
there Alex Jones for example and you
don't do everything you can to discredit
him in the eyes of your audience you
gotta own some of what he does
because you're telling your audience go
watch him and watch him with this
perspective I mean that that's the thing
is that like you know some people don't
understand and I don't spend a lot of
time articulating it but you know like
what I think I'm doing here
and you know I've had people who are I'm
friendly with in in real life who are
surprised like I can't believe what you
did to Michael Tracy and I you know I'm
not do I do journalism
yes I interview people but I don't
consider myself a journalist that's not
what I'm here for
I'm here to espouse a certain ideology
and I'm here as to to amplify people's
voices who I think should be amplified
and to drown out people's voices and
discredit them that I think they should
be discredited and people could do the
same to me and and and audience can
determine whether I am a valid source of
because it's basically people outsource
stuff all the time you know I mean even
when I'm you know I want to buy a saw a
outsource it I don't I don't you know
learn about RPMs on what makes for the
bet I'd just I go to a I don't know I go
to a web site but you should watch
progressive voices no but but I mean but
yeah I mean like but that's the point is
that there's no source for YouTube yeah
no and there's really no such
thing as a neutral platform in this day
and age no dangerous when Joe Rogan
presents himself as such well that
that's why you know that's most of the
stuff I attack Dave Rubin about is not
like who he has on a show in an in a
vacuum
because you know you can find worse
guests unlike you know I don't know
whatever some storm front
I mean podcast or whatever it is but
Pakman talks to guys like Richard
Spencer for instance but he's critical
of them yes and how you treat them when
they they come on is an indication of
what you want your audience know about
them and so when Michael Tracy came on
based upon telling me that I've deceived
my audience and he's out there you know
spilling all sorts of BS and I didn't
know that he was going to then tweet out
like people calling the Charlottesville
people Nazis is why you know what Trump
won or what is it why Nazis exist or or
why Biden's leading I mean some insane
crap like this I want people to know
he's alluded to
he's charlatan and if that you know if
my voice raised too much when I called
him a coward then I probably should have
just said you're a coward instead of
yelling you're a coward should've just
leaned in really close to him like dude
that's crazy
forgive me Hashem but said to me that
I'm like I'm like Bill O'Reilly and I'm
like well no that's that's not what made
Bill O'Reilly that he yelled that one
guest is not the essence of Bill
O'Reilly or liability so in the service
of bigotry and deprivation for large
swaths of people not to mention you know
things like pushing war and specific
Wars like that to me like an abortion
doctor or murderer on a nightly basis
who can ended up getting assassinated
people try to equate Bernie to trunk
because they've both been rude to
journalists well what it is is people
mistaking content and form yes and and I
will tell you right now the one asset I
have it seems to me if I have any asset
and doing this is that I do not worry
about form it has always been my
strength
this is beanbag yes all right but here's
a guy who I think is a very good
journalist and we're gonna we have a
sort of a compare and contrast type of
situation here first clip we're gonna do
is well here is a guy who I think is a
legit journalist going on and basically
[Music]
making someone who's going to point
themselves out I understand that this
woman is vanessa Newman is just a is she
now an official wanna Guido
representative club says this but but
she presented her YouTube video or
whatever it was her New York Times thing
is just an op-ed a different woman I
know
we need to keep all the gusano straight
but this is a different person okay
sorry oh I had no idea all right well
then fine
even better because here is wond why
does representative in the UK and I
don't know if this is a I mean is she
like an ambassador to the shadow the the
would be government or I'm not exactly
sure even what that means but it's
pretty stunning insofar as she seems to
have the same depth of knowledge of the
situation as that woman Hausman who was
a sensible a comedian in her her dad I
guess worked with Guido or something to
that effect Kannamma composer economic
adviser I just don't understand at one
point I don't understand at one point
our people are just gonna realize like
oh I don't want to go on television with
Manny his son because I knew in too much
BS or did people have not gotten the
message yet like I understand that
something even goes on at this point
with many us on without having like done
any of their homework yeah this is the
way she laughs is as if she thinks he's
joking yeah I Got News for you that is
not a legit laugh that is a I'm super
nervous here and my media training told
me if you laugh it's gonna make it seem
like you're not nervous how can you
believe that a US military intervention
will bring democracy or freedom or human
rights to Venezuela especially with
people like Elliott Abrams and John
Bolton leading the charge especially
given the abysmal history of US
interventions in your part of the world
Guatemala Chile Argentina Nicaragua
Honduras El Salvador why on earth would
you trust the US military let alone
Donald Trump well first of all times
have changed and I think even and even
at anybody who has been involved in
Latin America since the 1970s I think a
meta consonant has changed B you know
the attitude of the United States hold
on one second I just I think she means
maybe late
70s because I seem to remember something
in 1973 that just sticks out a yen day
service strikes strikes me as like just
a little bit I mean maybe in a Buy
button but within three or four or five
years after that you know and I love how
and then of course Li the 80s also
happened well after the seventy and
there was a lot of activity I mean lady
but if you skip through most of the 80s
and you get to like the 90s well then
actually but then you would get to 2009
when the Obama administration back to
coup in Honduras and even you could
count and I would understand why she
wouldn't maybe even 2002 and Venezuela I
was just gonna say in Venezuela in 2002
but from like through the 90s like there
was a small there was like eight years I
think where there was no active US
internet well you know guess we we were
sending back ms-13 yeah we were
deporting people back we were also
undermining uh you know sovereign
government's policies and also don't
even forget you know we're the major
stakeholders the World Bank and IMF okay
when I was okay I understand we're going
to detail let's say that was actually my
first since to seven my first point
though real quick was that what I love
is that the expectations that goes down
so when you go just to the 70s you are
everybody's like come on you gotta know
about the CIA coup against I end a and
Chile because everybody knows that but
that's astounding like okay I guess
you're not gonna know about the
Argentinian or the Brazilian Hunta or
the mat or the continent-wide death
school I never heard of iran-contra
well that was true that was in the
eighties right no I'm saying 70s right I
mean it's like but it's like I love how
it's just like fine let's goes without
saying that a wand why don't srew team
chains right now of course she doesn't
know any of that stuff well what about
just a top-line Wikipedia page entry
like you could have seen in an Oliver
Stone movie the Chile coup that we
backed pretty big one I mean people
saying about it good and I think even
and even at anybody who has been
involved in that in America since the
nineteen seventies I think
a very confident exchange B you know the
attitude of the United States to the
region has changed
seeing the understanding of counter
insurgency or counter terrorists or
operations or things to secure you know
safeguard a global population all of
those parameters and all of those
understandings and methodologies have
changed you say times have changed
attitudes have changed and yet the
person leading the u.s. position on
Venezuela is Elliott Abrams a man who
was deeply involved in war crimes and
human rights abuses in Central America
during the 80s
you have john bolton who said recently
the monroe doctrine is alive and well
it's our hemisphere he said in reference
to latin america and of course you have
Donald Trump saying Venezuela has all
that oil than their right on our
backdoor doesn't seem to have changed at
all they seem to be interested in oil
and sending people with a very bad
record on human rights to help you well
I'm younger than you but we've all read
history Elliott Abrams was responsible
for massive war crimes in El Salvador
and elsewhere in the 1980s he's now the
man you trust to bring democracy to
Venezuela seriously positive for one
second how old is she 17
how old is born in 1972 okay she was she
was in college in the late 80s like
that's all anybody was talking about in
the eighties but maybe she just wasn't
studying if you didn't get into
government until she became the
representative for Guido there was some
stuff in the eighties about my dad I
just potentially losing money I love
this whole theory of like well I'm too
young so history doesn't exist there was
a there was a that was a classic moment
I gotta give Begala this where Megan
McCain was on Bill Maher and she's like
saying Obama D stop blaming the
Republicans for everything there's like
six months after he got elected and
they're already calling him a Nazi and
he's like we need to reach out you know
so it's ludicrous to begin with and Paul
Begala is like not nearly enough
Reagan blamed Carter through like 1985
and Meghan McCain's like well I wasn't
around then so I guess I
or something and then I was like I
wasn't alive during the French
Revolution but I know about it it she
just was like oh I guess I'm a blonde
it's it's amazing how though that that
is used as not just a defense but almost
like some type of former like bragging
like I'm too young to die wasn't living
contemporaneous to that it's like
grandpa SafeZone when you're playing tag
you like oh I'm on here ya know I'm
touching wood I wasn't alive when what
you asked yeah I was five years old when
we were throwing him people out of
helicopter was a time not too long ago
to say something like that would be
considered a total liability like that
would be something that you would say
and then immediately to regret saying it
as opposed to thinking it was some type
of defense let's continue
well I'm younger than you but we've all
read history Elliott Abrams was
responsible for massive war crimes in El
Salvador and elsewhere in the 1980s he's
now the man you trust to bring democracy
to Venezuela seriously I we just need to
have the humanitarian aid enter and we
need foreign we need to get foreign
terrorist organization out from
terrorizing our own people yes there it
is I don't read history but I sure know
talking points well there is not a good
response to that is the thing well I
mean there could be but it would involve
like probably at least 45 minutes of
reading and there had better be no good
response in terms of substance matters
definitely you could so she does not
know I do i I think that person is
completely ignorant about all of it and
it is I'll tell you something I don't
know enough about Venezuelan politics to
make any assessment of guido other than
to say like it seems fairly clear that
he does not have popular support and
that and that what he's engaging in is
an attempted coup but if that's the
person that you choose to be your
representative
- one of the key government's that you
need to support your endeavors like I
would be a worried that they have no
capacity to govern period no he's it's
him and he's got like just incompetent
but look at I mean yes it but it's all
like the Oleg ARCIC children of you know
the former ruling class literally her
father owned Island yes exactly
I'm mister professional career Newman
received a BA MA master philosophy and
then a PhD from Columbia University for
her dissertation autonomy and legitimacy
of states a critical approach to foreign
intervention think she probably knows no
she's grinning like the cat ate the
canary
I think him like nerd I just like I
don't support from the US government no
matter how incompetent they are well she
still would want her appearance to go
better but I think she's just going with
that's like your old that happened a
long time ago I'm interested in now also
she dated Mick Jagger in 98 oh I believe
that boom alright yeah I do a little bit
of uh and can I just say like I mean I'm
playing a little bit of ethnic politics
here but it's interesting to me that how
many of these people have German last
names good strange there was a certain
group of people that found refuge we
need to mount America after a certain
Venezuela
yeah she's like oh oh my father's
fortune was built off of secret Deutsche
Bank I don't read history Mattie you are
such a nerd these are literally the
people from the Jake Flores means TV
video yes mmm-hmm what happened tell me
again what happened in the 80s glasses
it would be weird like I I'd avoid
history too is like there's like weird
family stuff that might come up
hey look look look Betty yeah off the
record everybody knows these stories
frankly all that it's boring on autonomy
of countries in the moment
Venezuela I didn't get tied up with the
history stuff bottom line is dad's ready
to get back home and restart slavery
mind all right
oh okay so so Mehdi Hasan was the
example of the journalist who was doing
quality work let's go over to Fox &
Friends and this is look this is gonna
be the most meaningless a piece of video
that we show you today but it is just
too funny to watch the Fox and Friends
try and get out there and do a nanny
state piece this is where you know of
course somebody wants to tell you not to
text when you're crossing the street
because you could get hit by a car or
run into somebody now this is a true
huge problem particularly in New York
City
I imagine it's a problem in other cities
but it's a huge problem here like one I
mean just walking but like people
running into bikes people getting hit by
cars I mean this is a huge problem and
like literally if I had a if there
wasn't like an RFID chip or something I
could implant in my daughter's hands so
that when she was to step off a curb it
would like make her fingers freeze I
would do it
it's another but blossom Steve Doocy
trying to do segment on the nanny state
and it turns out he's I mean I can't
believe it this is not one of those
things that he might just you know again
live let's put it that way
he might be discovering that there is a
problem with people not paying attention
to anything resides yeah exactly
here we go we've been watching all sorts
of people walking by with their texting
devising excuse me man
hello hello
excuse me hi can I ask you a question
it'll just take a second
I see you're walking through the
crosswalk with your phone how often do
you look at your phone with the text and
things like that I try not to you maybe
it going forward you could get fined
$250 it's not a bad idea or a good idea
she's in a hurry to go to work okay why
are you looking at this guy right here
see he's using his phone too hi excuse
me can I ask a question can you tell the
New York City a very busy place
it is indeed all right meanwhile we got
all these people they're going to work
keep in mind if you're working in New
York City at nine o'clock you've got 20
minutes to go right so everybody's in a
big hurry note to producer don't do
these segments at this time see if I can
get his attention
excuse me excuse me sir hi
let's go cross the street I'm gonna get
hit by a car now all the people who are
texting we're looking at their phones
could be subject to a $250 fine going
full round but it looks as if so far
from the people on the streets of New
York City let's just talk to this guy hi
excuse me what's the fine for harassing
oh my god I love it
duty I'm the Lucy is getting treat and
by the way you shouldn't be mean to
people trying to raise money for Amnesty
International on the street
it's a nightmare nightmare job be nice
to them and move by them quickly but
they're giving him the your trace money
friend it's the International on the
street treatment on Assad there isn't
even like a oh it's TV
none of the it's just like nope you know
I mean no you see someone like Steve
Doocy to coming up to you it's perfectly
okay to go like no stop oh yeah so this
do see do that stand back go you're ugly
names have a good day I mean the the
beauty of them trying to build this sort
of nanny state segment around like we're
people these people are really pissed at
the idea that someone would tell them
what to do I'm sorry could you stop for
one second I need to it's not your day
they can't decide because they've also
done segments on how sad it is that
everyone is always on their phones right
well it's the human state teens and
they'll do they'll do a 45 minute
segment a while back on teenagers who
wear their pants too low but the idea
that you would actually impose some type
of restriction on texting as you're
walking through a street is highly
problematic to them and incidentally you
know we look at things like vision zero
in this city which was much maligned
but I can tell you right now from my
perspective that people people drive
slower
they drive slower in New York City than
they did three years ago and was it
maligned I mean I'm not a de Blasio fan
but I don't understand just cuz it was
you're gonna make was drive 25 miles
crazy it's so hostile to cars right
that's a good thing it should be hostile
to cars car but but you know this is the
way this trajectory all yeah I mean I
don't you guys too young to remember
like the huge huge national issue not
smoking and restaurants was even bigger
but buckling his seatbelt that's when
those laws got passed Morton Downey jr.
who was the original um like Rush
Limbaugh character he would do
Epis show after show on the just the
infringement the nanny state making you
buckle your seatbelts my grandma was
affected by that she had bad dreams
about like that she'd be in a car crash
and wouldn't be able to get out because
the seatbelts right that's what they
would is what happens is you get trapped
by the seatbelt and then you can't get
out and it's very bad thing because
there's a lot of people they might feel
a little scared they were crashed but
then they can step outside but then when
you can't then you die and remember I
mean the cigarettes smoking nobody I
mean you don't hear anybody complain
about that now it's a minute it's like
it's it's it's absurd when you go into a
place only in Vegas is the only places
you've been smoke inside John got very
excited when we were in Miami and you
could smoke in a bar oh there you go and
in the remember the 20 the 30 ounce
slushies that we came out lot or
whatever it was I was against that yeah
a soda ban I'd like to see that actually
the the data now to see if that's had an
impact a positive impact or negative one
and some economic standpoint somebody
must have done some some research now is
that why sodas are 20 ounces here and
not 24 cuz I remember them I thanks for
in North Dakota I think so soda Somali a
let's go to the phones come from a 6-1
zero area code who's this where he come
from
low temp you hear me
yes who's this where you come from I can
see from Autobahn PA Steve from
Pennsylvania what's on your mind yeah I
just wanted to say that I really
appreciate you having Peter down on the
show I think that was one of those good
things that happen out of 2016 was
seeing that a person that prominent
could actually change their position and
that actually gives me some hope so I
thought it was a really good
conversation oh well thank you I
appreciate it yeah I thought it was
pretty good too
um I just wanted to bring up real quick
um Chelsea Manning um I don't know what
I haven't been able to watch her last
week or so I didn't know if you realized
they had put her back into jail yeah we
mentioned that I think it was a Friday
yeah Friday she was put back into jail
the the first grand jury that she
refused to testify in front of disbanded
they reconstituted a second grand jury
she has been put in jail and now there
was also the last I heard as a Friday
was that the judge was implying or
contemplating finding her $500 a day in
addition to the imprisoned yeah now this
is unprecedented as far as I know it's
unprecedented to find someone in this
way I guess maybe you know in certain
contempt cases people get fines but I
hadn't heard about this in terms of the
context of a grand jury I don't know
what the latest is uh yeah that was
about where I am with there is a
fundraiser for her um the other thing
she did was she had a Twitter stream
that went on where she she was online
team some people do you think that this
constitutes like she would have a taste
for cruel and unusual punishment I mean
it seems to me that that she would have
had it in the context of the solitary
confinement
her first imprisonment but frankly but
Supreme Court I think has ruled that
that is not unconstitutional that does
not cross that threshold i i i i i would
i mean i think you know to the extent
yeah i mean to the extent that i've read
you know what psychiatrists say they say
it's uh that it's torturous but she has
fewer rights that someone who's actually
been accused of a crime in this scenario
yeah i mean i look i think that there is
there the the mechanism for punishing
people who refused to testify in front
of a grand jury
i think there's what's not supposed to
be punitive i yes and I think the fines
are clearly supposed to be are punitive
in that instance but I think the idea is
to is that you're supposed to compel
testimony and I think there are certain
circumstances where it's just like you
you you need to use discretion and say
this is not someone that we're going to
do this to this person has already in
associated with this stuff that's being
investigated already served far more
time than she should have
and so I mean I think it's horrific
to send her back to prison okay it's
just don't believe yeah uh I just say
one quick thing I really appreciate you
taking my call um I know you're up
against time I just want to point out
how how egregious it is impair a person
who would give an opportunity to have
some poor power to speak out and stand
up against war crimes against criminal
activity in the higher levels of our
government or you know normally work
from the outside looking in at that
stuff um that person has their life
completely destroyed and then you have
Trump who's now about to party second
war criminal yeah yeah it's just
completely
disgusting I just uh thank you for
taking my call and I always wanna
couldn't agree more signi food I
appreciate the call
thank you couldn't agree more with that
thank you Chelsea Manning hey folks look
I I am reluctant to promote violence of
any type which is why it gives me such
great pleasure to promote this video of
carne of Sargon oh but don't we have one
of Sargon oh well we can we don't have
uh I gotta actually get in here with
them okay well we have to we have one
image and one video clip one is of Nigel
Farage getting milkshake and one is a
picture of Sargon of our Cod getting
milkshake and here's the thing well
here's the picture of Sargon of Akkad
wearing the Arcadian milkshake covering
the traditional milkshake Ian's covering
he's been anointed he is he's wearing
that milkshake with pride somebody got
him it appears from behind because you
can see the milkshake patter sort of
like back of his head and it makes it
look a little more distinguished in some
respects I actually I when I see him I
usually think Carla swindon well I think
this I do in some way that I see a sort
of akkad emerging from the battlefield
of ideas yes indeed now here is video of
Nigel Farage getting a milkshake and let
me address both of the milkshake Ian's
at the same time take him away
take him away oh nice nice underhanded
motion yeah very good take him away take
him away
send him no more fish fillets for me no
more complete failure oh yeah sorry
here's the deal
on this show this is why I think this is
so appropriate this is why I think it's
such an appropriate form of protest now
some people say oh it's not appropriate
I think this is there couldn't be
anything more appropriate than this and
I'll tell you why I had I've been
milkshake multiple times of the course
of doing this show by my kids nobody
reports on it I've ever clothes ruined
just like this take them away I've been
I screamed
I've been I've been pizza I don't know
if anybody's ever been pizza before
where they where your child will take a
slice of pizza and just accidentally
drop it on your lap or on your chest
nobody reported on it because these
things happen it's not that big of a
deal the reason why these are reported
on and why there's stories about these
is because it is a political act it is
symbolic no no people were harmed these
milkshakes are not sent in it and the
people on the receiving end of them the
only problem is it just didn't go in
their mouths and ended up going on their
clothes milkshakes are delightful
everybody loves them most people like
them to drink them as opposed to wear
them but the point is it is a as a
political act it is meant to make them
like a pie in the face it's meant to
make them humiliated and look silly and
I think this is incredibly effective the
people laughing at them and it's also
meant to make them like where they like
you can't you're accountable in some
fashion this is just a milkshake but
you're accountable
and I I couldn't be more happy even if
somebody who's come up milkshake me
guess what papers would report on it
none
yes exactly would make a video ourselves
yeah we would make a video fascist
milkshake Sam see yeah I mean I would do
a selfie and I'll make a video of it but
these stories are reported in newspapers
and they should be and that and that
shows the effectiveness of it this is
the content and form thing again like
somebody was I guess somebody in the UK
was saying well what if one of your
favorite politicians got a milkshake it
was like if Corbin got a milkshake he'd
generally get sympathy right I mean if
Corbin got no shade again and you were
like the the this story would be well I
don't know what the story would be but I
can guess it would it would help be
helpful to him the far right doesn't do
milkshakes though they usually just do
violence right but it would be it would
be it would be nice to see those guys in
Charlottesville to go out and actually
just like hear our milkshakes hear our
milkshakes we're gonna milkshake those
Jews should drink milkshakes don't mind
if I do
oh we got to play this clip speaking of
which I don't know why this occurs to me
but there's a video there's a movie
coming out about the about censor
censorship and no it's not about
political prisoners in China it's no no
it's not about political prisoners you
know maybe from like you know bowls an
arrow or something like that it's not
about you know protestors in this
country who've been you know kettled and
and or people who are arrested before
like political convention taken off the
streets no it's about alex jones and
laura Loomer and gavin McGinnis and then
two other I would imagine right-wingers
and how they've been censored they have
no they've been completely censored
except for of course is moving how they
distribute and
there's a great clip of Gavin sort of
driving and talking about the hardship
that he's been going through in his his
his wealthy suburb we'll play it
tomorrow but there's also a victor
version which is really which is even
better thank you forever that's my
common quote I say it's you forever
we're done that's my comment quote I say
 you forever oh this was interesting
last night Pete Buddha judge was doing a
fox townhall and he did so and I just
want to say this Pete Buddha judge
understands that there is a problem
going on a network like Fox I don't know
if he came up with this idea himself it
may have been from push back when he
announced that he was going on he
understands that there was a problem and
so he had to go on there and show his
bona fides in terms of calling out that
network people judge has made similar
smart moves lately he was going to I
guess go on Dave Rubin show and then
somehow he found out that Mike Tsarevich
was gonna be on that show and he decided
not to go on now who could blame him
because you know Mike Tsarevich is a
smear artist who and here Matt just put
this up because I'm not sure not a
hundred percent sure how Buddha gage
Buddha judges people found out that
Serna vich was going on that day it's
it's hard to know how these things get
public Oh what's this is a tweet oh I
guess I know I remember I asked if
people bowed ah judge knew that date
rape denier and smear merchant Mike
Tsarevich was going to be on his show
that
day I don't because it we heard a rumor
that that was the case it turned out it
was but it wasn't just booking thing
Pete yeah I mean here's the thing do you
really want to accept an invitation to a
show right after Mike Serna vich has
been on that show and not on that show
to be indicted for his work but rather
as a Reformation project I would love to
know the backstory of how that happened
because some people say Serna vichaar
working with turning-points I don't know
if that's true and I know that Dave
Rubin was just at a turning points event
maybe maybe that was just a suggestion
anyways let's get back to Pete Budaj on
Fox News where he realized like you
can't go on platforms that are designed
to promote some of the worst aspects of
society and at the very least not
address it and here is Buddha judge
doing that the other thing we've got to
do is we've got to find people where
they are you know a lot of folks in my
party we're critical of me for even
doing this with Fox News and I've heard
that and and I get where that's coming
from especially when you see what goes
on with some of the opinion hosts on
this network I mean when you got Tucker
Carlson saying that immigrants make
America dirty when you've got Laura
Ingraham comparing detention centers
with children and cages to summer camps
summer camps then there is a reason why
anybody has to swallow hard and think
twice before participating in this media
ecosystem but I also believe that even
though some of those hosts are not
always there in good faith I think a lot
of people tune into this network who do
it in good faith and and there are a lot
of Americans who my party can't blame if
they are ignoring our message because
they will never hear it if we don't go
on and talk about it and so it's why
whether it's going into
the viewership of Fox News or whether
geographically it's going into places
where Democrats haven't been seen much I
think we've got to find people where
they are not change our values but
update our vocabulary so that we're
truly connecting with Americans for
coast-to-coast okay now I mean I think
you know and there's there's obviously
an argument like well maybe you should
also deliver certain material benefits
to those people as opposed to messaging
but let's just keep it on the messaging
front the reason why Peabody judge would
do Fox and has to throw that in so that
he acknowledges on Fox what these people
are doing as opposed to Dave Rubin is
that look dave rubin you're not reaching
anybody who you couldn't reach through
fox and or through all the other
mainstream out so there's a fundamental
difference there in that calculation now
dave rubin obviously thinks very highly
about his his reach and who he is
reaching and certainly at least if you
believe the numbers on youtube now I
know there's a lot of people out there
who say things like hey can't you buy
YouTube views yeah I just googled buy
YouTube views and you can buy YouTube
views I don't know if that's the case
but let's just assume it's not the case
let's just assume that YouTube keeps D
monetizing Dave Reubens videos according
to him for no reason whatsoever that
maybe he has nothing to do with having
paid views or maybe nothing to do with
what those audience members had watched
before that tells the algorithm this
material might be very very ad
unfriendly even though on its face it
doesn't appear to be you follow what I'm
saying there like for instance I'm
convinced that the YouTube algorithm
knows where our audience has been oh
yeah and if our audience say was
watching a lot of hate videos and they
came and watched my video with Peter Dow
I'm convinced that they would that goo
would automatically de monetize because
they can't tell what I'm saying with
Peter Dow they just know that like if
these guys are watching for hate videos
a day and they go to watch the fifth
video there's good reason to believe
that fifth video might be a little bit
dubious and that seems to but now I
don't know I don't know I'm this is all
speculation or like maybe those are
recent changes until quite recently like
oh the fifth hate video that's excellent
yeah monetize it I know incredibly well
I don't algorithms but for some reason
Dave Rubin stuff gets D monetized a lot
if you believe his twitter feed but also
according to his Twitter feed he gives
congratulations to Media Matters Vox and
HuffPo because Pete Buddha judge is
passing on our interview he goes on to
say it's a shame because I think he's a
decent man and we have some agreement in
some disagreement we could have opened
up a whole new audience to him I don't
think there is a whole new audience to
him I don't know
but and and I think that he as a
politician has a very good assessment as
to whether it would have been a net
positive or negative 19 year old chronic
 who came and think black
people are just too to say to thank
Media Matters Vox and HuffPo for two
reasons one it's it's clearly not a
function of them just saying don't do it
it's them saying like look who you were
having on Dave and also like to not give
me credit I think is also a little
offensive now let me just also dispel
one other theory there were people who
have who have deemed me and have emailed
me who say that they believe Dave had
Mike Tsarevich on as a way of telling me
to eff off
because he did it he booked him right
after those series of questions why
won't you talk to Sam cedar in public
that were videotaped and there's been
some speculation that Mike's urn of its
now I just want to say that did not work
out for you Dave I was happy to see what
happened but you made a decision to go
for the clicks and maybe there's money
in it for you in some fashion or another
to have Mike's turn of ajaan I mean
because you've had him on before it's
not like Serna vich has done anything
new I don't know what ideas you're
talking about with Mike Serna you
didn't question him on his role in his
biggest failure to date which was his
work with me it's interesting that he
talked about the gym that he listened to
that full interview and Ruben talked as
if he was going to get into other things
that you've been doing since then some
are controversial like trolling got a
deep into the James Gunn thing didn't
mention the samsu thing yeah a little
weird about that because it wasn't like
it didn't get written up in the New York
Times in the Washington Post long as
Wikipedia there is a conflict with Sam
cedar section there's not a conflict
with James Gunn's session that's weird
but that's fake news but I'm more
interested in talking about ideas but
Dave let me just say this sorry about
Pete Budaj it's a real shame that you
don't have me on because maybe we could
agree about some stuff maybe some of
your audience would be interested in
hearing from me
oh no so you don't have to do this whole
thing where you go and book people who
tried to get me fired publicly and then
ended up being humiliated that whole
like games play you can just be straight
with me and ask me to come on don't be
trying to get my attention mission
accomplished
I will come on Dave you just have to you
just have to say the words I think if I
remind him of his greatest modern
professional accomplishment he'll get
the message do not with me anymore
I seem to have miscalculated oh wait it
didn't have its intended effect on cedar
and now I don't get to talk with me
repeat I lost the battle Edward hmm all
right need to read more ideas so we have
this interview with Bernie Sanders in
The New York Times by Sidney ember I
don't know who she is she is a
historical and immoral but I mean I like
but that's a description I don't know
who she actually is some hack but she
interviewed Bernie Sanders and it was a
very strange interview where she was
asking about it was an interview
ostensibly about his long-held
opposition to war and his support for
socialist leaders don't really get into
the support of specific leaders per se
but certainly support or defense against
regimes but it's interesting it's
interesting to take this assignment
because when you say long-held
opposition to war the implication is
this is going to be historical right
like I'm gonna look back on Bernie
Sanders opposition to war and how that
played out through different eras but
Bernie Sanders opposition to war is
necessarily going to be tied to specific
involvement by the United States with
other countries and if you don't know
any of that if you're not aware of even
the basic rudimentary history or you
pretend you're not for the sake of the
interview things are gonna get a little
bit weird like she says she apparently
went back to the wire report she's
talking about the rally that he attended
in Managua
this is when in Nicaragua the US
government was trying to overthrow the
Nicaraguan government ended up
supporting all sorts of like wonderful
enterprises like death squads that would
end up killing nuns and stuff like that
right like almost like a parody of
horrible things that you could do and
[Music]
very often activists would go to these
countries to draw attention to what was
happening there and so she said in the
top of our story we talked about the
rally you attended in Managua and a wire
report at the time said that there were
anti-american chants from the crowd now
understand the US government is funding
millions and millions and millions of
dollars to create right-wing death
squads that are killing people and the
closer you are the the the closer
proximity you have to that happening the
more you were aware of what the United
States was doing man just had really
briefly this is also on top of the
Sandinistas gotten the powered opposing
a vicious dictator that we back called
Somoza and calling for like relieving
poverty yep
and there was an amazing story i'm
trying to remember this about what
happened after a major earthquake there
in the way that Somoza rebuilt i can't
remember i mean this is stuff all that I
you know was dealing with in college
quite a bit actually but because it was
many it was almost contemporaneous and
but it was not getting much public
publicity in the mainstream media so you
know when people went down there to
support it to at the very least not
necessarily even support or support the
Sandinistas against the United States
this is the question there was a wire
report that said there were
anti-american chants from the crowds and
so Bernie's like the United States at
that time I don't know how much you know
about this was actively supporting the
Contras to overthrow the
so that's there's anti-american
sentiment now I don't they misspelled
there is there it's weird like that's
their anti-american yeah I understand it
just stuck out to me like why would they
misspelled that but that's their
anti-american sentiment question mark I
remember that I remember that event very
clearly and she says do you recall
hearing those chants this is the like
you were sitting in the pew with
Reverend Wright do you remember hearing
his what he was saying she says I think
the wire report has them saying here
they're everywhere the Yankee will die
and he says they were fighting against
Americans yeah what's your point I
wanted to are you shocked to learn there
was anti-american sentiment my point was
I wanted to know if you heard that I
don't remember no of course there was
anti-american sentiment there this was a
war being funded by the United States
against the people of Nicaragua people
are being killed in that war but she
cannot let go do you think if you had
heard that directly you have stayed at
the rally he's like I think Sydney with
all due respect you don't understand a
word that I'm saying like what part of
none rape do you not understand this is
just like we've literally whole if you
wanted to really examine his position
the idea that four of your questions
would be dedicated to hearing an
anti-american chant and then not
removing yourself from the area is
absurd because he's conceding I was in
the country the entire country felt an
anti-american sentiment because of what
America was doing I was there because of
what America is doing have you heard of
jingoism Jesus uh have you have you
bothered to read the Wikipedia entry on
the Contras before bothering me with
these stupid questions so now she wants
to get into Debbie changed your
perspective on Danielle Ortega so she
says do you believe you had an accurate
view of President Ortega at the time and
he goes this was not about Arteaga
you understand I don't know if you do or
not do you know that the United States
overthrew the government of chile a
while back do you know do you do you
know that I'm do you I'm asking a simple
question and she says what point do you
want to make I mean this is clearly an
attempt and and I would have lost it at
this point but he just goes on to
explain my point is fascism developed in
Chile as a result of that the United
States overthrew the government of
Guatemala a democratically elected
government overthrew the government of
Brazil I strongly oppose US policy which
overthrows governments especially
democratically elected governments
around the world so the issue is not so
much Nicaragua or the government of
Nicaragua the issue was should the
United States continue a policy of
overthrowing governments in Latin
America and Central America I believe
that it then that it was wrong I believe
today that it's wrong that's why I do
not believe the United States should
overthrow the government of Venezuela
I'm wondering if now you view Ortega and
the government differently knowing what
you do now well this is 30 years later
right something like that I'm very
concerned about the anti-democratic
policies of the Ortega government yes
right so and this apparently is a view
that this reporter cannot comprehend
that one can both think that a
government in country X is not good
flawed flawed 30 years later even worse
and totally different and the United
States should not intervene both those
things can exist equally well I mean
that's of course and it's stunning the
lack of just like basic ability to make
basic distinctions but obviously they're
trying to do a hatchet job but the but
the other thing though that's just and I
see it in a range of reactions to this
because it's like one is like Oh Bernie
lost his temper and and that's like you
know again just a pure American
narcissism where there's just like no
regard for human lives overseas there's
no consideration like I'm not saying
that foreign policy or how we interact
with the world needs to be your primary
Focusrite but it is different if you're
voting in the United States your vote
registers across the planet you can't
you know it's I'm sorry it's not voting
in Norway or something where you could
say hey I don't know I can primarily
think of how we're gonna handle business
here you have to think about your
footprint in the rest of the world if
you're voting in the United States and
the other thing I'm thinking of Michael
Cohen I think is in the Boston Globe is
that the columnist yeah yeah the suite
was just like it was very disturbing
that Bernie's just still doesn't see
like the ability of the u.s. to do good
overseas well like there's a wince a
dental yes that's the name of his book
Roe there we go I mean I it's like good
ol --t that writes about foreign policy
literally was a fart a fairy tale like
it's not even I mean cuz it's like even
that frame like when we do happen to do
good overseas it's gonna be because it's
synchronized with other interests that
we have overseas this idea that you
could be a an adult writing about
foreign policy and then Jennifer Rubin
did the whole like you know he says he's
studying but he's still not serious
because for her serious still means
willingness to kill a lot of people and
start a lot of wars I also think that
even like even if like not only is the
argument that when we do good it aligns
with our interests which i think it's
fine i think that's okay
but that's an adult way is what i'm
saying and i think that i do think that
it's not necessarily naive to say that
doing good aligns with our interest more
than a lot of countries okay because of
the nature of the way that we are built
and i think that's okay but none of that
none of that in any way is negated by
pointing out the severely bad things
that we have done with our power and do
and do and it's not even like it doesn't
even matter what the net is there is no
reason none of these policies were
necessary for us to do the good things
well that's the other irony of this and
i and i have some concerns because i am
at a point i you know following down
Daniel Bester I really am wary of any
type of humanitary
intervention rhetoric at all not
objecting the abuses overseas whether
it's in Brazil or China obviously but I
I don't I I don't like interventionism
period I think that's really proven
particularly in Libya right but even if
you were interested in just the
intellectual you know exercise of it
some of the objections from certain
people on the left to what Bernie is
trying to navigate is he's trying to
synthesize actually a certain kind of
liberal critique of there's a new rise
of right-wing authoritarianism we need
to confront it with a sort of left
position against the anti
interventionism and I think in some ways
you know Tulsi gabbard's sort of doing
this you know more of like a right left
alliance on anti intervention those are
both different ways of thinking about
foreign policy that you could debate and
talk about but what's so interesting is
they're so blind and so I have no
historical awareness that they can't
even get the areas where Bernie's trying
to make overtures as to people like that
in terms of talking about an axis that
connects Trump and Hungary and Brazil
and India you know that's the high-end
critique that people like Tim Schneider
is supposed to be bringing forth those
are their intellectual grooves they're
not even taking them seriously and can
we talk about the media response for a
second like Jill filipova quita
I get being frustrated by reporters but
Bernie here is shockingly rude to
what's-her-name who's just trying to do
her job we already have a president who
attacks the press condescends and
refuses to answer questions he dreams
stupid now he's awful 0.1 like we said
earlier it's tone tone policing conceals
the content which is actually the thing
that we should have an issue with but
also when she's saying oh she's just
doing her job no she isn't well like a
journalist job is to speak truth to
power
well the question is at that point what
is her job I mean if she's just doing
her job the question has to be like what
is her job I mean it is is it really our
four questions out of the 8 or 10 that
are asked there about whether he heard
anti-american chance at a rally I mean
is that really what this job is supposed
to be to speak truth to power I would
say that and when there
doing that when they are on the side of
power it's your job would be truth to
them even if she's just like you know
doing like I'm just trying to you know
to give people a better understanding of
his foreign policy that's not it you
could just as easily say oh no her job
begins with reading the Wikipedia entry
on this country and if she wanted to
critique him she could totally say well
didn't you I mean I don't feel hesitate
to give talking points but didn't you
realize by the mid-80s that the right
position was to you know a pox on both
houses and find some obscure diplomatic
initiative that probably didn't even
matter but was opposed to the
Sandinistas and the Contras and say
didn't you want to not in line with
either the US or the Soviets and a proxy
war you know you could do all sorts of
convoluted nonsense that at least would
require him to respond forcefully this
is just the right jingoistic shallow
garbage right uh and and pretending to
be otherwise right totally that jesting
she gave up rocks content with NPR fetch
me that's the that's the problem there
was a and I mean I mean you could say it
was rude of Peabody judge to go on Fox
and mock the Fox host that weren't there
that was rude but of course not in the
you you wouldn't do that because you
support what he's doing well it put Mike
Wallace in a really unfair position I
know regardless of what you think of
Laura Ingraham and Tucker Carlson and by
the way I oppose both of them I think
they're terrible but I think when you're
there and they're not in the room with
Mike Wallace who's trying to do a fair
job and who all of us can I mean I wrote
that we would laugh them off of the the
those are his colleagues whether we like
it or not there was a Ben Rhodes profile
may 5th 2016 in New York Times Magazine
this quote was in it where he said most
of the outlets are reporting on world
events from Washington the average
reporter we talked to his 27 years old
and their only report and experience
consists of being around political
campaigns that's a sea change they
literally know nothing and people were
upset about him saying that that just
seems accurate yes objectively true all
right here is Bernie on
on Chuck Todd's program I guess
presumably following this line of of
question I mean they're gonna you know
people knew that they would do this but
and they tried to do it too funny enough
to Bill DeBlasio in New York now the
whole country is not New York and they
talked about how Bill de Blasio went
down to hang out with the Sandinistas ah
solidified my vote but I mean that's why
it backfires in New York around the
country the reason why it's going to
fail is not because people are like man
he was with the Sandinistas I'm down for
that
the reason why is because just like the
New York Times reporter who didn't seem
to have a clue the rest of the country
is gonna be like the sand of what the
sand is Bernie Sanders is that there was
this oh the Sanders nieces it was a
group Nicaragua that was inspired by his
leadership in Burlington people are
literally went and visited there that's
all people are literally gonna be if
they hear like the Sandinistas are gonna
assume that it's like oh those must be
what they call like if you're a
supporter of Bernie Sanders you're a
sandanista or maybe like that's what
that clash outfit was about Bernie like
the clash people are not gonna know
people are just not gonna know like I
think most of the people who are don't
know that icky like that that that's the
coinage like even and but here is so I
don't think we're terribly far but if
you're in Washington DC and I mean that
just sort of if that's your state of
mind if you are with the foreign policy
establishment you think that this is
going to be damaging when in fact the
percentage of Americans who sadly I'm
sorry Michael
care about foreign policy is extremely
naturally narrow we've got a man James
the percentage of Americans broadly
speaking who know who the sandinistas
are or were sadly because then they
would know who the Contras were and they
would know what this kind
you did but that's the case is even
narrower but here's Bernie Sanders on
with we Chuck done things I think the
larger question and I don't let me let
me just frame the question this way the
larger questions going to be if you're
the nominee whether you like it or not
the rights gonna basically hammer and
sickle you to death how do you prevent
it well I I don't mind the right-wing
doing it but I I understand they will do
it I don't want the media to do it look
I when I was a young man I plead guilty
I voted III worked hard as a young man
against the war in Vietnam I don't
apologize that as a United member of the
United States House I helped lead the
effort against the war in Iraq which
turns out to have been the worst foreign
policy blunder in the modern history of
the United States as the United States
Senator I led the effort to pass a
bipartisan resolution to get America out
of the war in Yemen led by Saudi Arabia
which and I got to tell you something
chuckles play a tension to Yemen what's
going on in Yemen now is the worst
humanitarian disaster in the world we're
talking about hundreds of thousands of
people children dying and I'm doing my
best to get the u.s. out of that war and
of Trump wants to go to war in Iran that
will make the war in Iraq look like a
cakewalk it will make it so we've got to
do everything we can to stop that if
people want to attack me because I think
that war should be the last resort you
can attack me but I have seen too much
how I was the chairman of the Senate
Committee on Veterans Affairs I talked
to too many veterans whose lives were
destroyed by the war in Iraq I will do
everything I can to see problem solved
diplomatically rather than through war
now that that's a great response but the
other of the alternate response you
could do to the question of how are you
going to stop them from painting you
with the hammer and sickle it should be
no one's gonna care no one's gonna care
hammer and what not right exactly like
they are there is a mentality that
exists in the
in the conventional establishment
journalistic worldview that there is
some resonance to the Soviet threat and
I mean here's the the reality folks we
are close to 30 years out from when the
Wall fell and even for people in my age
who were I was like 25 maybe 27
somewhere around there I can't do the
math right now 27 even for my generation
the threat of the Soviet Union was still
not like you know the only example we
have was Reagan and as soon as Reagan
said some bad you know some mean words
to them it just went away and also there
was no like no you know I didn't have to
go underneath my desk as a kid right
the generation that came before me did
and the generation before them did and
that's why this had some resonance
there was a Red Scare here but not that
happened 20 years 25 you know a 10 years
before I was born and also not only did
he say bad words them I mean that there
was a period of time seems like I know
that you would know way better than me
but it seems like in the 80s and not I
mean yes by the second half of the
Iranian administration the you know
Gorbachev and Reagan or cut Arsenal's
they're negotiating deals the guy does a
pizza hut right not that many years
later right so I mean this is just like
again it's the same thing as we used to
talk about with with Barack Obama in
Chicago politics nobody knows what that
means nobody knows what that means
can I also just say it is what I mean it
is I'm sorry obviously I'm totally in
the tank for Bernie but like when is the
last time you have a candidate on
national television saying incidentally
all these dumb got you questions let me
not only defend myself but maybe I'll
use it as
to highlight the fact that you never
cover a genocide that the United States
is supporting right now in the Middle
East and you know Bernie does a lot of
that and also you know anti-abortion
activists noted on Twitter the other day
that Bernie's campaign is sending out
fundraisers to support actual grassroots
local groups fighting this stuff and
plays like Alabama and they're doing
strike support yep
they're doing strike support for grad
students everywhere they go and they
always foreground local I mean they had
anti gentrification activists in Chicago
what was one of his opening speakers it
is a truly intersectional campaign but
he could get hammered in tickled but I
got news for you what do you want
memorabilia that's a charge or D of
people who understand the hammer and
sickle they're just not gonna vote for
the Democrat regardless they're not
gonna vote because they're they're a
woman or they're not gonna vote because
they're gonna be too friendly to the
blacks or whatever it is I mean the to
the extent that you're gonna lose any
people over the hammer and sickle it is
it is not a cohort that is in play ya
know people whose brains have been
poisoned by Fox News think every
Democrat is a communist right I mean
that's the other great lastly what is it
what if I was to tell you a little story
about an heir to a frozen-food fortune
who looked upon a woman who escaped
incredible deprivation in civil war
travelled thousands of miles to escape
this country that was suffered of famine
to I believe made it after years to the
United States worked hard learned
English actually did so well in her
community that she became a
congresswoman when you look at these two
examples one who is traded in on his
millions of dollars that he is
going to inherit and all the connections
that come with being that wealthy to sit
in front of a TV be on every single
network continually failing upwards
launched an online publishing platform
supposedly because conservatives were in
the gutter and he wanted to show that
conservatives could do real journalism
that ended up doing all sorts of like
you know semi naked model stories and
then just gutter journalism would you
imagine that that guy would feel so
embarrassed by himself relative to this
former refugee that he would go on his
TV show and malign her as a bad
immigrant well if you had imagined get
yourself a cookie because that's what
happened on Tucker Carlson but for the
left whether the country benefits is not
the point
congresswoman Ilhan Omar herself a
symbol of America's failed immigration
system if there ever was one someone who
hates this country coming here at public
expense spent yesterday demanding the
abolition of ice the decriminalization
of illegal immigration itself and an end
to all deportation programs she demands
open borders the unlimited arrival of
anyone who wants to come to America
whether they have anything to contribute
or not and by the way you get to pay for
it and if you don't want to you're a
bigot well you know what this is really
about of course it's not about civil
rights that's a joke it's about money
and power their money their power the
left has aligned with business interests
that profit from cheap obedient workers
low-skilled immigrants have a harder
time assimilating into the American
mainstream they stay poorer they learn
English more slowly they're more likely
to remain an ethnic underclass all of
which makes them much more likely to
vote Democratic long term that's the
point
obviously well first of all the idea
that she is an example of the failed
immigration system I can't possibly
imagine a system that you would want
that would bring in any other type of
immigrants but first of all his data is
all wrong
well he's not offering a data he's just
offering opinions but the fact is that's
not it's simply not true what businesses
want is an underclass of workers which
you would get through like a temporary
worker program or you would get through
undocumented workers just being allowed
to be in the country without having a
path to citizenship so they don't have
access to labor laws Tucker Carlson's
really worried about the American worker
he should be every night hammering the
Republicans for their attacks on unions
for their attacks on labor laws he
should be talking about how Donald Trump
rolled back the time-and-a-half
initiative that the Obama administration
there's plenty of things that he can be
talking about and he should be talking
about a path to citizenship for every
single one of the 11 million
undocumented immigrants in this country
or immigrants who've overstayed their
visas that's what you should be
hammering for because as soon as that
happens that's gonna they're gonna take
them out of the shadows and they're not
gonna be able to be exploited but guess
what that work is you can still gonna
need to be done and so all his facts are
wrong the fact of the matter is is that
we know that even undocumented
immigrants increase labor participation
because they're doing work and freeing
up other work for other people to go in
and do work all the things he's talking
about a myths and there is a lot of and
talk about bank shots if you want to
help the American worker then just help
the American worker but the idea that
you're going to pick and choose which
immigrants are going to come on and
you're going to be able to pick and
choose which immigrants are not going to
I'm not going to be competitive with the
Americans for jobs I mean these are the
ones who always talk about unintended
consequences we know the consequence of
the immigration proposals of immigration
that we've had in this country
traditionally and it is help this
country dramatically and he wants to
suddenly go to some type of pick and
choose thing where who's gonna pick
these things government bureaucrats or
businesses corporations that want
undercut skilled workers it's the
classic who's gonna do this right we all
and it's the classic method that he
always identified
certain problems that are real then he
goes and and race baits and and you know
demonizes immigrants and then after that
process is done you realize like oh he
began that segment by correctly saying
something about Amazon as an example and
nothing that would do anything to
undermine Amazon's undermining of our
democracy and total all power did he say
all he did was just in sight again still
on Omar or you know attack Alon Omar or
you know demonize immigrants it's such
an important point to hammer on and like
he's he's kind of right it's never gonna
be enough for the left to just say oh if
you don't support immigrants you're a
racist
like there are very real reasons and
that we need to support a more open
border policy demilitarized the border
decriminalized migration and I think
even on the left there's not necessarily
a consensus on that like I think some
people still want to paint this as part
of some neoliberal plan when in fact
they cracked down on migration as a
direct result of NAFTA in the 90s
because Clinton needed to reassure
people that these powerful push factors
weren't gonna be able to create a wave
of immigration in the nineteen
ninety-six immigration stuff was when
they started using the term criminal
alien right and that was all just the
90s Republican race-baiting plus I think
they did it after NAFTA because they
needed to keep people inside Mexico for
all these new sweatshops that they had
created like anti immigrant Policy is
neoliberal policy and we need to hammer
on that point alright folks we've got
time for one more phone call and then we
gotta go come from a310 area code who's
this where you calling from I think is
it is with me it is you what is your
name where you go my gosh I thought I
finally get to be the one to say my name
is Lauren and I'm calling from Ventura
California and I just wanted to talk
about Social Security and Medicare
because you talk about it a lot and I am
lucky or unlucky enough to be someone
who is young and receiving Social
Security and therefore Medicare so I
just wanted to sort of mention
that that I exist you know I'm only 28
and you always talk about like you know
the old people who are on Social
Security but there are a lot of people
who are young who have disabilities who
are on Social Security and get Medicare
it's actually 16 percent of the Medicare
population it's people who are not
retirement age so I just wanted to sort
of them mention that and then also talk
about drug prices because I have been I
have like a condition that no doctors
have ever experienced before and so
because of that I've been trying all
these like crazy drugs there's one drug
that I am on that costs fourteen
thousand eight hundred and eighty
dollars a month and the only way to get
the only way to get the drug like I get
it for free now because I was able to
like they charge that amount to me
Medicare doesn't cover it and then they
are like oh you you qualify for our
Assistance Program and then then your
co-pays seven hundred and forty four
dollars and I'm like okay well I paid it
once and then I can't pay for it and
then they're like okay well so now that
you really can't pay for it we'll give
it to you for free but it's like you
have to just like do all this crazy
stuff to show that you are deserving of
drugs and you have to like you know I
know at least people come to the door
with the drug and I have to sign like
three things for it and send back
something in the mail and it's really
it's it's really insane and so these
you've got to prove that you're
basically completely tapped out until
they will give you the drug and then
they do this as a way of basically
probably relieving some measure of of
pressure to regulate the the cost of
that drug yeah I mean and it's crazy
because that's just for my my pain
medication drugs and then I have all
these like dermatological drugs that I
used to those cost hundreds and hundreds
of dollars and there's no relief for
those and it's it's really it's
incredible I was just you know listening
to Democracy Now today and they were
talking about prescription drug related
things about how generics are like not
the real drug a lot of the times and
that's why the cost can be lower and I'm
just so scared now that like these
compound pharmacies I'm finding all
these like meryl mail old or mail-order
Pharmacy is to get my drugs and I'm like
well then maybe I won't even get the
right drug from the it's just it's it's
crazy if we could just have something
like Warren's been talking about you
know having the government manufacture
drugs and have them be safe and not from
like some back alley in China or
something like wherever our drugs come
from now but you know really it's really
insane having to deal with it I
interviewed I've interviewed people at
the tort conference in in Vegas I go to
who had a story who told me that a lot
of times what happens is the active
ingredients are manufactured in China
where there is sometimes dubious
regulation about about where they're
manufactured and how they're
manufactured one was like I think
manufactured close to a jet fuel plant
and there was some type of problem and
and then it gets sent back to the states
and they just take the inactive
ingredients combine it into capsule form
and sell it I mean and then there's also
I think like even like third tier like
you're mentioning where they will
basically just reconstitute this stuff
and become a drug company overnight
essentially and sell this stuff I mean
it's a problem I I mean I'm with you we
should have we should have tighter
controls and there's no reason the VA
does this apparently already when
there's a shortage of drugs generic
drugs the VA will actually produce these
drugs so we already have a US government
capacity and program where we do this
there's no reason why we can't expand it
there's just no reason the government is
capable of doing this and but just I
mean I'm aware of SSDI this is the
Social Security disability insurance
what's been your experience with it
because I know it's one of those things
that for a while certainly under Obama
maybe it's the pressure is eased off
there was an attempt to to say that
fraud was rampant
and it is a fund that is the least
funded of all of Social Security as it
were but what was your sense I mean how
hard was it for you to to to receive as
SDI well what's interesting actually
you know before becoming disabled a few
years ago one of my previous jobs had
been working at a law firm that
specialized in getting people Social
Security disability so I happen to come
into this knowing exactly how to go
about it but I will say that I know from
all the clients that were at that i but
I dealt with at the firm I worked at
it's it's very very difficult to get a
disability especially when you're young
like myself but I mean because what you
end up having to do is like you know you
jump through all these hoops then
generally most people don't get don't
receive disability off the application I
was lucky enough to be able to receive
no fee application because I guess I'm
they're just like wow she's really
disabled which is both you know a
blessing and a curse
obviously because you know my life you
know sucks because of it with all these
pills have to take in the prices and
blah blah blah but at least at least
Social Security recognizes that I'm
disabled but but yeah I mean it's a
really really difficult program to get
there and I am sorry one of my problems
is a short-term memory loss i I know you
asked the question I don't remember if I
answered no you did answered it nicely
well listen I appreciate your calling in
and you know I'm sorry for what you're
going through and but you know hopefully
we will we will get there with drugs we
have next week of author Katherine eben
on who is going to be on talk about
generic drugs and on prices so
appreciate the call yeah well thank you
thanks bye bye alright folks that's it
for today we will see you tomorrow sorry
other callers I
[Music]
to get to where I want
no sir
[Music]
I was I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
