some good news the LA teachers union has
reached a settlement to end their
six-day strike I don't we don't know the
details yet of what they have settled on
but much of this was about shaking money
loose from the state you have a
completely blue state knows the totally
blue state at this point
whose dollar per student spending is
somewhere in the middle of the country
probably around 20 or 25 or something
like that and they should be like at 1
or 2 I prefer New York to be one of
course but they should be at the top in
terms of dollar per student spending and
charters of course are cutting into that
that's Cory Booker like I don't know
what he's thinking about but this is
akin Cory Booker going down and Cory
Booker going down to New Orleans and
celebrating the complete chartoff
ocation of the New Orleans public school
system is aside from it being
reprehensible in terms of the public
policy involved in this this is like
akin to Hillary Clinton insisting on
doing Goldman Sachs speeches in the wake
of the financial crisis in fact in some
ways it's worse and I'll tell you why
because there was nothing in those
speeches that was anything other than
her going and getting money from problem
and pablum and at the very least she
spoke about the the problematic aspects
of Wall Street I don't know what her
reforms would have been she didn't do so
well with the bankruptcy bill but it's a
different era and there was room to
change but here's a guy who has been in
the pocket of private equity and their
push for charter schools across the
country and continues to do so when he's
made all these like this is a guy that
was the point I was gonna say like he's
shown okay like he voted the wrong way
on drug imports he flipped on that fast
he's even sort of tried to modify
slightly his line on Middle East stuff
by supporting the Iran deal and but you
even go back 2012 I mean he undermined
Obama's reelect campaign because they
were running these incredible anti Bain
Romney ads and he said that they made
him sick yes stomach yeah when he saw
those ads that's undermining Obama's
reelect yeah so I just think that this
shows you and I think we have to Frank
he measure this with all of the
corporate candidates who are rebranding
themselves what is their breaking point
in terms of like where they'll actually
pivot and it's clear it's like charter
schools or how he started his career and
they're not going anywhere private
equity private young that was the thing
that he did to run against the city and
he would never come back out and say no
never come back out and say that it's
wrong to attack the private equity
vulture capitalism of Mitt Romney I
don't think he'd be dumb enough to say
that no he won't be dumb but he's he's
not dumb and so this is that's what is
so important here this isn't just a mess
up this is like I'm determined to go all
in on the Charter thing maybe because he
also recognizes there's no way you can
get out of it and I think it's
interesting like when he got his start I
looked at into this again recently right
like he ran against I guess what you
would call like a machine in new oh one
guy machine whoo yeah on credit our
claims there's corruption issues there's
all sorts of stuff but at the same time
yeah but it is interesting to me that
after he comes in there and does all the
stuff with private equity and char
schools and demonizing teachers unions
and then a whole Facebook thing which
Chris Christie was involved in you know
the mayor of Newark now is the son of
amiri baraka and a teachers union
activist so like that legacy did not
work well in Newark no I kind of want to
anticipate a lot of the arguments that
are gonna come out from like woke neo
liberals or whatever about why cory
booker camel harris is the best
candidate for president and
representation blah blah blah if you
support charter schools in New Orleans
in this day and age after everything
that's come out about them you support
white supremacy . i mean the the the the
reality is is that there are a decent
number of people in the black community
who see charter schools as their only
opportunity to get a decent education
and in some instances in this moment
that may be the case but the reality is
is that down the road that is going to
be that that victory is going to be
Pyrrhic and we go back waiting they're
their kids yes what's that waiting for
superman seen right like well first of
all just how sick it was that it was
portrayed like these kids waiting in an
auditorium to see if they'll get into a
halfway decent school is like a dramatic
arc instead of just a grotesque
indictment of the right system which is
exactly what it was but right I mean
sometimes people's personal needs which
are totally legitimate and important are
you know not the same thing as the
broader policy goal we need the point is
it's nuanced in that respect because the
there's a hard way and an easy way to
make sure that communities particularly
living in in less affluent areas and in
areas that where there's a lot of
poverty will get well educated or will
get opportunities for good education
and the problem is that the the shortcut
does not necessarily help that many
people and it's also killing the
opportunity for a long run real
education real quality education
broad-based right so it's like it's
basically like a high and it may work in
some instances but ultimately it is very
unhealthy for the entire system and on
one hand you can't you can't fault
people for saying like well I'm worried
about my kid right now I'm not worried
about kids I don't know or kids five
years from now or ten years from now
it's hard to fault parents from saying
that particularly in communities that
are so already starting with such a
disadvantage of course which is why the
answer to charters is not just no
charters the answer to charters is and
like I say I in very specific
circumstances narrow circumstances I am
supportive of charters and and I think
New Orleans a lot of them are private or
yeah and don't have the same excuse me
for-profit don't have the same level of
oversight that you have in a place like
Massachusetts but where they've
definitely worth better I've you
probably know more about this than I do
sieve cuz you're a parent but I've read
so many reports and studies and a lot of
them were out of New Orleans about how
charter schools are prolonging
segregation and the racial disparities
in the punishment of children is far far
worse in charter schools it's just the
list goes on without a doubt without a
doubt but the the the what you're not
seeing is sort of the desperation of
parents in that situation and the no I
see it and it's it sucks well yeah well
that's what I'm saying and that's why I
mean
you know there are there are definitely
examples why it may not be as good in
certain circumstances and certainly
overall there's no reason to believe
that charters are better outcomes or
even equally comes outcomes across the
board but in specific areas it's
understandable on some level why why you
would see I think people seeing that
that's the only opportunity cuz they've
they've lived through generations hello
this is Barbara Bush of lack of notes
very good for gab
charter schools were good for them whoa
I don't think anyone thinks they're
doing the wrong thing for their kid I'm
mainly addressing like Cory Booker and
people who should know better
exactly yes Cory Booker is again it's
like I think I think that it's it's just
a calculation that I need this is where
I'm gonna get my money it's his money
and it's his whole career it's one thing
to pivot on a few issues and go in a
better direction but his whole I mean
he's not even from Newark I mean he
literally set up shop in Newark and got
you know funded by private equity to run
a charter school campaign maybe I had
some fire yeah that is gone whole
political career
