[Music]
here is you say that in English
Kevin McCarthy coming out and this is
this is the other thing you will hear
but I don't know how much this is gonna
resonate I mean if the Democrats were
smart at this point it's like they would
be saying even the Republicans want to
see this whistle blower report but
they're not that smart
here's that Kevin McCarthy thank you all
I just listened to the Speaker of the
House Speaker Pelosi happens to be the
speaker of this house but she does not
speak for America when it comes to this
issue
she cannot decide unilaterally what
happens here they have been
investigating this president before he
even got elected they have voted three
times on impeachment on this floor twice
they voted before one word of the Moller
report came back our job here is a
serious job our job is to focus on the
American public our job is to make
tomorrow better than today our job is to
legislate not to continue to investigate
something in the back when you cannot
find any reason to impeach this
president this election is over I
realize 2016 did not turn out the way
Speaker Pelosi wanted it to happen but
she cannot change the laws of this
Congress
she cannot unilaterally decide we're in
an impeachment inquiry what she said
today made no difference of what's been
going on it's no different than what
Nadler has been trying to do it's time
to put the public before politics thank
you Jim look at that clan friendly
fossil in the background I just don't
think that these guys are prepared for
this I don't think so I mean yes I I
just I don't know that I've ever seen
the Republicans so poorly equipped to
deal with this now but
here's the here's the dynamic that's
gonna go down and this is the this is
the new media and political landscape I
think that exists and that is things are
so highly polarized they're speaking to
their people and their people is a
narrow is a narrow set of people and
what they want to do is keep their
people in tact which i think is going to
be the case this may depress some of
their turnout but they don't have the
ability to flip it and that's the
everything we've just seen is already
the reason from a political standpoint
why you wanted impeachment because they
are not on the offensive they are not
able to lob any credible counter-attacks
here that could depress turnout going
down the road this is not a situation
where there's corruption everywhere and
this it's just not it's just not gonna
resonate with that said I don't think we
can underestimate the ability of some in
the Democratic Party to fumble the ball
you know I grew up in rural cannot see
Brooklyn and throughout my whole careers
I fought the bullies I remember one time
the New York PD shot this Haitian guy in
the face and his family was trying to
bully the city out of money and an
apology and I said we'll stand up to
them
that's it I got nothing else that's an
example of a bully I go I said oh he got
raped in the basement of a police
barracks well what we'll do is we'll
release his juvenile record and I'll say
was it an angel because that's what we
do to bullies where I grew up
even the luxury in rural cannot see us
[Laughter]
by the way second story true yes
