[Music]
now we're gonna get to these Loula clips
in a second and there's a please watch
this entire interview because this is
actually somebody who both has a
communicative ability and capacity to
actually win as a center-left candidate
and he also is a very good diagnosis of
these things internationally and there's
one part and maybe this won't be in what
we clip but like I didn't want to play
it because it I mean it's incredibly
funny but it gets into it like if an
interview with the most prominent
political prisoner in the world becomes
like another point to have like a petty
argument about 2016 that's not helpful
but Greenwald is pushing him a lot to
diagnose the global rise of the
far-right like why is this movement
succeeding and it is it's the poll
numbers are growing in Germany it's
relevant and growing in the UK it's
governing in many respects in the UK
it's governing the United States
governing in Brazil it's governing in
India it's governing and hungry its
governing the Philippines governing in
Israel its governing in Russia it's ism
you know we know all this stuff but it's
governing in Argentina and and Lula you
know when he when he pushes him on the
unite when green wall pushes Lula in the
United States
Lula basically says he's like Glenn
Glenn and he says in Portuguese but the
verbatim quote is like I know Hillary
Clinton pretty well the Democrats could
have definitely found somebody who was
more appealing it's like the direct
quote and he's just like look he's like
maybe if Obama was running for a third
term it would be different maybe if I
was allowed to run it would be different
and I think this is a really important
point because as much as these fights
are ideological there's also just like
people need to start treating being a
politician as like something that you
develop professional capacity in and you
actually do effectively from a
communications and campaigning
standpoint because that's just an
inescapable part of how you're gonna win
or not and in India Gandhi was literally
inherited dynastic
power with very little charisma and the
opposite biography act Ark of Narenda
Modi Renda Modi's father was a tea
seller came up literally from a
profoundly disadvantaged position which
has been amplified and propagandized in
the Indian electorate so anyways let's
place these Lula clips he had an hour
with Greenwald these interviews were
requested before the 2018 election they
were refused by the Brazilian Supreme
Court he was silenced during an election
that again he led by double digits in
the polls and was sentenced without any
material evidence always bears repeating
and it's in Portuguese so if you're
watching you'll see the English
subtitles but we'll slow it down slow it
down a touch so I can repeat it for
people that are listening the first
question has to do with his treatment in
prison where he is being held in
solitary confinement and Lula is gonna
speak on that but also make a point
about the poverty of Brazil so let's
start with clip number 2 with Glenn
Greenwald and Lula de Silva many people
have been asking me how you've been
treated in prison and you said many
times Authority Authority is here are
you main and professional still the case
I don't know what you manatorian the
treatment means in prison means I'm
locked up and I'm in solitary
confinement and it really is solitary
because most of the time I'm completely
alone I'm even my lawyers and that's it
and with my family once a week I don't
know whether to consider this visa but
it allows me to endure this without
loathing and with a brighter outlook is
knowing that there are millions and
millions of Brazilians
living in freedom who are in worse
conditions than I am least I have an
opportunity to have lunch and dinner
well Brazil it is a country that you
governed for eight years in a country
with many people in prison how would you
compare your treatment on this prison
with the treatment they get in all the
other prisons the Brazilians who live in
a houses stilt houses above swamps
they're living a second-class citizens
citizen has to live in a single nine
square foot room has to have lunch
dinner and has to cook make love go to
the bathroom and do everything in those
nine square meters that's not living any
better than I am here that's why I'm
less concerned about my situation okay
so that's again that's just reorienting
and I think this is very important
because that sort of earthy language and
direct description of how millions of
people are living is why this guy was
able to rise without any formal
education coming from extreme poverty
and get into leadership but this is
where um this is I think important and
there was a lot of conversation on both
the Workers Party record but also the
rise of the far-right and how to answer
it and Lula's perception of it so here
he is he's talking about the rights rise
across the globe this issue
wait is this slowed down oh I don't the
this is just there's neoliberalism in
the PT well there's three and four on
the list so I have the difference class
politics and Brazil there between him
and bolson arrow and then there is
explaining the ultra right-wing rise in
the globe and left reaction is that it
that's number three okay yep what's the
relation between population suffering
in a song and their sudden embrace of
far-right leaders like balsa Niro and
others throughout the Democratic world
neoliberalism as it arose and during the
era of globalization is losing ground
everywhere it is not just losing ground
to the left but also to the right as it
lost to Hitler and Mussolini at the same
time we've had two recent examples in
Spain and Portugal of the left coming
back during elections and even in
Germany where Angela Merkel is a very
strong politician she hadn't formed a
coalition with the Social Democrats she
wouldn't be in power but even there the
far-right is growing I know that's
growing the world over and I think it's
a warning hall for the left
yes but the right-wing whoa won't you
can be sure the fact that bolsa narrow
and McCree cristina kirchner will win in
the next elections in brazil the
left-wing will win the next election can
be certain that if Evo Morales runs for
president he'll win in Bolivia at the
same time I hope that Americans will
have the good sense nope to prevent
another term of Trump as president he's
not just a problem for the u.s. he's a
problem for the whole world so played in
the electorate winner who would Silva
well actually in the not exactly um not
exactly at all but there was another
clip where he explains and it's
interesting in light I wish we had
pulled it maybe I'll pull it another
time 40 mb/s where he talks about the
origins and balsa and Thatcher and
Reagan of this globalization model and
the first thing he says about it is he
literally in the Lula he's like he's
like
free movement of capital not people as
he sets the stage for how to understand
how that works um but then I think this
is really important because what he's
identifying though in the any sort of
left
that's regaining power and could still
win is he's talking about people like
Morales who really do have populist
politics and then he's also talking
about people who are effective
communicators a neighbor to actually
counteract this trend and then in this
clip he's gonna talk about specifically
to Brazil because what Glenn is doing is
Glenn is talking about how PT fits into
this sort of like broader pattern in
Brazil but Lula says like look we are
here because of my successes which is a
really important point and also how the
Brazilian elite and I think this is
where we can start looking at socially
reactionary politics as being of the
elite in many different cases as a sort
of even cultural reaction to other
people just even coming up even if their
position isn't threatened so let's play
this final clip where he talks about
class politics in Brazil and bolson are
on the horizon other I can't read that
because of the plur the rise of bowls in
our and other extremists and neoliberal
ideologues and a cultic country in a
country and how you run the country how
Dilma ran the country yeah and those
ideologies what difference do you see
you started this interview I said
clearly that Petey's biggest problems
that's the Workers Party come not from
its errors but from its successes every
time that president tries to enact
socially minded policies in Latin
America there eventually ousted the
elite in Brazil and in other countries
don't accept economic development
policies that contain social conclusion
PT managed to enact this is according to
UN not me
the greatest changes in social inclusion
in the history of this country it's
important to remember that during our
mandate it was the only time in history
that the poor had a higher rate of
economic upturn than the rich know the
rich made gains too but the poor didn't
even greater percentage well yeah the
only time in history this bothered
people should have heard it in the Rio
de Janeiro Airport wissam Paulo Airport
when people said the airport's starting
to look like the bus station with all
these poor people around people who have
never taken a plane in their life and I
actually think that when you look at the
base of the Trump electorate which is
actually like people making a pretty
good income um in pretty ethnically
homogenous white suburbs that that other
sense of it's not just and this is where
I think some of the distinction between
economic fear and social reactionary
politics in some ways collapses because
you can both fear that you might lose
actual material resources as well as
status which you can't just separate all
the time they're interdependent and
interacting and also that you resent
even if you're still feeling well and
this is I think where it is the pure
status thing even just the visual of
people coming up from the bottom and
emerging and Lula spoke exactly about
that dynamic in Brazil because that is
what happened
you had tens of millions of people taken
out of poverty living radically better
lives and there is a cultural contingent
that bolson are tapped into which is why
there's annex higher murder rates of
police among of innocent people he's
saying farmers should have the right to
kill people without cause if they go on
their lands that's all part of that same
psychology
I'd recommend people watch the whole
interview there's a lot more in so
obviously we can't play all of it I'll
play more of it on T MBS later and as
always you need to talk to your
Democratic candidates and
about this and there's been letters one
in 2018 one in the spring that have
involved Brazil but only one in 2018
that specifically dealt with the lula
case and how barring his candidacy was
undermining Brazilian democracy there
needs to be a lot more I don't take
anybody's progressive bona fides
remotely seriously if they're not
talking about Lula's imprisonment it's
it's astonishing and disgusting and it's
also amazing because it's a very good
strategic mind like this is somebody who
has a lot of lessons for how this works
and how these trends can be counteracted
which he gets into a lot more detail in
the full interview you're calling from a
seven
