the other thing was that you all
remember Gordon Sunland he was the EU
ambassador hotelier who had given a
million dollars to Donald Trump's
inauguration bust of a festival
exactly and he was the main ring leader
for the attempts to get the Ukraine or
get Ukraine I should say to at the very
least hold a press conference and say
they are investigating Joe Biden and he
had claimed no quid pro quo that was
until Bill Taylor testified and then all
of a sudden he remembered wait a second
no I meant there was a quid pro quo
because I am a hotelier and I can't run
my hotels if I'm in prison
so apparently his attorney yesterday
today or I should say last night
confirmed that in fact Sunland did
testify that there was a quid pro quo
and as he went back in for a sort of a
corrective disposition deposition so he
did say there was a quid pro quo to the
extent that he can make that
determination because he's not a lawyer
because if you if there's anything
you've done that can be expressed in
Latin apparently you need to be a lawyer
just know whether you've done it or not
meanwhile now we're gonna see part of
the pivot and part of the pivot is going
to be that okay there was a quid pro quo
but that doesn't mean anything
and they have to do that because there's
now a another this is a completely new
individual a lieutenant-colonel last
name of vend√¥me in' who is going to be
testifying today that he was national
security in a security team spoke
Ukrainian and apparently was born in
Ukraine apparently he was also
bothered by what happened directly on
the call he didn't even know all the
backstory of what was actually going on
and he confronted sunland and also told
john bolton that there was a problem
here so understand there's two elements
really to this whole story in terms of
the quid pro quo one is the not so
specific transcript or at least the
assessment of the call the
representation of the call there were
the people who were actually there
listening to the call and then there's
the whole story of what all the
underlings were doing in the background
relative to that call so you know I can
tell Matt here Matt I want this show to
be successful and get advertising bot
and then Matt goes and tells Brendan we
got to buy advertising Jamie make
posters so we have both elements of that
both my conversation with Matt and what
Matt is coordinating with other people
to execute my agenda here's Laura Ingram
and this is what they're gonna do
they're going to chuckle a lot when they
talk about this and why are they going
to do that because that's going to
communicate to their audience this is no
big deal
this is sort of the inverse of why it
was so important for the Democrats to
hold to have impeachment and to announce
that it's impeachable because when they
do it is a cue to the audience saying
like this is serious
but if we chuckle during it it's not
serious wait till we get to when we talk
about the wildfires in California we all
just laugh and no one's gonna take it
seriously but here is Laura Ingraham
chuckling her way through this whole
thing and it's especially notable
because she has on her on her show a
torturer enabler and an accused
pedophile this is buried in the New York
Times piece tonight but I found it very
interesting he's there he's a decorated
colonel by the way in the Iraq war but
because Colonel Vin de Minh emigrated
from Ukraine along with his family when
he was a child and his fluent in
Ukrainian
and Russian Ukrainian officials sought
advice from him about how to deal with
mr. Giuliani though they typically
communicated in English now wait a
second John here we have a US national
security official posit it's a fake
laugh alright ai-ai-ai-aight worked in
the entertainment business that's a fake
laugh just to be clear Ukrainian
officials were so freaked out by Rudy
Giuliani that they spoke to a national
security adviser in the White House to
try and figure out like how we supposed
to like what what are we supposed to do
here had nothing to do with the fact
that they spoke English or that that
Giuliani did the question is like wait
this guy's not a government official
well how are we supposed to deal with
him and we trust you because you're
Ukrainian and you were born in Ukraine
you may have a little bit more insight
as to how we're supposed to react oh
wait a second John here we have a u.s.
national security official who is
advising Ukraine while working inside
the White House apparently against the
president's interest and usually they
spoke in English isn't that kind of an
interesting angle on this story
I find that astounding and you know some
people might call that espionage but it
doesn't actually seem to add any new
facts to what we know why is it for one
more second the president's own
interests were represented by his
personal lawyer
it cannot be espionage because espionage
is when you undertake to subvert
something that hat but has to do with
national security not the president's
own interests this is I mean first of
all he's at Berkeley right like if
you're a Berkeley law student you should
go down to the registrar's office and
see if you can transfer now ya walk out
I mean it's disgusting
it was disgusting when this guy was
rehabilitated before it was it
it's disgusting any new facts to what we
know if you know in terms of I think
Alan raises a good point is this a high
crime in misdemeanor whether you have
one person or five people all saying
well we objected to what the president
said with the president of Ukraine we
have the transcript of the call we can
all make our judgment I don't see how
this breaking news actually adds more
facts to what we know about whether this
is an impeachable offense or not it
doesn't have any facts it just has one
more person who who clearly will testify
it was quid pro quo and to a certain
extent I agree with John you you could
you could have impeached the president
three weeks ago
based upon what we know on that
transcript but the fact is it's a
political process and if you have a
dozen people who say there was a quid
pro quo it makes it that much stronger
of a case but the idea that this is
espionage and we should be worried
because somehow he was born in Ukraine
you know who else was not born in the
United States Jon you born in South
Korea apparently back in 1967 hmm there
was a lot of lot communist agents
running around so I read 63 poor so it
could be honestly though for anybody who
has any shock that john yoo is a
right-wing hack i would point you to
every reason why you know john use name
as to which should have established that
for you beforehand we will talk more
about this later in the program but
speaking of
