so John let's before we talk about how
California reformed its cash bail system
give us a sense of how bail in
California and presumably other places
if there was a major difference in
California let us know but I mean you
use an example of two folks who were
arrested in Los Angeles and charged with
participating in a series of robberies
as an example to indicate the the
problematic nature of the cash bail
system in California walk us through
that sure and um just to preface it
California the bail system is fairly
typical on some states may have some
better or worse idiosyncrasies but
California is basically similar except
that the bail amounts are exceptionally
high in California so the basic way the
system works is if you're accused of a
crime the judge has the option of either
ordering that you're released called
release on your own recognizance on
where you simply promise to appear to
come back to court and and hopefully do
so or the judge can set bail meaning if
you pay a certain amount of money then
you can be released and at the end of
your case whether regardless of how it's
resolved whether you're guilty or not
you get your money back so the money is
there essentially as a surety to ensure
that you'll come back to court the
problem is that most people the criminal
system generally handles on poor people
people don't have the money to pay the
bail amounts so either wanted well one
of three things happens either you don't
pay and you sit in jail until your case
is resolved
and some in different states in
California if it's a misdemeanor that's
at least 30 days it's a felony it's at
least 90 days and that can be
significantly longer that's choice
number one and then we say if you want
to we should say when we're talking
about choice number one it's
irregardless of the of your guilt or
innocence I mean that has not been
established and you have any of
circumstances where I mean that's why
you have a trial right is to find out if
someone is guilty or not and so you
could just be incarcerated simply
because of a lack of money exactly and
this is the the backward world of the
system where the punishment comes before
the crime before the guilty verdict on
you sit in jail waiting to get to trial
to decide whether you're guilty or
innocent and should be punished so
that's choice number one choice number
two is you can go to a bail bondsman and
they'll put up the money but they charge
a fee now whereas if you paid the full
amount you would get your money back at
the end when you go through a bail
bondsman you're paying ten percent
sometimes eight percent occasionally
lower but you don't get that money back
so if your bail is set at thirty
thousand dollars which is a relatively
low level felony bail in California
you're having to pay three thousand to
the bondsman that you're never going to
see again and most people don't have
three thousand that they can that they
can afford and so they borrow money they
make payments they sell the car they
can't make their rent right so it has
significant on impact on people that's
the people who actually can get the
money together to pay the bond the third
option and this is the one that really
is is taken by by most people is usually
and we're talk
on your misdemeanor charges and your
lower-level felony cases you get an
offer hey if you plead guilty you can go
home today all right you get what they
call time served just plead guilty you
get placed on probation you get a
conviction on your record you have all
kinds of consequences to that conviction
your punishment may be doing community
service or other things but you get to
go home now people are pleading guilty
whether they're guilty or not because
here's your choice mm-hmm
I can give up my right to have a trial
and give up my right to assert my
innocence and go home today
or I can have a trial but I'll have to
wait two more months or three more
months or even longer so most people
take the I'll go home now and deal with
the consequences later because jail is
extremely miserable or because they're
going to lose a job or because no one's
able to take care of their child at home
and that's the way the system works and
folks don't necessarily know the
consequences of having that type of
conviction on their record and the
immediate weight on the scale is to get
out I would assume of get a prism all
right well let me just ask you this
before we go to the reform I mean it's
pretty clear why this system needs to be
from why is California why is California
so high in terms of bail relative to
other states as you said I actually
don't know I I don't have an answer on
and it varies from County to County and
there have been studies done looking at
it don't really find a logic to why one
county is greater than the other a good
answer but if I can address one well go
ahead well I mean presumably there could
be there could be a formula right like I
mean if you make thirty thousand dollars
a year you know it's going to be ten
percent relative and then through
another subsidiary formula as to what
you're charged with or something like
that right or
door well the way the way California
works it is they set bail schedules that
are tied to what the charge is but each
county sets their own schedule what they
have not done is set the bail amount
based on a person's ability to pay now
there's a court case that tom was
decided back in January that said if
you're going to set bail you've made the
determination the person can get
released and so you have to set bail
based on their ability to pay and have
an inquiry or a hearing on that ability
to pay that case is being reviewed by
the California Supreme Court and it's
going to be impacted by the new
legislation that's fascinating and the
the theory is if this person's safe
enough to be out on bail for the
communities from the community's
perspective then that bail has to be
somewhat reasonable and and I would
imagine too that the questions of like
if you're a parent if you have a job are
also other factors as to whether or not
you are a flight risk should be
considered absolutely absolutely and
those should be considered any hearing
in which we look at the individual
circumstances unfortunately the the
practice in our courts is that the
hearings are very quick and very little
individual circumstances are considered
and and this gets to really a key point
that must be understood about the way
the bail system works because it also is
the way the new reform system works is
that there's a deliberateness to the way
the system is set up ninety seven
percent of cases are resolved through
some court sort of plea deal in other
words people plead guilty instead of
going to trial and if more cases went to
trial or were litigated further the
courts would clog up and the machine of
convicting people and sending them to
jail or putting them on probation
would slow down and it would be more
difficult to convict people regardless
of guilt or innocence and so judges set
bail knowing full well that people who
are in custody plead guilty quicker
faster prosecutors asked for bail
because they know that that gives them
this huge leverage right you're going to
plead guilty because I already got you
in jail and so they're able to move
through their caseloads very quickly
this is the most important thing to
understand about the way the system
works the bail system is logic of
efficient yes okay all right well right
let's take a break here John when we
return I want I mean I think it's clear
why we needed we need to reform of this
system but let's talk about why
California's reform may turn out to be
something even worse I'm Sam cedar this
is ring of fire radio we'll be right
back with John raffling in just a moment
