calling from Nebraska Crowder tweeted
about no one wanted to debate him two
days ago all replies to Holden debate
Sam Crowder subreddit is even
questioning him talking about his
leaving about leaving his mug club
if he keeps dodging his supporters claim
his health has been too poor lol wow
this might be the final nail I was often
for him look now I know what we're
talking because we put this up on the
screen the and now and it really let's
be clear I was surprised by this as
anybody now apparently Matt who is just
incorrigible saw that steven crowder had
posted one of his things one of his his
videos the the wall is bad or you know
or it's good we should have a wall yeah
still waiting for somebody changed my
mind that the wall is a good idea right
so and apparently Matt lek you know
because he's you know it's constantly on
Twitter always trying to pick fights
with people Matlack wrote and this is
highly inappropriate he wrote he he
retweeted with a comment hab Sam cedar
on my and the and then after that
things went sort of haywire for for for
that tweet it seemed like every single
reply said some version iteration what
let's look at the ratio here
he had one thousand and one replies and
a hundred and seventy-six retweets quite
the racy almost has more replies than
likes even I bet you a bunch of people
that liked it were like people from our
side who just wanted to see all the
reply let's monitor this in a couple
hours and there's been over a thousand
replies and then like two days later
someone emailed and said you should
check this out because I had no idea
and I went looking I was like oh my god
there's a lot of people out there who
really want a dog steven crowder oh yeah
a friend of mine who does not listen to
the show at all just texted me a meme
yesterday that someone made all of
steven crowder that says steven crowder
is afraid to debate sam cedar changed my
mind that we should put that on that's
what you put there's be a lot of
Instagram stuff on on that and so he I
would imagine is is aware of this and if
it's in his subreddit to that's going to
be tough and and so it's still the best
thing is that video that somebody made I
can't remember where the blue flame is
coming out of my eyes but let me just
say this I understand that that Steven's
in poor health I'm sort of shocked about
how how he's able to go out and about on
the town to do these videos in such poor
health and I will make it super easy we
can do this via Skype or or the phone or
we can do it in any way that is
comfortable for first even if he would
feel more comfortable me going to his
studio I know it's in Texas I think
right doesn't he live in Austin III will
I will fly to Austin on my on my own
dime at this point right I mean I yeah
whatever whatever would make it most
comfortable and less stressful for
Steven I am willing to do I just he
keeps I mean this is what's very so you
know people are like why is this so
important to you it's not it's not that
that important to me but he keeps
claiming but no one from the left will
debate him on this stuff and he keeps
saying change my mind and I'm saying
well give me an opportunity to change
your mind um but but you won't do it so
I don't we're bringing our ideas to the
marketplace
yeah I'm just and he what he's doing is
he's saying that the marketplace is
closed again I'm sorry we had a water
main leak and then the next day you show
up and it's like oh well no
the marketplace has to be closed because
we couldn't find the guy who had the key
to the chain across the parking lot and
so we have to close it and every day
seems to have a different excuse maybe
we should try dressing ourselves up in
disguises like easily owned college kids
and then see if he wants to talk to us
yeah maybe that would be we didn't look
like a college kid that's late for
another class right exact read up on the
topic he's talking about yeah that that
could that could that could work I mean
and I would also say look now listen I
know there are people who work on his
show and people work affiliated with it
in many ways if you ever want to give us
a heads up as to when he is well that's
the that's the video well you know what
if he's out and about I mean I don't
know that I would want to fly somewhere
without real evidence that he was going
to be there but if that happens I mean
it could be worth you know just to visit
sit down go to like Louisville yeah I
mean
