you're back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program the Arve
strickland distinguished professor of
history and black studies at the
university of missouri and the author of
land of the fee hidden costs and the
decline of the American middle class
Devin Fergus welcome to the program
Devin pleasure to be with you Sam I wish
it could be on a bit brighter topic and
subject but I was a pleasure to be
nonetheless well let's
I mean why what what was it that led you
to to look at
well maybe we should define fees first
just so that we get a sense of what
we're talking about
sure absolutely uh I use this definition
of fee so so by fees I'm talking about
any cost or expense which is in addition
to two principle the private sector for
instance plays a kind of a shell game in
order to sort of circumvent and
regulators often and so for instance
though when let us say when petty loans
sort of first sort of hit the mark in
the neck early 1990s one of the ways in
which they tried to circumvent
especially sort of state as a little
federal regulators by saying no no we
don't charge interest rates so this
isn't Ussuri these are actual fees these
are sort of administrative cost
administrative fees and so and so again
the use my my my use and application of
fee is is sort of an MA and experiment
with anything that's in addition to
actually to addition to principal so for
instance an origination fee as I gave
the example with the payday loan
industry could many times really be a
fee as a de facto APR interest rate
default fees or prepayment penalty fees
that you would find in for instance in
subprime mortgages so these fees come in
all kinds of shapes and sizes and colors
but in it's an effect anything that's in
a began beyond a principal loan amount
and we see fees in the in the in the
public sector right V as is sort of
see for taxes and so we had that kind of
brief conversation you went to as well I
mean I I remember that
back in the day when Mitt Romney was
governor of Massachusetts and he
promised no new taxes and then he just
basically instituted a ton of new fees I
mean the big problem it seems to me with
fees as opposed to taxes is that fees
are far more regressive in terms of a
form of revenue for the government and
also far less guest transparent did you
hit the nail on the head I was gonna I
was gonna wait with the transparency but
you already did it
precisely far less transparent oh and
after we found with these um that
they're often difficult and what's a
possible opt out of this so the
implication with fee is that the fee is
sort of item driven but we know let's
say for higher education
so the state of California may not raise
this tuition but they sure as heck raise
their fees I'm a university professor a
student said the University of Missouri
have to pay tuition but there's also
there's these there are these in cost
fees and if they don't pay the fee the
user fee they cannot sit in my classroom
and so the implication is that fees are
are sort of an itemized sort of thing a
la carte sort of thing but in reality
these fees are often so critical
integrated to the cost of a product and
it's impossible to opt out of in the
same way that that off the taxes on so
absolutely right so okay so you've I
mean I feel like you have already half
answered this but just give us a sense
of the the the the size of and the
importance of these fees in a broader
story for particularly the middle class
sure and so we find is that again the
the cost of these fees so our cost over
two trillion dollars per per per US
health I mean they're not for you
thousand
for the US and so and broke it down to
let's say an individual I mean
individual median income eats up Elise
almost half of their their income and so
we're talking about particularly fees
and this has been to to point out Sam
and I my work really often fees and
critical errors are upper mobility so
I'm not necessarily talking about let's
say a cable user fee and something like
then that's then that's important a
significant or cell phone phone fee got
wrote a piece a few years ago forty year
times about the rise of phone fees but
I'm primarily talking about fees on our
central areas of upper mobility the fees
associated and then things I house
higher education fees that are linked to
a link to employment and we could sort
of talk about the ways in which a
private sector the most you big become
response to issue the wage stagnation
and then what takes us from home to
school and work fees that are associated
to transportation particularly employers
want people with quote reliable
transportation ie a car and that's what
employers remember our chest patient and
then there are fees that are associated
with again the automobile particularly
or insurance fees and so we find is that
that says they have fee sort of
escalated in all areas but particularly
is for spheres in which have been
critical upward mobility housing
education and employment and what takes
us from home to school and work the
automobile and in these fees have
created obstacles for the barriers of
entry into the middle class and they've
also worked to actually erode the middle
class and in various ways let's talk
about this is timely I think my audience
is aware that I had a debate with a guy
who I don't know you may be familiar
with he spends a lot of time on college
campuses from turning-points USA about
sort of the about the middle class and
and some of these things particularly we
we we got into the the the housing
crisis and the financial the subsequent
financial crisis in 2008
and let's talk about housing first in
terms of these fees and what the
implications are and and and how in many
respects I mean I am familiar with some
aspects of how the fees drove this
crisis and that we've talked about on
this program both I think in the
origination of mortgages but also even
in the wake of the crisis the allure of
fees for a lot of these banks was
greater than their desire to to refine
to refinance or two - I should say amend
existing mortgages under HAMP but tell
us where where fees play the most impact
in the the the story of Sur prime sure
absolutely and so we found with for
instance the the rouser to the subprime
mortgage market is that all of these the
subprime mortgage loans or products
which had these creative at occidental
toxic instruments prepayment penalties
which is one of my favorite sort of um
financial instrument of toxic a mortgage
talks about it it's sort of
counterintuitive it pillow as if someone
for paying that bills earlier one time
and so I mean that would be sort of one
example the balloon payment fees as well
as just for a mortgage sort of charges
or fees all of these aspects and
products with that are associate or
attached to subprime mortgage all of
them increase the likelihood that a
borrower going to default and so okay
each of those each of those aspects that
we're associate attached is to subprime
mortgage and you're precisely right you
initially you subprime mortgages get
marketed to people who have less than
stellar credit scores i something less
than sort of six sixty but become so
profitable that by the time you get to
the financial crisis the
average on prom bar was being sort of
shunted into channel into the the
subprime mortgage just because of the
profitability of these subprime
mortgages and so can they become
extremely sort of proper and here I'm
gonna sort of say this to to you Sam I'm
actually I'm also a visiting professor
in northern England or the University of
nothing North North Umbria University
and Newcastle um and then in UK it's
conservatives who are pushing for um
creative and inventive ways to help help
consumers have stronger credit scores
specifically its conservatives who are
arguing that let's say your your rent be
included um as far as your critical
right oh it would be wonderful thing in
the US if you would find conservatives
who would make an argument that let's
not try to channel people into the
subprime mortgage market like look like
we're having people now do today by
saying the underwriting standards in
part are our piece under the Obama
ministration we're too tight we need to
loosen those standards oh it'd be great
if we could have conservatives in the US
who would actually make the argument um
let's redefine what was what's the
quality credit history and not simply
look at the history of mortgage borrower
mortgage lending but look at people who
pay their pay their utility bills on top
pay their rent one time those kind of
ways could have we if you use that it
would actually help borrowers increase
their credit score which would mean that
fewer borrowers would actually be
shuttered into these subprime or now
it's called non-prime marcus is it a
thorn by a different name is still a
thorn right now it's called a
non-problem
mortgage products and so be one of the
servers in us would take a page out of
conservatives lease in the UK and and
and and and people should understand
that that the subprime is just simply a
way of of justifying far more fees right
so there is a and so because the idea is
that what we're you know not only do we
jack up an interest
because we're theoretically taking more
risk but also we I mean what is the
justification for the the the the fees
in this instance we're taking more risk
but we want to take more risk so that if
you pay this thing off there's a
prepayment penalty or or is it also that
there's an awareness of like there's
just probably a correlation between
people who have poor credit scores and
people who are not financially savvy
that correlation is absolutely there as
well that's all your people who have
lower credit scores aren't financially
educated and yeah so we could I mean
just so much to discuss here Sam because
now we can argue that it's not
necessarily finished education is the
key and in fact we've gone through a
period now last thirty years in which
financial contracts and documents have
gotten exponentially longer right at the
same time that the individual and the
time they have to process all this
information that time is gotta you know
increasingly um lesson I mean by that is
individuals now today commute much
farther than their grandparents or
parents did 30 or 40 years ago to go to
work you're also working longer hours
than people did to a generation or two
ago so working longer hours you can
meeting farther you're also in this sort
of what I would I like to call this sort
of extracurricular or arms sort of race
I'm a parent of a child my child just
came from French class he has he has he
has martial arts class he's in all these
actual activities why because he's
competing against other kids of his
saying sort of class and in college
right and so we experience now is that
individuals have a little less time than
ever before to read and process these
complex financial documents which I
better I've actually gotten a much
longer over the last generation and so
how do you square this circle in the way
you square the circle is about bringing
in financial regulators the
and they'll have me them delegate
responsibility and now the private
sector that understands that there's a
process of information asymmetry that
you have less time to process this
information and that financial literacy
is is really a canard or red herring
because of sundry reasons somewhat I
sort of laid out others we could sort of
get into and so they take advantage of
borrowers across I'd say the income
spectrum but his most devastating on
historical vulnerable populations and
and and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau went a long way in
requiring more plain English and shorter
forms particularly I don't know as much
for mortgages although there was
certainly reforms in that process but
across the board on some of these
contracts particularly I think it was
you know like credit card contracts and
whatnot
that's absolutely right in and we see
what what's happened here with the with
the current acting director Malini Aliso
going through a process of that row of
cattle catch and kill negative reports
by his staff who come out with negative
reports about the industry and so you
met and this is one of the great ironies
right for longtime conservatives have
made the argument we don't need
regulation we just need greater full of
disclosure financial information and let
the consumer decide and what we
experience now the last two months is
actually this these sort of saying
pocket or slice of conservatives
providing less information on through
this via these catch and kill reports
that um CFPB have been trying to put out
but again will veiny and others as well
as a bit of us whose education part have
been catching and killing and
suppressing and so yeah and let's I mean
let's talk about student debt you bring
up Betsy DeVos one of the things I know
the Trump administration is done in
terms of a deregulation was we have this
massive problem in this country that it
was actually quietly I think one of the
things that the Obama administration was
doing quite well was beginning to crack
down
on what is not 100% a scam nothing ever
is but the for-profit university
industry is largely a an extraction
machine trying to extract public money
via student loans to to students and
they tend to be some a little bit older
students who are going to these
universities ostensibly to to increase
their earning potential in the business
world there's very little data to
support this and there was a regulation
that if you were an institution that was
putting out was was handing out diplomas
to people and they would go back into
the workforce and there was no return on
investment you had certain limitations
as to how much revenue you could derive
from student loans and Betsy DeVos
basically said oh we're lifting that you
can you can keep pumping out people with
a essentially with a product that is
defective and will still keep giving you
money talk to us about how the the
student bub debt bubble grew and what
the implications are in particularly the
context of fees no you're absolutely
right and the origin growth of the
student debt bubble really dates back to
to the Reagan administration and in here
I'm gonna sort of take a just a bigger
broader step back and had a look at a
sort of almost of sort of meta view and
it was just a fundamental philosophical
shift that occurs by Reagan in the
Reagan and so the the the the
architecture of the financial aid
program really sort of gets in place and
early in the 1950s under the white
eisenhower now the Republicans now
Eisenhower was it some flaming liberal
but Omega actually in many ways was sort
of reticent about even if the missionary
program but he sees the value of of well
financially for college students
particular
as a means to address national security
issues and so so Eisenhower another sort
of you wrecked the financially system in
and so since the 1950s the financial aid
program a system has been a biped been a
bipartisan sort of project of both of
the borough's and the Serbs and those
who are students of USS you know about
the consists era of American history and
this is sort of reflection of that so
but in the 1980s what you find is a
fundamental and a dramatic shift of ba
conservatives who began to see the
expansion of naturally in his existence
to students and begin to see students
not as future tax contributors as
Eisenhower and others saw Eisenhower and
obviously Lyndon Johnson but in 1980
begin to see tax gonna see students as
tax eaters not as soon as picture tax
contributors but as present-day tax
eaters and imagine and looked at and we
use a retic abusive students as similar
to those who are on welfare so the
welfare queen or the unemployed father
who who was building one out of the
system or grandma on Medicaid and
basically so lump the college student in
with quote-unquote these understood are
deserving poor and with that sort of
mindset what he did was they rolled back
lower interest rate loans they rolled
back on grant programs and invited the
private sector more so into the funding
of finance of higher education and that
an invitation to private sector um gets
enlarged in the 1990s under Clinton but
primarily it's actually Radical
Republicans who do her and I near me the
Congressional Republican revolution 1994
and they basically push back against on
the call direct lending and in 1990s and
they really muzzle Clinton and and those
who are pushing for direct lending and
they expand the private sectors market
and push back against sort of government
regulators in education what we found
and with this rollback of direct lender
in the 1990s
is that a elaborate if you could on
under Eckland explain to us what that
that program sure I'm gonna sort of say
that directly is almost as it sounds um
so rather than a system in which
directly this basically wind aware that
was where the government has Lynne's
money primarily from the Treasury
directly to go on college students so it
gives it to the furnishing office in the
college and then they disperse it to
college students and that system really
cuts out the middleman it cuts out for
instance the subsidy banks which might
be subsidizing alone it also cuts out
the loan servicer and so is more of a of
a direct lending from from government to
the student and and again that system
which cuts out all these middlemen
whether it's the banks owner bakes on
the front end or really student loan
services reduce the cost of the student
loan I mean if you can imagine if the
administrator costs are cheaper right
and that's the administrative cost of
Cheaper but also the actual loan product
itself is cheaper now let's imagine
imagine this sale the cost alone itself
is cheap it means that the student who
has to pay back that loan has to pay
back less and what we know in weather
where this mortgage market or where this
payday lending or whether it's higher
education if a particular financial
product is cheaper as logic dictates it
means that the borrower's far more
likely to pay it back and so that means
that a bar is far less likely to go into
font which means that the taxpayer who's
actually funding both the direct lending
as well as subsidized lending programs
it's far more likely to get their money
back so our government gets the money
back students get their money when they
get it faster so it was a system which
actually worked for every population
except for the federal services industry
and so of course it didn't work for them
they pushed back in a pressure around
lawmakers to bring them back into to the
system and this is what happens in the
1990s and they push out direct lending
and they bring back on these their
private sector and you see a whole
of abusive practices and quid pro quos
and once government gets pushed down in
terms of direct lending program perhaps
that comes in and then they begin to to
give sweetheart deals to financial aid
officers um kickbacks of various sorts
we just had a World Series game last
night
unfortunately my beloved Dodgers lost oh
but let's say in a 1990 you want to go
see your Yankees uh playing the World
Series the bank might have a couple of
tickets for the finitude office and
they'll give that fighting officer some
tits tickets if they would give them
access to student lenders now once this
the bank got access to the student
lender I'm sorry to see the borrower I
should say they didn't care the the
university or the Education office
didn't necessarily care the kind of
terms that were given right they would
just keep caring about the kickbacks
that he would get well this is a system
that existed from the 1990s to to to
thousands and we see several states
attorneys say attorneys general with
lawsuits against various student lenders
through this system that was the abusive
system and the great shame is that
devasted a trump administration want to
go back to the to this sort of wild wild
west sort of attitude or the 1990s and
2000's where there's all this abuse in
place we see the origins and rise and
spread of student loan abuses and
student loan debt so all right so just
to to to make it clear and also to take
the opportunity to state that I'm a Red
Sox fan and so I'm very happy about last
night but I'm hoping so but the but but
so we had this type of abuse where there
was sort of like extraneous middlemen
that were placed into the process of
delivering government backed and
government really funded loans we we
threw that off we still obviously have a
huge debt problem but now we're starting
to see first the the the sort of the
first order problem we have is
fees that are generated and extraneous
from private debt collection agencies
that are now making their return back
you know following the Obama
administration where there was a
significant push that to the extent that
it could be done just through executive
order to push a lot of these people out
from from the the loan process we still
have a massive problem with loans
obviously a problem with the rising cost
of education but this is sort of like an
added on attribute in and so where what
is that do I have that history right
that they were pushed out of the
industry to a certain extent and they're
being brought back in no no absolutely
right push I mean push out an industry
to a large extent through direct lending
and now they're being brought back in by
the DeVos administration and again this
is a stresses too it's by ideologues
because if you want to do a simple
cost-benefit analysis um these loans are
still cheaper and more efficient if done
by government and so if they're really
concerned about what's what's the bit
more efficient sort of product it would
be to kick out the keep the middleman
out I'm gonna have a direct linear
program since and this is it actually
again but both but bipartisan
administrations have done studies and
research one that's and so first is
Laura's Lindsay the Republican under
under under George HW Bush I mean talked
about how efficient a direct linear
program was these are the guaranteed
student loans and so but but again this
is driven by people with a sort of
particular agenda and also by this sort
of cols relationship with with the donor
class the financial donor class and
those two things have created and
created this problem I will say this is
one sort of coda to that it was not
simply and add one to the story of the
rise and
Fausta college is part of the bigger and
broader story because what happens too
is that the federal government begins to
roll back his contributions to higher
education right and so that means is
it's a shift in that cost from the
public sector from public sector to - to
individuals some institutions to
individuals and this is what explains
apartment rising cost of college and so
it's part of this this bigger part of
its bigger story about public the public
second government's rollback of its
contribution and support for higher
education all right and and lastly I
mean the you you also have a chapter on
on wage stagnation and the implications
I mean again it's almost there's always
like sort of a push in a poll right like
the this dynamic where the federal
government rolls back funding for for
publicly subsidized colleges states cut
back on this their for loans come in to
fill the fill that that Delta because
students now are required they have more
responsibility to pay those fees and
then that gives the opportunity I mean
they have for for you know the fees to
actually go to college tuition and then
then the private industry comes in as
like barnacles on this transaction as a
way of like stripping more cash out of
that system and on some level that's
what we see - would the with the idea of
like payday lending is that on one hand
you you'd you pressure there there are
forces that that create wage stagnation
and then the other hand you you come in
with a sort of a I guess a neoliberal
solution is the some would characterize
it which is like oh we're gonna we're
going to loan you money so that you
don't actually need to get paid and but
we're also going to make a lot of money
off that transaction it's going to throw
you deeper into deeper into debt and so
you'll you'll be a repeat customer until
one day when you can't
oh you summarized it very well oh so
this very little I can really add that
add to that um um you're absolutely
right um that uh that uh Raza payday
lending is really the private sectors
most common you bickers response to to
the generational crisis wage stagnation
I mean I say most common response
because oh there are more payday lenders
out there than McDonald's and Starbucks
and studies show McDonald's Starbucks
combined and so they're common there
almost everywhere um and payday loans
unlike a credit card a payday loans
because expressly designed to address
the issue of lack of money for income
and so that's why it's called a payday
loan it's the the loan for that loan you
have to have two things which we
consider sort of um um really pillars
for the middle class you must have a
paycheck a working a job and secondly
you must have a bank account you write a
check drawn from your bank and say that
this check is gonna be good two weeks
from now when I get my paycheck and so
these are these are the markers of of
middle-class status and and so but we
see that these things Linda Guinness has
spread more wide and get more
commonplace than both Starbucks and
McDonald's and these things we could
send markers of middle-class life and
I'll say this too um that the Federal
Reserve earlier she came out with report
that four out of ten Americans cannot
cover a $40.00 emergency expense and so
while we think of payday loans is
something that other people might take
out realize that nearly half of
Americans now are really living with
paycheck to paycheck and lack and four
hundred dollars to cover an emergency
expense so many of us are just one job
loss income shock away for payday loan
and so it's something that that really
does open itself up to to more consumer
than those were actually taking out on
itself
Devin Fergus the book is land of the fee
and
it is about the hidden costs and the
decline of the American middle class
thanks so much for time today I really
appreciate it thank you Sam and go
Tigers all right we'll see I wouldn't I
wouldn't wouldn't that wouldn't bet on
it but I appreciate the appreciate the
time thank you all right thank you
