[Music]
apparently here's a no I let's introduce
this as a riddle what do you do if you
have been exposed as being a white
nationalist as the the leader of a group
of thugs who are currently winding our
way through the New York politi New York
City a justice system that you have been
alienated from your neighbors because
they don't like your brand of of
supremacy of misogyny of flippancy about
these things what do you do well you of
course blame the Southern Poverty Law
Center and you sue the case
super-interesting satori alloys and you
sue them and how do you announce that
lawsuit you dress up as a plantation
owner and go in front of their offices
and make this Proclamation and explain
why the Southern Poverty Law Center is
wrong there is no racism in America and
how do you prove it well you have a
special insight because you're an
immigrant yourself and it depicts this
picture of America which is basically
the worst of the 1930s coast-to-coast
and I know as an immigrant myself coming
in from Canada I go to a 7-eleven in the
south and I'd see like a old black guy
in line with a white lady I go oh we got
trouble here these two hate each other
we're in the center of a trade when the
eye of a storm and she turn around and
go what's going on with your mom now she
okay oh she's not okay but she's getting
better but she's still bedridden and
we're very worried oh that's terrible
it'll be a gay guy in the lineup like
hey guys are you guys gonna be talking
this whole time so I want to go ahead
yeah you can go ahead you come ahead
Charles and I go wait I thought this was
the land of hatred
I saw the SPLC hate now it looks like
it's a dangerous place to be
and this is not just a misnomer it's not
just a lie it's not just a myth
it's a dangerous precedent to set
because we're positive he's using
precedent wrong but that's not it that's
not relevant here just the idea that he
has this one anecdote which which
totally happened well and then a gay
Chinese guy said I would like my : even
if even if that anecdote did happen the
idea that racism can't exist if a black
guy and a white guy in a gay guy got
along in line at the Piggly wigglies is
a fundamental misunderstanding of the
problem in society not to mention I love
the fact that he comes in with this all
this pre-existing notion which I guess
when he was an immigrant in Canada had
this idea because he kept reading the
Southern Poverty Law Center site so much
that he went in there was like oh I'm in
the south and I am anticipating there's
gonna be some friction here this is just
a guy who didn't read any history about
anything and doesn't understand how
racism works but he's so blind - he's so
blind to the idea of prejudice that he
will now give you an example of
prejudice and offer it as an example of
something that is not prejudiced
continue not just a misnomer it's not
just a lie it's not just a myth it's a
dangerous precedent to set because what
they do is they cast this wide net of
everyone's a Nazi and they start
destroying
and I'm thinking of the one that cut
pops into my head is Jennifer Morse of
the Ruth Institute and she runs a group
that says if we're adopting can we maybe
focus on mom dad's first before we do
gay at option and that became she hates
homosexuals now now no here's the thing
well isn't a strong opening no like I
don't know who she is I don't know
anything in that story I just know what
he's just told us and here's here is
what
Gavin's still does not seem to
understand when you say instead of focus
you know why can't we start with moms
and dads before we go to gay adoption in
other words why can't we start with moms
and dads before we go to Dad's and dads
or moms and moms in other words why
can't we just say that if you're gay and
you're in a loving relationship that
would otherwise be really helpful for a
kid who's looking to be adopted why
can't we just say that gays are gonna be
like in the second tier of people like
almost like second-class citizens why is
that prejudice why is that prejudice
there's not say anything anymore no data
last month there's more exactly no data
that shows that gay parents are in some
way less helpful to kids than straight
parents adoptive parent there's no data
none whatsoever
but let's just do that and that's not a
reflection of prejudice he's doesn't
even quite get that
now just to add to the absolute
cluelessness
that Gavin McGinnis shows not just that
he's out there trying to argue he's not
hateful we're a plantation outfit now of
course we're in a plantation suit does
not make you a racist it just means that
you either have no awareness of the
racist history within this country or
that you're just trying to make a point
that in some way like oh I'm gonna do
this despite the fact
I'm trying to establish and I'm not
racist in other words I'm going to do
something offensive just for the fun of
it as I'm trying to make an argument
that I'm actually a sincere person who
who doesn't put here is where he's
completely clueless so clueless that
it's that it's awesome fun actually
let's be real here is at the start of
his speech he makes some really bad
jokes like honestly like if you go into
a Chinese restaurant that you're doing
you know stand up in a road gig and you
look around you would make a series of
bad jokes like he does but then he lands
on one that is just completely clueless
thank you I said I've never been here
before I've never seen the s plc's
headquarters and it looks like not Luke
Skywalker but it looks like Vader's
son's apartment it looks like an evil
empire yeah let's bomb proof wonder why
the Southern Poverty Law Center might
feel like they should have a bomb-proof
headquarters bed he's just so
relentlessly not funny you know he used
to be funny I will hand that to him Wow
he used to be kind of funny
why offensive like the Vice do's and
dont's they were sorry they were kind of
funny I don't care about offensive I've
just never seen him be funny I'm
actually fascinated seventy links so far
I have not seen anything from this guy I
like it really makes me feel good on a
personal level because this is someone
who has come after me personally as well
as someone whose politics I just despise
on a very basic level it's been one of
the great joys of the past ten years of
my life to watch this person fall from
someone who you know could more or less
dictate the terms of what was cool and
what was funny and what we just all had
to shut our mouths and put up with if
you want to have a career in media - now
this living purgatory
where he's self-aware enough to know
that he's surrounded by losers and he's
never gonna be cool again yeah hey uh
kill load of this this place looks like
it's set up to a stamp bomb blasts right
it's weird what are they doing
expected who are they doing with
interesting architecture choice they're
guys but not exactly welcome bacon right
yeah you think an anti hate group would
have a nice exterior yeah I thought
you're supposed to be so much against
the transparency guy where's the
openness I thought it was all open arms
what's the opposite of hate friendly
that doesn't seem friendly let's sleep
friendly to me at all you know it is
friendly is the winn-dixie in
Mississippi in 2010 where there was a
bisexual Filipino Brazilian guy and he
held open the door for a black lady so
racism doesn't exist Wow anyways just
dress like Don Johnson to deliver my
you've ruined my life by calling me
white supremists lawsuit the only thing
that you destroyed his career would be
get with Katrina Pierson dress up like a
plantation owner and liberals are gonna
get all outraged about it and then he's
gonna say oh look look at this dumb
outraged culture and this liberal
hypocrisy but like both things can be
totally outraged culture could be bad
and it could also be bad to dress like a
plantation culture I mean yeah what are
you doing let me just make this
absolutely clear we did not play this
video because we're outraged about Gavin
we played this video as on one level
just on a human level it's so pathetic
that we felt it was funny we play as we
like punching down yeah and that's why
no it's also a cautionary tale I'm very
fun it's a cautionary tale if you're if
you you know it's it's a good job you
founded a hipsters 90 media entity that
is no longer relevant in 2019 but had a
lot of currency in the Obama era and
does like weird drug documentaries where
first you're hanging out with cool
cartel guys but
and you're basically just pawning off
DEA talking points
don't become a white supremacist could
 you forever that's my common quote
I say it's you forever we're done
