[Music]
my friend the great Ana Kasparian
who does great work on TYT but also
really good work on her show unfiltered
I really appreciate that she did this
because you know look first of all it
gives us an opportunity to make fun of
Megan McCain Megan McCain is trash Megan
McCain is the walking embodiment of the
need to eliminate all inherited wealth
maybe look maybe if Megan McCain had to
do look an honest day's labor and didn't
have like the easiest life imaginable
handed to her because of her father
maybe she might be a halfway decent paid
up member of the human race we don't
even know what Megan McCain could have
been if she wasn't the ultimate
trust-fund baby case I always thought
that Megan McCain's kind of shtick was
basically like you know I want to be
given money I want to be handed a huge
inheritance my dad my dad my dad and of
course because of my dad I'm sure like
of course I support Israel no matter
what it does I think the United States
should go and bomb other people as much
as possible particularly in the Middle
East but like hey I have gay friends and
you know like and and I remember when
John McCain was running for president
there was one time I think in 2000 when
he was doing his maverick run he got in
trouble because someone asked him he was
pro-life but someone said hey if your
daughter got pregnant what would you
have what would you do and I believe he
actually said like well we'd have to
talk about it and she'd have to think
about it which was you you know he might
have even said it was her choice which
is usually controversial thing at the
time so I thought Megan McCain's whole
shtick was you know why about Ilan Omar
throw tantrums mention her dad but kind
of do like the spoiled millennial
equivalent of on a fiscal conservative
not a social liberal but this clip
actually I guess according to what
Anna's saying that is actually what her
position is but she's going out telling
the public something very different got
to make him far out let's check this out
following the state of Georgia passing
the fetal heartbeat bill into law
of course the conversation about that
legislation and now law was had on the
view and what's interesting is how
Meghan McCain supposedly supports the
legislation in this next video and how
she supposedly supports scientific
evidence for the legislation take a look
honestly I think what we need to do and
on this conversation is I'd like to see
much more doctors and medical experts
get it out of the way I'm sorry it is
politics I'm confident if you polled
most doctors they prob I'm assuming most
of them would in fact be pro-choice and
probing sub Rena T but it doesn't matter
you can find Paula you can find doctor
you can find were so committed to
providing the service that they were
assassinated after Bill O'Reilly called
them killers every night on national
television and I'm sure you can find
doctors who like bench panels wife
probably the problem pro-life it doesn't
matter it's ultimately is in fact a
political decision and the political
decision is that women have this choice
and this capacity to govern themselves
period wait overwhelmingly shows that
life does start at conception the
science Bal set and people liberals
always want to believe science when it
comes to climate change and things like
that when it comes to life that is your
belief that is your science this is what
I don't want to do don't say you don't
believe that's not what I'm saying I'm
saying I don't believe that the minute
you conceive you are with child what I
don't want is I don't want anyone
telling me what I have to feeling with
that
[Applause]
a nuance there when you're talking about
being I understand we'll be back
[Applause]
the last part toss to the right you mad
anyway was it about Megan I mean the eye
rolls are non-stop but I just have a
quick message for Megan look I just wish
that you were honest about your real
views on abortion because her public
statements about abortion are very
different from her private statements
about abortion I'm just putting that out
there because I think it's important for
you to be honest because women's lives
and livelihood is really you know being
jeopardized here by you trying to win
political brownie points by
conservatives by saying things that you
don't actually believe so I'm just
putting that out there
secondly I know shots fired but I think
it's important I didn't call out
people's dishonesty so that happened so
Anna's basically was saying like you
know cuz she does she did know Megan
McCain I think they worked at it on a TV
prior hired at the same plate not like
dating worked to collaborate together
but they were hired a part of same
project together so she's basically
saying like yeah I've had private
conversations with you we're pretty
different than your public stick which
does not surprise me at all John McKee
