[Music]
but there's a reporter named Adrian
Castillo and he's written for NBC News
BuzzFeed New Republic intercept and he
has a thread
it's very extended which starts out by
talking about how folks don't understand
white folks don't understand the
implications of this in the way that the
Latino community understands it or they
don't or just simply saying that it's
very very difficult to understand the
fear that is running through the Latino
community right now regardless of what's
that when you realize that the people
who believe in this ideology are like
pillars of the community you live in
that's terrifying right well it's also
my mean just that I mean I can tell you
this that like you know when there's a
shooting let's say at a Pittsburgh
synagogue and I don't go to synagogue
very often but if it's near the High
Holidays it occurs to me like I'm a
little bit nervous about just going to
Temple you know particularly with my
kids and the idea that you know and
often they bring extra security but as
I'm walking around there's few places
where and apparently these white
supremacists they really like to target
the cultural Jews right sort of like
what the bench Pierrot was explaining
that dynamic for us but nevertheless but
when I go to the supermarket or when I
go wherever it is I go to shop or to eat
or hang out I'm not gathering at a place
that is known for the gathering of a
bunch of cultural Jews and however no
because I'm white and but there are
areas where obviously there are it's
where there's higher density of Latinos
and it's not just that temple you know
it's this guy knows he can go to the
mall or there are cities that have
higher percentages that I mean it's and
so people are afraid they're literally
afraid to leave their homes and and then
you see the the guy post this just a
couple of posts but then he starts
getting tons of DMS from from different
people thank you for posting this thread
on fear in Latino communities I'm white
my wife is Latino we have two kids under
the age of three we live in Austin where
afraid to take them to public places
because of this kind of stuff
her parents are immigrants and legal
citizens and we fear every time they
travel someone will accuse them of being
illegal and report them and that their
citizenship won't matter because they're
brown with thick accents and speak
better Spanish than English we already
have stories of multiple kids who have
been taken into custody for weeks at a
time we only hear about it once weeks at
a time never mind
they were taken for an hour or a day or
a night you can bet if there are stories
of nine year old kids sixteen year old
kids being taken into custody by ice for
weeks at a time that we're going to hear
stories of that that there are stories
of adults and other kids who are there
for a night for an hour they're stopped
whatever it is and on top of that when
the standard becomes you can go shoot up
people at a mall this story Adrienne my
husband writing to them my husband is
us-born physician and of Mexican descent
we're at a home depot in a white
community a white woman picked a verbal
fight with him as he stood and the
lightbulb I'll telling him to go back to
Mexico when he told her he was a
physician and us-born she laughed
hysterically and accused him of fake
news I mean if the worst thing you can
do is suddenly shoot 20 people and dead
and 30 others wounded if that's the
worst then you know approaching some guy
in the Home Depot aisle because he looks
brown and laughing at him that he
shouldn't be in this country that's
virtually nothing right in terms of what
the standards are so I mean this is what
this community is facing and it's very
you know it's it here in Brooklyn and be
horrified at the the gun violence but
[Music]
worried sort of generically when my
daughter goes to school my son goes to
camp or whatever it is but you have a a
community a huge number of people in
this country who are being terrorized
and when they look to the president when
they look to the head of the US
government right like to the extent that
we have a head of our society it's the
President and this is what you get from
the US president play this is number one
right like think about this you you have
a community has been targeted
and they just want a sense that at least
society is on our side play this and
we'll be meeting with first responders
law enforcement some of the victims and
paying my respects in regards I'll be
going with the first lady and it's a
terrific opportunity really to
congratulate some of the police in law
enforcement the job they've done was
incredible yeah I mean you're now to be
fair he did say he did mention some of
the victims but the idea I mean this guy
you know best case scenario can say
horribly incompetent right just does not
care about human suffering he has shown
this before I mean I I'm surprised he's
not gonna bring down a bunch of paper
towels to throw out to people he might
make them feel better about themselves
school supplies right
catch it catch it but the profess but
people should be aware and you know I
mean if you're sitting here Stephen
Miller and you're in the Trump
administration and you're looking back
on your three years and you think about
how you terrorize the Muslim population
in this country you think about how
you've terrorized the immigrant
population just broadly speaking you so
you think about how the Latino
population is has been terrorized right
from being called rapists gang members
to terrorists - you know invading the
country - infesting the country you're
gonna be in that White House you could
be thinking like we're doing a bang-up
job we're doing exactly what we set out
to do we also have that other component
where we deconstruct the administrative
state that's that's happening but in
terms of striking terror in this country
amongst brown people we've done it we've
also unshackled the all the police
departments around the country given
them the the green light don't worry
Department adjust
will not be interfering with any of your
stuff I mean that's what the agenda of
this administration has been and it's
been successful it's been highly
successful and we're only 3/4 the way
through it folks
not even we're 3/4 the way through it in
January of 2020 if only we were 3/4 of
the way through the foundational white
supremacy that exists in this country
well we may be we may be 3/4 away
through that but it's still it's still
talking about like another 75 years of
it would still get a while ahead of us I
don't know I mean we're definitely we
have we progressed yes to a certain
extent still hovering in the mid 40s
though to elect someone like this and I
don't know that we're ever going to get
to a place where we we eradicate this
type of stuff but we can make it
marginalized and look down upon enough
to give people who are subjects of this
kind of Terror some peace in some sense
of security and some sense of belonging
and some ability to live their daily
lives without fear without wondering
like you know why is that guy staring at
me there is a you know I mean none of
what I'm saying is in any way sort of
profound in any way but there is look
there's obviously like the the the scars
of the the foundational racism of this
country and then the ongoing right play
through you know just Institute not even
institutional governmental through the
mid
twentieth century you know that leaves
scars that will be with us and by us I
mean with like the african-american
population for a long long time stuff
doesn't flush out of the system that's
just human beings don't work that way
you know we you know you can't can't
have a situation where everybody's like
okay everybody born starting in 2020
we're gonna take you away from your
parents for 10 or 15 years get through
your developmental ages so that we can
sort of like try and release some of all
the the scars that get passed down from
generation to generation and the hatreds
they get passed down from generation and
generations it takes a long time for
that stuff to filter filter through the
society and Donald Trump frankly in this
era like obviously none of this is new
but there was an activation and it
didn't just come from Trump came from
Obama his existence the fact that a
black guy got elected and the ability of
people like who surround Donald Trump
and Fox News and Mitch McConnell and
others to exploit that to take this I
don't want to say dormant but certainly
submerged racism which is not I'm not
diminishing obviously how bad it was but
I'm just saying like there's momentum to
this now like the momentum is going the
wrong way
and that's going to take a long time to
reverse just the momentum
never mind the actual problems that we
have as a country in terms of race in
these issues
