this has been a long week folks
and on Fridays what we like to do is to
go back in time and look over the week
so let's go all the way to what this was
Tuesday morning I believe or maybe
Monday night the beginning of this week
when Sinclair media sat down although
they were sanding with Donald Trump
thing is there anything as you look back
in your first almost two years think you
regret that you wish on you then you
could just think back and redo well
there would be certain things I'm not
sure I want to reveal all of them but I
would say tone I would like to have a
much softer tone I feel to a certain
extent I have no choice but maybe I do
and maybe I could have been softer from
that standpoint but okay so there it was
and you know of course he goes on to
equivocate and and it's a but but
basically tone tone let's check in now
it's the end of the week we are now four
days later and this morning how is that
project on tone going president Trump I
think Jim Acosta is a very
unprofessional man I think he does this
with everybody he gets paid to do that
you know he gets paid to burst in
he's a very unprofessional guy whether
it was me or Ronald Reagan or anybody
else he would have done the same thing
look I don't think he's a smart person
but he's got a loud voice and here's
Bert wait wait David do you mind if I
answer the Christ
as far as I'm concerned I haven't made
that decision but it could be others
also when you're in the White House this
is a very sacred place to me this is a
very special place you have to treat the
White House with respect you have to
treat the presidency with Bennett
reviews it's nice if you've ever seen
him dealing with Sarah Huckabee Sanders
it's a disgrace and he does it for you
know the risa the same thing with April
Ryan let me mention it up let me get
something you talk about certain of
color includes there's she doesn't know
what the hell she's doing she gets
publicity and then she gets to pay raise
or she gets a contract with I think CNN
so but she's very nasty and she
shouldn't be she shouldn't be you've got
to treat the White House and the Office
of the presidency with respect there's a
little thing called our yes II but wait
a second but let's not let's maybe there
could be other occasions
maybe we just caught him at a bad moment
and that tone projects going better
that's up to him what a stupid question
that is what a stupid question
but I watched you a lot you asked a lot
of stupid question he's such a
Donald Trump is such a messy messy
who loves drama right you know he also
is starting to like slide into very
close to where my Jewish grandmother was
when she was besieged with ailments I
don't like you you're black I don't you
got I didn't you thought I didn't do
subtext before how's this I hate you you
are a black woman
I am a grotesque he seems to be a little
bit uptight he seems to be a little bit
uptight about having a rage gasm so I
would say I don't know I can you really
grade this guy on effort I mean can you
does he have like enough even a where
self awareness to grade him on effort I
think just I would have to give him a
really not a passing grade he's off tone
project yeah he's not even on his game
for being like funny and being a dick
he's clearly having a lot of anxiety and
it's making him tense and his
performance it's hard to build new
habits okay well we'll talk about I want
to talk about this with with Ben Dixon
about the implications of if Ben Nelson
ends up taking the Senate and christian
cinema ends up taking the Senate it's
it's going to create some interesting
dynamics that are very different than if
it's and then if either one of them
loses but we'll discuss that in a moment
