come from a 2:06 area code who's this
where you come from this would be Mike
Mike what's on your mind the Margaret
Caravan I've been hearing conservatives
thing at this point a lot about who's
paying for it who organized it you're
accusing George Soros and you know just
liberals in general encouraging these
people to come up here so that they can
all jump over the border immediately
votes and I can't help but wonder
because conservatives project everything
and it makes me wonder yeah who is
staying for this who organized this who
benefits from this that timing is just
cooler you know I just I don't see
anyone asking the question they've got
you know media well I'm not sure you Wow
you you ask the question because I'm not
exactly sure we getting it well I'm
getting out there you know I'm kind of
wondering if it's just it's so
convenient that this happened just in
time for the midterms sifting time to
drive debate that Republicans would be
but oh I see I mean well yeah I think I
wasn't conservative i I just based upon
the reporting I've seen a some of it
happened as a fluke there was a
television station that reported that
people were gathering together for this
caravan and that somebody had reported
that another guy was was funding it this
guy I'm not exactly sure who was and I
don't know I mean I guess that's
possible but to a certain extent I think
what you're seeing is
this is the best time to travel from
those countries because it's not so hot
because it's summer but it's not other
seasons where I think the weather may be
make things more treacherous and there's
been caravans in the past too because
there's safety in numbers but maybe but
I you know what's the point you know
what I mean what are you gonna do about
that I mean I think you got to argue on
its merits that it's not as people
shouldn't be as fearful and what if we
found out that you know some Republican
operative planted this story and it's
snow balled and it worked out
successfully what are you going to do
about it I mean the bottom line is
people have to go out and vote against
Republican candidates period Republicans
make this accusation and then no no no
we didn't do it we're not we're not
doing this entire on purpose but all why
can't we turn around a like yeah but
dude what what is the value of that
there's a lot more value in saying what
are people afraid of what are these
families who are desperate who are
escaping their homes
what what what risk do they present to
us they're running from violent people
that's why they're coming well just make
that argument because I'm telling you
you can yell back on Twitter at
conservative and say maybe you paid for
it but it's not going to mean anything
all you're doing is continuing to say
that this is a something represents some
type of problem to this country the idea
that there's three or four thousand
people walking through Mexico right now
is not a material threat to anybody I am
fully aware yes stick with that because
they're fanatics right so go out the
bull yes well you're not gonna prevent
that are you all right yes your
arguments not going to prevent it so all
I'm tell
you expend your energy and your anger
towards something that is productive
because now is the time that you need to
be productive I appreciate the call your
theory may be may have some merit but I
just it's not a useful one in the
context of politics right now the
chances are if you're thinking about it
you're probably not spending enough time
on Twitter
