[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it's Thursday January 17 2019 my
name is Michael Brooks and I'm Michael
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report for
broadcasting live steps from the
industrial Arabica Juanes Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on today's program
Libby Watson writer for Splinter we're
talking about
brexit that failed no confidence vote
the failed Maine government what comes
next Plus why can't the New York Times
just call Steve King a racist and why
the language of racially tinged points
to a bigger media problem in the era of
overt GOP white supremacy plus Raja Raj
Shahs new lobbying gig and Amazon we'll
get to that Nancy Pelosi continuing to
show that she does know how to handle
Donald Trump she wants his State of the
Union to be rescheduled because the
government shutdown not fair and another
thing not fair
Donald Trump's fast food summit didn't
make much of a dent apparently his
approval ratings are actually starting
to slide with his base
we always wondered what would that
finally make that happen any more
burgers civilians and US troops were
killed in a suicide bombing Isis has
claimed responsibility for northern
Syria HUD official departs over a
disagreement over the grotesqueness
handling of Puerto Rico Rudy Giuliani
says Trump didn't conclude with Russia
didn't collude with Russia but can't say
if campaign aides did or didn't thorat
Arian turkey under authoritarian air
Dewan seeks arrest for enes kanter he's
in New York Knicks Center they want an
Interpol red notice on him in a
horrifying abuse of really everything
AOC is gonna teach other people in the
house how to use Twitter but is that
really the point she also used a
drinking game analogy we're gonna call
it to explain how she's gonna work the
progressive agenda and we like it
you played quarters yeah was that to do
thinking Perdue the Sheldon Whitehouse
response Purdue cemented ties with
universities and hospitals to expand
opioid sales and representative Sheila
jackson-lee
might have sought retribution against
the 19 year old intern who tried to
expose who was raped by a coordinator
for the Congressional Black Caucus
foundation in a really really obscene
grotesque story which if true should
certainly end Sheila jackson-lee scurry
R Eadie case he's a new WAC congressman
from Hawaii and also he's apparently a
white guy trapped an Asian guy trapped
in a white body
I guess he's the opposite of the other
pejorative banana Jeffrey
[Music]
two GOP congressmen stroll through the
halls of Congress with a holocaust
denying troll on the same day that
everybody's coming together to condemn
Steve King all that and much much more
on today's majority report three of us
here Jamie is writing away Sam is Sam's
probably I don't know dealing with kids
stuff and watching videos about his
interactions with Dave Rubin he's seen
your videos
we're definitely good I know a lot of
people are want to make sure that we
have seen all of the dayroom in video
they're wonderful and there are they're
awesome it's everything we can do to not
play them today yes and so we need to
save them for Sam because yeah they're
embargoed things like that exactly
they're embargoed and we also just want
those videos probably are expand the
actuarial table on Sam's life so we want
the vitality that yes sometimes he's
sitting here and you see Jamie and I
have to do dad and it oh god Jimmy what
and then we're like Sam Sam Sam Sam look
somebody did it it's a it's a trap house
beat but it's Curb Your Enthusiasm
what's trap house is that like don't
touch Oppo guys chop is that like I
remember ah you know at one time I I met
Run DMC and it was getting it was with
Sarah Silverman and it was 1997 oh my
God Jesus Christ showed up just watch
the video and then we play the video and
then his whole body he just gets a giant
big huge grin on his face cities you say
yeah that's pretty funny that's pretty
funny that's pretty good all right what
should I tweet I'm gonna tweet Rueben
I'm gonna tweet him
what should I tweet I think I'm gonna
say and then we are and then we came out
it sweet so all of that's happening
tomorrow that was very funny
Wow but look all I can say is dummy day
folks
dummy Dave you shook he's a shook dummy
it's like ship terms ship them uh Steve
crowd is pretty goddamn shook to its low
he is really laying low his his whole
little like I bother college students
with nonsense hustles getting really
disrupted by the fact that he's too much
of a coward to debate Sam you know I'll
say I'm not I'm not as into debates as
Sam but I will say I um I I debated that
friggin Carl Carl Sargon guy and he
didn't see that guy apparently will I
mean he seems to be debate you know
little debate anybody right oh yeah so
that's gonna have to be a credit where
credit's due type of thing like all of
these guys are out here biting all that
rhetoric about open exchange but then
two of the prime peddlers of it you
Crowder and Rubin can't even sit down
and look I mean Charlie Kirk showed up
for Sam Sam didn't I mean Sam certainly
won the debate if you were watching and
you had any semblance of knowledge but
like you know Charlie I mean Charlie
Kirk left in a metaphorical body bag but
he didn't even know he left in a
metaphorical body bag hearing that
paycheck at least yeah I don't know I
mean it makes it does make as much as I
hate I don't really like debate that
much and I don't really care to give
people respect for things that should be
obvious but nonetheless it makes you say
like all right I put charlie Kirk in a
different category then Crowder you know
who the questions about now though is
ben shapiro yeah now the questions about
that's PR al because I've been real
question is will you well you get well
can you spend five minutes not a
bizarrely obsessing over Alexandria
Kasbah Cortes on Twitter and engage in a
debate Sam theater we are gonna obsess
about Ben Shapiro the way he obsesses
about AFC because we want to get into
those replies to I like like it's one
thing to fly that Dave and Steve blows
sorry did rule well so New Reno City
redo didn't really do much about that
though he was like
[Music]
[Laughter]
let's talk about the opposite of those
guys somebody who's awesome somebody who
is great and we all love and it's true
it's really true a super producer Matt
and I always can keep up with each other
in Instagram because we can see which
pictures were liking of this particular
pop star cardi B finally intervened by
the way I just wanna remind everybody
has spoken has praised Bernie Sanders
Eleanor Roosevelt the New Deal backed
Cynthia Nixon and Jumaane Williams over
the Cuomo ticket she's on point and
she's finally intervened in the
government shutdown this was on
Instagram yesterday let's let cardi be
lay it out hey y'all I just wanna remind
you I because it's been a little bit
over three weeks okay it's been a little
bit over three weeks Trump is now
ordering as if some insane butter or
government workers to go back to work
without getting paid now I don't want to
hear young talking about
all but Obama shut down the government
for 17 days yeah for health care
so your grandma could check a blood
pressure and you go go check out
 in the gynecologists with no
 problem now I know a lot
of you forgot that part I was gonna say
I shouldn't do a warning on this because
I'm sorry I'm from my opinion if he
can't deal with a few F words you know I
don't know what to tell you but I guess
I should have given like alright you
know if you have kids you could either
have your kids not listen to this or you
can make them super cool at school this
is a good way to broach these topics
exactly this is a good way to get them
both ahead of their classmates in terms
of being cool and knowing pop culture
and expanding the vocabulary in a ways
that they'll actually get social credit
for as well as a good real practical
introduction to the issues like the
necessity of covering woman's full kind
of clouds don't care yo grandma can
check your blood pressure and your
business to go check out Nevada
colleges with no problem
now I know I got I don't care because
got to work for the government or you
I have a job but this is really
 silly miss ball this is
crazy like our country is in a hellhole
right now all for you all and we
really need to take this seriously
I feel like we need to take some action
I don't know what type of action
because this is not what I do but
I'm scared this is crazy and I really
feel bad for these people they gotta go
to work to not get
pain that's exactly it
100% I mean look I'm not you know you
turn it into a comedy routine or
whatever but the truth of the matter is
is like it doesn't require that you use
the same vocabulary to make that pretty
 simple point I mean I'd say
that's better communication than Pelosi
and Schumer hun it's better than 90%
there's nothing complicated about it
that's it I mean look and basically I
mean obviously it's different but
there's something there's some formula
like that's that is kind of what that's
one of the things that Acacio Cortes
does right just lays it out um it is
crazy it is demented it is immoral
I mean it's and scary and scary and
stupid and mortifying that some demented
old trust fund baby demagogue who's
never accomplished anything in his life
is holding this country captive so he
can build a delusional racist
unnecessary nonsensical wall on top of a
border policy that's already cost
children's lives and now people who work
for the federal government are already
people who work for the federal
government are gonna be forced to work
without pay on top of which this could
start affecting people very soon who
rely on SNAP benefits and housing like
real people who are already terrorized
through it the economics of this country
it's scary it's disgusting it's stupid
and she's totally right
we'll be right back with Libby Watson on
the majority report
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Libby Watson she's a writer for splinter
Libby how you doing thanks for doing
this good thank you it's a pleasure so I
want to talk and our let's let's use the
your accent to a maximum advantage and
talk about brexit first it was a pretty
intense last couple of days
Theresa Mayes brexit proposal went down
by a significant margin I think was like
what was like 404 to 200 or something
like that I know it's not the exact
number but it was a big loss and then a
jeremy corbyn's motion of no-confidence
which would have dissolved the May
government and gotten us into elections
was rejected as well though this the Lib
Dems which I guess are how would you
describe Liberal Democrats to an
American audience what does that party
like like where would they be if they
were in the United States other than
also irrelevant yeah that's a good
question so basically that I mean they
are I think in American terms they would
still be pretty pretty left I mean
they're they're kind of similar to
similar the Democrats but they're kind
of what see the sort of centrist to
conservative side of the Democrats would
be if they were a different party
they're that they are also just like
completely irrelevant these days I mean
they haven't been in government I mean
the Liberal Party was in government in
the 1920s and that's the last last time
they were they you know they actually
had a prime minister then they formed a
coalition with the the Conservative
Party in 2010 and basically just like
completely threw out everything that
they supposedly stood for including you
know they they campaigned on abolishing
tuition fees and then signed off on the
Conservatives tripling tuition fees so
that kind of tells you everything you
need to know that's us that definitely
tells you everything you need to know
about them and they basically they
refuse to
back Labor's no confidence vote their
leader Vince Cable said since he appears
stuck in a Corbin appears determined to
play party political games rather than
acting on the wishes of his own members
and MPs and that is very ironic given
what you Jacek aliy as you said I think
was a Nick Clegg became the Deputy Prime
Minister David Cameron after running a
campaign against university tuition fees
and to protect social spending after the
recession yeah I mean he signed and then
they're bragging was like oh well it was
gonna be like double worse and the
private meetings so like we should get
credit right yeah right exactly yeah I
mean they ran to try and get any votes
at all and then went into wanting to
government with a terrible conservative
you know austerity social welfare
slashing government so so and now
they're better they're opposing this
Corbin no confidence vote so I guess
like I mean what's your sense of where
this goes from here I guess it's like
okay so Corbin wants to go to elections
because this government has no you know
it's done but the Tories won't a Tories
are still gonna keep her there or maybe
replaced her with somebody else but
obviously they don't want to lose power
the Lib Dems to the extent they have a
few votes are just concerned about
remaining in the EU and then like Tony
Blair's back on the scene like being
like I think we need to have another
referendum blah blah blah so like oh
yeah yeah like we're like how do all
these forces interact together and what
do you what do you think like how do you
think it's gonna play out over the next
couple of weeks I mean I think the only
truthful answer I can give is that I
have no idea and no one has any idea but
I mean I think the thing was Corbin is
that I think if it were and this isn't
to say that I would want it to be
another Labour leader because I love
Corbin but I think if it were a
different labor leaders and there may be
the dynamics may be slightly different
because I think the Lib Dems and the
Tories are so terrified of a Labour
victory
which i think would happen if there were
an election I think they're so terrified
of a labor victory that they won't do
what you know the only reasonable thing
to do is which is to you know to call us
you know to support a no-confidence
motion I'll call for a general election
or whatever so that being the case
there's no force to push trees are made
out which is incredible I mean her
ability to hang on
against all odds is really is quite
astounding so I mean I really I really
don't know because the problem is that
you know there is the EU I don't see the
EU budging or like giving a different
deal at the time the deal with forms
they said like this is the deal if you
don't like it then goodbye so I mean my
my fear is that we end up with a no deal
breaker because they just can't get it
together and it's only what six weeks or
two months or something until until that
happens so I don't know I mean I think
I'm going to tell my mum to start you
know stocking up on bananas and tomatoes
because I think we might end up with an
ideal scenario and so I mean do you
think that there's people I know that
like the the business community
obviously mostly opposed it because of
how disruptive it is but on the other
hand it's like do you think that I don't
know I could see a lot of for right-wing
forces in the UK being like all right
well so like here's the time to just
become like we're just gonna try to be
like the you know Dubai or Singapore off
of Europe we're gonna get rid of NHS and
we're just gonna be even like a more
pure financial hub with like you know
closed borders yeah I mean I don't know
I mean I honestly this whole
ever since the vote I really I don't
know what the kind of no deal crowd has
been thinking I mean I think I'm a lot
of them especially you know they're not
so much the sort of you know actual
British people's that you know would be
okay with a No Deal but the Tory
politicians that have gone in on it
I feel like that you know they they did
this a politically expedient reasons you
know Boris Johnson for example you know
it's a big like hard percocet guy and
you know he's not stupid like he knows
that a no deal would be terrible
whatever but he found it politically
advantageous to you to position himself
as a sort of partial version of Nigel
Farage
and not the nicer I wasn't posh but you
know Boris Johnson is like the Pasha's
guy in the world
but now these people up if you haven't
heard of them they are really like
they're every British stereotype
imaginable if you don't know who you
probably know Boris Johnson is but some
people might not know who Nigel Faraj is
but how would you describe Nigel Faraj
to people oh man yeah I mean you would
you might have seen it when he was a lot
of Fox News guessing now your listeners
do right he was the leader of the the UK
Independence Party a famous only pushing
for exit and for being horribly
anti-immigration and anti anti Islam
he's a sort of horrible frog-faced posh
guy who like wanders around in Wally's
and drinks a pint and pretend to be all
old British but of course has a has a
German wife
that's son of a he's serious oh
yeah yeah he has a German wife that's
like the only way you should be
anti-immigrant is not having a German
spout bastard
no and elsewhere Libby come on let's be
serious I'm just playing
we actually actually do have a lot of
German viewers I apologize please don't
be triggered it was an opportunity to
make fun of Nigel Florence who is I mean
honestly I mean really is like it this
is a good time I think in general
obviously because you know Trump
Faraj Boris Johnson people actually
treated bolson ro like a joke in Brazil
there's a lot of people there's no
contradiction between being you know a
complete jackass and a figure of correct
like mockery and ridicule and also
really evil and like yeah given power to
seriously harm people's lives like
there's no contradiction there well the
funny thing about Shiraz is that I mean
you can't never
had more than like what three or four
MPs he lost his he ran for Parliament
last time and he didn't win and you know
you kept even after the first vote has
been kind of pretty sidelined I think
that's partly because of the
Conservative Party and you know Teresa
may kind of really going for the hard
brexit you know that that heart breaks
it line but you know this guy like no
one you know he has no power and he
keeps going invited on telly to talk
about brexit and you know people keep
asking him or he thinks about Bryson
it's like this man is it's just that
he's just a posh guy in a in a pair of
wellies now like you really don't have
to ask him what he thinks I'm sorry what
are wellies boots no it's all right
Matlock our senior UK translator got me
alright they're boots yeah yeah he looks
like a penguin in them I have seen the
boots I didn't I just didn't know what
they were called
two more UK related questions and one is
also gonna just be another personality
that people should probably know and not
like but then a bigger question so I saw
and and people probably have a sense
that a guy named you know David Cameron
who was another one of these like you
know hysterically posh and like you know
sort of gentry in her power inheritance
figures in the UK he became a UK prime
minister I believe in 2010 and he also
his whole first branding campaign was
actually like no I'm like the
pro-environment like I'm super hip I'm
like a different kinda Tory and in
addition to just pounding and decimating
the country with austerity which is his
prime legacy he then as a stop to the
far right and to try to suck the oxygen
out of you Kip and P and BNP he
basically was like yeah let's just have
a brexit referendum which of course he
lost and then I don't think we have it
on us but we had a lot of fun when he
resigned and the hot mic caught him
walking off and just after resigning he
just hummed to himself do you remember
that he was
dude yeah I remember that absolutely
right yeah so I saw the other day that
um he was in Costa Rica running a
surfboard great I was talking to my
friend about this isn't I he's really
played it very smart because like I
think he will be even though this is all
completely his fault I think history
will kind of forget him you know like
you say that this is all because of him
and I think there was a Financial Times
asked all the time that revealed that he
decided to do this at a pizza restaurant
in Chicago O'Hare Airport you know just
kind of honor on a whim and like you say
to shore up you know his he thought that
you know that would be the end of it all
and it's super wasn't but now in like
you say surfing in Costa Rica I mean
while Surrey's amazed having you know an
absolute nightmare and you know believe
me I loathe cereza May I don't actually
care that she's personally experiencing
a nightmare but like you know I think
she will be remembered for handling this
very poorly whereas I think David
Cameron kind of gotten away with it by
resigning and just isn't it's doop-doop
do all right we got to get that back man
though that is one of them yeah amazing
like I just totally messed everything up
my actual favorite camera and hot mic
was when they caught him on a hot night
making fun of Yorkshire which was in the
north of England and you know he's from
the south of England very posh low of
north/south attention in the UK and it
sound even Pacha when he's like in
private than he does in public like you
say it you know at least for you know
let's say in the 70s people would
pretend to be partially than they were
like Margaret Thatcher apparently
learned how to speak with a more posh
accent the kids you know she wanted to
like fit in with all the Tories but I
think they have a camera and actually
toned down the past when he's talking to
the public because he's so so posh so
early that he just sounds ridiculous
alright so David Cameron and Boris
Johnson these two and obviously as an
American I'll just throw around its pure
speculation as I'm mindful of UK libel
laws but I would speculate potentially
inbred children of unbelievable
privileged yeah they just did brexit and
and now another you know incredibly
bizarre and horrific and anybody who
whoever feels bad for theresa may just
look up wind rush on google and any
sympathy you have for her will
completely evaporate but my last
question about this is okay i think your
total my sense and obviously you know
better than me but my sense is that yes
almost any other labor leader there
would probably be elections happening
right now because this is catastrophic
and there's no credibility left in this
government and you can have a snap
election right and okay
and now the and i obviously I support
Jeremy Corbyn to I'm not sure he's
handling every part of bread's it
correctly but I also know that Bridget
isn't the only thing and I know his
plans to reverse austerity and workers
cooperatives I mean he's providing
actually some incredible ideas and
speaking to the big issues of our time
and he would definitely would be you
know no doubt in my mind a better Prime
Minister and a very good Prime Minister
compared to certainly obviously Teresa
may but just even in the normal like
rules of politics when you have a total
failure you make a change and in this
process of like total fear that all of
the UK establishment I guess just use
that word has about Jeremy Corbyn
they're prolonging and intensifying like
an actual crisis so it's like it's so I
guess it's like doesn't that
juxtaposition actually prove all of like
Corbin's points about this ruling class
it's like oh if if jeremy corbyn's Prime
Minister it's gonna be like Venezuela
so what we're do is make it like what we
say Venezuela is like right now to not
have this guy to not have an election or
democratic accountability we will
accelerate an actual crisis not a
hypothetical one to not live out our
fears which he's made up in our own
heads right right exactly no I totally
agree and you know I agree that I don't
think openness is handled bracelet quite
as well as he could have and I mean it
is difficult because
there are a lot of issues with you know
a lot of the the kind of more Blair wing
of the party once wanting to call for
another referendum and that is I mean
the thing is like I think you know they
kind of want all this theory over and
for us to go back to how it was before
which like I understand because there's
no way that brexit is going to sort of
fell for the UK like any scenario is
going to be we're going to be worse off
having said that the EU is not a good
institution and I think Corbin is kind
of that old 80s left mold you know like
really really left and hating that you
use for that reason for the right
reasons for the correct reasons exactly
but that doesn't necessarily mean that
the brexit would be good or that you
know that would be the best way for for
Britain to you know change change the EU
so it is it is tricky and I don't know
you know because he's also in a
difficult place because if we call the
nother referendum and we get the same
result and like what what have we done
then you know then it's like that will
be even even worse and I don't know that
there would be a different result so it
is it is tricky but you know I like I
said like big big Corbett supporter
right you know I think I hundred percent
confident he would handle this better
but like you say they're all completely
terrified of him I mean if you go back
and look at the way that the media
reacted when Corbin was elected party
leader in 2015 it's actually remarkably
similar to the way that the media reacts
to Alexandria cause Leah Cortes now you
know any little story any little you
know theoretical inconsistency in his
life ISM you know there was one of the
big stories was that like he went to
some veterans event and like ate the
sandwiches and he wasn't supposed to or
something like that which was amazing
and there was the whole thing about like
yeah and there was the whole cigarette
like not kneeling before the Queen you
know something and like not singing the
nice
and stuff and you know this is all like
mainstream papers that were reporting
this this wasn't like you know our
version of the Daily Caller it was like
our version of I don't know
the New York Post or even the Washington
Post you know it's like well completely
completely balmy
like stuff and you know like sort of
just trying to make any kind of argument
that he you know either was you know
inappropriately yun british or trying to
catch him out you know being away there
was a lot of reporting on him being just
like a weird guy you know like he was
jumpers a lot and you know has a
collection of manhole jumpers jumpers
sorry all right thank you this I'm
learning yeah well there and then there
was that time when he promised in
anything was in 2016 where he said he's
gonna run train on the socialist agenda
what about dictionary mr corbyn that
would have been I mean it would be very
hard for me to support him even more you
know that's particularly funny because
there's act there is a parallel universe
where I could hear Bernie Sanders saying
that there's none where Jeremy Corbyn
saying that no okay so alright yeah I
mean we'll just keep pushing for and I
mean he should be Prime Minister and
we'll see what happens and and and you
know I hate that it happens this way
because it caused a lot of harm but I
mean at every piece of any credibility
that the business the press class the
political class had is gone so you know
think about that while they
hyperventilate about this guy right you
wrote a great I just want to take you
know in the last like 10 minutes or so a
couple of recent pieces you wrote you
wrote this piece called the New York
Times racially tinged problem I thought
that was great he just kind of outline
it for us yeah I mean a frequent problem
with the new
but also other outlets but yes there
they wrote a piece about you know which
should have been I think quite quite a
good piece about sort of you know
Republicans are condemning Steve King
for the racism but why not Donald Trump
which is an interesting point but in
doing that they did what they always do
and describe things Donald Trump has
said and have you know racially tinged
remarks and it's just so frustrating
because that phrase doesn't mean
anything like racially tension doesn't
tell you
I mean first started you know it doesn't
convey the full weight of what Donald
Trump has said I mean I just you know I
put the excerpt from his campaign
announcement speech in there and you
know describing Mexicans rapists and
criminals like that isn't racially tense
that's racist and I think the inability
of media to describe the things he says
as racist it's not you know that that is
important that matters and I think Adam
solar as pointed out that that is more
about preserving the feelings of a
largely white audience than it is you
know about accurately describing the
situation and it's just very frustrating
to see the times do it over and over
again yeah totally I mean and I wonder
about even like he like I think that the
the the polling at least shows that the
at least how people answer poll
questions this sort of like and this
court you know shows up on a lot of
areas but like a kind of like mushy
middle is at least I think you know in
practice there's still a lot of it but
at least polling wise you see more like
people who identify as conservative
being like essentially like yeah that
explicitly racist sentiment expresses my
thoughts and then you see more people
who identify as Democrats or whatever
who are definitely I mean look white
Democrats at least in polls they're way
more willing to acknowledge or I won't
even say that because I don't
necessarily think it's cynical they're
more at
point now than they were say ten years
ago or even five years ago where they're
like yes racism is a major you know
important force in our society in our
politics so I feel like when they write
this it may use this language it
obscures the truth sounds ridiculous
doesn't mean anything it is kind of like
goofily Orwellian but it also it's like
even that sort of imagined person like
who are you talking to besides Barry
Weiss like literally yeah I mean that
problem because they're always writing
things right as if they have you know
any any Republican readers and I'm sure
that they have they have some but
Republicans aren't going to not think
that The Times is biased because you say
things like racially tinged like and you
know that's the other thing that was
terrible about that article that was
honestly as bad that it included a part
saying that well you know Democrats you
know some Republicans say that Democrats
didn't condemn the comments
and you know that they don't believe the
words they use either and it's like well
don't you like I mean that is obviously
absurd on its face the idea that saying
there are very fine people on both sides
Charlottesville is in any way equivalent
to saying we're going to impeach the
 like that is like that's
offensive and if you are writing an
article like that then you you have to
include you have to you have to say
which is ridiculous like I would never
even if a Republican we're saying that
to me I would never quote them saying
that without saying this is this is
wrong right right I mean I mean of
course obviously they could focus on
Rashidah to libs comments where she said
you know Arab civilization created
algebra and there's nothing wrong with
thinking that they're inherently
superior because that's just history
that would be equivalent if she said
anything like that right I mean I mean
that well and not only are you right
about that they're actually I mean when
they repeat the is
analogous to Steve King just being a
racist or Donald Trump just being a
racist they are not only is it it's
not even a ridiculous immoral ludicrous
false equivalency its of just a
laundering of Republican talking points
because that's what they're doing when
you see Kevin McCarthy and people like
that on TV you know they're not saying
and and hosts are not saying well great
I'm glad you're stripping him of his
assignments but why did you back this
guy and why did Chuck Grassley report an
ad for him a couple of weeks before he
was facing re-election they're
immediately pivoting and saying well we
wish the Democrats would do the same
thing by which they're talking about
Rashidah to live saying mf'er so not all
right like it's ridiculous on its face
but they're say there that's a
Republican spin that has been cooked up
by some Republican pollster or something
so not only are you doing a false
equivalency you're actually just
laundering GOP talking points with
nothing critical to say about it all
right exactly and like this is the thing
it's you know in in journalism obviously
it's I guess it is important to know
what Republicans are saying like if they
are saying that but the thing is like
they're saying it to you New York Times
reporter so that you will put it in the
New York Times as if as if that argument
has any weight like they're making that
argument in bad faith and you don't have
to help them by doing their PR for them
if you're going to put it in an article
then you have to do something to note
that like that's completely insane like
it doesn't matter that Republicans are
arguing it like that doesn't make it
worthy worthy of like noting without any
context you know it's it's like
obviously absurd on its face and
journalists have to know when when
they're able to say you know this thing
that they say which is insane you know
right right and that's again and that's
descriptive that's not like that's
that's it's it's not partisan it's an
ability to make some type of actual
analysis here because if not like then I
don't know just try to figure out the
the whatever a I can make Siri right New
York Times articles for you or whatever
which would still probably produce more
interesting work than Barry Weiss which
is a hacky
but I had to make it you congratulated
Raja on his new la being a musician
would you remind everybody who he is and
what the new gig is yeah so he was
deputy press secretary to Sara Saunders
and now he's going to be heading up a
media group doing let's read this
bipartisan full service
multidisciplinary strategic
communications division I mean I guess
people in DC but whatever at but the
important thing is that the the group
he's going to is called Ballard partners
and Ballard partners is run bruh run by
this guy Bryan Ballard who is an
associate of Trump before he moved to DC
then Trump became president and this guy
took his lobbying shop from Florida to
DC and you know there are tons of
articles about him last year where he
kind of insisted that he was almost
offended by the idea that he would trade
on his access as a lobbyist and you know
say well yes I have dinner with Trump
every few weeks but you know people come
to me for my expertise and for my my
lobbying powers not because of my
contacts we don't know I mean you would
never question his expertise obviously
and I'm sure people well I would you I
mean why are you so cynical when you
could be doing multidisciplinary
thinking with somebody I know I really
just jealous I'm very jealous if our
partners have hired me to be a
full-service strategic communicator yeah
but yeah they are I mean you know it
really gets the question I actually
wrote about this at the time that he was
profiled last year I guess the question
is like what a lobbyist doing like what
do they do all day you know obviously I
mean there are some lobbying firms that
get hired you know companies retain them
too you know some of the work they do is
kind of like you know research and like
informing members of Congress and
literally what they will do is like
create research packets for
congressional staff which are all
underpaid and overworked and then you
know the information they get is from
lobbyists and you know because they
don't have time to assemble it
themselves or just he use
you know by our partners or whoever sent
over but you know it's obvious that the
reason that the firm is doing so well
with you know many millions of dollars
from incoming years because of the
closeness to Trump
I mean Amazon for example already has 15
other lobbying firms on on retainer so
why would they pay a 16th firm Bala
partners you know over $200,000 in 2018
to lobby and it's it's clear that you
know that's a connection to Trump that
is worth a couple hundred grand to them
you know that's just like one other
Avenue to Trump or whoever in that White
House that is worth 200 grand to be able
to act there yeah and this is this is
the type of Trump era story where it's
like this definitely like there's things
that are obviously weird and unusual and
very different about Trump but there's a
lot of other things where it's just like
an amplification of what already is and
this type of dynamic is totally
bipartisan and basically across the
board in DC I like though the Amazon
part of it though because it's like this
is another good thing to remind people
of it's like okay like Trump is beefing
with Jeff Bezos on Twitter and the
Washington Post publishes all sorts of
reporting that Trump doesn't like some
which is you know good reporting but the
other dynamic that's much more
reflective of reality is that Amazon as
a rapacious you know monopolistic
company which hires all sorts of
influence-peddling firms to do all sorts
of work both nationally and locally is
paying off some you know some actually
pretty marginal firm before Trump to get
access to him and that's like there's a
bigger truth then you know whatever
Trump's like freaking out about on
Twitter about Jeff Bezos getting
divorced or whatever oh yeah no I mean
100 percent it's it's really frustrating
to see people like you know reflexively
side with Jeff Bezos against Trump as if
you have to pick one and if Jeff Bezos
is anything but you know look just like
Lex Luthor
like I mean he's one of the worst people
on the
the richest button in the world so no
good
he's on both lists and there's so much
there's so much overlap in that list
it's actually yes yeah that's a that's
the worst person and richest person
lists are very cross pollinating um
Libby Watson I really appreciate your
time I hope we can do this again read
all of Libby's work at splinter and
follow her on Twitter and everywhere
else you follow people Libby thanks so
much for doing this thank you happy to
be now you too take care all right folks
I learned two new British words what
were they again it was a jumper Joe
Ellie's Ellie's uar Ellie's to
Glastonbury or wellies to Glastonbury
they're like those big rain boots that
you put up to your knees I knew exactly
no cuz I've noticed cuz I've seen I knew
I've seen pictures of Faraj I knew what
you were talking about as soon as you
guys explained it to me I just had no
idea yeah he is some like Thatcherite
multi-millionaire become a
member of the majority report today
majority dot F M / become a member
that's how this show happens join the
show for pennies a day get your coffee
fair trade tea coffee chocolate at the
great co-op just coffee co-op it's real
for your Fairtrade stuff you know
everybody even Starbucks tried to co-opt
that brand but just coffee actually does
it they're our friends they support the
show and they provide great actual
pro-labor Pro ecology pro worker
cooperative products which are delicious
that's coffee we drink it's the coffee
that powers the majority report ship get
your tickets to the Michael Brooke show
live show February first we're excited
to see you there this Sunday David Adler
he's on the governing body of diem 25
which is the pan socialist effort across
Europe we're talking about migration
left nationalism and critiquing it using
Marx
you got to become a patron of tea MBS to
get all of that
countless other pieces of historical
theoretical global content plus the very
fun very entertaining on this last post
game we dunked on Jimmy Dore we talked
about Buju Banton right-wing Mandela
Gavin McInnes patreon accomplished EMBs
subscribe to Michael Brooks show on
YouTube and tell those to
monetize us figure that out that's
actually really quite weird Matt was
pointing out the other day how there's
still people selling like fake cancer
cures that are monetized on YouTube
actually like verified which and my
charity report isn't even verified on
YouTube Wow well that says a lot you can
compare liek here pretty late stage
cancer with baking soda
according to YouTube right these are
they'll monetize so yeah but you won't
want to put an ad into a smart brexit
analysis or a video on the political
imprisonment of Lula patreon.com slash T
mb/s Michael Brooks show on YouTube and
of course on iTunes and so on and see
you at the live show Matt literary
hangover coming this weekend hopefully
I'll get it up by Saturday a recording
tonight the House of the Seven Gables
which is a probably like the most
interesting thing I've read by Hawthorne
maybe the most interesting thing I've
read for this entire project a lot of
interesting inheritance stuff going on
about stuff about politics and
corruption very interesting stuff very
interesting patreon.com slash literary
hangover correct
check out the anti Fattah Jamie and
Shawn in the spirit as well that's the
anti fat on patreon patreon comm slash
the anti Fattah and the spirit of the
opening of the show we're talking about
dopes who won't debate Sam here is a
brilliant video that Brian McAlister did
about one of those dopes that won't
debate Sam well it's going to take you
into the fun half where we will see you
there and I do like to think that I mean
it's really hard to get leftist guests
on our show that's just a reality we try
and book them
[Laughter]
Crowder doesn't think there's a rape
culture I usually do try and get into an
engagement of ideas ideas
Crowder interesting you know now that
we're talking about steven crowder three
or four months ago I was invited to
Politico
when they asked me if I would come I
said yeah I will if I can debate someone
now of course I threw out Dave Rubin and
I was told that he's not coming
competition started kicking in and so I
said Crowder and the people like great
and it all looked good and I was told
that steven crowder literally stopped
responding to their emails
pretty sure the quote was somebody got
cold feet
[Music]
I am issuing you a challenge to debate I
will host you on any time any platform
any way to debate really the question
that steven crowder should ask is Alexa
is do I have be afforded to you to
debate Sam cedar no you are not
courageous enough to the face of
middle-aged Jew who likes facts and
figures you are a coward
Steven I know you are watching or
hearing this and everybody else knows it
too there's no way you're not aware that
I've issued this challenge now you knew
what was coming when you backed out a
politican because you were afraid of
debating me and here it is Steven we'll
see you soon maybe I'm speaking out of
turn here but you can where you're not
gay t-shirt and you're gonna have an
opening statement right you'll let him
have the opening statement I'm assuming
oh sure welcome to the fun every time
steven crowder does one of his uh change
my mind things on twitter he's like I
think he's pretty much always ratioed
now by people saying why don't you
change sam cedars mind and still no
response it's the majority report flying
monkey army indeed and then of course
there's a the boo-boos sniff through the
siren ooh a preview of what's to come
tomorrow folks will probably start oh I
should have said this in the fun half in
the first half of my bed we are maybe
will tack this in but we're starting at
11:00 a.m. tomorrow early start time
tomorrow it's like totally spaced
we also totally spaced but early start
time tomorrow 11:00 a.m. I'll put it in
the blog okay yeah and we'll probably
spend about 30 or 40 minutes talking
about Dave Rubin and the latest hijinks
and playing all of the brilliant
hilarious videos we're starting early
because we've got a lot of Dave Rubin
yeah exactly we need to get every team
[Laughter]
calling from with three four seven area
code who are you where you calling from
hello um hello three four seven are you
there hello hello three four seven are
you there hello
yes that's yeah we've had your chance
when we say your area code that means
you're on your ask right you're calling
from a seven eight one area code who are
you where you're calling from hey guys
how you doing hey what's your name where
you calling from um actually I'm from
Massachusetts so I get all kind of local
connection here I'm from South Shore
town called Pembroke oh nice well tell
your mother why yeah you guys were about
seven eight months now and believe it or
not the way I caught on to you guys was
I had heard a friend of mine who was he
got into like Sam Harris and all this
stuff so he's like you were to listen to
this guy he's really on something on to
something and I'm listening to it I'm
like this guy is I don't know what's
going on I could tell he was
bullshitting so I was looking for
somebody who wouldn't criticize him so I
went on YouTube I typed his name and you
guys came up with about five or six
different YouTube videos criticizing
himself in making them so like alright
I'm have to check this out good like
actually the first the first real
impression that there were to the Boris
Epstein and my favorite though the one
that is my favorite and in a way I'm
glad he's out of the white house but the
way I'm not because you don't hear him
on TV as much is is Borka I missed or
guilty impression I miss
we all miss actually last week Steve
cook and I were lamenting the the
disappear I mean Gork has gotten so
obscure so quickly that it doesn't even
it's just like
you just have to shoehorn that
impression like it there isn't even a
context to do it I worked for him yes I
was a political commissioned officer I
work for him yes I was a politically
commissioned officer mm-hmm
yes I was in the Quiznos parking lot
masturbating yes that's true I don't
know why there's anything wrong with
that it's something the PC culture that
says you can't be jerking off in your
Thunderbird
I imagine Gorka is pretty upset about
the Syrian withdrawal plans no I would
imagine he is whatever Trump says but
you know what you know what what's
interesting to me about Gorka is that
his ideas on Middle East and security
are quite similar as sam Harris's and
what's funny is like the only difference
but there's actually like three
differences there one is like okay look
sure if this I know cuz people get still
like unbelievably triggered and weird
about any Sam Harris criticism which is
probably something good to sort of self
assess in and of itself if like there
should be no right like if somebody
likes right is like hey I'm a fan of you
know Michael Brooks or whatever and some
reason no I that guy's you know he's an
 and I or I don't agree like you
can debate that person and that's great
but it shouldn't like shake your
emotional and existential foundations
the way it seems to affect people with
sam harris and you know obviously jordan
peterson which is you know weird and
bizarre and of itself but so i'll do
this though okay like sure generically
of course sam harris i'm sure is a
smarter guy than sebastian Gorka okay if
people need that obvious fig leaf there
on the other hand their actual thinking
about this is extremely similar which is
like it's islamic terrorism you need to
call it what it is and islam is a thing
then history and sociology are
irrelevant and then number three
actually I'm sure Gorka has much more
like knowledge
South Asia in the Middle East just in
his own like you know reading of like
WorldNetDaily blog post he probably like
if you gave them like a Jeopardy quiz on
like names of like heads of state and
like lines of succession in Egypt or
something he'd probably score better
than Sam Harris but I don't yeah I
didn't want to cut you off knows my
backstory I didn't really oh yeah go
ahead man what's your what's your
question buddy um basically it just
comes down to I had a you could say
through your guys comedy and just kind
of listening and in the whole Trump era
I've actually had sort of a like a set
of revelation I didn't really have any
strong political feelings but I grew up
in a family that would be definitely
center-right just by like addition right
I don't know if like some people it's
just like it's in there and even like
when I was in like high school and stuff
and I kind of reflexively back some
center-right positions I didn't feel
right doing it it's just and then the
Trump ear is just open my ears so eyes
and ears so much to just how cravenly
like evil people are and it's like you
get the CD underlying philosophy these
people are monsters yeah and two more
helps monsters who they are but it's
just I'm just beside myself you know
living I'm only in my early 30s and it's
like what the hell's gonna happen in
this country in the next you know 20
years you know I'm scared to death today
if I can laugh along the way you know
well we should laugh and that won't have
a lot of work to do man what's your name
Oh Paul thanks Paul appreciate your call
man yep thanks Paul take care it good
stuff right with you good good there
depot and that's all the way down at the
bottom of the sea right you're calling
from a 7000 area code who are you where
you calling from sorry tell me again I'm
sorry hello David from Denver hey David
what's on your minds
hi I was wondering why do you think the
left has been so silent in regards to
Rajab Oh notice most of them were like
cheering on the withdrawal from the from
Syria you know there's that saying that
like rosin clock is Right twice a day
with our US and so many countries you
think like maybe they'd be right like
once once like in those 30 countries the
left seems to not recognize this and
actually a very like defensive against
the idea that this could even happen so
well what do you think they're so
selling like supporting little left in
other countries well if you followed my
coverage on this I mean I you know I can
only really attest to myself but um I
definitely am in solidarity with rojava
and I definitely think that for the time
being there should be some troop
presence that continues there to protect
them from Turkish imperial aggression
murder and and support them as they
continue this experiment and then I
guess you know for purposes the United
States obviously the fact that they're
the most effective fighting force
against Isis but the reason um there's
good reasons and bad reasons good reason
is in general the big picture obviously
the United States is an imperial force
it's interfering with and destabilizing
and committing civilian casualties
across the globe from Somalia to
Venezuela the whole broader engagement
in Syria whether it was backing groups
through the Gulf or our own really
aggressive air campaign is was wrong
just as of course if we're talking on an
ethical and legal level so of course is
the you know incredible massive Russian
body count and aggression there as well
as an example so you know some people
just see that and they just want to get
out and pull out and that's smart in
some respects it reflects some decent
instincts but then there's also a really
basic dividing line here I want to bring
more people over to the side of a true
global solidarity politics
you know that can get a little bit a
ferial at times I understand you know
sometimes people need to deal with their
own communities and own contexts first
and foremost I don't have any objection
to that but I do think that for an
actual left project there is an
internationalist component to it there's
a global component to it and certainly
when you have a group like the Pyg and
the Kurds in rojava
and what and some of the things that
they've been able to accomplish and what
they're attempting they clearly are for
a variety of reasons um those we should
have solidarity with and support and in
addition you know and so and I think and
I think this broader uh some of these
themes are coming up in this book I'm
writing and I think that I'll just as a
tease for it like I'll let you go man
thanks so much for the question
I think that there's a internationalist
cosmopolitanism is a great answer to
both sort of the right-wing kind of a
historical sort of smuggling of racism
and and and reductionism through as well
as some of the real pitfalls and
failures of what some people call
identity politics and modern usage
there's the whole other realm that's
opened in a material way through a
global Marxist tradition but also
through people who focus much more
explicitly on sources of democratic
legitimacy community identity writers
like Anthony Appiah and Amartya Sen that
helped transcend and get to a better
place in that debate but you know that's
where I'm coming from and that means
that you have solidarity woodrow java
and as I've said in other context it
also means that even as of course I
oppose and object to US imperialism I
also oppose and object to Turkish
Chinese Russian any imperialism and I
also think that people on the periphery
in in any sense
need to use what tools are available so
if the tool available for the like the
idea that some people sitting on their
asses here would be criticizing ro Java
Kurds for having like an alliance of
convenience with the United States so
that they can have a political
experiment and not be ethnically cleanse
is you know it's immoral it's stupid
it's delusional it's every adjective I
can throw at it and conversely as I've
said before if a Chinese presence in
Latin America helps as a counterweight
against us and and you know I'm
certainly Brazil under this new fascist
regime would back the efforts to have a
coup in Brazil and Venezuela then good
Venezuela should take that support from
whether it be China or Russia so it's
some fusion of real global solidarity
and then actually being a little bit
savvy and a little bit thoughtful about
how power plays out in different
contexts and just having a
one-dimensional I don't like the US
isn't gonna get you to a real place of
solving problems you're calling from a
408 area code who are you where you're
calling from
408 are you there all right you're
calling from a 509 area code who are you
where you're calling from a Michael this
is Ronald Reagan is a great Ronald
Reagan MVP caller how are you thanks man
good how are you doing I'm good it's
good to be talking with you thanks the
the Trump McDonald's thing or fast food
thing reminded me of how he likes the
steak with ketchup and it's like an
example of how he's really sort of got
this in infant mind still like my
nephews met one of my sisters does not
feed her kids very well and like we'll
have like one time they came over and we
had Indian food and we got them
butter chicken which is really just like
chicken with sweet buttery sauce right
and they wouldn't eat it because it's
not like wrapped in paper she
and so she had to take him out
afterwards to get you know whatever
McDonald's or something and it just knew
that like the president has a child
brain and he his foot and he was so
excited about that dinner because as
president he's forced to sit at all
these dinners and things with like
actual food and he saw this as an
opportunity to to like you know he
thought that everyone was going to be on
board because he sort of projects his
own infant brain on to other people but
well it reminds me of I don't remember I
wish I could remember more of the
specifics but there was some summit in
South Korea and you know of course at
all these summits you get served great
food but like it was something like I
think there was like like a soy sauce
that had been like aged for like a
hundred years or something it was some
type of like it sounded like one of the
most incredible meals one could like
conceive of like if you were just like I
want to have this like really amazing
you know and there would be this there
would be that and this thing would be
aged for this amount of time and I think
he I don't know what do I think he
basically just like oh they can I get
steak
they got burgers eventually yeah it's
like God you went to the bathroom and
ate a Butterfinger that was good right
it's like it's actually because we were
talking about how it's 20 years sopranos
like anniversary time and there's that
great scene in Italy it's like the great
arc of Paulie walnuts actually just
having like a terrible trip in Italy is
one of the funniest things that ever
happened in Sopranos and one of the
things is he's you know he's at a
basement and it's like this real like
you know not a basement it's like a
private like they've they have the
restaurants cleared out it's this
beautiful Italian trattoria and it's a
mafia dinner and you know one could only
imagine how good the food like you want
Italian food just looking at what
they're eating and then he tries to say
like to the waiter he's just like it's
not really the way I could just get some
pasta and gravy and they're just like
maybe great
what's gravy and then he's like he goes
you know tomato sauce and then one of
the guys is like nah not gravy bah bah
bah and he tells the waiter what to get
and he looks at his friends and he's
like and we thought Germans were like
classless pieces of exactly
bring me some SpaghettiOs Yeah right hey
I wanted to tell you a story real quick
I've called in about this client I have
who was arrested in October she's a
single mother of six and she has a five
month old baby and they detained her
because of a 2008 deportation at the
border so ten years ago she tried to
come in and was deported and that makes
her subject to detention so we were
trying all throughout October to get her
released which they're allowed to do she
has some pending relief and she's got
six kids and was like nursing her but
her baby and all of this information we
sent to ice you know please just let
this person out put an ankle monitor on
her whatever you need to do and they
refused and so she's got her she's got a
what amounts of similar to asylum but
basically an asylum hearing in February
that I'm trying to get ready for it's
you know another form of relief that she
qualifies for and you know she's had to
wait since October she's still detained
and I got an email this morning from her
removal officer saying she's now
undergoing a new custody review because
it's been 90 days and they want me to
answer all these questions and their
questions are like first of all they're
things that have already answered things
like does she have a place to live does
she have family in the United States but
then there's other questions like what's
her employment history her educational
level does she have any vocational
training and it's like it just I don't
know if they're going to let her out now
that they've had 90 days to think about
it but she it shows exactly how
arbitrary this is and how we're we're
locking people up
literally for for no reason if after 90
days you can just reassess and you know
literally nothing has changed and I
think it it really gets to the heart of
the arbitrary nature of what we're doing
yeah but yeah so hopefully she gets out
that I mean that would be great although
it's annoying because I've been you know
working on these briefing deadlines for
a while but yeah our our policy is
really I guess I've made that
point before but no but it needs to keep
being made is there something going on
with that the bail like that sort of
like revolving yeah yeah could you talk
could you remind everybody about that
yes so we raised about $15,000 for one
of my clients who bonded out I think it
was back in October I have a website up
and the nonprofit organized through the
states I've got all that stuff in place
I applied for nonprofit status from the
IRS and back in October and it's just
pending and so I'm waiting to get
nonprofit status so that people who
contribute can deduct their
contributions from their taxes and once
that's in place I'll make a sort of more
formal launch at the website and
everything but yeah the guy who bonded
out is you know doing good he's working
he's his first hearings not till I think
next month but if the government still
shut down I mean who knows so yeah
that's what's going on with that it's
been frustrating I called the IRS about
a month and a half ago and they just
said yeah we have your paperwork and
it's ending so that's that all right
yeah well and also of course listen to
the redirect immigration law and
prospectives great podcast which I
listened to on the wreck
thanks Ron thanks for the plug picker no
thank you I also have to think oh sorry
uh Ronald Reagan for I sent me the
drinking man's Diet Cookbook the
successor to the phenomenal bestseller
the drinking man's diet I was gonna ask
if that was the follow-up to the
drinking man stuff yeah it is
that's why yeah looks like came out
maybe in the 70s
so thank you Ronald Reagan for this I'm
appreciative you're calling from a 301
area code who are you where he calling
from hey what's up Michael its Vic from
Maryland hey Vic what's going on what's
on your mind a lot so basically I don't
know I just want to talk about like the
experience but a lot of people around DC
and the suburbs of DC are having right
now yep because there's just a ton of
people around here who work for the
federal government and you know both
people in the household do yeah and so
like my household my neighbors like to
my neighbors there's no income coming in
right and everyone's panicking like it
is kind of surreal like um you know
people are just talking about you know
what are we gonna this is a pretty
affluent neighborhood you know but
people are you know worrying about the
rent and car insurance and it's just it
just goes to show that even if you're
you know a white-collar worker you know
you're you make you know eight thousand
four thousand dollars a year people are
still living paycheck to paycheck at
that income level definitely it's so I
just wanna you know let it never know
that I'm not trying to be like oh it
sucks for us you know up here up in the
middle class too but I mean no it sucks
where everyone right now it does it does
I don't think look look we need to
expand I mean there is a demonization
and lack of focus on poverty and the
poor in this country which is striking
and people need to have a much more
clear understanding
of poverty across the board there's no
doubt but on but then conversely I mean
look the 99 versus the 1% formulation is
very smart it's both correct in a lot of
ways and you know savvy politics we need
to have some basic grand premises that
there can be massive across-the-board
organizing around you know things like
Medicare for all obviously things like
free college things like you know
student debt relief things like in fact
the green New Deal free public
transportation I mean all of this stuff
actually when you really branch out the
implications of these things it has
massive implications positively for
almost everybody across the board who
aren't essentially oligarchs and you
know this dynamic this is a dynamic in a
different context you know Chris Hayes
put his finger on some of this and
Twilight it elites which is a good book
people should read that book and he
talks about how you know out of the
financial crisis there was also a lot of
people who had been you know what Bill
Clinton called people who work hard and
play by the rules and unfortunately
Elizabeth Warren echoes some of that
rhetoric which is something I don't like
that she's doing and you know this but
this idea that like you know maybe I'm
I'm upper-middle class I work hard I did
all the things that you're supposed to
quote-unquote do and now like my kids
gonna not make ever make more money than
me things are just you know things have
just genuinely generally across the
board just down scaled and depreciate it
or maybe even like you know you talk to
people again look other people have it
worse no doubt but this isn't a
competition it's about solving and
creating a different dynamic for
everybody there's people who you know
say they made you know 160 thousand a
year
blah blah blah they had a family things
were good and now that same person you
know savings wiped out by Wall Street
mismanagement and wiped and and and
and you know criminality now maybe
they're in a position where they're
making 50 a year and debts piled up on a
variety of things and maybe they're
sandwiched in between on one hand you
know parents that they need to help
because of the insufficiency even though
of course Medicare and Social Security
are huge but still there's a lot of
senior poverty and problems and then uh
you know kids on the other end that can
barely be in the job market and are
suffocated with student debts so I mean
yeah it this way of doing the economy is
only good for Wyatt Koch and Wyatt Koch
like things right like it does not work
for most people appreciate the call man
thank you so much and speaking of which
though here is a totally different
perspective in the interest of being
fair about the government shutdown
because maybe Vic was being a little bit
melodramatic there when he talked about
how people in the DC suburbs are
starting to get really anxious because
they can't pay bills they can't
financially plan people up and down the
economic scale are getting hit really
hard by Mitch McConnell's complete we
already know he's totally Craven and
immoral his own political survival will
always come first he doesn't want to be
primary so he'll keep this shutdown
going and of course the demented milk
brain bigoted trust fund baby president
is having a tantrum because I don't know
Rush Limbaugh or some other fascist
toxic influence on the culture basically
got word to him that he isn't Manning up
on the border wall so this is affecting
real people's lives but here is um Kevin
Hassett
who's an economic adviser to Donald
Trump he's appearing on the NewsHour on
PBS and he's gonna give us another
perspective on this let's check this out
a couple of other topics uh is the
government shutdown gonna have a
negative impact on the economy
particularly if it drags on workers are
furloughed and right now it's about 25%
of government workers are furloughed
which means that they are not allowed to
go
work but then when the shutdown ends
they go back to work and they get their
back pay huge share of government
workers were going to take vacation days
say between Christmas and New Year's and
then we have a shutdown and so they
can't go to work and so then they have
the vacation but they don't have to use
their vacation days and then they come
back and then they get their back pay
then they're in some sense they're
better off so no long-term long-term
economic effect short-term we could
definitely see it in the numbers but in
terms of something that viewers should
be nervous about no there's not going to
be a negative effect okay so yes that is
I mean that's a psychopath that's a
purely psychopathic response it reframes
a lot of things for me I remember after
I graduated college into the economic
crisis going through extended periods of
scrapping together freelance jobs and
being also just jobless and doing things
like couch surfing and I had no idea
that I was really just on an extended
vacation I didn't have health care I
didn't always have enough food I was in
a constant state of stress but really
what I was doing was catching up on
reading that really framed I mean look
there's major macroeconomic long-term
implications of an economy that's
already pointing towards going into
recession just even on a cyclical level
right like we don't going eight nine ten
years without a recession is highly
unusual in capitalism capitalism is
unstable capitalism fluctuates
capitalism is fundamentally dangerous
plus none of this sort of big
macroeconomic wrongs like fundamental
reform of Wall Street like betting on
people's loans in a already compressed
economy where people can barely survive
and have to put things on credit cards
that's about that's more than half the
population from education to cars to
housing
we're already going towards that plus
all of the other indicators that people
don't talk about when they mean when
they say quote-unquote the economy like
mass inequality and gaps and all of the
other structural problems that have been
exasperated by the big 2017 tax giveaway
to the oligarchs of this country but so
a government shutdown and that impacts
on spending and planning and people's
also natural desire to pull back from
that is going to have economic effects
in the long term but that's also just
the complete disregard for the raw the
sociopathic psyche the psychopath is
right now people are not able to buy
food necessarily they're defaulting on
loans like some people are getting
automatic voided messages from the IRS
because the IRS of course IRS workers
you can't call and get service from the
IRS right now so picture scenario where
you get an automated message from the
IRS saying that it's going to give you
an asset forfeiture if you don't pay but
then you can't call them to negotiate
something so that's the situation we're
in and Hackett is there having a
vacation which of course runs parallel
to his stupid buffoon jackass
trust fund baby boss saying well you
know you work it out just like I would
have liked getting loans from dad this
is standard Republican stuff - this is
Jeb Bush after one of the hillary-bernie
debates talking about wanting a
recession in DC leave office and he will
accumulate more debt than every other
president before him combined you heard
the laundry list a new New Deal free
college education for everybody free
health care for children expanding
Social Security and Medicare in-state
tuition rates for for illegal immigrants
similarly Obama care subsidies for
illegal immigrants how the argument that
you're going to give people something
for free might be appealing to a lot of
people how do you make the argument that
bankrupting the country is not a good
idea to get there
well I think you have to we have the
benefit now of all this all this this
philosophy of offering free things to
people not working people the wrong
track numbers in this country are
historically high and they stay high
because people see declining incomes
right they've lost control they don't
think the system works for them I think
the better message is let's disrupt
Washington let's create a little bit of
a recession in Washington DC so that we
can have economic prosperity outside of
Washington and I know how to do that
because I was governor of a state that
did I got to do that as governor and the
state led the nation in job growth seven
out of eight years that kind of attitude
of cutting taxes cutting government
spending reforming the things that are
broken or what we need and I think in
this environment okay right yes they're
absolutely right there's again nothing
special about Trump here this is all
standard do not new folks they don't
mind that's right or or he wouldn't be
doing it who wouldn't be allowed to a
hundred percent we've seen I mean the
the any handful of things like that or
like you know Paul Ryan would come out
and be like you can't do this on tariffs
and they'd be like uh saying something
you know racist on Twitter yeah I'll get
into that now look at Twitter secret
identity politics I feel like I I'm
pretty sure I hope this is a joke but I
will definitely read this this I am
should definitely be read in the Bernie
or bust Bill Clinton voice your stance
on the Kurds is fine Michael but if you
ever considered who cares about
what happens in India we almost elected
a war criminal for sake and
you're not giving dude to Tulsi Gabbard
due process either try that on
Tulsi Gabbard just apologized for saying
all those things about electrocuting gay
kids now it sounds like you owe her an
apology I don't know she ever said she
went to electrocute gay kids I think she
had defended a gay conversion therapy
which is obviously highly abusive I
don't know if that involves
electrocuting um I think it can I think
I mean I've heard it brought up in the
pence
context so yeah maybe that is
just a joke but I don't know I think
there might actually be some reality
behind that Jesus Christ Nick from
Manitoba hey mr. Brooks great show today
have you ever considered going by the
name ezm because of your flawless
finesse and ease with which you slake
scumbag right-wing ideologue Michael's
been trying to get us yeah trying tried
yeah exactly I said hi Matt welcome
aboard could you call me easy am I'm
trying to make that a thing yeah Sam and
Michael hey maze-like hey dude you can
call me easy
hey dude welcome I'm easy M I appreciate
more international stories in my packet
stay cool bro a square great to meet you
by the way just jumping in now Mike
you're so right these people are
psychopaths so the shutdown is a
vacation response is not surprising this
is another one remember mama Bush's
comment about Katrina working well for
you people while folks were destitute
and desperate in the Superdome exactly
Rabbi kook since Reagan brought it up I
know Trump was hoping that the guests
didn't eat all the fast food so he can
take the leftovers upstairs for a bed
feast after work
that is so disgusting so true
there's gonna be a little bits of fry in
that room for like the next three
presidents I guarantee it definitely I
guarantee you he was monitoring and
limiting which each person took myths
nectar this week this week on strategy
my co-host BOM Cara grossest and I
talked about 2020 with the wise Tom
Watson we asked why are the Bernie bros
insisting that brain power isn't the new
currency of success is it because they
want to harvest your brains and organs
through Medicare for all maybe reminder
to the podcast and my good friend Billy
Dee Williams will give you free passes
to use the phrase black people are magic
Yas Queen
like Twitter in heaven Oh Bernie like
what is Tom Watson I know I see him all
the time I'm like who is where's this
platform coming from I am blocked by him
that's the only reason I know who he is
I'll see somebody try to dunk on him and
I assume it's like Jordan Peterson or I
don't have a lot of donuts that have
blocked me but Tom Watson is
preemptively blocked me before I even
knew who he was the thing that has
amazes me about like people like Tom
Watson who I assume and I maybe maybe I
shouldn't say Tom Watson cuz I really
have no idea what his background is but
it's like people who generated that
donut Twitter thing through mostly being
just like weird sort of adjacent Clinton
people in some capacity like that's
that's where like this sort of seed
comes from and one of the things one of
the most damning indictments about the
Clintons has always been I mean of
course I mean their records but the
thing that you could have just said like
before you even went anywhere else would
be like who would wallet who would spend
time with Dick Morris or Lonny Davis I
mean like those are the most extreme
ends but then Robby Mook Terry McAuliffe
like I have a soft spot for Carville but
I mean they they just they accumulate
both of them like the worst from the top
strategist to the like random internet
troll and so these are the same people
that would you know it's just very funny
to watch people that like you know a
couple years ago would be like oh I like
the conversation about welfare in the
90s was really different and now today
all of a sudden be like when Bernie
supported expanding snap that was racist
it's quite a bizarre group of people um
speaking of look sometimes I should just
frame these segments as we're about to
heavily criticize somebody but really
this is in their own best interest
there's clearly a need for generational
new blood in politics obviously the big
three AOC Rashidah to live in la Omar
providing that on a grassroots level
Chokwe Lumumba what he's doing as mayor
uh unfortunately for a variety of
economic and cultural moment reasons I
think we could basically skip gen-x I
don't need the Cory Booker Gillibrand
new blood that's okay you don't want to
hear the Hakeem Nicks Kamala Harris
mixtape that's coming out that bad
means-testing that's really okay I'd say
I don't want it cuz I just can't like we
got to save the substance but um
Camille Harris put out her like mood mix
thing for one of those like a little
bear yeah one of those things right and
it was very like okay I you know it's
here's the thing calmly Harris sticks
out for me because I actually found like
of all of the candidates trying to do a
no bomb first of all none of them should
be trying to do an Obama impression
Barack Obama's Barack Obama
you're not Barack Obama Barack Obama is
one of the most talented politicians in
the history of the United States of
America okay and beta will Rourke is a
little bit charming
he ain't Barack Obama Cory Booker
certainly he's not Barack Obama and
comma Harris is definitely not Barack
Obama but actually she is she's oak like
she's she's more plausible than others
in terms of like okay this is a likable
person I get it she's smart she's
likable and I even believe that she
actually does listen to some of that
music right and that it wasn't just
curated by staffers but when she when
she talked about sun is shining by Bob
Marley I was like how many people who
were having a Sun and shining experience
in California did you put in jail or
like
separate from their kids when you are an
extremely aggressive prosecutor
including of these horrific drug laws in
this country that have ruined so many
lives so that being said Nancy Pelosi of
the people that were untapped now okay
progressives need to be really shrewd
with her she's already played them on
some of these moves no doubt and her
position on Pago is atrocious but of
what was on tap Nancy Pelosi was the
undoubted pick for Speaker of the House
and she's showing a certain degree of
savvy if I could channel Anna Navarro
for a second in dealing with Trump her
number two in the house who has always
uh you know there's always been a
certain tension between Nancy Pelosi and
Steny Hoyer because the Steny Hoyer
wants the top job he's never gonna get
it unless you know something you know
terrible happens that we don't want to
put out in a scenario but he's not gonna
get that job and I would like to invite
him to retire very quickly I'm sure he
has a lovely family I'm sure he has
grandchildren I'm sure he has hobbies
seems like a nice enough Maryland guy
whatever and it's definitely definitely
what is it King Lear to like sit in the
shade and talk of old times something
like that something in Shakespeare that
I'm not remembering but it's that time
for Steny Hoyer check out this profound
fail on seventy percent tax rates for
the ultra wealthy that AOC is so
effectively injecting into the
mainstream
do you support raising the marginal tax
rate on the wealthiest Americans to as
high as sixty or seventy percent
no I don't but having said that we need
to pay for what we buy and I think
that's a very important concept and we
need to get the deficit down and we're
going to have to pay for that so while I
think a 70% marginal rate which by the
way was it existed some decades ago is
right not reasonable to attain either
politically or frankly I think from a
policy standpoint we need to make sure
that we have a tax system that in fact
provides the revenues necessary to pay
for our priorities and our needs okay go
away now go play golf thank you your
services are no longer required
goodbye Steny Hoyer is on tape trying to
bully a progressive candidate out of a
Democratic primary you voted for the
invasion of Iraq who has cushy
relationships with every type of
corporate lobbyists in Washington
imaginable and has no significant
legislative achievements very few if any
- his name is out first playing - a
politics of like 1991 with pablum
deficit talk then you could tell how a
OSI has actually changed the context
because instead of just saying I was
ridiculous he is saying look what we
used to actually do this and then
providing no effective rebuttal as to
why we shouldn't now which include you
know look we shouldn't waste money on
the deficits though that wasn't in
purpose we shouldn't waste money on the
deficit stuff we have things we need we
need to transition the economy from
fossil fuels we need to create Medicare
for all we need to make College free
we need free public transportation we
need all of these basic robust agendas
immediately as part of a broader
transition to a more durable in just
world obviously but he didn't even have
I mean he even could have said after the
deficit problem that's why we need to
look seriously at tax rates and you know
what it was only a couple decades ago
there were much higher rates and the
economy did really well and blah blah
blah
dude just retire
just go away some lobbyists and staffers
will miss you but nobody else
it's a paraphrase Jeb Bush I like to see
a recession and Steny Hoyer
congressional offices it's okay just
just leave you were in Congress for
decades dude you played your part yeah I
don't like adding to the whole term
limits conversation unless it's focusing
more on the sort of unelected jobs and
government right because I think it just
helps conservatives but there's a pretty
strong case for it especially I mean
with regards to I mean I mean yeah I
don't know definitely in the Senate at
least we should turn live with some of
these people um no doubt I think we
should term limits some people off of
the view was or at least the Supreme
Court let's start there I was gonna make
order was very against the term limits
of leadership for the Democratic Party
yeah yeah I bet he was shoveling broken
contracts the pharma companies and
looking out for my district on narrow
parochial ways and doing boring
uninspired TV it's four decades
I want creep goddamn doing it I think
there should be term limits for people
in the view particularly talentless
trust fund babies the Meghan McCain
anxiety attack continues but this time
it's not about attacks on her trust fund
baby riches now it's about race Romney
hurt math there's no there's a list of
people that I'm just saying more people
should come out he should be he should
step down I don't have patient Steve
King we're talking about who's for this
I don't think anybody has tolerance for
this in any way I would like us to my
lord and path except for the entirety of
the Republican Party that supported him
in his reelection including Chuck
Grassley did a video for him by the way
even as of a week ago even as all the
other people were jumping ship and the
new media climate after the election Ted
Cruz didn't fully denounce Steve King
and I believe still said he would accept
support from so your big wide point
she's totally wrong on an even narrow
point also wrong
I don't have patience for this I don't
think anybody has tolerance for this in
any way I would like us to move forward
and pass things that I thought were done
in the 60s apparently they are not he's
a bad dude should he be standing down
should he be soon anything to get him
the hell out of Congress I don't really
care I'm sorry I mean dude you didn't
know that like this this is what I mean
one need not watch all of eyes on the
prize as documentary though they should
one need not read histories of the civil
rights movement or certainly god forbid
something like you know about the Black
Panthers or something I mean whoa I
don't want to give I don't want her to
actually have you know a seizure from
her you know class anxiety and
entitlement anxiety but like okay I know
we're in the world now where a guy like
Jordan Peterson doesn't know the basics
of civil rights law and it's called the
most important intellectual in the
Western world but like you're the
daughter of a guy who served in the
Senate for decades you comment on
politics for a living and you didn't
know that this stuff was quote unquote
taking care of in the 60s and
incidentally you didn't also know that
the party you support has been steadily
gutting all of those things in Congress
as well as the Supreme Court I mean of
course I'm sure she wouldn't know that
part but I mean not even the sixties
part come on crap like I'm a political
analyst I don't want to keep reliving
stuff that I thought we had passed by a
long time a bit I'm sorry I don't think
other people want to relive it either
you know like the people who are on the
receiving end of it and aren't
multi-millionaire trust fund babies in a
studio maybe in history they're only
twenty cows that had been pushed out the
the problem that some people have is
from was hard he wasn't voted in by like
a board you know he was noted in by his
what get there's no pressure from
Republicans in the party and Mitch
McConnell and leaders and people like
you and I on TV the pressure mounts
we've seen it in different fields why
can't it be the same and they strip all
of his duties so you're in office but
there's really nothing you can actually
do there and that's what censoring is so
they've taken him off his committee so
he's really doesn't have a
this is the time to do it I mean I
remember joy you were pretty upset when
Al Franken stepped down and I think the
Democrats wanted to take the moral high
ground and he did they get that did they
get anywhere with it right but
Republicans now with this I think could
make such a significant statement by
forcing him to resign but will
Republicans now step up to the plate
with Donald Trump because he has been
using I think the border wall as sort of
this dog whistle for racism the
government is still shut down and I
think it's all about let's not let all
these brown people in right unless
they're working for farmers unless
they're working in agriculture so now
will the Republican Party's step up to
him and say we don't want to be there
anymore there's 42 percent of this
country that isn't worth the wall are
they all racist that's a good question I
don't think so I didn't I'm not a basil
daddy believe it I don't know it is
Donald Trump racist okay so the point is
I mean that's ridiculous I mean of
course the answer to Donald Trump is yes
and the answer to the 22% thing is yeah
probably like it depends look it depends
how look if you define racism in any
functional sense the answer is yes as
holding racist ideas the answer is yes
it's way higher than 42% it's well right
that's what it look the way Republicans
want to define it no it isn't 4010 Klan
rallies yes now if you want to define it
in a more reality-based way the answer
would be like every single white person
and I'm not interested like look I again
I'm not interested in like the
performance and the signaling politics
of this but like the gist historical
reality of this country is one that
white supremacist ideas have been in
cultured in this country that's part and
parcel of the economic and political
development of this country it's it's
inescapable it's the air we breathe now
can it be changed through politics
is it a metaphysical static fact no I
reject the argument that says it is but
it's the water we're swimming in so this
is actually a really good departure
point here because if on one end you
have the Republican just denial of
racism which is racism which is that
unless you're at a Klan rally you're not
racist even though all of their
leadership is racist even though they're
constantly running racist campaigns and
then you know maybe there's um I'm not
equivalent in any way because we're not
drawing a false equivalency but another
dynamic that would sort of oh yeah this
is a good this is an example uh Chuck
Johnson who as far as I know I don't
know very much about him I've heard that
he denies the Holocaust I believe he got
kicked off of Twitter for racist
statements if I understand correctly
here he is throwing the with Richard
spend it's definitely not white power
white power son yeah here he is throwing
a white power sign next to Richard
Spencer and here he was yesterday
walking with representative Philip Rowe
and andy harris those are two congress
Republican members of the House
Republican caucus again this is a racist
party there's debates inside the left
about the distinctions of how you deal
with racism in terms of organizing
spaces and I mean there's there's a lot
of complexities to that debate and I
have critiques of how some of these
things get played out that I don't think
are smart I don't think are effective I
think you know again there's a lot of
nuances to this conversation but I would
actually say that the 42% number is a
great meeting ground of having it like
that is expanding it in a way that makes
absolute sense which is that if you have
bought into a policy structure that is
predicated on a conspiracy theory and is
predicated purely on racial fear and
paranoia then yes by any functional use
of the term you're racist now could that
change
but some of these people be educated so
you know I have to say maybe because
again I don't want to assert it as a
metaphysical static fact but in that
conversation
well 42 percent of people are interested
in security no they're not that that's
to end security I don't I don't think
she's actually doing it in this way but
Security's a dog whistle yeah okay
everybody knows what that means and you
have Tucker Carlson doing crypto Nazi
talking points every night on the main
right-wing channel in the United States
on cable news
acquainting this stuff and actually
spelling out what this actually means
for people which is my neighborhood
looks different okay and yes that is
indeed racism so by any funk I actually
love that 42% number because it's like
the real and broader answer is like yes
everybody as a historical contingency
we're all subsumed in it if you have
been uh you know if your essentialist
identities been created as white and
that isn't you know I know some idiots
Walt ripe you well do blah blah blah
that's just historical reality read a
 book this is why I didn't want
to just to button it if you want it but
if you want to make that point really
concrete I think that's a very that that
42 percent number is actually a really
good way to operationalize it has your
paranoia and delusions about this stuff
gotten operationalized such a point that
you support shutting down the federal
government to support a fake policy over
an imaginary problem that purely flows
out of that paranoia yup great so we got
42 people 42 percent of people that need
a whole hell of a lot of work this is
why I always reference Ephraim Kennedy's
stamp from the beginning yeah because
the introduction talks about about
racist ideas he himself has had about
black people and I think for a lot of
white people they need to see a black
person do something before they can
figure out how to do it so yeah check
that out but we have we have a guest on
the line here also
is he there Sam yeah I am can you guys
hear me yes
oh hello yeah we can hear you what's up
I'm just testing out this new how does
it sound sounds good it sounds really I
would say it sounds like it sounds a bit
thin and there's a bit of maybe a
background hum like static I don't know
but what about now better how's that is
that better a little bit better yeah yep
a little bit better all right I'm gonna
just change it oh also steny hoyer
right let me just change the way that
I'm talking on the phone hold on one
second let me folks is a live technical
test you must have been dealing
relations you must have been dealing
with Steny Hoyer for a while yourself
actually no he's always been a corporate
that's what I'm saying like dealing with
him as just a total hacking problem the
the biggest problem that that Steny
Hoyer is created is because of the
enormous amount of financial money that
he gets as a congressman he had the
ability to go around and raise money for
other people which is why he was such an
effective whip and for a long time on
the left before there was technology
that made it possible to filter money
efficiently small donors to someone like
AOC or to you know other Congress people
this was a real disadvantage on the left
because you know Jim McGovern from
Worcester who's a very progressive
member of the House he's great
he can't go around and raise money for
other House members in the way the Steny
Hoyer can because he's got to raise
money for himself right and so but that
dynamic is changing
speaking of dynamic let me unplug this
and try this dynamic how does it sound
in this situation I think that's even
better
both sorry new did you tell Mort no it
sounds better yeah sounds better it
sounds better yep and you're not getting
any feedback from when you speak are you
Michael no I'm not getting any feedback
it says sometimes I don't know what the
right there's like a slight clicking
there's a little oh wait a digital
poeple oh there's a digital pop and
there is feedback now well we can hear
Michaels mic a little bit yeah what is
that you can you're hearing yourself
come back all just in the background
yeah all right well just how about now
Michael can you hear yourself
uh yes still a problem yep let's see uh
now no no yeah it's a problem yep okay
interesting
all right well screw steny hoyer and
wait wait hold on one second Sam listen
to this drop don't worry we saved
everything for tomorrow but listen to
this well I hold on for one second
because I'm not sure I can match got to
make sure that he filters the audio into
okay it's all right yep go ahead you
ready to play that yeah the drop we're
just to drop the drop don't worry we're
how are we saving that we got like three
brilliant mashup videos already made
I saw one last night at like midnight
and I stayed up until like 3:00 in the
morning to watch it a hundred times
[Laughter]
folks don't forget tomorrow we're gonna
be starting early 11 a.m.
David Feldman all right thanks Sam okay
doctor have a I had no idea what you I
thought you were putting something in
that I had to do with the border wall
pulling I was like what the hell is that
i okay wait so is there I mean clipping
wise recover the clip is over okay now
speaking of where Abbey Huntsman and
Meghan McCain if they're curious might
get some decent information on what's
really happening with the racial nature
of that 42% of craziness that support
this wall Tucker Carlson would be a
great place to start now there's this
whole broader argument about how do you
respond to when Tucker Carlson makes a
point that's right that's generic about
financialization about capitalism or
even sometimes about intervention now my
point has always been well unfortunately
you got to look at the broader context
and you got to look at what he's really
smuggling in with those arguments which
are almost always xenophobia and bigotry
and not redistribution and even in a
military sense and even an intervention
sense almost all of his content seems to
me has been just trying to sort of clean
up an Assad image as an example I don't
see a broader anti-war effort there and
let me give you a contrast if Tucker
Carlson was really serious about this
anti interventionist agenda I actually
know I read profile Tucker Carlson
several years ago where he said some
things about Iran that you would not
expect to hear from a right-wing pundit
if Tucker Carlson was really on any anti
interventionist game he would be
pounding the Trump administration and
the Republicans for destroying the Iran
deal and for trying to foment conflict
with Iran he would be throwing at mate
maybe he did comments on the report that
John Bolton asked to draw up plans to
bomb Iran maybe he did but that would be
a nightly topic in fact obviously we're
so overwhelmed that we haven't covered
that nearly enough that was appalling
horrifying of course you could talk
about intervention in Syria and critique
it but look at the context look at the
fascism he smuggles in when he talks
about real economic issues and if he was
really into a global anti-war push he
would be putting every single public
official on notice almost all of whom
right now in the Republican Party but
certainly Democrats and certainly
Gulf and Israeli lobbying groups that
he's going to be the voice in far-right
media for the Iran deal
now that would be something that would
be real and I frankly wouldn't have
anything to say about it I would have to
get I would I would tip my hat every
single segment if that was the case but
ain't there another thing that people
are really fixated on is this Russia
thing and I think that maybe in this
office we might have the least interest
in the Russia story of anybody because
I'm not interested in obsessively
debunking it the way some people seem to
be and I certainly don't know it might
be a relatively unimportant story
relative to everything going on in the
world and the only way to really
understand it to the extent that's real
is another question of oligarchy and
influence-peddling
and we'll see that's really the other
bottom line we're gonna see the guys
gonna write his report we'll see there's
very little to talk about before they
got Kremlinology about it is just a
waste of time we'll see we'll see now
look I have no problem using I think to
the effect that the extent has been used
to hurt Trump that's great I have no
problem with it and I think Senate's
been used to actually try to have a
seriously intensified hostile
relationship with Russia that's a
problem
although incidentally I would say to
other people were constantly you know
sort of freaking out about this well you
know Trump stepping out of and talking
about reigniting a new arms race is
actually way more important than a
couple of targeted sanctions I hope
people are aware of that which I don't
necessarily support either and in fact I
would have voted against the Russia
sanction package because there was an
Iran sanctions package in it as well and
the Iran deal is way more important than
this so all that being said look at
Tucker Carlson coming up with the most
incredible reason to oppose the green
New Deal and I thought he was a
anti-war voice might be one way I've
heard put you might also encourage the
u.s. to adopt a self-destructive energy
policy you'd have the American
government sharply restrict the
exploration of oil and natural gas in
the name of the environment so that
America produces less energy why would
you do that because global energy prices
would rise and the US would have to
import more who would that benefit
Russia a Petro state their economy is
dependent on energy but Trump and this
is weird behavior for a secret Russian
ian has done just the opposite of that
the United States for the first time in
my lifetime is an energy exporter in
fact it's the largest producer of oil
and gas in the world is that good for
Russia
no it's not who's pushing the opposite
Oh weirdly it's the left they're the
ones pushing a green new deal that would
have this country shutting down oil and
gas wells across the nation huh someday
we're going to look back in shame and
confusion and wonder how so many
supposedly smart people went completely
off the deep end there's some truth to
that last part and but that truth is
going to be a quite broadly spread and
talked about and it's also going to
include a trust-fund baby
air cynical media commentators who
attempted to Midwife fascism in the
United States that might be part of a
broader group of people who went off of
the quote-unquote deep end now look
Trump hits this talking point all the
time and everybody who knows that the
questions about Russia and what Trump
may or may not be doing about Russia
don't result don't revolve around energy
questions they revolve around questions
about his aides around business steals
around why he doesn't want the
conversations he had with Putin to be
available even for his own advisors
right and again I say this somebody
who's really not particularly interested
in this at the moment till we know more
information and then there's the other
point that goes back and I forget the
name of the guy he was on the show a
couple of months after Trump won and
he's an energy guy and he said look this
is an energy administration and even if
superficially there's a conflict with
Russia these are the inner Saudi Arabia
Russia the United States they want to
keep expanding drilling and powering
forward with the petrol economy damming
all ecological and survival of human
species implications right so if they're
teamed up on these broader questions of
blocking a fundamental change to the
energy economy and don't forget that all
of these mean and
economy companies are global operators
that profit off of energy deals across
the world it's in a global market that's
the proper way of looking at it versus
these small-scale stories about energy
exports which aren't particularly
significant to begin with and of course
god forbid our you know who would ever
even want to bring this up you know
destroying our ability to survive as a
species and harming the United States
right now well and to talk about
changing the government wanting to
change our energy you know policies or
infrastructure fracking itself was a
Department of Energy invention basically
that's where the research and
development came forward you can find
that that's on energy gov right um so
like the idea that you wouldn't also use
the government to say hey maybe we
should like start producing the out
of solar panels or win like of course
you do that of course nicely it's not it
this should not be a no-brainer and you
can even do like that's the whole like
Tom Friedman style like I would never
frame it in these terms so not the point
but you could say like yeah we need to
be it and you know look it's not the
point
ultimately but actually in a narrow
sense it might be if you're running for
a campaign for president it might be we
need to take over China's leaving us in
the dust when it comes to things like
solar panels and breakthroughs in
battery and other innovative
energy-efficient technologies so instead
of despoiling what remains of our
natural ecosystems to score small points
on a midsize regional economic power
maybe we should be trying to figure out
how to incentivize us keeping up with
the next phase of industrial development
which is sustainable energy which china
for all of its unbelievable problems in
the environment is leading us on but i
thought he was you know opposed to that
sort of any competition with russia
you're calling from a 6-1 o-- area code
who are you where you calling from hello
hello hello hello you're on
if with me yeah this is you what's your
name where are you calling from
um this is Sofia I'm calling from
Manhattan hey Sofia what's I have to
step out but I'm calling about two
things one serious one not very curious
the first thing is the shutdown I'm
active in the central Brooklyn TSA and
we were talking about the the hunger
strike that started two days ago in the
lower in a prison in lower Manhattan and
I was trying to find information about
it but the only thing I can find is one
near Times article and since you know
prisons are so segregated and isolated I
wonder how on the outside you can show
solidarity and I don't know what can you
do from the outside I don't know that's
a really good question I'll look into it
I have no idea I mean other other than
like I think on some level report and
talk about the conditions of prisons is
like the easy answer but it's also like
probably basically true and then you
know agitate for the changes that
they're asking for that's probably it
right so the strike is directly related
to the shutdown because since the
shutdown they have not been able to have
family visits and they have not had
access to medication or I think
physician visits and I think even they
can't speak with lawyers and so this is
the first I was hearing about it today I
read it this article that came out two
days ago about I'm starting the hunger
strike and I'm like trying to find
information about it like are they still
striking is there I mean no developments
happening obviously because the
government still shut down but anyway
just something I wanted to bring up
thank you also I guess on a more
lighthearted note um I was I was kind of
a well obviously everyone's upset to see
like this new campaign at the right is
bring up against AOC and I was really
horrified to see like the like the fake
nudes that were leaked by the Daily
Caller
and kind of like a it felt like trying
to discourage women and women of color
from running for office like that we
will manufacture revenge for until week
if you try to speak power and affect
change but I think it's really kind of
ridiculous for Tucker Carlson to be
making fun of like an embarrassing dance
video when I'm are you aware that he was
like on Dancing with the Stars in like
2007 I know it wasn't
yeah yeah oh my god you didn't know that
no I did not know probably in like high
school or something but so I came to I
came to your show at the Bell house and
I wanted to tell you guys about this but
there was a back rush to leave at the
end and but yeah he was voted off in the
first week because he like was the worst
and I think maybe his mom liquor oh my
god we have it up here Jesus
Christ
oh my god he's dancing this is some type
of this is Mexican music right I
remember this ironic buttons shirt going
on yeah he looks like a score and
therefore leaving right now
come on let's get to it
all right he's leaving have this person
made a crappy video yes
he's leaving I get it well alright that
was incredible so like highlight for me
even though I watched it probably a
decade ago was I think his mom like came
and watched the show and she was like
doing an interview about how badly he
had done and she was like oh Tucker
she was so embarrassed I don't know just
some old lady didn't interview about how
bad Tucker Carlson was at Dancing so I
thought it was really weird that he was
like you know make him son of a Oh
superb you know a fun dancing also might
explain why he's such an if his
mom didn't have his back like that yeah
will you say Bryan another early exit on
Dancing with the Stars of conserve it
kids conservative ideology Rick Perry
also I did know about that one yeah Rick
Perry definitely but that was seem more
that seems more plausible because he
seems like kind of like a look hey my
own stance like but I could Tuesday I
could do it I'd do that but uh yeah what
I was gonna say to it like I also just
want to say like look I this isn't
really the point you know like it was it
was a fake photo they've done they've
done all it's creepy it's weird
everything you said but I also just want
to like a put a marker down for like I
don't care like I would kit look if
somebody hacked and leaked a nude photo
of a OC I would care because that's an a
total abuse and you know illegal in fact
right but I don't care if somebody has a
nude picture
they're in Congress well I don't at all
I don't yeah I mean you'd have to like
to a complete overhaul of how like the
entire American society quality for its
not matter but it's like but yeah I
don't care that I wouldn't care if it
was real I just it's so the point why
matters is that it's sort of it has a
chilling effect on people who might yeah
like maybe I should run for Congress
that's what she was saying which I
totally agree with but I just wanna I
want to just say like as part of the
effort to counter act that chilling
effect fight it on all fronts but one
foot front I want to fight it on is I
don't care like I want to at least put
down that marker on all right thank you
so much for the call appreciate it
have a good one do you want a quick
watch that David Cameron saying that the
Yorkshire I do this goes back to Liz
Libby Watson from earlier today and then
we'll take one more call and then we're
gonna wrap up we just told people yoga
pays everyone else it was they hate each
other same way one bit of quick news yes
one quick bit of news tell me um ana su
who is the Energy and Commerce
Subcommittee chairs told reporters that
she is walking back her vow for a
medicare-for-all hearing and let's play
the game what does she get where did she
get most for money from the
pharmaceutical industry you've
nailed it my client was quite a stretch
so put issue so finally for me yeah can
we put her on any issue on social media
this is somebody that you should be you
know respectfully talking to and also
respectfully pointing out where her
pharmaceutical and her campaign
contributions come from because
apparently they're more important than
your life
flood Oliver recent tweets but like
Michael said like there's no reason to
like try to edge Lord about how radical
you are and these sorts of comments
being polite risk
go clean for gene in these and look up
that reference but it was the people who
Eugene McCarthy who turned out to be a
bad candidate actually or a bad
politician in a lot of ways but he was
the anti-war candidate in 68 along with
RFK but he ran first and he was the only
one challenging Humphrey from an
anti-war platform and the hippies like
basically like shaved their beards cut
their hair put on suits and went clean
for Jean because it was like we want
this guy to actually win we don't want
to like you know offend somebody door
were knocking on in Keene New Hampshire
so be polite but certainly followed her
with your concerns screenshots of her
donors is good
yes screenshots of her donors sincere
questions about why she's reversing
herself maybe a reminder of the health
issues you or your family or the country
face and ask her what's more important
people's lives or her campaign
contributions she's saying priority is
to shore up Obama care right that's it
that is the most
see this is a this is actually a good
thing to point out and when they first
took everything over and they were
trying to gut Obamacare see there were
some people in the center and the
resistance whatever who were trying to
use the fact that they were trying to
gut Obamacare and destroyed the Medicaid
expansion which undoubtedly would have
what Trump and Graham and Cassidy and
McConnell and Ryan and all the
Republicans were trying to do would cost
conservatively tens of thousands of
lives and it was an emergency and it
needed to be fought and defeated it and
actually it was proof even further proof
of concept of why we need Medicare for
all right but there was a narrow sense
and what was like there was a couple of
months there where of course still
advocate for Medicare for all but follow
Bernie's lead Bernie is the main
Medicare for all guy and he put his
energy into staving off an emergency
that would have immediately cost lives
as soon as Democrats take control of the
house that talking point is done there's
no bill to overturn Obamacare there's a
legal case which we could deal with for
sure
that's important but there's no
legislative action there's nothing on
the table that's not happening Medicare
for all is the issue now and that
talking point anybody who says it is
trying to hustle you alright last call
of the day you're calling from an I know
to area code who are you where you're
calling from hey my name is Ben I'm
calling from Nova Scotia hey Ben what's
on your minds well I have two things
what first thing is uh a pretty funny
story that I saw I tweeted it to you
probably didn't see it a couple days ago
it's from a Canadian satirical website
called the Beaverton I don't know if
anyone's heard of that but it did this
story and it's the title is Schick
responds to Gillette's me to add by
releasing misogynistic razor one of one
of the quotes from the story says the
blade comes with a built-in speaker
which plays jordan peterson reading from
books to smoothly reaffirm pre-existing
prejudices okay and what's the i'll
check it out what's this second one my
friend well the second thing is is if
you didn't know there is a an election
coming up in canada that's happening
that's going to be happening this fall
and i just wanted to say that it's not
going to be a very exciting election for
progressives the reason for that is a
Trudeau is still fairly popular right
and the the new democratic party which
is traditionally the more Left Party
it's fairly weak right now the leader
jag Meads saying he doesn't have a seat
in parliament it's going to a there's
going to be a by-election at the end of
February and he's running in it so
hopefully he'll get in there but but the
problem is is that in Canada it's very
rare that you only get a one term Prime
Minister Canadians are very
easygoing and like to give people second
chances mmm and and and since there
isn't really there aren't really any
people who are exciting the left it's
probably going to be fairly low turnout
as well as in 2015 the last election at
that time Stephen harbored but in for 10
years and there was a big amount of
change wanted and so yeah it's it's not
going to be a very exciting election for
people on the left all right we'll
follow more of that but that was my
sense of it too I appreciate the call
and vote indeed I do thank you that
active of green actually oh okay well
Colin another time and explain that okay
thanks darling for the car appreciate it
thank you des Canada we do need a DES
Canada don't we so all right let's read
a few Iams and then we're gonna take our
leave just one second okay wait sorry
about that okay no I already read here I
am
monkey fighter hey Mike if you're
missing Gorka is a new daily radio talk
show on Salem radio network not missing
them that much yeah I was gonna say I
mean that's if if we expand and have
like another couple of people on the
research staff yeah that's the type of
thing that I will request we can't we
don't have any sort the only way we can
sort of justify indulging and some of
these figures like for instance Laura
Loomer recently did something that was
horrible and with regards to Pelosi
protests by like basically entrapping
some workers that she found like home
depot anyway we're not going to talk
about it because we don't want to give
attention to her and Gorka is relevant
when he was like a sort of actual White
House adviser and appeared on yeah I
mean he's just fallen and really
like he's not even on fox we're all
about like remedy the power yeah it's
hard to justify exactly leftist European
is Bernie going to run when do you think
he's going to announce it I do think
he's still gonna run I don't know when
but I do I do actually but I do think
there's something to the scenario that I
think he's kind of watching how some of
these dynamics play out and seeing how
Warren does I've maybe be persuaded by
that but certainly hope he'll run
[Music]
brother from Brooklyn what do you think
about Jetta as a candidate from a purely
electoral standpoint Democrats are gonna
focus on the Rust Belt maybe he could be
the best guy to take up that mantle uh I
mean I look I actually I like Richard Oh
Jeddah in some ways uh I like Richard Oh
Jeddah
uh I don't know I just don't I don't see
it I mean yeah that's just a bottle I
don't know I don't have any problem like
it's not it's not hostile he's it is so
Brett it's just he's just not gonna be
the Democratic nominee what I'll say is
uh you know if he's in the lane that Jim
Webb was in I'm not and they're very
different it's kind of my point that's
an upgrade right like if the guy up on
stage is talking about how the
Democratic Party lost its roots is a
labor organizer guy from West Virginia
and it's awesome but I don't I don't
think that that's I don't know
across that bridge when we come to it
see wait a second oh I shut down im's by
accident I feel like with a Jetta and
people like that is I am except for like
Bernie I'm kind of whoever can make some
actual momentum happen in a political
realm and oujet alike people might
suspect like I do that maybe his
policies can do some of that but also
like he hasn't been historically great
on women's issues and a lot of the
recent elections have been women's
driven election so like right I feel
like I went Yale its wait-and-see see
what they do in the playoffs basically
yeah this is like the preseason yeah I
mean and there's just no like you know
the
and it's that we're talking about the
ones we like the ones we don't like are
like they're in the game and it's like I
got to say like I'm assuming Richard or
Jenna I think he's got some following
and respect in West Virginia he still
lost this house seat by double digits
and then besides that like you know
there's people who watch progressive
YouTube and that's cool I mean again
like it's not a beef but like you know I
mean this is a person who might not pull
more than 1% so you know and I don't
think I mean this isn't an election
where you have to say I don't know
Dennis Kucinich is polling at 1% but
listen to his ideas because nobody else
will come out there and say that we
should have Medicare for all it
shouldn't have invaded Iraq like you got
Sanders you got Warren and then even
more generously you have a whole bunch
of people that I don't like in many ways
but there will still represent different
things at times Harris will represent
things well that I like at times Gabbard
will represent things well like I'm just
between having a very good possible
candidate a decent candidate another
possible decent candidate and a whole
bunch of very flawed candidates who are
still generally I would say kind of an
upgrade III don't see it all right
last call last I am of the day Winnipeg
Craig never vote green in Canada they're
not consistently pro-labor it's more
anti-establishment than anti capital
debate me mr. green caller I have it's
funny I mean I think ecology in many
ways probably should be the central
organizing principle but on the other
hand a lot of iterations of green
politics whether this sort of some of
the you know either have become sort of
business friendly or neoliberal or even
just sort of like silly and
conspiratorial so I don't know I've
heard great things about the Canadian
Green Party but I think I would I would
track NDP myself
alright everybody don't forget 11:00
a.m. start time tomorrow see you then
to get to where I want
no sir
[Music]
I was I just got cut
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
