you
with pita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in the conference rooms of any
ELISA
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday January 7th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of history from Princeton
University
Kevin Cruz and professor Julian Zelizer
on their book fault lines a history of
the u.s. since 1974 meanwhile breaking
conservative news reporting that
Alexandria Acacio Cortez answered to the
name sandy
well enter her college career man where
I think we got to be honest about heart
how hard this one is gonna be for us we
get to talk to lots of meanwhile the
shutdown on verge of cutting food stamps
delaying tax refunds meanwhile ice
agents are spending more time at their
other jobs but deportations continue to
gerrymandering cases head to the Supreme
Court independent commissions could be
in the crossfire meanwhile just steps
from where we are today a trial to
protect Haitian immigrants about 50,000
of them under the temporary protected
status begins today and john bolton says
about that syria drawdown not so much
and congratulations we're now sending
troops to congo as US troops are in war
zones is on the rise thus would this
would do jay admits they were wrong in
their report linking immigration with
terrorism but can't be bothered to
correct it congresswoman jeyapaul
introduces statutory pay-go repeal and
trump makes the big move from concrete
to steel
all this and more on today's majority
report a sort of surprisingly light news
day today we will get to some of these
stories but literally on the top of like
some news feeds you will see this story
about a OC or should we say s slash a OC
right sandy well I want to say talking
about that though I can't it's so
compelling because it's so unbelievably
we need to get out ahead of this I don't
know why yes
got a circle the Wagen that's a wise man
once said let's not bring that up now
we'll bring it up later
Jamie is ill today so but the rest of us
are here looking forward to Sunday where
we'll see at least 350 of you at the
live a majority report show we're we're
not going to stream it live I don't know
what we're gonna do with the video I
don't know yet but maybe maybe we'll you
know share it with members at the very
least we we we'll see about that
I want to tell you that support for
today's show comes from third love they
use millions of real women's
measurements third love designs its bras
with breast size and shape and mind for
an impeccable fit and an incredible feel
all you got to do is you just answer a
few simple questions from third loves
fit finder quiz to find your perfect fit
third love offers double the number of
sizes that most brands offer cups a
through H bands up to 48 with
lightweight memory foam cups straps that
won't slip in tagless labels you'll want
to wear these soft breathable bras and
underwear every day especially the new
cotton t-shirt bras and underwear thanks
to the 100% fit guarantee returns and
exchanges are free and easy I do not
wear bras but a friend of the show
writes back and says the fit is great I
usually have to return most bras I order
online even though they're in my size I
order two and both fit that almost never
happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
but not as boring as most t-shirt bras
subtle cute details so I don't feel
basic third love knows there's a perfect
bra for everyone so right now they're
offering my listeners 15% off your first
order you should buy a bunch right
because you can return the ones that you
don't want go to third love.com
majority right now to find your perfect
fitting bra get 15% off your first
purchase
that's third love.com / majority for 15%
off today also folks there's no need to
suffer through another sleepless night
calming comfort by sharper image is the
luxurious weighted blanket that helps
you relax so you can fall asleep and
stay asleep naturally saul and i
literally fight over this when he crawls
into bed with me you know I'm with him
half the time when he crawls into bed
with me it is always because he wants
this blanket it's designed with
high-density comfort Phil I never
thought about why would you ever want
that like a weighted blanket but it
makes sense to me it turns out that it
makes you sleep better I mean I think
you knew it I think because I used to
layer a bunch of different heavy
blankets yes I'm thinking intuitively
through the layering but it's designed
with high-density comfort Phil to
provide exactly the right amount of
weight to help relax your body it mimics
the soothing feeling of being hugged and
helps the production of serotonin and
melatonin and generally I don't like
being hugged but when I'm sleeping
you can sleep better you feel great
stress less plus made with super soft
Velveteen material calm and comfort 100%
machine washable and dryer safe the
calming comfort weighted blanket comes
with a 90-day anxiety free stress free
best night's sleep of your life
guarantee from sharper image you get 90
days right now just for our listeners
you can go to calming comfort blanket
calm that's calming comfort blanket all
one word.com use the promo code majority
to check out receive 15% off the
displayed price that's calming comfort
blanket calm promo code majority and
because you can't put a price on a great
night's sleep go online now calming
comfort blanket calm promo code majority
for your special discount today
lastly we're not quite there yet but has
your company outgrown QuickBooks are
shared spreadsheets manual processes and
legacy systems costing you time and
money I mean I'll tell you something I I
know a little bit about legacy systems
because we switch from membership a
while back and that is that whole
concept of legacy systems I mean you
know nothing's terribly sophisticated
around here but it's a problem be nice
to be able to sort of wrap it all into
one now NetSuite by Oracle is a business
and business management software it
handles every aspect of your business
and an easy to use cloud platform with
NetSuite you can save time money and
unheated unneeded I should say headaches
by managing sales HR and Finance and
Accounting instantly right from your
desk or even your phone thousands of the
best known of fastest-growing companies
use NetSuite to manage their business
and now it's available to you that's my
goal for 2019 to get big enough that we
need NetSuite only HR is gonna talk to
you guys no talking only on the show
that's great cuz right now NetSuite s--
offering you valuable insights to help
you overcome the obstacles that are
holding you back for free don't miss out
unleashing your business's full
potential but this free guide crushing
the five barriers to growth I know what
they I know what they are here though
right
the other five area growth
never Mullis you don't have to say
you'll learn how to acquire new
customers increase profits and finally
get real visibility into your cash flow
get knit Suites guide crushing the 5
barriers to growth at NetSuite comm
slash majority now that's NetSuite
dot-com slash majority to download their
free crushing the five barriers to
growth guide today you stop typing I
know you're going there directly yes I
am
NetSuite dot-com slash majority I want
to apathetically steamroll over those
barriers oh you're gonna be totally
apathetically steamrolling over that
we're gonna have a limited edition
poster I think at the at the live show
but so we're gonna add that to that
phrase to the poster I think folks if
you have any experience with LifeLock
send us an email
majority reporters at gmail.com they
want to advertise and I want to I just
I'm not sure so send us an email at
majority reporters at gmail.com
meanwhile let's go we have this ongoing
situation now with the the shutdown and
it is ostensibly about Donald Trump and
his sort of pathological desire for not
even a wall but to say that there is a
wall now I understand why Democrats are
not constantly raising the issue of
Mexico paying for the wall because
that's not the only problem with the
wall for a lot of reasons it sets a bad
precedent it is a lot of people find it
morally reprehensible the idea of
building this wall aside from the fact
that a wall is ineffective in certain
areas it's unnecessary in other areas it
is contrary to really what our
immigration our overall immigration
policy should be and of course 5.6
billion dollars will not get you any
semblance of what he's talking about
this is all performative I contend as I
think we did last year at this time
maybe a little bit earlier in the year
that trading five point six billion
dollars and let him have his his ability
to say to his people like I'm building
the wall is worth a permanent status for
daca recipients a path to citizenship
and permanent protected status in this
country that is a trade I would make
don't know if it's on the table because
you got to remember for Trump the wall
is everything just for whatever bizarre
reason but there's a lot of people in
this administration who really genuinely
don't want any more brown people coming
into this country and want less brown
people here that is why there is a
lawsuit to protect fifty thousand
Haitians just steps from where we are
who are here largely as a function of a
2010 earthquake and caught was a cholera
outbreak that followed that earthquake
and they've been in this country under a
protected status majus that a human
created cholera outbreak having to do
with foreign forces there so but
regardless you know a human suffering
and I don't you don't hear a lot of
people walking around going like man
everything would be so much better in
this country if it wasn't for those
fifty thousand Haitian people who we
allowed to be here because their homes
got destroyed and have now built
families here in roots here that aside
here is Donald Trump talking about the
wall and now it's really like it's
getting so granular that he's literally
getting into the materials here it is
and as I told you it's going to be a
steal the border and that's going to
give us great strength
they don't like concrete sausage
question was what why do you think the
Democrats are gonna be okay with a steel
border and I don't know what it is I
don't know if it's because like you know
he was a he would visit building sites
and so it was just like concrete and
steel those are the two things like if
they had worked with brick maybe it
would be a brick wall just trying to get
the deal done here we go they don't like
concrete so we'll give them steel steel
is fine steel is actually steel is
actually more expensive than concrete
but it'll look beautiful and it's very
strong it's actually stronger it's
unbelievable and there was a big story
in The Washington Post about apparently
no one in the administration was really
aware of what would happen with the
government shutdown they all believed
their own sort of delusion that it's not
relevant we we have a situation where
government workers at this point they
have not they have not missed a paycheck
as of yet they get paid bi-weekly excuse
me bimonthly so my understanding is they
have not missed a paycheck but they also
all know that their their paycheck at
the very least will probably be delayed
at this point and people live paycheck
to paycheck and there's no guarantee
they're all gonna get paid back who
knows how long this is gonna last but as
we get closer to February when you have
farmers who have not been able to get
their loans haven't been able to get
their slush funds you're gonna hear
people like Joni Ernst talk a little bit
more about this you're gonna hear
Republicans maybe in Kansas talk a
little bit more about this
Shelly capito in West Virginia when food
stamps and other federal assistance
starts to get undercut
you're gonna start to hear about this
you won't hear it in Kentucky even
though that they will be suffering
because Mitch McConnell is not a human
being and Rand Paul has to pretend like
the federal government doesn't do
anything you're gonna hear Susan Collins
talking more about this and at one point
that they're gonna they're gonna they're
gonna break hull up so we will continue
to follow this what's this next one is
this him talking about the yeah let's go
to number two because here's Donald
Trump saying something that I don't
think anybody believes even his own
people I'm not even sure his own people
would be happy about it frankly but it's
a little bit but listen to it
many of those
did you hear that I mean it was hard to
hear but he said yeah I can relate to
not having that money and people who
make do they always do they always do
and in fact many of those people who are
not getting a paycheck agree with me I
can totally relate to that it's like
when dad says give me a couple of days
before I come in and cash out your
casino and you're like whoa I'm in a
tough spot here because I have a couple
of assault victims to pay off and
there's about a 48 hour window but you
make adjustments I get so many letters
and oddly from Pete from my own
stationery and people who support
everything I'm doing
the handwriting says similar even
there's a lot more unity in this country
this is not unique to Trump that notion
of people will make do they always do in
other words like nobody's come and tried
to burn down my house there isn't like
masses of people who have come to try
and burn down my house or pull me out of
my home or their I don't see the people
you know if I don't see the suffering in
front of me it must not happen they must
be able to just deal with themselves I
mean that is that sentiment put aside
the the complete total lie that any of
the people not receiving their checks
are in favor of this but that sentiment
that they'll work it out they always do
that is exactly the sentiment that has
been shared by the wealthy in this
country largely speaking for decades
that it'll be fine they'll get by look
we all have struggles and you know I
remember that time where that person
broke up with me or I had that argument
with my
that was hard and the idea that like
well they're not sure if they'll be able
to pay for their kids dental appointment
next week or don't know if I'll be able
to buy presents for them for Christmas
because we may not have money coming in
for weeks or we got to cut back on the
heating or you know it's just going to
be rice and beans because we we only
have so much money or they're gonna
repossess my car or we're not gonna be
able to make a mortgage payment I mean
all of these things they'll get by they
always do
millions of people lost their homes in
the wake of the financial crisis because
there were thousands of bankers who were
like yeah
Society will absorb the problem that's
the mentality that is not unique to
Trump he's just he's just too stupid to
realize like I shouldn't say this out
loud all right we got to take a break
when we come back Julian Zelizer and
Kevin Cruz on their book fault lines a
history of the United States since 1974
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program both
professor of history
Kevin Cruz and professor of history
Julian Zelizer from Princeton University
both you guys have been on the show in
the past you're back with a new book
fault lines a history of the United
States since 1974 welcome to you both
thank you hey Kevin all right so all
right Kevin let's start with you
why all right well why don't you just
listen to the question yeah exactly I
mean there's a couple of them but let
list for us what the fault lines are
that you to discuss in this book and I
know this came out of a class that you
were teaching together well what are
those major fault lines yeah well so
they're there for well there fault lines
two sets and first of all there are
there are four big lines of division
that we trace through modern America I
mean there are fault lines of political
polarization economic division and
economic inequality race is another big
one and then gender and sexuality is
another one but we also mean fault lines
in the book in a different sense and
that it's not just about these lines in
American society but it's about the line
we tell each other about whose fault for
the current situation and so the media
is something that sweeps over all for
those big categories all right in Julian
why 1974 well the obvious event that
happens that we kind of take off on is
President Nixon's resignation which is a
huge issue it's a traumatic event for
American society and and in that year a
lot of the different problems that were
building in America from from the
aftermath of Vietnam to Nixon's
corruption and the economic decline of
the decade are all coming together so we
thought really that starting with that
moment was a perfect way to launch
readers launch students
into this new contemporary era all right
well yeah I mean it makes sense to me
from a from a contemporary era
standpoint but is when we talk about the
these these fault lines for a moment in
terms of just like you know dividing
lines in which people sort of I guess
either self-select or you know become
sort of a I guess a plane of identity
right or you know one of the masks I
guess maybe or costumes that they wear I
mean we've had some pretty serious fault
lines right since you know pretty early
on in the American project right I mean
the I guess culminating in the first
civil war why like what is different
from that era as opposed to sort of the
post-1974 era why don't you leave once
you take attack at that and then and
then Kevin well really what's happening
in the early 1970s and and at the moment
when Nixon steps down as you see
institutions that have been really
important in American life certainly
since the New Deal in the 1930s they had
they had really define the country the
the role of the federal government in an
economic life and and in overseas the
Union based manufacturing economy
certain concepts of the family all of
these they're really coming under fire
by the 1970s there is a real lack of
trust in in many of the institutions
Americans had many Americans had held on
to during the period so so it's less
that all of a sudden there are these
sharp lines that emerge out of nowhere
in 1974 it's rather these institutions
that had helped push against some of the
tensions you're talking about even if
they did so in shallow fashion really
started to enter a decade where where
they no longer held the same weight that
they had done for the previous decades
Kevin I mean the so we have a situation
where all of these different sort of I
guess priorities are the way that people
address you know themselves in public
become aligned in such a way that we
have basically two different sides right
how much and and I ask you this you know
having you having written a book both on
on on religion in our history and
particularly like the white supremacy in
terms of the white flight how much of it
was that following the the Civil Rights
Act and and and Johnson's you know
saying that we're gonna lose the South
for a generation how much of this was
that everything sort of became on some
level filtered through race yeah and so
what you see here is that and that
that's an instance where there was an
old salt line clearly both salt lines of
segregation and discrimination and a lot
of ways people celebrate that line being
healed but what happens is started in
1970s there's this move towards
diversities move towards cultural
nationalism as to move towards really
separatism across the board white black
Latino there are new forms of identity
that really take hold and there's less
of a evidencing to move to the center so
so race does become a driving force here
but it really it's really one of many I
think it really seems prominent to us in
this moment right now when white
nationalism has really seen a revival
but if you look across these past four
decades there are different moments
where different issues really move to
the forefront we just have to be in one
where I think race is really at the is
really upfront all right well let's go
through I mean some of those those four
I guess you know I guess fault lines and
in what for you in terms of like
political polarization since 74 Kevin
most exemplifies or there was an event
or a crisis that you could relate to
that particular fault line
well that's a great question I mean
they're there countless ones we could
use the one that I think is really less
suited for me is the is really the 2000
election and not just in the way in
which it revealed the how closely
divided nation was in terms of its
politics but it gave us a language to
talk about it right when those electoral
map stayed up for first you know
overnight minimum next morning and then
on into weeks finally was December and
we're still looking at the same map so
we came up with a vernacular of red
states versus blue states right because
I don't recall it yeah I did that yeah
yeah it used to be that the networks
would do whatever they wanted so you
know when Reagan gets reelected in 1984
I think David Brinkley on issue talks
about how the map looks like a giant
blue California swimming pool right and
so the network's had flipped back and
forth and that just happened that year
that the color red was given to
Republicans the Heller blue was given to
Democrats you go back past years and I
think Time magazine 1992 shows Bill
Clinton's election and all the
democratic states are red but just
because 2000 was the one where we kept
talking about blue states red states
blue states red states it's like a dr.
Seuss rhyme right it becomes cemented in
people's mind and it gives a sense that
these are two real warring camps they
literally have turf well Julian what do
you think about that for you is at that
same moment or or a different one well
there's lots of moments for me and and
obviously relevant now is the government
shutdown in 1995 and 96 where where we
had had some short government shutdowns
but during that year you know President
Bill Clinton is in office the
Republicans have taken over Congress in
94 Newt Gingrich as the Speaker of the
House and and they have this terrible
stalemate where we enter into the
longest government shutdown that we've
had and all of a sudden what would have
been outside the spectrum of normal
politics just having all these offices
closed and services gone
is is normalized it becomes part of how
the parties are going to do their combat
in that case the major issue is Medicare
funding and so for for me it's it's a
policy battle that really captured where
where the two parties were moving and
and in some ways you know explains the
path to where we are right now if Newt
Gingrich was never born would we even be
having this interview we probably would
look every issue has a certain person
who embodies whether it's the divisions
or the sentiment of an era and Gingrich
was certainly not only someone who
embodied it but he was really a pioneer
in the style of partisan warfare that we
have but but the partisanship really was
rooted in many things beyond a person it
was rooted in the way districts were
being drawn it was rooted in the way
parties reorganized their primary system
and the way things worked in Congress it
was rooted in the dramatic changes in
the news media that take place so I
think that's part of what we're trying
to say this is four decades in the
making it has multiple factors and
that's in some ways why the bitterness
and the divisions are so intense right
now Kevin let's talk a little bit about
gender and sexuality because how I mean
how much of of of gender and sexuality
is a function of serve you know what we
I think you know we were called in the
60s the women's liberation movement the
divides there I mean how much what how
does that play out and what events do
you see because to me it seems like the
the the the birth of the moral majority
right like the the the these things get
weaponized in some way as opposed to
just being out there and that to me
seems to a weaponized it in some fashion
yeah absolutely I mean in a lot of ways
you gotta you can trace the origins of
these dividing lines to the new
prominence of feminism that's not to
blame feminism for
we've seen but but it sets up a pain of
event feminism itself at least in terms
of its prominent role in 1970s is in a
large way reaction to how bad the
economy is by 1976 only about 40 percent
of all jobs provide a salary that's good
enough to support a family so you have a
lot of suddenly of both husband and wife
are working her workplace and as women
move into the workplace they start to
experience discrimination and sexual
harassment all that and so feminism
really ramped up in the in the in the
1970s and then reaction to that you have
this new movement of family values and
at first it seems like the driver Phil
isn't the driver equal rights is going
to be a no brainer if you look at the
course of Equal Rights Amendment when it
comes out of Congress you noted that on
the work since the 1920s but once it
finally gets out of the Congress in the
early 70s it seems like it's going to
pass and get ratified immediately you
know several states do it within the
first day but what happens to that
Phyllis Schlafly who graces the part of
the cover of our book kind of
ingeniously turns the issue around and
says this isn't a measure that's going
to give equal rights to women it's a
measure of it's going to hurt families
and it's a brilliant bit of framing that
that she does and and so suddenly you
have you know who could be against equal
rights for women well she frames it as
this is going to be an attack on
family's gonna be attack on the rights
of women to be cared for the rights of
women to to have automatic a child
support to have alimony to have all
these kind of things that will keep them
alive and well that women are could be
grasping that the military god forbid
there's a whole host of hers that she
raises and so it becomes about two
competing visions of what America is all
about and the family becomes a microcosm
to the nation and that sets up a fight
that we're still we're still having
today I talking just a little bit about
the the moral majority because it always
strikes me is that like morality became
the sort of surrogate a surrogate for
religion in some way and we see echoes
of that where people self-identify as
evangelicals they vote for Donald
and it's almost as if like you know in
many of them are not actually
church-going even though they they
identify in that way that it's become a
surrogate for something else I mean I
talked a little bit about that
sure because the moral majority goes
back we talked about earlier which is
the way in which there were old dividing
lines like you said there were old fault
lines and so in religion what had long
kept religious conservatives from
uniting is that they had all these
different lines these doctrinal lines
between them right you know the Baptist
didn't like the Methodists didn't like
the Lutheran sit and like on and on
right and so what the moral majority
does where that name comes from is they
finally decide the organizers of that
Jerry following a Whelan
they out there is a moral majority who
believes at the core and the Ten
Commandment and if we can boil it down
to that what I call to my last took a
lowest common denominator if we can boil
religion down to something that's simple
that kind of bumper sticker level of
religion and not get over the the you
know our different readings of the Bible
then we can all agree right so that's
what the moral majority comes about is
it papers over these old religious
differences but as it does it injects a
new kind of religion because although
they're not going off the scripture
anymore because that's actually what
divided them until they shake this broad
general morality and they get involved
in issues that aren't really talked
about in the Bible homosexuality isn't
really addressed at Lane to Matthew
Testament abortion the same way and so
they come out and they seize on these
issues and they inject a new meaning in
them where they're dictating what is
moral and what is not and as we've seen
over the course of just the Falwell
senior and junior that definition
morality certainly changes and so we're
Jerry Falwell in the late 90s was saying
very loudly Jerry Falwell senior that
Bill Clinton had to resign because he
committed that extramarital affair Jerry
Falwell now just brushes it off right so
it's very much a what those on the right
you see complain about the left you say
you had situational ethics you know you
had a you had a shifting set of values
well now we see that on the right as
well I think Julian talked about these
the the fault lines in the context of
the
because that I mean I there there's
clearly a major divide right in in terms
of wealth and income inequality in in
this country but has has it has that
become weaponized in the same way in
that it's created polarization I mean
like it's it's the least obvious it
seems to me within the context of our
politics well it's really important and
you have to remember that again going
back to the 1970s it's a it's a big sea
change that we have during that decade
and and again the the period from the
30s to the 70s you had this very strong
economy that create a pretty robust
middle-class society unions were at the
core of that society and economic growth
was strong inflation was pretty low
unemployment was pretty low and all of
that falls apart in the 70 so the the
two key things that happen one is you
start to see the worsening of economic
inequality so the divide between the
rich and the poor starts to become more
severe and that trend will continue
right through today that has all kinds
of political effects a lot of the money
that is at the upper income bracket
starts to align with Republican politics
since the 1970s and you see the party
shift and embrace issues like
supply-side tax cuts economic
deregulation and and pretty much line up
where those two interests unite well and
Democrats to some degree subscribe to
this but but not not as much as with the
Republican Party so so the the economic
divisions and the political divisions
work in concert and the other thing that
happens at the same time is is the
middle class really starts to struggle
beginning in the 1970s Kevin I write on
you can see this even in pop culture on
all sorts of shows from all in the
family to Alice you can see the tenor of
the economy changing through what people
are watching and the loss of that
that working / middle-class economy
really changes the the Democratic the
Democratic Party and and erodes one area
that had been really important to the
way the parties were set up so I think
the economic and political divisions
actually kind of work hand in hand
during this period let's talk about the
the media and the media's role in this
and and again just you know it's
interesting you know I interviewed John
sides who had written who's who wrote a
book identity crisis I'm sure you're
both aware of where where a lot of these
issues became heavily racialized
following Barack Obama the one statistic
that I keeps echoing in my mind is that
50% of non-college educated white folk
did not perceive the Democratic Party as
to the left of the Republicans on race
until Barack Obama was elected and which
is just super surprising to me but
that's what it was and and that may
account for some things but well as
these sort of different I guess
identities align in such a way that
people just find it easier I go on one
side or the or the other
how does media play into that over the
past I guess 40 some odd years now well
it's become a huge change the the
changes are a the the new cycle becomes
analyst it moves from a period where
networks and newspapers you know
basically a handful of networks had a
very limited news cycle at the end of
the day at the dinner hour in the
morning papers - starting with the
advent of CNN in 1980 and then moving
forward this endless amount of time for
information
you saw the media landscape fragment
very dramatically starting in the 80s
accelerating the
these both because of cable television
and then because of of what the internet
brought to to the consumption of news
and finally you saw a partisan news take
hold
Fox News is the story we tell about
which is the most dramatic moment of
this with its formation in 1996 and and
just a source it's going to provide news
from a Republican perspective and and
then not even news just a form of
entertainment since then and so all of
this creates a media landscape where the
divisions the partisan divisions these
different kinds of social movement
tensions all have a great forum in in
which they're going to be covered
information is really hard to control
and so all the different sides can get
their stories facts and otherwise out
there and I think that if the media
landscape had not been so freewheeling
not so open-ended and not with so many
sources that are happy or a comfortable
with partisanship you might have had a
slightly different story
but but it worked well so to speak with
the political fault lines of the period
Kevin do you think it was the Fairness
Doctrine ultimately I mean you know as
prominent as Fox's it was it was I think
right-wing radio which reached you know
10 times the number of the audience that
that Fox does and that was unleashed by
Reagan's repeal the Fairness Doctrine I
mean what what is your sense of that
repealed by Reagan's FCC in 1987 is the
pivotal moment when we talk about in the
book but it's part of a larger a larger
shift and and it's not just in terms of
the the fracturing of the media
landscape and that certainly allows it
that enables the right-wing media to
take hold it enables Fox News to come
out and the the Telecommunications Act
of 1996 another kind of policy turn that
allows Sox and Murdoch to consolidate a
lot of stuff under there that there one
bill you get that that fracturing of the
median land
but it's also not just where they are
it's how they do it and so there's
there's a change in the media over time
and again to go back to the trace from
what Julian did you know when you have
those old three networks they're all
kind of the staid Walter Cronkite you
know you know Brinkley and and and the
others are out there kind of giving a
very kind of down the middle of the road
line of being objective
part of the the change is the
partisanship part of it was also the
showmanship that the change is here so
you can look back to someone like Roger
Ailes who doesn't come out of nowhere
with Fox News he'd been active in
Republican media strategies back to
Nixon you know he's when it gives Nixon
the makeover in 68 he you know he says
you know people look at Nixon like he's
like he was you know 42 years old the
day he was born they say other kids got
a football for Christmas Nixon got a
briefcase and loved it and so he does a
good job of polishing that dour Nixon
image into something more exciting and
then he becomes a mainstay of Republican
politics that he works with George HW
Bush and he's the one who really links
George HW Bush to rush limbaugh makes
rush limbaugh kind of an equal partner
one of the fascinating things that we
talk about in the book is this thing
were it's not that Limbaugh is looking
for validation from George HW Bush Bush
is looking for validation from Limbaugh
he has Limbaugh to the White House
George HW Bush literally carries his
luggage in to the White House for him I
mean it's clear who's in charge at this
moment and so eldgos from that from
enabling Limbaugh on the bush White
House have been crafting this the this
new style of media in that fractured
landscape so it's not just about having
a space to do it it's how they do it and
it's a much more flashy much more kind
of a less dowerless old-school
Republican view in which they really do
they really do go to dumb it down I mean
you can look to other people like like
Lee Atwater it was a pro wrestling fan
right and and really craft his campaigns
the 1988 campaign it's done like a pro
wrestling campaign they're gonna make
two
HW Bush the hero Mike Dukakis is the
heel and they're gonna stage everything
around that so it really is about the
drama that they create Julianne as we
recount this every name that we have
talked about in terms of pushing this
change has been a conservative right I
mean so this is this polarization and
and and and things are changing maybe in
the past five or six years but but prior
to that it seems to me to be completely
asymmetric as to you know you know the
it takes two to tango but it doesn't
take two to fight actually one person
can just be getting their face pummeled
and they're still involved in a fight
why why did the I mean is this a is this
simply are we just looking at basically
some type of return to the mean or just
a pendulum switch or I mean but it seems
to me that when you look at what's
happened in the past forty years at
least politically right in terms of the
political process the right has been has
been very very active in this regard
like this seems to have been an agenda
as opposed to the willy-nilly of what
was going on in the 60s that was less
about sort of you know constrained
electoral politics it seems to me well
I'll give you historians answer yes and
no so we definitely push back in the
story on the false equivalency that both
sides do this the same way and that
Republicans and Democrats just got nasty
and divided and we make that point that
a lot a lot of the way in which the
partisanship moved certainly was was
very often driven by a Republican
strategy and Republican tactics but but
we also don't see the last four decades
is simply this shift to the right a
wholesale shift to the right and we try
to emphasize the way in which
progressive actors remain really really
important in shaping what the country
was about in the
seventies we cover feminism and and the
ways in which feminism impacted not just
policy but the ways and what we thought
think about family the way in which we
think about all kinds of cultural issues
we have a lot on the gay rights movement
with the the material on on AIDS for
example is I think a really important
part of the story in which they push
back against Reagan and who basically
ignored the whole crisis is spokesman
Larry speaks laughed about the issue and
and it ends up with their obtaining you
know serious research money and and
George W Bush pours money into this to
fight against aids overseas and and we
have many stories like that where where
liberalism doesn't disappear liberal
policies don't just go away and and that
aspect of American American politics and
society is actually really pretty
important and still influential so so
that's where the know comes in and we're
trying to bring that back into the story
and some of what we're seeing today is
actually rooted in in these fights and
this counter conservatism that has been
an integral even if forgotten part of
this entire period uh Kevin is this
polarization necessarily bad not
entirely I mean there's there's there's
something to say for the the fact that
you've got this kind of cleared
ideological lines I mean when Americans
look back to that was kind of what they
see is the Golden Age of bipartisanship
they fail to remember that that happened
because both parties were ideologically
next you had liberal Republicans and
conservative Republicans you had liberal
Democrats that could serve the Democrats
so if you were no matter where you were
on the ideological spectrum if you love
to get something done you had to be
bipartisan because half the Liberals are
in your party half somewhere over there
same with a conservative and so there's
there's something to be said for the
kind of the clarity you get and having
things kind of more clearly laying out I
do think there needs to be a little more
sense of the
the common ground I mean may have been
naive but I think we need to have some
awareness here
it can't be a kind of unilateral just it
can't be you know one side disarming and
not the other but there just has to be a
point where this the kind of the
scorched earth politics that we saw that
really reached amazing depth under
really under mr. McConnell in the Senate
over the last few years really can't be
the new norm or just nothing's gonna
ever get done well no way to say I got a
I want to I want to put a pin in that
last thing but we you for for the sake
of like people under the age of of 35
who may be listening to us what like how
do what did the party stand for if you
had conservatives in the Democratic
Party and liberals in the Republican
Party like what why would you vote for
one or the other it often depended on
where you were and this was back to your
earlier point about why some people
didn't think that the Democratic Party
was to the left the Republicans on race
if you are growing up in the south in
the in the 80s you may be voting for a
Republican at the national level but
your local senator or congressman might
be a conservative southern Democrat
who's an old Dixiecrat on race and so a
lot of those those values I mean they're
really on where you were looking it only
becomes later on you get a that kind of
more ideological rigidity that you
really get a clear sense of focus there
was a lot of disagreement a lot of
debate internally in these parties and
so it varied where you were what you
believed in I mean in broad strokes the
Republicans kind of the party of limited
government and in broad strokes the
Democrats are the party of the old New
Deal order of thinking the government
could control thing but at a granular
level got a little more money well but
Julian so easier as the Conservatives
really been the party of limited
government or does that really just
translate into the the the the
conservatives are the party who are not
going to give stuff to people and rights
to people who don't look like me yeah I
like the part of the Republican Party is
not the party of limited government
that's just a talking point and and I
hope that's one
the things that's clear it's an issue of
probably it's a debate over priorities
we're we're to use government
Republicans have used government on
military spending Republicans have used
government to subsidize parts of the
economy and certain economic actors
they've used government to try to
regulate morality so and they've
embraced destroying presidency so so the
idea that they're a party of limited
government I wish that could be just put
aside I know it won't be but but nothing
bears that out in this history it's a
debate and it's a battle over
prioritizing where government should be
used and what the rhetoric about
government should be I mean they are the
party of rhetoric about limited
government even if they're not party of
limited government right but when we say
even even but but when we say even like
what the priorities are gonna be like we
don't have to imagine what those
priorities they haven't shifted
dramatically it is always don't spend
money on anything that helps non-white
people or empowers women had to in such
a way that they would push back on the
power of men well I mean look there are
there that's an argument and that's an
argument somewhat hold I think others
can see there are certain parts of the
Republican history where not everyone is
in agreement with that and the past four
years Kevin tell me tell me what people
Kevin you tell me Kevin over the past 40
years where have we not seen that as a
fundamental precept of the Republicans
well I mean I think if you look at what
what George W Bush did in terms of
trying to broaden the party beyond a
party that was that was purely white
backlash he really tried to shift that
he failed but he tried to shift it away
from the old Newt Gingrich kind of wake
grievance policies that I talked about
in my first book and he tried to broaden
the party both in terms of the people he
brought into his administration
forskolin pal condi rice Alberto
Gonzalez but also in terms of really
trying to bring Hispanics in and to say
to say to all the Pinot's look you've
got a certain culturally conservative
values you're really like us you believe
in free enterprise you believe in all
these about your Catholic you've got the
same kind of religious values as many of
us welcome to the party
he tried to do that he tried to get
through immigration reform and I think
he I think it's a sincerely wanted that
to be and yet it proved me that the
other forces in this party the base
especially was simply too resistant to
that but there's something with an
effort to do that
right ok but that but that proves my
point right like even the President of
the United
a political member of a political
dynasty he couldn't even get the
Republicans when he knew it was in their
their best interest that they that was
the apostate right like he he couldn't
do it yeah well this goes back to the
point about the media right so this is
why the media is so important on this is
that Bush tried to broaden this and yet
the base is at this point really tuned
in to Fox News really tuned in to Rush
Limbaugh and they're the ones who really
put the screws to the politicians on
this and so in a lot of ways they become
they become captive to the media first
Fox seem to be kind of you just
cheerleading for the Bush administration
and by the end of the presidency they're
really setting the course for it and now
we've got the moment where you know Fox
and Friends and Trump or you know it's
practically he's practically part of
this cabinet right yeah oh yeah well I
mean this has been that way I feel like
yeah that's right Fox and Friends I mean
Limbaugh is a little bit has has receded
a little bit from the popular
imagination I think he's getting tired
but all right well so let me ask you
this but I think if I could just jump in
yeah I think one difference and that's
important is they're Republicans until
recently did at least try to imagine a
way to build a coalition and if you look
in the early Reagan years it's
interesting in that they didn't
understand why African Americans weren't
supporting Reagan or many see why there
was a gender gap but they're at least
trying to figure it out and trying to
see what they could do at a minimum
rhetorically to try to diminish the gaps
that were emerging what's striking today
is that is towed
gone and you have a Republican Party
that's now comfortable being a narrow
minority party but I don't think that
was always the case and and I think this
has been building and and and getting
worse over time to where to where they
are today it's funny that you say that
because I just like and I don't know if
I came from one of you guys or with just
a thread of urine but there was a clip
of Wally George who was sort of like a
precursor to Limbaugh on television who
had the rapper trq on his show who at
the the RNC I think in like 92 you know
pushing back you know and so there was
an attempt liked the idea that there
would be rappers at well I guess you
know Trump tries to bring in you know
some some some cred he has his he gots
it moment but all right well so let me
ask you this do either one of you
seriously believe that we are headed
into a period of less there's any
potential for less polarization without
the defeat of one of the two major
parties like like like an enormous
defeat or is it we just gonna keep
replaying this Kevin I'll let you go
first and then you Julian we're
historians that our training is
hindsight professionally but but I'll
take a stab at this I think that it was
gonna have to take a shake-up like that
to really fundamentally bring things to
any kind of new stability I think we'll
always have as we noticed certain kind
of fault lines in the country but as
long as one of the two major parties and
that's that's basically the system we
have we've got to a time usually well as
long as one of the two major parties is
or both of them are driven by this this
kind of play to the basement allottee
that is become increasingly popular
recently but but definitely with with
with the Trump era I think we're locked
in to that so I think you would have to
see a major major set of defeat I mean
that's not almost where we begin the
book right the book begins with with
Watergate and
Republicans being devastated in the 1974
midterms and their lives in the White
House in 76 and throughout that period
there's a movement of old Republicans
say say we've got a band in this party
they come close to doing it they come
close to setting up where was going to
be a new conservative party William
rusher from National Review is behind
this and he wants to have a ticket of
what's to run in 76 Ronald Reagan and
George Wallace or maybe the new
conservative icons right
it doesn't quite come to that the
Republican Party carries on large
because Reagan helps to reinvent it
another Simon knew right but that was
the moment that the last order really
shook up and whether or not the
Republican Party gets a complete
makeover like it did in the 70s or it
winds up you know going down in flames
with Donald Trump as it might be likely
now I think it's gonna take one of those
two things to change it up now Julian
just before you answer I mean based on
Kevin's answer there was not the problem
of the Democrats in 76 is that they did
not go towards their base after having
defeated the Republicans it was the
failure of then allowing the base to
drive the Democratic Party which is what
I think left them so vulnerable I feel
like I'm on a game show but yeah look I
I think the debt I think it is fair to
say that the Democrats that Carter moved
maybe in the wrong direction in 76 to 80
this was Ted Kennedy's critique in 1980
and that rather than trying to
reinvigorate the ideas and traditions of
the party and and energize the people
most loyal to the party that they moved
in this kind of messy centrist direction
which please nobody and ultimately was
not more appealing than the Republican
alternative which did conservatism a lot
better under Ronald Reagan so so you
could argue that that was a fatal flaw
of Democrats in the late 80s I would say
though the the which one party being
dismantled is an E
in the answer I think it's much deeper
than that I really think the way a lot
of our institutions are working not
simply which party do we have but the
way that parties work the way that
districts are drawn the way that
campaign finance works and the way that
the media covers the news all of these
have to be reckoned with if we're
serious about moving into a new era like
we did in the 70s otherwise it's going
to be the same and it's it's simply a
myth that's false promise to say well
the next president will make things
better
obviously one president can make things
a lot worse and I think there's a case
to be made with President Trump he's
taking all these terrible trends that we
have or damaging trends and really
double down at a minimum on them but but
it's going to be about reform if people
are serious about wanting something
different otherwise it will keep
reproducing itself this this political
system Matt sorry oh that's our bail
which means we're out of time
yeah that was a joke on the game show
they can't all be gems gone but the the
book is faultlines a history of the
united states since 1974 it's
fascinating book Kevin Cruz Julian
Zelizer thank you so much for your time
today congratulations on the book really
enjoy it thanks for having a fan all
right
folks we're going to move into the fun
half that would have been a much
smoother joke
Matt if you weren't a junior yeah your
Instagram feed yeah I need that belt to
come right in I'm sorry buddy laughs
yeah that was rough that was rough but
it's a fascinating book and topic folks
that is in fact that Bell does me time
to move on to the lightning round in our
fun half makes me think of a lunch but
yes that food should be ready I don't
know that sounds very Pavlovian
is it's a diner thing yeah like no it
doesn't maybe look yeah a diner or yeah
this is one you just you just like you
like eggs are up exactly my omelets
ready yep
folks this program allows extra
hashbrowns
this program relies on your support to
do it
every day you can help support this
program by becoming a member by going to
join the majority of report.com when you
go to join the majority of 4.com
you also get some extra content and
access to things sometimes that other
people don't get I'm not gonna get too
specific you need to become a member to
find out what we're talking about but
secretive yeah exactly
join the majority report com also a just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
to get 10% off and listen for those of
you who are New York City residents in
particular we will put a link to know
Mikey Const a fundraiser thing there are
like three or four days left where your
donations will be matched by the city
claims eight up to two hundred and fifty
bucks so if you give $50 she will get
$400 worth of campaign money so if you
are interested in supporting her and
you're from New York City now would be
the time we will put that link in the
podcast and YouTube descriptions and at
majority dot F M so check that out
today is Monday tomorrow is Tuesday and
the Michael Brooks show happens that
good transition no mika constant will be
the guest tomorrow we're talking about
her candidacy for public advocate in new
york city the agenda from fighting
amazon corporate tax holding NYPD
accountable
and a black lives matter agenda she's
got a real serious agenda for New York
we'll be talking about that Plus
teachers strikes a whole bunch the
Haitian protected status for Haitians
court case and the activism around that
on the Michael Brooks show YouTube
channel this Sunday elicit history for
patrons with Ava Gallinger who is ago
Chavez's lawyer and one of the writers
of the Venezuelan Constitution we're
talking about the Bulevar a in project a
lot of stuff there patreon.com slash T
MBS or of course the Michael Brooks show
YouTube channel or on iTunes and see you
tomorrow at 7:00 check out the anti
Fattah at patreon.com slash the anti
fada they recorded yes I don't know the
details but they should have a new one
up shortly Matt some members only
content three hours and twenty minutes
of me narrating hope Lesley by Katherine
Maria Sedgwick it's a volume two
chapters one through seven and hopefully
that's the second to the last
installment of that Dipset all right
folks heading to the fun half six four
six two four six four six roll oh right
thank you
Ronnie gets credit on that one oh you
just didn't hear him he was you didn't
project enough Brendan here we go folks
is it another brawl one just a reminder
calming comfort by sharper image is it
the luxurious weighted blanket that
mimics the soothing feeling of being
hugged so you can sleep better feel
great stress less common comfort
weighted blanket comes with a 90-day
anxiety fee free stress free best
night's sleep of your life guarantee
from the sharper image
yeah a 90-day money-back guarantee right
now just for our listeners you can go to
calming comfort blanket dot-com use the
promo code majority a check out to
receive 15% off the displayed price
again that's calming comfort blanket
calm promo code majority because you
can't put a price on a great night's
sleep see you in the fun half
you are in for it alright folks six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see you in the fun
alpha males and the alpha males are back
just wanna degrade the white man
almost says what
I am a total gut can we bring back DJ
Teresa yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ Dan well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough of a
break Parkinson and the alpha males Oh
psych
almost says what what
a lot of back
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
black there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have an
onyx benefit for you
in the alpha males
some things to pay the price of Class B
around here like I am a total
we are back Sam cedar on the fun half
you know we we talked with Kevin Cruz
and and Julian Zelizer in their book
fault lines about the impact of the
right-wing media over the past 40 45
years in sort of driving what has been
up until I think fairly recently an
asymmetric polarization or force that
was creating polarization one thing that
did not come up and I've been saying
this for two and a half years the moment
Donald Trump is gone the media will snap
back well with the victory of the
Democrats in the house the media snapped
back pretty you know their their
tendencies so dramatic
in this way to get to an equilibrium
where they can basically say a pox on
both your houses
this is both your faults here is on CNN
Jim how do you pronounce his name Kudo
sciutto just sort of like saying like
look we need we need there to be a
dramatic cliffhanger here we cannot do
coverage of politics without some
semblance of us being able to maintain
arm's length from both of your positions
regardless you say Sun comes out during
the day they say Sun comes out during
the night
we can't take a position on this even
though our job is to deliver some of the
basic truths and then go from there I
mean when we talk about polarization in
this country if the media cannot as a
whole simply agree on
some very basic facts the Sun is in the
sky during the day it's not during the
night that's almost definitional at
least you know in New York let's say
that is a problem but watch how Jim
sciutto really tries to make this about
the now we know nothing moved on the
government shutdown when there were
Democrat when the Democrats controlled
no part of our government two weeks ago
the Republicans controlled everything
and they didn't pass a budget they were
elected to change things in Washington
to get things done they have an
ambitious agenda that extends far beyond
immigration here do they not have the
risk of being portrayed as
obstructionists here rather than then
doers what's the opposite of time
dilation like time stagnation right it
was just like I'm sorry we just had a
hiccup where you guys were out of power
for two years and we're not going to
like who will you replay that because
you know it's also amazing is there's no
it is it is the most passive voice
possibly used like what if aliens come
down here and have no sense of context
could they maybe say like you guys are
obstruction is good they were elected to
change things in Washington to get
things done they have an ambitious
agenda that extends far beyond
immigration here do they not have the
risk of being portrayed as
obstructionists here rather than then
doers what was the answer to you know
there was no say that but the guy he's
talking to Scott Jennings was a policy
director for Mitch McConnell for a long
time right I thought that was calling
this so I would imagine not much but but
what I think it's for I get a picture
them like in morning prep just being
like god it's gonna feel great to be
able to repeat
exactly the same thing again that we
always repeat because it'd be so
relaxing
like portrayed by whom like who it like
it like it like it yeah by me by me as I
am doing right now I'm trying to do is
do it all this Porsche rain in this
country I'm trying to give you a
prediction as to where I'll be tomorrow
in talking about your obstruction is
this not an opportunity for us to resort
to our absolutely mind-blowing ly lazy
cliches that we have been forced out of
by a profoundly mentally ill president i
completely forgot that the president
said i will own the shutdown in other
words i will totally own this shutdown i
completely forgot that happened I'm
sorry
now that President Trump has declared
martial law the Democrats are in charge
of the house though this wasn't exactly
on their agenda is it could this be seen
as a do-nothing no compromise Congress
by a president Trump declaring Martial
Law by all of you going into the camps
aren't you in some way participating in
this like really I mean like look if you
didn't go into the camps
maybe the camp's wouldn't be full I
understand some would say in democratic
congressional offices as they're being
forced in the camps but that being as it
may the American people want action
let's go to that which is the one with
yeah which is the one where he where
Anderson Cooper can't believe it he has
that look of surprise it's about the
racism one oh the racism okay yeah here
it is now here is a clip of ALC on 60
minutes we can't we you know CBS for
whatever reason doesn't believe in fair
use and so they have an issue with us
using video but the audio is good enough
it they'll cause you to listen to it but
we did want to put the picture of
Anderson Cooper looking very surprised
by what AOC is saying like you know this
is perturbed dog this is but this is
part and parcel of the same thing of Jim
sciutto saying like is until that you'll
be portrayed as obstructionist like like
do
someone kidnap everyone in the media and
and and then bring them up like is it
like one of those things like men in
black situation where they all get they
they cannot aggregate any information or
context or know anything outside of that
very moment like are they reborn at
every single moment someone in the
Democratic Party or someone to the left
of them or even to not to the left it's
just someone nominally on the Left says
something it's as if they're like
approaching it with virgin ears like I
know nothing about the world or anything
I'm just shocked to hear this are you
saying there's something do you think
that that the Republicans are in some
way motivated by race really here's a
LSE talking to Anderson Cooper you don't
talk about the President Trump very much
no why because I think he's a symptom of
a problem what do you mean the president
certainly didn't invent racism but he's
certainly given a voice to it and
expanded it and created a platform for
those things
do you believe President Trump is a
racist yeah no how can you say that when
you look at the words that he uses which
are historic dog whistles of white
supremacy when you look at how he
reacted to the charlottesville incident
where neo-nazis murdered a woman versus
how he manufactures crises like
immigrants seeking legal refuge on our
borders it's it's night and day
I like how she could just say like by
every observable action both stated and
like what like I mean it really is like
a where do you begin answer right like
we could go to the stuff you guys talk
about all the time his Twitter feed is
but or we could go to policy like
temporary protected status for Haitians
we go to the children that have died
under his policies because of the
motivation of racism where would you
like to start and maybe you could wipe
the confuse credulous idiot look off
your face
while I establish reality I mean there's
varying too
Riis I think she showed the the proper
restraint and walked him through it like
one would a a not a totally like not a
toddler but one would maybe a junior
high student but she could have also
just said I don't know is there gravity
like I mean yes it there hope you say
that just once worth I get the concept I
know some people I know there's like
very literalist people well what do you
think
good I'm sorry go ahead I'm just saying
I understand something understand
Cooper's like he's supposed to pretend
to be objective and he can't editorial
and it's like okay I'm not saying that
Anderson Cooper I don't think we're
saying like Anderson Cooper should be
like yeah yeah we all know he's a racist
piece of garbage but like really that
level of just incredibly like not even
like well I understand why a lot of
people hold that view but do you really
feel as a congresswoman or go many ways
I'll frame what's your perspective on
why that's the case as opposed to
everyone else's perspective as opposed
to the white nationalist who say that
Donald Trump is giving us voice as
opposed to how can I say that right what
really I mean that was like as if she
was just like I mean like she might as
well have been talking about Jeb Bush
the way he said it right yeah it how did
you say that right like what do you what
what is the voice of incredulity that
you use for other people like what's
left it's really how can you say that
and here is a Oh see explaining to
Anderson Cooper that the knee-jerk and
just as you know when we were talking to
Julian Zelizer earlier this idea that
the conservative movement the Republican
Party is for limited government no they
have different priorities that's all
these are two parties with different
priorities as to how you spend money and
who should pay for it
the Republicans feel the wealthy should
pay less the Democrats largely feel the
wealthy should pay more Republicans want
to spend the money on stuff that
specifically enriches them Democrats
largely at least theoretically want to
spend it on helping those people who who
fall through the cracks and provide a
social safety net and there are also
elements of the Democratic Party
hopefully growing and I think are who
want to expand universal programs and
services by government this is pretty
all straightforward stuff that I would
hope that after the 25 years in on CNN
that Anderson Cooper has picked up but
there is like some notion of like
remember doing an interview got to
maintain a certain amount of incredulity
here gotta be just like it's I'm like I
don't know where any of this is coming
from how are you going to pay for all of
this no one asks how we're gonna pay for
this space force no one asked how we
paid for a two trillion dollar tax cut
we only ask how we pay for it on issues
of housing health care and education how
do we pay for it with the same exact
mechanisms that we pay for military
increases for the space force for all of
these ambitious policies there are
Democrats obviously who are worried
about your effect on the party
Democratic Center Chris Cohen said about
left-leaning Democrats if the next two
years is just a race to offer
increasingly unrealistic proposals it'll
be difficult for us to make a credible
case we should be allowed to govern
again what makes it unrealistic how to
pay for we pay more per capita in health
care and education for lower outcomes
then
other nations and so for me what's
unrealistic is is what we're living in
right now there you go yeah you know
what I would like to do is cool I would
like to see ALC with the debate with
Chris Coons Chris Coons of course
incidentally is the one who wants to
return the filibuster well Chris Coons
is also just another Delaware right
Blake yeah credit card subsidy senator
he's the one up for reelection until
yeah I mean Chris Coons is an utter
mediocrity the only reason he's in the
Senate is because you lucked out by
getting the run against Christine
O'Donnell he has nothing distinguishing
to his name and has done nothing to
forward any type of national cause
whatsoever she's done today for months
in national life that he's done his
whole career in the Senate to be fair he
does have that proposal to have the
state legislatures pick senators again
that was the nature of compromise how
about we you vote to restore the
filibuster in exchange I would like to
offer that the Senate's looks state
legislation would have decided that may
be the best way to pick senators would
be to allow the Board of Directors at
the Lincoln Center to to choose them for
every state so we gotta just keep
hitting like her proposal is hard as
easier on the oligarchs than Jimmy
Carter's was in the late 70s we had a
90% rate the 50s economy worked great
Sweden still has a 70% rate they're a
global actually lobbie billion ahead of
their a global superstar in terms of
economic performance like this is just
total nonsense
well you say it's nonsense that we could
sustain I could see an Augusta economic
voice coming up here you-you-you think
it's nonsense that we could actually
deal with a tax rate that over the past
hundred years was actually the the norm
right we had 30 some odd years of a tax
rate that was a top marginal rate that
was above 70 percent at least coincided
with some some good growth oh absolutely
fact what they called the the great
compression where wealth inequality now
there was a lot of factors involved in
that and you know it's not exactly the
same but that is not dispositive of the
of the value of this tax but here it is
Fox News weighing in again on the
proposal that is in no way radical but
getting even in this clip you can see
the value I mean to them it is you know
it's like the spread of the plague but
when Julian Castro who at the DNC was it
in 2016 or 2012 he spoke I don't know I
think it was 12 but I'm not sure I just
remember when that guy spoke being
bummed out but by his speech which was
very much about like you know if you
have the the perfect grandmother like I
did you can achieve anything in this
country for those of you don't well
that's your Sol it was 2012 here is Fox
and Friends and good for them talking
about this proposal to tax not the rich
up to 90 percent but any dollar made
over three million ten million I think
it should be closer to three million but
I think the Democrats are saying ten but
up to ninety percent here of course is
Stewart Vaughn hey Joe agreeing with
Alexandria okay zo Cortez on a plan to
skyrocket taxes for the super-rich to
fund their socialist agendas pancit for
one second wait a sec this Fox and
Friends like didn't they get the memo
you don't want to save the super-rich no
say that well right I that that's not
even gonna pull well they're they're
keep it simple say tax working American
did just constantly rich yeah their
agenda that tax a handful of people John
varanese probably don't like right and I
have so much money
they couldn't possibly spend it even if
they hired an entire company full of
people who in charge of just doing
nothing but spending it
I can support folks at the top paying
their fair share there was time in this
country where the top marginal tax rate
was over 90 percent even during Reagan's
era in the 1980s it was around 50
percent all right here to react us host
a Varney and company on the Fox Business
Network stuart varney
how strongly would you like me to react
something taxed at 90 percent why bother
did he did the gentleman refer to a fair
share yes a fair share is 90 percent
than the government and maybe ten
percent kept by you that hardly seems
fair to me looks took two points looks
to me like number one the far left is
now calling the shots for the entire
democrat party as you roll up towards
2020 at least so to two of the bigger
names okay okay all of the headlines
they're making all of the running and
nancy pelosi constantly has to talk
about whether she's gonna go with this
or with that the far left is making the
running and that's very dangerous for
america what does that mean for our
economy because instead of working hard
and don't the people who contribute that
much to society or creating the big
businesses aren't they helping our
economy it would be very bad news for
america's economy right now we got a
boom in progress here we've got strong
growth you saw those jobs numbers on
friday over 300,000 new jobs
manufacturing making a real comeback
wages going up at at a very strong rate
you start imposing tax increases like
they're talking about there and you slow
that economy down dramatically that's
what happens when you raise tax so I
gotta tell you abroad I don't think they
care if you ask them what's the effect
of this on the economy I don't think
they care
well I'll simply want to stick it to the
rich and stick it to programs yeah okay
Medicare for all and Alexandria of
Castillo Cortez has this green agenda
which has to be paid for with money from
the rich it simply won't work so it
sounds like it'll work it didn't really
make an argument that it wouldn't work
it's just that he doesn't think it's
fair to the super wealthy
and the folks on the front I would like
it like the I guess I don't want to
overstate this but one of my fantasies
would be to sit on the couch with those
three and explain marginal tax rates
that simply isn't fair Rupert Murdoch
has to buy human slave I'm gonna stop
working after I make three million that
year I'm gonna stop sometime like I
don't know like stop and you know
February I made my three mill I'm just
gonna coast from here cuz I don't want
to pay ninety percent taxes I mean
that's just it's absurd I will say on
the flip side I'm pretty glad that they
aren't spending a lot of time going
after our strongest asset which is Chris
Coons creating exactly you know there's
some weight assert a formidable thing
hold on for static party we got some
breaking news this is wow this is an
exclusive from the gateway pundit an
exclusive just breaking Yorktown elitist
and Brock's hoaxer Alexandria Acacio
Cortes went by Sandy well into college
at Boston University there is a video
associated with this can we scroll down
to see the Wow
where the heck did she get this sandy
from oh there's a picture of her look at
that she's wearing a some type of tank
top interesting very in fact Acacio
Cortez went by sandy at least into her
junior year the way that we at the
university can you get like a people who
say that can we look at people's
restraining order no kidding like guy
and if you ever looked at any pictures
of him I think that rushes man yeah
there she is
I'm not even making I'm not even making
that I'm even being that cheap although
I'm perfectly willing to be I'm talking
a certain a certain call Interpol look
about him and then you combine that with
this fixation on a
it's very bizarre now is there an actual
video where we see someone refer to her
as sandy I mean that would be
devastating no but in the in the really
embarrassing video of her dancing she
was credited as sandy Ocasio close oh my
god video credits that's she didn't wipe
that she'd clear her history and I mean
guy I know this is the when it's hard
for us like what's the balance of
propaganda and intellectual honesty
because that I'm I'm running up against
it yeah I don't know what to say where's
the guy who was able to key to whitewash
Obama's birth certificate why couldn't
he get ahead of this historic gotten
sloppy I guess I heard Bill Ayers his
health isn't doing great maybe that's
why Hey all right let's go to the phones
you call him from a oh well I forgot to
hold on I thought they got it yesterday
we do a story on Friday from like red
state of have them being like you know
guys like drool is like posting videos
of her being like likable in college
isn't exactly working for us right
acting like a general bunch of sort of
like deranged stalker weirdos maybe is
not the most effective interpret that
feeling of excitement you're getting as
this is good for our side more like
interrogated a bit I'm going to have to
watch more videos of her dancing yeah
should interrogate ode psychosexual
issues how many of us have Alexander
Ocasio Cortez High School video in our
Google searches yeah
like the problem is inside the building
guys calling from a 631 area code who's
this uh hello can you hear me yes Sam
can you hear me yes I can
oh yeah actually I was I was calling
about just that crap you've been talking
about with AOC I was you were talking on
Michael from Ohioan been talking on
Friday about you were talking on Friday
about that clip where you know Anderson
Cooper is acting all horrified about the
whole idea of progressive taxation and
different ways that she could have
played you know against that kind of
crap and the one that I
we always want somebody to say is to say
well yes Anderson you know at some point
maybe you know TV star pretend
journalists who make egg figures will
have to actually contribute something
and you know and and Viacom might
actually have to give back a little bit
of what they take from our from our
country and I never hear anybody talk
about you know the incentives that that
that yeah Anderson Cooper's and the
Chuck Todd's are working with that they
they'd all met beneficiaries it's come
visit yeah I mean they're doing their
taxes have gone down there they're
coming their employers and and Anderson
Cooper was he he comes from an extremely
wealthy family okay and I don't I don't
think that is the issue like I don't
think that's why they responded to it
although I will say this I think it
might be helpful for politicians to do
that because it will make them more
hesitant to raise it right if what
they're getting paid you know makes it
more more hesitant for them to raise you
know sort of such surprised at that I
think that could be I think like the
liberal mindset as always to a seeing
goodwill on everybody's part but you
know if you look at the class of you
know the the super star TV journalists
and the people actually making editorial
decisions of the New York Times and the
companies that own the news outlet how
can you say that these these are all
people who who don't know anybody who
was victims of right trumpism and
they're all people whose taxes have gone
down and whose power over government and
over you know labor is being enhanced by
by by what we're seeing and though and I
what I don't see you know I think
there's like this sort of you know
Pollyannish view
of people who go on well you know and I
guess it's hard because like if you went
on haze some night and started talking
about the interests of Comcast and you
know in in in right putting the most
remote the most of you know nice in
putting the best space on Republic
important policy you know from basically
from from morning until eight o'clock
you know except for the except for those
until except for the three hours at
night would you get asked that III think
it would be the problem I I mean I I do
know that like you know in the past
Hayes's actually did you know on his
weekend show I think he did like a
full-blown like thirty minutes on
Comcast and he said you know it was it
was okay but yes I think for someone
like myself in that position
I mean I've I've said maybe not been
that explicit when it's come up but yeah
I think broadly speaking if you say that
enough about the specific company in
particular you will be gone and largely
I think yes people who are going to
challenge the the status quo
don't have terribly long careers in
broadcast media I think that's
absolutely true but I listen I
appreciate the time like I gotta
appreciate go thanks
I mean I think that's true I don't think
that's their motivation I really don't I
don't think Chuck Todd is like I got tax
breaks cuz Chuck Todd is gonna make a
ton of money regardless I do however
think there may be value for politicians
to say that but you know again those
politicians more often than not are also
extremely wealthy so you know there's
some common
Congress who have more sort of ability
to do that but I think it could be
helpful I mean - in some context but yes
it would be a short-lived opportunity
called from a nine one nine area code
who's this were you calling from
hello hello who's this where you come
from I I'm the tant I'm calling from
India Matan from India what's on your
mind yes I heard you so last week you
were talking about a Tulsi Gabbard and
Indian Prime Minister Modi yeah yeah
also there's a really good article on
t-intercept which describes her ties to
Modi and yeah I could hear like I think
Michael spoke about you know how can
anybody support Modi because he is he
like he's almost a murderer and I think
like if you read that article you like
really get an insight into how she is
even funded by right-wing
internationalists in the u.s. who have
ties with the RSS in India yeah I have
not the RSS just so piaggio is like a
far-right almost power military extreme
far-right Hindu nationalist group which
is sort of almost like I'm not saying
it's a directly equivalent but almost
like say KKK and Republican Party or a
KKK and the Democratic Party in the yeah
yeah it's very similar to like Muslim
organizations like it in the same brain
yes and and also that if you even read
the particle and it's it's amazing that
you know she claims to be a progressive
and she supports Modi because most like
multi even now there are so many human
rights violations that here's and I even
after coming into power and I'm not even
talking about what is it in 2002 in
Gujarat way
like his daddy responsible for the
deaths of like thousands of people like
a last I think couple of months back the
army gender will responsible for
controlling the Gujarat riots came out
and said that when he arrived in Gujarat
he was made the whole army was made to
wait for an entire day during which a
thousand people died and moti did
nothing like Modi called the army and it
just sat in would rather date they
weren't able to go out because he did
not provide any transport for them so
he's like it's and I don't think anybody
can like really claim that motive or the
discontent for the diet sang-hee and
like I don't know why food together can
support him oh because she's got some
very far-right Hindu politics and she's
got so and you know I think to be honest
I think I think it's quite the real way
of understanding Tulsi Gabbard and maybe
with demystifies it and reveals a whole
bigger problem that's also unacceptable
is you know there's a lot of people in
democratic politics who hold great
positions on a variety of issues but
they support Israeli Apartheid
and they'll never criticize whoever's in
power in Israel and she has the same
approach when it comes to far-right
Hindu politics and of course not all
Hindu politics is in any way far right
but the BJP and the RSS is and Modi is
in guilty of you know certainly of some
human rights abuses and that to me if
you correlate that with Assad and also
her stances by the way unlike call it
Islamic terrorism and on Israel and on
drones that takes her off the table for
me yeah I don't yes although I mean I
will say on that one she all of her
positions are up to date now so that one
I don't hit as hard I understand why
people would be totally suspicious of it
but she's revised all of her positions
on those issues appreciate the call no
time yeah let's go to a 6-5 one area
code who's this where he come from I
mean yes it is you
hi I'm Tony Tom from the Twin Cities hi
Tony what's on your mind yeah just a
first-time caller here just trying to
get more local question we recently had
al franken obviously get booted out but
he's been peeking his head back in the
public eye and our midterms went well
we're obviously the best state in the
mid in the Midwest so I was wondering
what you guys opinion on Al Franken come
back to the Senate at all or so I mean
Tina Smith is you know not not very
inspirational I guess oh so would you
rather have al franken or would you may
be rather have somebody else well I mean
is she okay I don't like Karen Karen uh
Karen Housley she did pretty close yeah
Tony I don't know I don't know much
about her primary challengers I mean I
think she's a good progressive vote do I
think that there's room for Al Franken
to come back as a senator from Minnesota
no I just don't I just don't know so not
not I mean not you know he's is he gonna
run against is he gonna run in six years
with a primary challenge is he gonna is
he gonna run against Amy Klobuchar
I don't think he should theoretically if
globish are left to run for president or
something I guess I I don't see I'll to
answer it more broadly I mean yeah he
would be silly to primary either of
those two candidates that wouldn't make
any sense there isn't something that
distinguishes him significantly from
those but as a general proposition would
it be cool if he came back in some
capacity like ran for Congress or a seat
opened up in the Senate yeah that's what
I'd say but not as a primary challenge
very nice loved you know so maybe like
maybe she consider running for MA
or house or something but no way he
should primary either of those two
senators no appreciate the call not even
know no know why six years from now he's
gonna primary no I mean him by the way
if she turns out to be bad by that point
in six years then like Olano marsh get
somebody better get somebody young right
with a more progressive profile put
Allison and then look I listen right
right you know I I don't know what
position Al Franken might be good for in
the context of of a Democratic
administration but I could see
opportunities there perhaps who knows
who knows calling from a 262 area code
who's this where he come from
hi my name is Dee I'm calling from
Waukesha Wisconsin Waukesha hello yeah I
know yeah I get that every time I bet
what's going on I wasn't I just called
for a couple reasons one okay how do I
explain this in 30 seconds or less
basically you know you hear all this
stuff and it's like it's the media's
fault it's Trump's fault it's the evil
crooked establishment politics fault but
don't you think there's like a huge
element here right now going on a sort
of it's all of our faults in terms of
our culture and needing to redress
things like bringing civics back as an
employer I know that sounds so old
school but you know taking sort of pride
in our cities and our in our counties
and then our states and so on so forth
you know the whole trickle up theory
because it seems to be everybody's
pointing fingers and everybody but
nobody's sort of taking responsibility
for the idea that we live in this sort
of reality television
Trump's entertaining so let's go ahead
and leave in president cuz it's
interesting kind of thing I mean I had a
neighbor tell me she voted for Paul Ryan
because he was cute and he spoke well
you know I mean this is what I'm talking
about this is the kind of thing that
seems to inform a lot of people's
decision-making and so it's no surprise
to me that we have a Trump for president
to be honest and that won't get for in
the forward that Michaels gonna write
for my book on blaming the electorate
he covers a lot of it I listen I
I'm lumping myself in there by them no
no I understand I understand what you're
saying and I think I think that's I
think that's the case but okay once
we've said like all right a huge
percentage of our of our population
they're voting queues are are not mature
okay let's just put it that way all
right yeah they're not they're not
sophisticated in terms of what what
they're what they're then what right
like I like I feel like that's what what
like why we do this program like I agree
but can I ask you a question then how do
you do how do you deal with this then so
you have somebody that lives in the
bubble that no matter what kind of facts
he presented them and I deal with it
literally every day I have friends that
are incredibly warm people who've done
wonderful things for me right there
they're generous and kind and loving and
then you start talking to them about
Obama and they say all my best friends
are black and Mohammed was Obama was a
secret Sharia gonna bring Sharia I mean
it's crazy and they really believe this
stuff so you can't have I can't make
them believe something different I don't
want to fight with them all the time I
can go and vote I get that but at the
end of the day you either have a
democracy that says they're entitled to
be blissfully ignorant and for lack of a
more politically correct term right or
they're entitled to ruin the rest of us
and you know what the problem is letting
them ruin the rest of us in demand a
fair democracy means that children on
the border are dying right well I mean
that's my issue
no I listen I know I I totally
understand that perspective and I
totally subscribe to it I think like the
only the the only solution to the extent
that there is one and I don't know you
know that there is one it is to sort of
do what you know you do here on some
level
is to try and influence the way that the
media that relates to them to try and
marginalize the the media that is not
going to change due to my challenging
Sam yeah can I challenge you so I watch
you often on MSNBC on pretty LAN
Christmas show and you're very careful
about what you said that you wouldn't
dare say some of the things you say on
your show on MSNBC now is that scripted
by MSNBC in that part of your contract
I'm not trying to be rude here I'm
because what I wish they had but aside
from you know slightly different
delivery what would I not say on that
show that I would say here I mean I
don't I don't use the same bye you know
occasionally elsewhere here yeah but I
mean you know like in the context I mean
part of it is like look I'm in a
different medium on that show and no no
no I understand I understand I'm in a
different medium I'm talking to a
broader range of people who have a
slightly different common denominator
but about what do you think that I've
said on this show that I wouldn't say in
that context well I think some of the
comments you made for example about AOC
were incredibly good on and and CNN's
response to her and what happens is you
get this vacuum like one of my hugest
pet peeves if one more politician or
news commentator says and the people I'm
the people and I don't agree with you so
don't say you speak for me
that was like me call in well yes but I
can't I can't go on to Hayes's you know
show and when we're talking about one
topic go like and incidentally but there
have been quite a time there's been
plenty of times where I've said I mean
I'm trying to remember the context but
where I've said like even on this
network you had people who were saying
blah blah blah you know I didn't say I I
do it but I can't I can't change the
topic I'm a guy I don't I don't have
that maybe if you weren't so bottled
into the Democratic Party you'd have the
courage you're on your platform where
you let people like me call it and say
like for me what I would love to do is
take one of these pundits or
commentators take literally clip their
their audio and respond to it myself
instead of with this vacuum that
everybody seems to think you're doing
that right now
yeah no she wants to flip she wants D I
get it you want to be able to say posit
this indeed I mean maybe maybe you
should maybe you should think about
launching your own YouTube channel I
could try that and I was working with
one of your never got back to me Matt
what she what happened about a year ago
I mailed him and said you know I'm
really kind of considering maybe
starting up a podcast and I didn't know
how to do what I'm very technologically
challenged and he was gonna help me he
never got back to me but they're busy
and I'm not really a that was building
his water boat at that yeah hang in
there maybe no YouTube channel very
cool thank you very much I'm not I'm not
you know once in a while I get worked up
enough to call into a show like this but
no I'm not really cut out to be a host
funny I think you are I think I think
Matt dropped the ball I do do voices I
do a great valley girl all right well
let's save that for another call box
melon too bad sound of sound files keep
them updated appreciate the call D ah
let's go to the IMS jonathan Armstead d
should call more you didn't yeah should
um you didn't do movie recommendations
on friday what did you all see during
the break I'm really only asking to see
if I should get around to finishing bird
box oh my god it moves too slow I have
not watched that I'm not normally
interested I watched a force majeure
over the break and that was that was
quite good I've been watching Babylon
Berlin which is very intense but it's
it's good fascinating first performed
with Ethan Hawke it's amazing I really
liked it
what was it for Oh first performed yeah
I did you tell me that alright I think I
did yeah not on there though didn't
didn't I watch the bow to Buster Scruggs
I really enjoyed that right I've heard
good things I mean it's like 2 hours and
45 minutes almost like yeah it's that's
cool is it reminds you of oh brother
where art thou you know that's what I'm
less familiar with I think it's probably
a bit like that I love oh brother
glass eagle ben shapiro totally blew up
a Elsie's planned for taxes calling it
intensely stupid because rich people
would just start using tax avoidance
strategies that's criminalize the rich
baby it's Ben thinks more similarly to
us than he realizes right reveal your
criminal nature America's capitalist
class the what that's just that's a
great logic for any sort of gun
sensation well that is the same logic of
the guy who said you know if your water
go if your house is under water because
of climate change you'll just flip it
that's no I'm saying that that is it ben
shapiro
similar you'll flip it you'll say you
think so so let's take the let the
laughs worst-case scenario your house
goes underwater what are you gonna do
you're gonna sell your house move
 philosopher prince of the
American right somebody who's taken
freshman economics oh yeah we got some
logic right there I have to say
shameless plug but I just thought of
this because Sam Harris does guided
meditations
so Mike Racine 4ni for the live show
recording other like Dave Rubin guided
meditation and a Ben Shapiro guided
meditation and Ruben you know of course
is just like ooh focus on your breath
what's that a Doug you know and then
Shapiro just goes into berating you and
reminded you of the Terms of Service and
this cannot be used for any other
purposes except for your example if
you're not relaxed that's because of you
you haven't fulfilled your fiduciary
requirements I think greement calling
from Nebraska we should tax nobody but
Stuart Varney turn up Bega I thought the
debate between Sam and Straka was great
until it took a weird turn and Sam ended
up explaining to him what comedy is for
about 30 minutes is the guy grifting or
is he really that dump shy actually left
I went in thinking grift and left
thinking that dumb yeah
shot synergy Sam you miss what Trump
said first thing in his little press
conference about the shutdown he said
that he can relate to people not paying
their bills it's probably the only
truthful thing he said in three years
a pathetic steamroller gateway pundit
may have had the scoop about ASE going
sandy for a while but have you heard the
breaking news that it turns out Ted
Cruz's first name is actually Rafael
shocking lefty uno breaking news cinto a
brown granted clemency oh good for her
yes and that should not have been in
prison to begin with and it's still I
mean it's great but she is still on
parole I mean this is a type this
is the she should be given a massive
amount of money she need to say the
least
she was teenagers a 16 year old woman if
I remember correctly who was sent to
prison because she had been she liked
sex trafficked and literally basically
her kidnappers yeah she killed a guy in
self-defense
where was this and Tennessee mm-hmm
Melissa demeanor well that's good news
at least a little bit did you hear the
news was granted clemency yes
spent last night fighting rate with
racist son reddit who were talking
about Shaun King and about Jasmine
Barnes family and the feeling was
depressed about the world but this news
is great and makes me feel tiny little
better Yes Doctor
chaos MD when Varney touts wages going
up as a sign we do not need higher
marginal tax rates on the wealthy see
referring to minimum wage increases that
went into effect in the in this year in
20 states not to mention municipalities
and counties with the massive trap trump
tax cuts
why did citizens have to mandate higher
wages through ballot measures shouldn't
our benevolent billionaire rulers have
just raised wages on their own well look
the results are in for all those
corporate tax increases there was no
relationship between any increase in
wages and those tax cuts there was a
huge and I would argue causation
correlation between those corporate tax
cuts and stock buybacks park what do you
think about Noam Chomsky's point about
capital flight is a mechanism of control
against meaningful change in policy the
whole narrative involving economic
performance gives all the power to the
wealthy technocratic pseudo-state which
means unless we create a really radical
reforms the market can tank meaningful
reform deliberately yes thoughts on when
the on that when considering these
ambitious proposals if we look to the
market as a metric of success our
success depend you know I mean I
mentioned this before but well first of
all we shouldn't I mean I think you're
talking about the market in general as
opposed to the stock market but there
was a a move back in like 93 or 94 to
recalculate the way that we did the GDP
I think it was the GDP at that time I
don't think it was a GNP and which would
involve which would
factor in externalities would factor in
cost to the environment would factor in
some type of index in terms of like you
know people stress and why not and I
think major reforms like that would
require some measure of of recalculating
the way that we even talked about but I
think that would come in evitable
like I think you know the the the market
for CNBC talked and and Fox Business
talk is narrow it's it's very niche
that's totally she but but places like
you know if Corbin gets the power in the
UK I mean they're threatening looks like
wholesale capital flight to totally
clout tank the economy you know I mean
there is a lot of mechanisms that go
beyond the stuff that doesn't matter for
normal people as much I
I find it unlikely I think that's more I
think there's more potential for that in
Europe frankly than there is in the
United States already yes yes but at the
end of the day like good luck I also did
you know I in 1968 at a speech at the
University of Kansas
Robert F Kennedy laid out a critique of
GDP and he said yet is one quote yet the
gross national product does not allow
for the health of our children the
quality of their education the joy of
their play it does not include the
beauty of our poetry the strength of our
marriages the intelligence of our public
debate or the integrity of our public
officials and he actually talks about
doors and prisons adding to GDP
destruction of redwoods he actually
outlined this great when was 68 I mean
can you Marge a politician talking about
like that today they would get like they
were just like and then he'd reference
Escalus Jim sciutto really you're
talking about SFO sweet why poetry hey
that's that's Tucker the poet that's
should we get serious JJ cool hey Sam
what do you have against concrete not
much just the fact that you have to like
goes six inches down and put gravel down
it's a pain in the ass it's better in
schools and border walls the mad mailman
thought you might like to know Cynthia
yes it's Antonio Brown secularists
Satanists you guys should do a random
rush type of thing whenever Joe Rogan is
streaming a conversation with some
mouth-breather at the same time as in
right now JB I'm beginning to hate the
word polarization this sounds too much
like both sides are to blame equally
yeah you know I agree with that
secret identity politics waukesha caller
needs different friends TM BS is my jam
Sam can we hear North Carolina borrow
your New York State Board of Elections
since North Carolina currently does not
have a State Board of Elections to deal
with the debacle in North Carolina's
ninth House District yeah that's crazy
Adam Koch head Sam I went through Dave
Rubin subreddit dude person after person
said the Sam cedar video showed them the
light and they realized how dumb or
hollow this whole thing is can you guys
please say something super mean about
Dave look but okay after Sam could I
just say after Sam does what he's about
to do yes I will well can we play that
yeah oh I'm not gonna say anything super
mean about Dave well can I just say that
we spent so much time talking about how
stupid Davis we don't spend enough time
talking about what an is no look
I don't know I'll leave it this way I'm
not in charge of writing the code of
ethics for people who do political talk
shows okay
I'm not a columnist for The New York
Times who would you know make someone
famous regardless of what they spew into
the the atmosphere the intellectual
atmosphere the intellectual
ether or web yes or the darkness of the
web whatever but look plenty of times on
this program I say you know I don't know
so I'm not gonna comment all right I
don't know international politics that
well I don't when I don't know something
and there's plenty of other things
domestically I don't know and I'm not
afraid to say that because that in my
mind that's the most honest thing for me
to say and it's a function of my
integrity and what I feel like I owed
the audience and not just what I owe my
audience what I just generally owe
society don't pontificate about
something that I have no idea about that
is serious so when a guy gets elected to
what what is it the fifth biggest the
biggest democracy and the fifth biggest
democracy in the world I wasn't 100%
sure so you noticed like I turned to
Michael because I wouldn't say it and
and I have a list of just with Elizabeth
largest economy as well yeah I have a
list here of what he did on day one I
think it was where is that is that the
pogey tweet yeah I can't remember day
one he eliminated I could tell you off
the top of my head of you he took out
protections for LGBT people which I've
heard something about they've Ruben
being gay he overturned lowered the
minimum wage
he put the amazon protections for the
amazon as well as all of the indigenous
communities inside the amazon he put
them inside the hands of someone who's
an agribusiness lobbyist a third of his
part of his government is military and
there was actually one other really
terrible thing which i'm totally free it
was like the boys will wear blue and
girls wear pink stuff and the sjw's
which is right well he promised an end
to socialism and political correctness
in his convention speech but i'm trying
to think of just like straight up policy
and he's oh he's promising to gut labor
protections
yeah and this is on day one this is all
look you could also you know it's been
going around you know people have been a
little bit talking about maybe this
guy's a fascist or maybe not this guy's
definitely a fascist like if you if you
check out like any of the news at all
it's hard to imagine that you wouldn't
come across you know at least some
notion about this guy he said stuff like
he told a woman like he referred to
black activists as like animals
he said something they were told a woman
that she wasn't ugly and she wasn't
attractive enough it may be rare to him
in Congress he'd prefer to have his son
died in a car accident than be gay right
I mean the military regime made its
biggest mistake was it didn't kill
enough people now the flip side of this
let me just also say there's an out for
you in this situation you could say you
know what I haven't really done anything
on this so I can't I can't really make a
comment about that guy like this happens
all the trouble is though is he did do
something about it because he as we did
on this show he appeared on a pro-ball
scenario YouTube propaganda channel 2
took a bit 8 years so untroubled so the
problem is typical Ruben fashion clearly
he knows nothing but he did propaganda
as well her I'm not gonna let my
ignorance get in the way of a couple of
clicks that I can bring over some
audience but putting that aside here's
exactly what you should not do when you
accidentally like oops I just supported
a fascist who incidentally if Dave Rubin
takes a trip down there we'll see in
two-three years if he could travel with
his husband there continue is your
opinion on Brazilian Prime Minister Boas
are both are in a row I am NOT going to
them this is the one thing where I'm
gonna give him a little bit of a break
because I'm
pronounce things all the time you do but
not that badly both both works a lot
like let me just let me just say this
really quick but listen if you because I
don't think it's just mispronunciation I
don't think he recognizes so much this
guy I don't think he said it no this is
he's never said the name is a guy who is
like the center of global news right now
in the last couple of days that's like
you're not looking at your notifications
news notifications on your phone but but
all that is fine it's just that you know
what you do in that situation I don't
know I don't know but dave has got a
project that he actually knows what he's
talking about is your opinion on
Brazilian Prime Minister Boas our bowls
are narrow regarding a lot of things
moving here deforestation of the
rainforest PS I'm a Christian I baked
you a cake though you know I don't know
enough about him but it sounds like he
really hates Marxism and he's and he's
really pushing Brazil to become more of
a world leader and that he actually is
for capitalism and he's trying to get
some of the SJW stuff out of the schools
I just saw a tweet by him a day or two
ago so on that front
and as again I don't know a ton about
him that all sounds good to me he's try
to get some of the SJW stuff out of the
schools like like like the the things
that say like you shouldn't be raping
people or I mean that's well no this is
writing on top of this guy actually
walked it back because it was like an
international slight international
embarrassment for a second and it's all
the other things they're doing but his
minister said boys will wear blue girls
will wear pink and actually had to say
oh actually everybody can wear whatever
they want right because even that was
sjw's have got to them know because well
duh because the economists in the Wall
Street Journal that have no problem with
fascism are like we certainly support
the like murdering of all the indigenous
peoples to help our petrol companies but
we feel slightly uneasy about like
awkward when we have pictures of your
students that they're all wearing
torturing gay kids in school isn't
really great
brands know what tell me about this
though Michael
so Brazil seems to be like becoming big
like their their back in the new what do
you say that they're like he wants to
make Brazil What did he say like how did
he put that was he like more respected
again or or great again trying to be a
leader like a goal a global player these
guys been sitting on the sidelines yeah
they were totally totally irrelevant
under like there was this thing that did
happen from like 2003 to 2010 at least
or twelve or like they had stipulating
the criticisms these things but they had
the Olympics the World Cup Lula was the
most popular president in the world with
an over eighty percent approval rating
the economy grew by leaps and bounds
they took 30 million people out of
poverty and Obama met Lula and said he's
the most popular politician on earth and
they set up a new brick trade agreement
and alliance with Russia China and South
Africa so which still exists to this day
so some people think that that period
actually was really good for Brazil
internationally yeah but now they're
starting to get into high gear now
they're kicking into high gear cuz
they're getting the sjw's out of schools
because now they're right because now
several months following the gunning
down of Mariela Franco who was an
afro-brazilian lesbian who fought
against police violence as a city
councilor and they haven't arrested
anybody they're taking it up a notch by
saying we're gonna actually formally
discriminate against and terrorized gay
transgender and lesbian people which
actually another thing incidentally
Brazil actually kicked it into high gear
by having a woman President Dilma
Rousseff and by being ahead of a lot of
a Western countries in gay right to SGA
w/e very ncwe this is one of those
things like you know you know that that
old threat like I'm gonna punch you so
hard like you're you know your mom
that's gonna you know get a black eye or
something like this is one of those
situations like where Barry Weiss should
be fired because yes yes Nash takes fire
barry hashtag fire barry and just and by
the way i'm
there's just for pure incompetence in
stupidity did it for being bad
intellectual dumb yeah for being a
 is the closest equivalent
I could think of is if somebody flew me
to go to North Korea or I just did like
a North Korean YouTube propaganda video
and I was just like you people who
really interested in ideas and
collectivizing the means of production
and then somebody I get a letter and I
think Kim Jung Sheen well I don't really
do much after my research but I've heard
that he's taking a lot of land away for
the rich people which I like he was
really good about stepping over the net
did you know like walk the line there he
stepped over which I think it's pretty
cool he's really kicking it into gear
with the piece and the weapons so I
don't know enough but a great public
transportation got great but the
transportation pursue I think he's
actually doing a really good job good
boy but I don't know but I don't know I
don't know Kim Chi wheels but Dave
seriously let's let's sit down and talk
and have a real conversation right
absolutely
he's you know we spend a lot of time een
you know Dave's obviously and I think I
don't even consider his calling Dave
dumb to be like like polemical I think
it's his gesture descriptive but he's
smart enough to know not to debate you
ill Mick I love that caller who spoke on
the public's views on a whole but what
you do on Christian show is more
important than you know it really
matters and changed minds chris is also
one of our sleeper cells LOL not really
lol Wow
Jay I only hear Stuart Varney on your
podcast I keep thinking that I'm
listening to an infomercial that he's
demonstrating a miracle pan that fries
without Oh train boy do you know if the
matching funds for know Mickey's
campaign is retroactive I donated a lot
since she declared it'd be nice if that
funding was matched I live in NYC for
what it's worth
also I want Dee and Mindy to make a
podcast together I uh I wouldn't
actually get on it I think so
I think so I'm not a hundred percent
sure about that in terms of the
retroactive right about now did you see
the portrait I made of you this morning
I already
that I haven't checked the emails yet no
but I will J tingle I only hear Stuart
Varney uh hmm hmm well now we know the
secret about Jay he both comes in as J
and J tingle Rick Kansas spending rich
Kansas spending methods is 2019 and
we're still screwed Sam
okay tada Sh fly eagles fly bald Baldy
society there is a focused attempt to
docks Brooks on the YouTube channel
please check it out I don't know if the
info is true but it's a little concerned
I've been banning a lot of different
accounts it's not it's their dachshund
someone named Matthew Brooks
so it's as far as dachshund goes it's
not great what idiots V span V spa
governor Haslam has granted clemency to
yes we know thank you Chris verdict
Michael mentioning oh brother where art
thou reminded me of when Schwarzenegger
ran for governor out here he literally
took broom in hand and without crediting
a source acted out the scene where
Charles Durning corrupt politician
character sweeps out the special
interests soggy flatulence David Pakman
is debating Scott Adams today Sam you
should have on and pull poke holes in
his pseudo-intellectual pet Scott Adams
the guy who writes Dilbert yes he's a
mind he's a brain genius guy he's very
pseudo a sort of like pinnacle somebody
that can get their juices flowing and
their love tank Phil no pull the other
part of that the other part is I want
the Democrat was vote for a potted plant
or a hologram no the other part when of
the Democrats going to nominate someone
that Bill Kristol and I could get behind
oh yeah so tomorrow night
Donald Trump has announced I am pleased
to inform you I thank you that I will
address the nation on the humanitarian
and national security crisis on our
southern border Tuesday night at 9:00
p.m. that sounds like he might could
stuff declare a state of emergency to
fund the wall
and so and yeah I guess I look forward
to Rand Paul being like I'm gonna go
ahead and support that right exactly
call him from a six five one area code
who's this where you calling from hello
my name is B Chris lapacho
deep calling from Minneapolis V Chris
lopaka why aren't you right now working
with D to set up a podcast I have my own
podcast it's called the crystal taco
experiment and people can find it at
patreon.com slash the experiment it'll
take you right to my channel okay so I'm
good on that alright fine word what's
happening happy new year well happy New
Year to you too
and Merry Christmas by the way I've been
inspired I've been inspired Sam by your
potential run for Senate and I've been
thinking about doing my own run for
Senate to unseat Amy Klobuchar here in
Minnesota and before I do that I just
want to come clean get some skeletons
out of my closet real quick okay so they
don't come back to bite me you know what
I'm saying I've never heard of skeletons
my people but go ahead
hey okay my parents they really like to
gamble and when I was in fourth grade we
took a family trip to Reno Nevada
when I got back to school all the kids
started calling me Reno and I thought it
was cool at first I played along with it
but uh you know more and more that name
became a part of my identity you know
and pretty soon I started acting like a
kid named Reno and I wrote I wrote I
wrote I wrote Reno all over my Trapper
Keeper I told girls I liked that my name
was Reno I mean I went far do I even I
shaved it into the side of my head it
was bad yeah and then yeah and it
doesn't end there so the next year my
family took me to Cozumel Mexico and
when I returned I told all the other
kids I wanted them to start calling me
Cozumel
they didn't spit not at all okay so the
girls weren't the girls weren't
impressed nobody would trade their milk
for a hot dog at lunch it was awful and
then I just I turned to heroin after
fifth grade okay
rough summer but then that may have you
know it comes back around though cuz
luckily I found Jesus right before sixth
grade was about to start and he told me
just to go by Chris la Paco and I said
you know what about D Chris la Paco and
he said whatever and then so from that
point on I got on the right path and I
just want
I hope the voters can forgive me okay I
want them to know that I learned from my
mistakes
I regret that part of my life but I try
to get better after I make a mistake and
I think I'm a stronger person because
I'm a stronger person because of it so I
just want to get that out there and you
know let everybody know and I'm sorry
all right
well Chris I think you've done the right
thing you were smart to get out ahead of
this and in anticipation for your run
and you know I think if you were a
junior in college and you still went by
Reno there would be some problems but I
think now I think you're safe so thanks
for unburdening yourself on the show but
thanks for having me all right I
appreciate it okay bye bye it takes a
takes a lot of guts to admit something
like that
so all right put this tweet up will you
of Donald Trump and this is happening
Tuesday night Trump tweets out that I he
is pleased to inform you that I will
address the nation on the humanitarian
and national security crisis on our
southern border Tuesday night at 9:00
p.m. Eastern I think he gave a clue this
morning as to what that was about but
wait let's just scroll down because I
think Phil Henry yeah Phil Henry got a
good job lying about Syria withdrawal
the done deal with North Korea losing
billions of dollars in business with a
Chinese to the Russians and selling a
humanitarian crisis where it was once an
invading horde of terrorists Phil Henry
got their first good for him but this I
think clip from Donald Trump on the
White House lawn today or yesterday this
morning no this was over the weekend
over the weekend I think gives you a
sense of where
the administration is going they're
going to try and declare some type of
state of emergency on the border it's
hard to know what fiction they're gonna
present but you can bet that Fox is
going to go deep into the archives for
video footage to cover this but here is
Donald Trump on the White House lawn
talking about the potential of declaring
a national emergency and I suspect
that's what he's gonna do Tuesday night
I made it Blair a national emergency
dependent on what's going to happen over
the next few days
we have a meeting vice president Pence
and a group will be going to a certain
location that you know where that is and
they'll be having another meeting I
don't expect to have anything happen at
that meeting but I think we'll have
Gorgias the vice president but I think
we're going to have some very serious
talk come Monday Tuesday Wednesday we
have to have voted security if we don't
have border security we're gonna be
crime-ridden and it's going to get worse
and worse yeah so he is you know this is
gonna be a big test for the the media I
think you know they blew it on the
caravan as far as I'm concerned the
there should be Universal except for of
course Fox just outrage I mean this is
this is I don't think as bad as lying
the country into a war in Iraq certainly
not as bad in terms of the implications
of it this is just a this is just gonna
be a pretend thing where Donald Trump
figures out how to get five billion
dollars for his emergency he's gonna
build a couple of you know miles of
steel not the concrete slats wall slats
walls wall slats whatever he's gonna you
know jibber jabber mentioned but the
this you know every single person in the
media should be basically holding the
other
publicans to account because that's what
this is really about Donald Trump is
just you know he's a loose cannon and
the only people who can stop them really
her in the Senate in the Republican
Party so all of those people need to be
held to account they won't be but that's
what should happen really it's insane
it's a little bit insane all right let's
take two more calls and then a couple
Iams and then we're out of here one more
call it's a calling I know got a lot of
people have hanging on the phone for a
long time calling from a360 area code
who's this where you come from
hello yeah who's this hey this is Mason
from Washington how you guys done I'm
doing well hi Mason what's on your mind
so maybe shifting the tone just a little
bit and then kind of the late holiday
spirit I wanted to talk to you guys
maybe about how you deal with some
family members who are in let's say some
industries that are are undesirable like
for example I sorry I'm a little nervous
first-time caller
my I have an uncle who's in a health
insurance industry and who thinks he's a
genius on health insurance policy and
economics as a result of it because he
makes a good deal money in the industry
so how do you as an individual or how do
how do you uh how does the crew talk to
or deal with family members who are in
industries that really only exist to to
take advantage of the working-class take
advantage of poor people oh here's what
I would recommend and specifically in
terms of that guy because it's the
health insurance energy go to Tarbell
dot org I think it is or the Tarbell
google wendell potter wendell potter was
an insurance executive for about twenty
years and then he basically left and has
built a commentating career basically
reflecting back on that time I would use
wendell tent-like what do you think
about this guy
who says this and I would read up about
it what is uh what about rescission what
was the and I would present him with
certain percentages you know because the
fact of the matter is the health
insurance industry prior to the ACA in
terms of patient protections was the the
whole game was we're gonna take your
money and we're gonna do everything we
can to not pay off your claims still
largely they know where I'm coming from
I I have an undergraduate degree at both
in economics and in political science or
the was a specialty in international
relations and in economics at specialty
in public a public affairs specifically
so I know a good deal about the subject
then I was from the from academic
perspective but my my problem is is that
like that there's nothing in the world
will change these people's minds I mean
their job doesn't exist in the rest of
the industrialized world right they how
do they not I mean they don't realize
that really what their entire existence
is predicated upon the exploitation of
the working class I mean how do you tell
these people how do you how do you
extended nice needs to these people who
really what you want to say is the world
in our country be better off if you
jumped off a building I mean like that's
what I want but like like how do you
deal with these people who their
existence is predicated upon
exploitation I would just avoid them I
cut them out of your life I mean I
there's no I mean I don't know what else
to tell you I mean for your sanity I
would try and tell them you know that
Election Day is on a Wednesday this year
and you know going forward and and and
that's about it I mean I you know I
don't know what the maddening thing is
they're Democrats too so it's not even
like they're they're just they're just
but I mean this is I'm not talking about
a wounded I mean I am talking about one
individual per se but I'm not talking
about one individual t know that I mean
the broader category of people who exist
in these industries
hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo think they
no a lot more than they really do well
it's also you know like they I don't
know I mean they're gonna have a reality
check at some point yeah I mean I think
look III if if depending on you know I I
don't I try not to judge too harshly
people who you know the family to take
care of this is where you have an
opportunity to work I you know I
wouldn't you know something like ice for
instance I have a little bit more of a
problem with then say you know working
for you know health insurance industry
or something but you know there's a
slight gradation but it's also a
function of the context but yeah I would
just avoid well yeah I mean heckle one I
should be should be the political norm
at this point I mean if you are at least
in my opinon if you're if you're present
in Trump's the most Ozzy yeah I have no
sympathy for you all right well I
appreciate the call hang in there but
yeah don't talk to me oh this is fun
did we all see is everybody here seen
vice alright let's just play this clip
folks that's it for their calls we don't
have any more time today I'm sorry about
that
I saw a vice I mean and Christian Bale
did an amazing job there's just no doubt
about it I I just think that it is
highly problematic to make a movie about
this because on some level you're
humanizing Dick Cheney even if you
humanize him as a bad person like I
think that movies you know if I was the
dictator I would say you're not allowed
to make movies about figures like this
because you can't do it justice and
really you know you're gonna do a
biography of a guy do it in book form so
that you can capture nuance but that
people have to really make an effort to
know this stuff because at the end of
the day I don't care what motivated Dick
Cheney or at least I don't care enough
if I don't care enough
to read a book about it I shouldn't have
this information and think I have it
what I should know is just he did some
very very evil things I don't use that
word that often so scratch the word evil
he created a tremendous amount of human
misery and I would say probably in the
past 25 years it's conceivable he was
responsible for you know singularly
responsible for I don't know I I can't
commit but let's say he's in the top 10
of creating human misery over the past
20 years I think that's fair to say
and that's pretty bad and that really
should be that message needs to be
driven home more than anything else
about him with that said I do enjoy the
fact that Fox and Friends have to sort
of deal with this and Christian Bell did
a tremendous job here is Fox and Friends
talking about the Golden Globes Vice not
many people saw it but Christian Bale's
are really good at posit I Got News for
You chief
a lot more people are gonna see it now
but go ahead
vice not many people saw it but
Christian Bale is a really good actor
and really despises Republicans
especially Dick Cheney when he talked
about bleaching his hair gaining 40
pounds and bleaching his eyebrows
gaining 40 pounds and playing the role
he described it like this he said I've
got to find somebody you can who can be
absolutely charisma free and reviled by
everybody so he went ask or we bail in
it you know thank you and for all the
competition I will be cornering the
market on charisma free
what do you think Mitch McConnell next
that could be good thank you
to Satan for giving me inspiration on
how to play this role okay so there was
Christian Bale being a political witch
the show otherwise was politics for you
yeah it's just real insult to a guy who
spent his whole life of public service
from secretary defensive chief of staff
to Vice Presidency makes which look
terrible kind of Lisa right so Donald
Rumsfeld especially all right
congratulations to Carol Burnett 85
unbelievable Christian Bale got
political in his representation of a of
a major politician who was again
responsible for hundreds of thousands of
people dying in Iraq civilians millions
displaced at least two million
internally and two million fleeing the
country and then you know I you know
just by our own Defense Department
records hundreds of thousands of people
there are other estimates that would put
it closer to a million people killed in
that specific war of choice so but Fox
presents they really upset about how
Hollywood hate unbelievable really
unbelievable all right a couple Iams and
then we're out of here
for more save the crew the wall should
be simply made out of diamond and silk
dead boomer would somebody turn up
michael brooks is the microphone yes
there's something going on my mic i keep
hearing that from people okay yeah you
need a little bit of mic work okay
black black marxist progressives are
hurt by the soft bigotry of low
expectations by democratic voters the
amount of times I've heard from people
of color non people of color friends
that they will take anyone that can be
Trump might surprise you I don't doubt
it I do not doubt it and the final
I am of the day Jimmy Durer did you see
Adam Koch Esch owning the cops by
refusing to tell them his name and
getting arrested when he was parked and
walking around the side of the highway
at rush hour best part was when he asked
his friend to hold his camera and he
wouldn't because he said he had kids
owned cops owned see you tomorrow
feel any better yeah
take it
I guess somewhere the choice is made
laughs we tried
Wow
