[Music]
we want to start with a little bit of
fun here's Donald Trump this is of
course a country where most people all
Republicans most Democrats say that we
could certainly not get rid of you know
pollutants in the atmosphere
we can't give everybody single-payer
health care we can't get rid of also of
guns and all sorts of predator companies
but we can do this
the vapes are coming for you and they're
also coming for somebody's kid it's
maybe an interesting tip a bit unclear
who's yeah I don't know what kid we're
talking about here but it's a concern
about children well they become very
rich companies very fast and the whole
thing with vaping is is a very
profitable and I want companies look you
know that I fight for companies very
hard if I fight that's why I'm fighting
with China that's why I'm fighting with
other countries if you look at European
Union and if you look at Japan and if
you look at so many others including
South Korea and many others were
constantly dealing with them to make it
good for our companies because I view it
as jobs I view it as income for our
country and jobs vaping has become a
very big business as I understand it
like a giant business at a very short
period of time but we can't allow people
to get sick and we can't have our youth
be so affected and I'm hearing it and
that's how the first lady got involved
she's got a son together that is a
beautiful young man and she feels very
very strongly about it she's succeeded I
maybe will take that again yeah let's
take that again she has a kid and she's
Justin Trudeau impregnated her at the
NAFTA renegotiations and she's very
concerned I'm hearing it and that's how
the first lady got involved and she's
got a son together that is a
a beautiful young man and she feels very
strongly about it she's seen it be
really funny if they're talking about
Don junior would be really funny and you
could just picture all of the traumatic
memories going through Donald Trump's
like and then I begged her to have an
abortion months before the baby was born
and then I took her out to dinner at
CERN and I begged again and then I even
let her try mama Foucault where they
don't even have steak and I begged her
again still wouldn't abort this the son
we had involved she's got a son together
that is a beautiful young man and she
feels very very strongly about it she's
seen it we're both reading it a lot of
people are reading it people dying with
aping so we're looking at it very
closely and you know if nothing else
this is a conference it's going to let
people know about it because people are
gonna watch what we're saying right and
parents are going to be a lot tougher
with respect to their children a lot of
people think vaping is wonderful it's
great it's really not wonderful that's
that's one thing I think we can say
definitely commissioner it's not a
wonderful thing it's got big problems we
have to find out the extent of the
problem it's so new it's so new but
we're gonna find out and I hope that
parents that you know they have children
and the children are in a certain age I
hope they're going to be able to make
wise decisions maybe based on what we're
saying today you know it is true they
haven't really been researched it I
think these companies make a lot of
claims that are definitely not validated
but uh yeah that's one of those ones
where it's like he's not exactly wrong I
mean you know if we if we want it to be
like some twerps at the Washington Post
in fact check it I mean Melania does
have a kid learning together yeah that
always get cuter with me I wouldn't say
that vaping is wonderful or a tremendous
thing to do and it hasn't been
researched know as if the entire
Socialist Left were not already united
against Trump now he's coming for her
nicotine no not gonna fly she's got a
kid
kids a little weird that's sure what it
say - wonderful it's not wonderful a lot
of people say it's wonderful governor
caresses door shut up about Govind
Norquist won't keep his goddamn mouth
shut
