[Music]
this is pretty awesome let's let's play
this clip of oh well let's talk about
Tucker Carlson alright kids I've got a
I've got to leave in about five or ten
minutes so listen I have been the
subject of somebody digging through my
tweets finding a tweet that was that
used satire as making a point that Roman
Polanski I'll get very specific about it
because it was a very specific tweet
that Roman Polanski should not be
forgiven for skipping the country after
being convicted of statutory rape
skipping his sentencing hearing because
he was a good filmmaker there were
people at the time who were circulating
a petition is about ten years ago now
and I was responding to it now to be
fair I was satirical in the way that I
responded to that so I made a satirical
comment which was don't care about
Polanski but if my or Polanski I'd but
if my daughter is ever raped
I hope it's by a much older man who has
a great sense of meson sin now most
people I would say I want to say who are
English speakers but I would think even
people who speak English as a second or
third language and have any sense of of
the way that language is spoken and have
met no normal people even if they had
never met me or heard me would know that
that's a that's very hard to believe
that someone meant that literally that
they want someone who has a an ability
to create a good scene in in the context
of directing a movie would want that
would be a requisite to want their child
rape that would be a weird thing for
people to assume and
certainly if people knew me they would
know that that was a satirical remark
and it's not like I don't have literally
thousands of hours of on-air talking
that that would reinforce that point
who's laughing now Sam which is why
ultimately even though Sir novichok got
me fired initially ultimately I was
hired back now tucker carlson has a
little bit of problem with audio that is
surfaced of his and that is because it's
not inconsistent it's not it's not let's
the other it is not a shock to the
system to imagine that tucker carlson is
a misogynist that tucker carlson is
dismissive of the ability to be raped if
you're in a marriage that's the thing I
find most disturbing there's a bunch of
stuff that's come out where he said you
know nasty thing and derogatory things
about women that you know shock jock
stuff and you know but but we're not
talking about well you know back in the
50s 1950s people had a very weird notion
of like if you were married that you
were sort of the chattel of your husband
this is in 2006 2009 where Tucker
Carlson is talking about a guy who was a
cult leader who would arrange marriages
between people in their late 20s and
women below the age of 17 and Tucker
Carlson saying that guy shouldn't have
gone to jail the guy who actually
married her should go to jail but then
he says something about sort of excusing
a rapist that I find really problematic
this is the most problematic of all the
stuff that he says here let's play let's
play this he didn't Warren Jeffs didn't
marry underage
girl's reason he's in prison for
facilitation of child whatever that
means
that means he's in prison because he's
weird and unpopular and he has a
different lifestyle that other people
find creative he's an accessory to the
rape of children that is a felony and a
serious one at that what do you mean an
accessory he's like got some weird
religious cult where he thinks it's okay
to you know marry underage girls but he
didn't do it why wouldn't the guy who
actually did it with sex with an
underage bro he should be the one who's
doing life the right look the rapist in
this case has made a lifelong commitment
to women take care of the person so
here's a little different ministry
that's the part that I find the most
disturbing of all the things and I'm not
gonna harp on the other stuff but the
idea the rapist in this case has made a
lifelong commitment to live and take
care of the person so it's a little
different
the idea that rape cannot exist in the
context of a marriage in 2009 is is sick
never mind the fact that you're talking
about a 16 year old girl who may not you
know we don't let them vote some states
you have to be 16 you have to drive you
can't you can't work I think a certain
amount of hours I mean there's a whole
host of things that we don't let 16
year-olds do because we agree that they
don't necessarily have broadly speaking
as a default enough life experience to
make reasoned decisions on this we don't
allow them to drink alcohol in states
that pot is legal we don't allow them to
smoke pot the idea that we would allow
them to say you know it's okay to a rape
as long as you gonna take care of me or
whatever it is I mean this is just sort
of six stuff yeah there's an extremely
high bar for them to be even emancipated
from their parents
and what's even worse is that Tucker is
sort of pooh-poohing this stuff instead
of just coming out and saying I was
wrong
he's actually sort of I think some way
defending his comments as being a long
time ago is that where is he here is
he's tweeting out oh these here just
received the following come okay so here
it is all must be attributed to Tucker
Carlson there's a statement that he made
to report a media matters caught me
saying something naughty some things
some things he should've said something
something naughty on a radio show more
than a decade ago rather than Express
the usual ritual contrition how about
this I'm on television every weeknight
for a life or an hour if you want to
know what I think you can watch anyone
who disagrees with my views is welcome
to come on and explain why I'll be happy
to go on Tucker Carlson show and discuss
on why I think it's disgusting the idea
that he is excusing what we have decided
is rape in this country based upon the
rapists willingness to take care of that
person for the rest of their life or a
promise at the very least that I'll take
care of you but what's really funny is
that Tucker Carlson the idea that uh
something that happened more than a
decade ago and I think 2009 was not
really more than a decade ago but maybe
a month or two he also seems to think
that it's problematic in terms of Joe
Biden with Joe Biden's comments from
decades ago here it is it's a Biden's
past comes back to haunt him and finding
himself with his own logic here now I
person I personally have an issue with
what Biden has said in the past in terms
of policies in terms of some of his
rhetoric and particularly in terms of
women him but also in terms of banking
and in terms of antitrust civil rights
civil rights and whatnot
but I'm at least my defense for that
tweet was not that it was nine or ten
years ago my defense was it's a piece of
satire it's quite obvious that
I am against people apologizing for rape
and he's not even bothering to make that
comment because he can't I'm perfectly
happy to go and talk with Carlson's show
and explain to him that peach negate was
apparently a giant act of projection
right and I will also say this that I
don't know if Fox should fire him
because I think it's perfectly
consistent with Fox News to have that
type of attitude towards women they it
was basically their business practices
as far as I can tell and there's no
reason to believe that they've made any
change in their perspective towards
women and so you know Fox News can take
care of their own it's weird there's a
couple times in these clips two
different times where he mentions like
this rape isn't like a woman being
pulled off a housewife being pulled from
the street like there's one where he's
talking about sex workers how it's like
it's different where if you rape a sex
worker because he says it's a little
more complicated than if some you know
housewife claims she was pulled off the
street and raped and then he also said
this about the jeff's thing is like the
one thing about the warren jeffs this
this guy who is with the child the
children marriages he's like i'm just
telling you that arranging a marriage
between a 16 year old but 27 year old is
not the same as pulling a stranger off
the street and raping right this is this
is the attitude that has permeated the
right the notion of actual rape the idea
that there are relationships that a man
and a woman can have where the man is
incapable of committing rape because of
their relationship the woman has tacitly
given preemptive an okay to have sex
with me whenever you want under any
conditions because I've agreed to X Y or
Z because I've agreed that you can pay
me for sex or because I've agreed to be
your wife
there the man has total licence that
person becomes their channel and by the
way like this problem is not exclusive
to creepy sex cults like there are
plenty of states that
make an exception to the minimum age of
marriage or even consent if the girl in
question is pregnant and the parents
sign off on it so you know depending
what kind of parents you get either this
is prosecuted as a crime or you are just
legally signed over to your abuser
