here is Donald Trump you know for a
while that we have well we've covered
Trump there's been talk of there being
some type of like Russian Saudi Israeli
access her axis I should say early on I
remember we had Dan dicker on the on the
show in the Trump administration where
he pointed out like the if you were
going to an assemble a cabinet that was
about the sort of petrol dollar
this would be the one it could also just
be that Donald Trump has some type of
deals with the Saudis but he really I
hope I got a hope I got to think that
they're getting their money's worth
because he's really going the distance
on on trying to downplay the the
Mohammed's been Solomon's role in the
killing of Khashoggi and the CIA over
the weekend there was a leak that they
had clearly found that MSB was involved
at least in terms of ordering the the
kill here is here is Donald Trump yeah
who knows we haven't been briefed yet
the CIA is going to be speaking meat to
me today we have not been briefed yet as
of this moment we were told that he did
not play a role we're gonna have to find
out what they have to say
I would take you to look at it you know
we also have a great ally in Saudi
Arabia they give us a lot of jobs they
give us a lot of business a lot of
Economic Development they are they have
been a truly spectacular ally in terms
of jobs and economic development and I
also take that you know I'm president I
have to take a lot of things into
consideration so we will be talking with
the CIA later and lots of others I'll be
doing that while I'm on the plane I'll
be speaking also with Secretary of State
Mike Pompeo so in other words the reason
why MBS did this why they were bold
enough to essentially lure a Washington
Post columnist a resident of the United
States a Saudi national who had been
critical of the NBS regime lure them
back into a an embassy in Istanbul send
a 15-person kill team to kill him chop
him up to get him out of the the remains
of his body out of the country the
reason why they did this is because they
were under the impression they could
that they would suffer no consequences
internationally and by internationally I
mean of course from the United States I
can't imagine where they got that idea
the only thing that they underestimated
was the level of power the president has
and they may not have I mean they
certainly they underestimated they
overestimated that he had the ability to
quiet every you know Republican senator
but this was just a bridge too far but
you can understand why they thought they
could get away with it
it's because Donald Trump's clearly
communicated like do whatever you want
I don't care whatever it is that we have
some type of relationship between
Trump industries and you is enough for
me to say whatever you do we touched it
together I mean he's doing it now after
the fact after it's made it's become
incredibly controversial and costly to
him he's still doing it so there's a
good reason why they thought they could
get away with this and it is the same
reason why duterte you know arrests
journalists bowls and arrows I mean it's
it's the same dynamic as to why I think
you know we had talked about the elite
in Brazil uninhibited by the
implications of them electing a fascist
because you know that mirror that
sometimes the United States would hold
up and say like you know this is a
problem we don't like this that's gone
that's gone meanwhile Donald Trump sat
down with Chris Wallace on Fox News
Sunday and was asked a couple of
questions one of which was about the
Khashoggi tape that apparently exists
and makes it clear that he was killed
among other things and apparently
according to the CIA
maybe the tape maybe other things make
it clear that NBS was involved here is
Trump responding to Chris Wallace on
that Turkish president air Dewan says
that he has shared a tape with the US
and other countries that is of the
killing of Jamal khashoggi inside the
Saudi consulate in Istanbul have you one
either heard the tape yourself or been
briefed on it and if so to your mind
what does its job we have the tape I
don't want to hear the tape no reason
for me to hear the tape why don't what
I've been probably gonna hear it sir
because it's a suffering tape it's a
terrible tape
I've been fully briefed on it there's no
reason for me
here in fact I said to the people should
I they said you really shouldn't
there's no reason I know exactly I know
everything that went on in the tent
where that happened and what happened it
was very violent very vicious and
terrible a month ago
you said you had spoken with Saudi Crown
Prince Mohammed bin Salman and that he
had told you directly that he had no
knowledge and still says that but we now
know that some of the people closest to
him some of his closest advisers were
part of this question did NBS lie to you
sir I don't I don't know you know who
can really know but I can say this he's
got many people now that say he had no
knowledge what if the crown prince
speaking to you the President of the
United States directly lied to you well
that he told me that he had nothing to
do with it he told me that I would say
maybe five times at different points so
what if it was recently as a few days
ago do you just live with it because you
need him well will anybody really know
all right will anybody really know I
mean it's true can you know anything how
do we know Chris this isn't a dream how
do you know even that you exist maybe I
wake up and you go away that's the
mystery of Epidemiology folks there you
go it's all just we're all just dust in
the wind so we can't know again now
that's why I don't listen to the tape
it's a real Schrodinger's cat Chris
there you go
we're last under hermeneutics pyro but
just dust Chris for just dust so plus I
think we're making a lot of money I get
a lot of who can ever know he's gonna
start saying that with a wink in like a
week right
who can happen who can ever know you
know did we did we just acts
pre-existing conditions who knows who
announced how do we know what
pre-existing is do we even know that
we're existing unbelievable there was
more in that interview right wasn't
there one other yeah here is Chris
Wallace presumably trying to
make it seem like he cares about press
freedoms can't help but get in a dig at
Obama because that is in his genes as a
Fox News paid employee I'm totally in
favor of the media I'm totally in favor
of Free Press gotta be fair press when
it's fake the president get to decide
what's fair and what's not I can tell
what's fair or not and so can my people
and so can a lot of whether I understand
that but but when you do something very
good and they write it badly and this is
consistently when you as an example
rarely do the whined about fakes new fox
news all the time but he never said we
were the enemy of the people well no he
didn't talk about the news he didn't
talk about anything I'm only saying it
very differently than anyone's ever said
it before I'm saying fake news false
reporting dishonest reporting of which
there is a lot and I know it
see I know it because I'm a subject of
it a lot of people don't know it but
when I explained it to them they
understand it and Chris you know that
better than you don't have to sit here
and act like a perfect little wonderful
innocent angel I know you too well I
knew your father too well that's not
your gene there you go I just put you in
your place nepotism Kirk you know I
gotta say not the first person to say
that lugan press there Mirko got the new
game press yeah the lugan press protects
anger
The Lying press The Lying Media Nazis
adopted that term it was around I think
as late as or as early as mid 1800s in
in Germany but the Nazis revived it I'm
reviving again just total coincidence -
enlist total coincidence there you go
the lion lugan press
