in the first hour we were basically
recapping you know the the the big turn
that Susan Collins took and we should
say in in voting to confirm Kavanagh and
we're a little bit behind it but this is
I think that moment when she over that
24-hour period I guess had decided to
vote for Kavanagh there was a lot of
things that became clear I mean you
wrote this piece that the it's it's the
party's final surrender to Trump and you
know along those lines not only is Susan
Collins capitulating to not just Donald
Trump but but Trump isms right like like
Brett Kavanaugh was the first it seems
to me and you know we didn't have we've
seen it with some like Congress people
maybe to a certain extent but it was the
first sort of National moment to moment
where you could see someone completely
lying because let's make no mistake
about it
Bret cabinet lied about a lot of things
we may never know the absolute truth
about what took place between Blasi Ford
and Cavanaugh but we do know he lied
about a bunch of things at the very
least I mean that are demonstrable I
mean we're we have 100% clear evidence
that he lied about things to that
committee and certainly if you know all
of the people who wanted to testify to
the FBI had been allowed to he would
have been it would have been clear on at
least some of the things that he had
lied about you know from those testimony
but this is the first time we've seen
someone just lie lie lie deny and the
lack of shame is what carried the day
and and I should also add in terms of
you know sort of how the Republican
Party and Donald Trump have become one
and he's sort of skated through this but
the you know brief resistance hero
George W Bush you know people were very
excited that he was
coming out and saying this and we had a
lot of like comparisons between Trump
and Bush and they're both horrible in
their own ways in my opinion I'm George
Bush of course responsible for hundreds
of thousands of deaths both Iraqi and
thousands of American US servicemen and
so you know in many respects Bush may be
still in the lead
Trump has plenty of time left to catch
up but George Bush called Susan Collins
reportedly half a dozen times to
convince her to vote for for Brett
Kavanaugh the the circle is complete in
many respects and I guess the question
is is now we're looking at the fallout
we were told that Republicans were
getting you know had been awoken with
Brett Kavanaugh but but what do they do
now that their reason for aggrievement
is been associated in some respects well
I think that's the reason why you're
seeing Mitch McConnell and Fox News that
they've gotta nuts with this Trump to
talking about you know this angry mob
this vicious wild you know group of of
Amazonian you know rape survivors you
know running through the streets
apparently that's you know that they're
trying to keep they're trying to turn
this into look at you know these crazy
people are coming now it's very
interesting they call that group you
know of these protesters in the capital
last week that an angry mob whereas the
you know the people carry literally
carrying tiki torches and screaming Jews
will not replace us and at literally
murdering a protester they were very
fine people in Trump's words so you know
we can kind of see the contrast there
but that's what they're trying to do
they're trying to gin up their their
people they're trying to keep that level
of excitement and engagement at a very
fever pitch in order to get their people
out I mean I've got to be honest I have
always thought yeah you know it's four
weeks from the Cavanagh thing to the
election that's a lifetime and
Trump land who knows what's going to
happen in between but I do think that
that it's always been the case that
Trump's people were going to come out
and vote I just don't think that
Cavanaugh was ever going to have this I
don't think it had the galvanizing
effect that people thought you know
Republicans generally vote they're older
they got nothing better to do they
watched Fox News all day you know I mean
this is this is their idea of fun right
I mean what they do for a good time
which is the problem because the
Democrats have a lot young people and
people with young families and they're
busy and you know elections don't have
quite the central place in their lives
that they do for those Fox viewing you
know elderly senior people that vote
Republican so you know they I think they
were always going to come out because
they always do the difference is it's on
the Democratic side where we're seeing a
big difference in this election or at
least the polling suggests that and and
all the previous special elections and
primaries have indicated that Democrats
are far far more engaged than they
usually are right now after the Kavanagh
you know a confirmation for some reason
I mean he's drives me crazy about the
mainstream media they were buying this
hook line and sinker though all the
Republicans are engaged they're just
they're going to come out and vote the
Kavanagh bumps they were calling it and
know it's all even saw terrible and all
this hand wringing I'm done what are you
talking about you know I mean for one
thing you know the fact that Mitch
McConnell and Trump are having to gin up
this phantom mob that's running through
the streets tells you that they're not
seeing this they weren't seeing it they
wouldn't have done that if they were
desperate to try and keep up that whole
thing and the other is that you know of
course there's a you know there's a
reaction in the Democratic side a bunch
of that's the angry mob right they're
not running through the streets they're
organizing they're canvassing there
they're voting I mean that's the angry
mob and and they are very energized so
you know this whole idea was just the I
don't know you know it was one of those
things where the mainstream media had to
turn it into the horse race instead of
sort of analyzing it for the cultural
and political moment that it
was annoying but how much of that was
was a function of mitch mcconnell trying
to convince someone like susan collins
like you've got a vote for this like
this is where the future of the party is
and by by sort of like you know hyper
inflating the implications of that vote
to to trump voters that he was in many
respects sort of intimidating susan
collins are hoping to in some way and I
wonder if that's not part of what we
well you know what we saw there I mean I
you know I don't know it's it's an
interesting question because it
certainly was effective at the end of
the day I you know if it remains to be
seen and we can talk about this on the
other side because the flip side of this
coin is Heidi Heitkamp voted against
Kavanagh and the the theory was at the
time well you know she knows that she's
gonna lose and so she wants to be able
to look at herself in the mirror and go
out with with feeling that she has some
integrity but the fact of the matter is
it may be that vote that actually saves
her although in an somewhat ironic twist
the Supreme Court may have shut the door
on Heidi Heitkamp chances we will talk
about that when we return we got to take
a quick break I'm Sam cedar this is ring
of fire radio I'm talking to the great
Digby have their pardon
