so Josh as we speak there is there's
even more
I guess clamoring if you will for
impeachment but let's just back up and
look at the various sort of arguments
that are being made Nancy Pelosi put
some cold water on the idea of
impeachment it seemed to me on the day
that she arrived and returned as Speaker
of the House give me your assessment of
what that was about
well at that point you know we need to
keep in mind that she did not speak in
absolute terms she said that it had to
be that impeachment would only be
appropriate if the circumstances
warranted and that was long before the
Muller report came out more recently her
position was that the information that
you could get in an impeachment hearing
or an impeachment inquiry is no
different than what you could get by
holding hearings in say the Judiciary
Committee or the House Oversight
Committee or whatever and for me the
problem with that is that you can hold
those hearings you can call the same
witnesses you can drag Don McCann and
that that is the former White House
Counsel who is there for many of trumps
obstructive acts and you know political
junkies will tune in but it doesn't have
the same kind of spectacle that if
hearings would have if you attach the
word impeachment to them and for me
that's an important point you know we
need to cut through the noise there are
tens of millions of people who have no
idea what Robert Muller found because
they've they've heard about the report
through their preferred media outlets if
they're conservatives they've probably
heard that there was absolutely no
evidence of wrongdoing whatsoever and if
you had impeachment hearings or an
impeachment inquiry we could talk about
the difference I think that it would be
really compelling must watch TV I think
that all of the networks would have to
carry it live and and you would get tens
of
people viewing tuning in and seeing what
what the witnesses have to say without
that filter and I think this is a key
point you know we need to understand
that Trump has is adept at creating so
much noise and just flooding the zone
with nonsense and we move on from
stories very quickly and you know we
need to hold this one in the news okay
so I mean we're you know so now when we
talk about and all right so this is like
there's there's a lot of different sort
of branches to this and we should say
there right now the even amongst
Democratic voters there is not a
majority to impeach now probably at
least in some part it is a function of a
the absence of those hearings and B the
idea that there has been at least a
concerted effort to to ratchet down I
guess the intensity of calls for
impeachment by it seems to me by the
Democratic leadership but let's talk
about let's talk about just what
impeachment is because impeachment is
not like on Thursday we're gonna vote to
impeach right or it's it's a process I
mean so we'll just walk us through that
you mentioned the difference between
hearings in an inquiry yeah let's talk
about this so that we're on the same
page and then we can sort of assess it
as to whether impeachment is necessary
from a sort of like a protection of our
of our democracy
and just a functioning of good
government and then also we can talk
about it from a political perspective
and I'm talking partisan politics
because as we know impeachment is
inherently a political process but go
ahead right yes that's correct
so I mean just to walk you through it
briefly you can file articles of
impeachment as several progressive
Democrats have done you could hold
hearings in the Judiciary Committee they
can vote them out the entire house
then would have to vote to indict the
president effectively and then the two
house managers would go to the Senate
the Senate would have a impeachment
committee the Democratic House members
would lay out the case and then the
entire Senate would have to vote to
convict and remove the president from
office that requires a two-thirds
supermajority you you can indict in the
house with just a simple majority the
alternative is that let me just I'm
sorry let me just clarify one thing too
that when those house managers go to the
Senate this is not a situation that's a
privileged motion right I mean in other
words that's not something they must
they must hold they must hold here oh
yes yes McConnell can't just bury that
this is all you know this is a
constitutional function of Congress and
it's it's not something that he could
just let die and of course you know
there there is no chance that you're
going to get 20 Republican senators to
join Democrats like to convict and we
should come back to that point a moment
the other alternative and I think that
this is important to understand is that
you don't have to go full speed to
impeachment you can begin an impeachment
inquiry in the Rules Committee it would
have I think the same amount of sizzle
because you've attached impeachment to
the to the name of that hearing and
that's a preliminary thing if the rules
committee finds adequate evidence of
crimes and misdemeanors and again as you
point out it's a political process they
would then vote that out to the
Judiciary Committee and the process that
we just talked about would start I see
and so the is there a is there a side
from when we talk about the end and then
I guess the third track is you have
hearings in
I don't know the judiciary that wants to
get here an oversight yeah well
oversight committees that wants to just
accumulate that that looks to accumulate
evidence that are looking into what
Deutsche Bank you know the really I mean
on and on and on these various different
sort of of areas in which they could
examine is to be clear about those
basically three tracks that we're
talking about right it's aside from the
moniker attracting more attention and
therefore giving sort of creating a
newsworthy enough event that the public
can become more informed and more aware
of the reasoning behind it are there any
other sort of technical advantages that
come from associating these inquiries or
investigation with the word impeachment
yeah I I mean I'm glad you asked that
it's a really good question there is at
present a standoff over over subpoenas
over the entire Mullah report including
grand jury testimony the William Bar the
Attorney General is withholding that
information from the Judiciary Committee
and there is a important provision in
the law that says that grand jury
testimony can be released preliminary to
or pursuant to a judicial investigation
our judicial process now I took to talk
to a bunch of lawyers and they said well
if the Judiciary Committee is holding
hearings judges should say that
qualifies as a 6e exemption is what it's
called but if you get the wrong judge or
if you get the right judge from Trump's
perspective and that judge rules against
them you have a much stronger case when
it is a judicial process so it adds a
lot of weight and gravitas
the demands that Congress is making
because now it's not just oversight now
its oversight pursuant to Congress is
you know constitutional function of
check checking and and balancing the
presidency and and it's one big way of
doing that it's one primary tool which
is impeachment that's fascinating so
attaching the word impeachment to there
just gives a lot more authority to these
inquiries and makes it a lot harder to
deny these committees the information
all right let's take a break here and
and let's talk about the the arguments
for and against the Democrats and some
of which we've covered from beginning to
initiate this process in one form or
another and also I want to address the
question is what does Donald Trump
really want the Democrats to do here and
I guess maybe a subsidiary question does
that matter
we're going to take a quick break we'll
be right back with Joshua Holland right
after this
