[Music]
college students might want to actually
get paid for their work I know not this
one actually I don't care about that one
college students might actually want to
get paid for generating obscene levels
of wealth for the college industry and I
do say industry because College
professional sports is an industry we
talked about this just the other day
jemelle Hill said that black athletes
should be going to historically black
colleges if they're not gonna be paid
and she made a broader economic argument
about that which of course the right had
a meltdown and misinterpretation of and
that's an invitation for black athletes
at universities that aren't taking this
issue issues any issues on race
seriously to withhold their labor
perhaps absolutely but the reality and
and you know just even think more
broadly okay there's the number one
problem that people generating enormous
wealth as laborers are not getting
compensated that's an eight li wrong
period case closed if you don't get that
you're delusional and then think about
as an example you know a college
football player who's not gonna make it
into the NFL they're doing the sport
that can have lifelong physical and
cognitive consequences on their bodies
to make money for a league that they
will not have a broader compensated
future end which is the argument kind of
like the internship argument which by
the way unpaid internship should also
obviously be immediately made illegal
that's you know and that's not gonna
happen for a lot of them but if we did
pay these laborers for their labor there
is one very big idiot that would have
his experience significantly altered and
that very big idiot is Brian Kilmeade
think about this would you watch a game
just with these same athletes if they
weren't representing your school so Ohio
State you might love that team oh
they're playing for our state what if
they were just playing for Ohio and
they're just representing them then
they're then they look as the second
year under the NFL the thing that makes
college sports attractive is they
represent something school and tradition
if you're gonna pay them just understand
you're they're no longer students right
and the whole the whole theory of
playing college sports or is over our
loyalties are to endorsements rather
than the school yeah
but would they be playing for Ohio State
or the Ohio State well they'll be triple
like they'd be the second best football
league in the country which would not
have the attraction of the networks or
the endorsements well let's get rid of
the Norseman yeah let's get rid of the
endorsements in the network's let's take
that risk Bryan let's take that risk for
paying a laborers giving free labor away
to industries that are making raking in
millions of dollars let's take that risk
wouldn't they have more loyalty to the
schools if the schools are actually
paying them these talk about the fans
he's talking about the fans have ran he
doesn't care about the kids that we've
established yes he definitely doesn't
care I need to call back into the system
well they take one or two more calls if
we can but I got the idea that the
second you started paying kids like
everyone's just gonna stop watching
College well you know when I found out I
mean people ask me why I'm sober you
know mean to Brian Kilmeade and it was
like when I found out that he got paid
that he wasn't just having like a
friendly breakfast conversation with his
friends were they worried about the
Republic but he's getting paid to do
that he's getting paid to be on Fox and
Friends I don't get paid to hang out
with my friends I was a little disturbed
by that yep you're getting paid to do
this were your friends Michael well
that's true but we should have kept that
quietly also Brendan's not my friend
well you were doing that we're comrades
we're not friends
I would definitely not that I think the
rubbers gonna hit the road with paying
college athletes once they break down
which sports make money under title nine
and which ones don't and how they're
gonna distribute money to athletes well
then and that's when they're gonna
divide them and break the whole movement
right I hope that doesn't happen but
then a canary well could be
redistribution like anything else like
you know obviously certain you know
basketball football brings in money
whatever ends up happening subsidize the
other yeah whatever ends up happening
the moat like the the the stability will
not like I don't think it will end up
being a like how unequal it is now yes
noble exactly that needs to be
maintained throughout this whole process
Jay cool
